James Black Gist
Grand Ma1ter 1933-1934

Our sixty-seventh Grand Master, on Ocwt>er 12, 1934, completed
his liork as Grand Master of MasollJl in California. During the year he
was activ.e a11d zealous in the performanci: .:>f
du*s, and bf his intet.ligent and sympathetic interest he gained an enviable place in the hearts
of his Brethren, whose confidence. esteem and affection he won and
merited.

J"IHI§ B. fil§T
firond ruo~ier
19jj

His Masonic areer ha~ been loog and Jlonorable, and as a Mason he
has ever ~emplified in his chatac~ and conduct the great principles
and tenefa of the institution. He received the deJreu iri Pe.nt;i\pha l,..Q4ge
No. 202, having been raised on October 17, 1899, and hal'ing been WO¥shipful Master of his ~ lQ 1904-1905. In 1906-1907 be was ,hupect-Or
of the Fol'ty-&econd Masonic Dist1:ict. He wa.~ cbainnan -0f the Co1111Jlitt.ee
on Returns in 1918, Juni<>r Grand Deacon in 191~, and Trustee Of the
Masonic Honies fi:otn November, 1919, urttil he was instalkd Gran(l
Master He iii also a member <>i Mdrose Chaptet No. 140, R. A. M ;
Southern California Cound! No. 35, R. S. M.; Golden West CO$mandery No. 43, K. T,; Saint Gabriel Contlav~ No. 14 o{ tht Red Crolii$
of Constantine, and At Malaikah Temple o1 the Shrine, being a life member in all the bodies of Masonry to which he belong!.
He is a member oi the Los A'1S'elles Bodies of the Ancient and ..
cepted Scottish Rite, ha:ving received the 14° and 18" in 1906 and the JG"
and 32° in 1907. He was honored with the detQl'ation c:>f Knight l 1 •·
mander of the Court I Honor in 1915 and coroneted an In •ice h ~ri­
eral Ffonotar)' of the 33° in 1919. In a(lditiob, Brother Gist has r«ei-t~
many honors and distinctions in his ·tong and lliCtWe ser~ t.o 'M3sQ$1'
as tributcis to his worth and ability.
The business car~r of James B. Gist hu been eonaistent with ~
character and attainments of the man. After r • ~
a hi~ school educiv
tion. in 1887 he entered the atcoUl!lting dcpatt~t of 'the Southern Pacifu:
Railroad, where he became the chief cltrk in the motive power depiJrtm~
and. by his fidelity to !tis duties, ha¥ing attr~tcd attcitfon iii the bt)Sitldli
w<>rld, in 1902 he was elected an offioer .. : the Central Bank ()f LJ!t ~ ,.
geles and in 1907 became cashier thereof. He was elected in 1906 &e¢'.~~
and manager Qf the Los Angeles Ctearmg Home Arts0cil$tien and serveCI
as such for nine years, when he resigned to take up the management ot
the widespread and hnportant affairs of Frank W. Emety, Having ~uc­
ctS&folly concluded this business, be was elected ~ice~pres~t of the
Security Trust and Savings Bank of Los Angeles in 1923 a.nd now holds
that important office in one of the largest banks in the United State!.

In addition to his Masonic and business activities he has given freely of

his time and thought to the civic and charitable interests of Los Angeles
and of the State of California.
Brother Gist was born in 1868 in Tompkinsville, Kentucky, and removed to Woodland, California, in 1875. In 1890, at Tulare, California,
he married Luella Hatch, who was his classmate in grammar and high
school; and of this union there are two living children: Past Master
Charles Wooster Gist, who was born in 1892, and Laura Velma, who was
born in 1897. His home life has been serene and happy.
Brother Gist is a scion of the notable Gist family of Maryland and
Virginia, of which Christopher Gist, the Ohio explorer, was an exponent
and was the eminent ancestor of the Gists in America. His son, Captain'
Richard Gist ( 1684-1741) was an outstanding figure in Maryland; while
a grandson, Major General Mordecai Gist, had a distinguished military
career and served with Washington throughout the Revolutionary War.
General Gist was made a Mason prior to the Revolution and was the first
Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of South Carolina and served
that Grand Lodge as Grand Master for two years.
James Black Gist was president of the society, Sons of the Revolution, in 1919, and has been governor of the society, Sons of Colonial
Wars. He is also a member of the California Club, the Wilshire Country
Club and the Los Angeles Athletic Club.
The foregoing record briefly indicates the successful and honorable
career of our Brother. It is a career which few men as young as he can
review with equal and justifiable pride. By his modesty, sincerity, unselfishness, industry and ability he has commanded the respect and admiration of all, and has engaged the affections and won the plaudits of the
thousands who know him best.
All in all, the fraternity can always point with pride to the life and
character of Jim Gist. Truly, when Jim was born "the morning stars sang
together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy."

~ranb 1Lobgt of etaHfornia
I, JOH N WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons .of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of
the proceedings of that body at its E ighty-fifth Annual Communication,
commenced at the city of San Francisco on Tuesday, the ninth day of
October, A. L. 5934, and terminated on Friday, the twelfth day of October, A. L. 5934.

Jtn We~timonp Dbereof
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed
the seal of the Grand Lodge of
the jurisdiction of California,•at
the office of the Grand Secretary, in the city of San Francisco, this twenty-seventh day of
October, in the year of Light,
Five Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty-four.

PROCEEDINGS
OF T HE

M .·. W .·. GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree a~b ~ccepteb ,fflasons
OF T HE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-Fifth _Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 9, A. D. 1934, A. L 5934
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 12, A. D. 1934, A. L 5934

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, 509 Sansome Street
1934

OFFICERS of the GRAND LODGE
OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE

For the Year Commencing October, A. L. 5934
Grand Master........_ ...........~ .......................- ..........Rando~ph V. Whiting (260)
Monadnock Building, San Francisco
Deputy Grand Master........•....~ ......~.,~.·-·-·····:·:·:>·····:._; ..Earl Warren (3~9)
Courthouse, Oakland
. Grand Warden
·
Senior
.................~...,....·-······---····-···· Rollie W. Miller (352)
Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles
Junior Grand W•rdai...............- ·······-··-··•r-·-:-··········-··Jamcs T. Fraser (79)
·
Eureka
Grand .Treasurer····-·······..·······-···.."-..,....~··---··-···· William p. Filme'r ( 260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secretary................................ ~.............-~--~·-·-;-····John. Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
I .l·,li, E. Wood (609)
Grand Lecturer
.
.
711 California Street, Sacramento
Grand Chaplain...................., ..:..................-·-····•··RCT•. Herbert P. Shaw (630)
2520 Bush Street, San Francisco
..
. Ir~ F. Thompson (677)
Grand Orator.. .
· .
State Building, San Francisco
··
Assistant
Grand Secretary:..·-··-··"--·······,..•·•····~·M•:-·Frank G. Hobbs (531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal......,.....-.••...,•.•..••.- ........................H~ry G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
· · ..- ··-···········
F. Coombs (12)
Grand Standard Bea1"er...."·-..---···
··....tfathan
.
Napa
.
Grand Sword Bearer.........-~........................_..........Marquia F. Calmes ( 472)
Kahului, Maui, T. H.
Grand Bible Bearer..:..............._ ••_:........-·-·---·-·-······Harry Horn~ (300)
Redlands
Senior Grand Deacon..................................................A~bert Wollenberg (344)
2748 Steiner Street, San Francisco
Junior Grand Deacon........,..,........................... _ ...........:··~bert H. Ross (260)
840 Market Street, San Francisco
Senior Grand Steward................................................Cbu. 0 . Hamilton ( 103)
·
Orovitle
Junior Grand Steward............................._............... Walter D. Adriance (209)
San Luis Obispo
Grand Pursuivant................................................:-··:........ Wanen D. Gill (546)
Columbia Outfitting Company Building, Los Angeles
Grand Organist........'-·•····•··..·····-··,.··-··--·..·········<;b~~ E. Anderson (374)
1717 ·Cabrillo Street, San Francisco
·
·
Frank
G. Watson (354)
. ...................................·-·······'"··--·--··-··.
Grand T1ler
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco

OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Eighty-fifth Annual Com munication
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California commenced
its Eighty-fifth Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak Street; San Francisco,
on Tuesday, October 9, A. L. 5934, at 10 o'clock a. m.
The roll call disclosed the presence of the following: ·
Officers of Grand Lodge
M. ••

w. ·.JAMES B. GI $T ......................................................., ..:.....Grand Master

R.". W.". RANDOLPH

V . WHITING................................ Deputy Grand Master

R. '. W. •• EARL WARRE N ..................................................Senior Grand Warden
R.'. W.'. ROLLIE. W. MrLLER..........................................Junior Grand Warden

v. ·. w. ·.WILLIAM P . FILMER................................................Grand Treasurer
v.·. w.·. JOH N WHICiiER..... _ ...................................................GrandSecretary
V. ·. W. •• FosTER G. DYER ..........................................................Grand Lecturer
v.·. R.·. HERDRRT P . SaAw ......................................................Grand Chaplain
w. ·. REY NOLD E. BLIGHT ........... - ...............'..........................:.Grand Orator
W. ·.FRANK G. HoBBS ....................................Assistant Grand Secretary
W. ·.HENRY G. MATHEWSO N .............................................. Grand M arshal
W. •• PERCY KING .................................................... Grand Standard Bearer
W. ··WALTER c.. SHIELDS .......................................... Grand Sword Bearer
w. ·. HARRY HoRNE........................................................ Grand Bible Bearer
W. •. SIDNEY K. LERMAN ..........................................Senior Grand Deacon
W. •• TaEoDORE T. SPU RGEON ................................... ./unior Grand Deacon
W. •. RALPH MERRIAM ..............................................Senior Grand S teward
W. ·.WALTER D . ADRIANCE .. ....:........................... ..lunior Grand Steward
W . •• WARRE N D . GILL..........-. ........................................... Grand Pursuivant
w.·. C!iAS. E. ANDERSON..................................................... GrandOrganisl
W. ·.FRAN K G. WATSON ............................................................ Grand Tiler
( 7)

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8

P ast Gr and Masters
M.". w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M.". w:. ARTHUR s. CRITES
w:. ORRIN s. HENDERSON
M.". w:. DAVID J. REESE
M.". w:. DANA R. WELLER
M.". w:. GEORGE L. ]ONES
M.". w:. WILLIAM P. FILMER
M.". w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M.". w:. BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE
M.". w:. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY M.". w: . JoHN STEWART Ross
M.". w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M.". w:. BRADFORD WEBSTER
M.". w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M.". w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS

M.". W.". THOMAS FLINT
M.".

And 1504 officers and representatives from 574 chartered
Lodges.
And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with
song by the choir, "Unfold, Ye Portals Everlasting," and
prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
DEVOTIONAL SERVICE
The V. ·. R. ·. Herbert P. Shaw, Grand Chaplain, conducted a short devotional service preceded by a solo by
Henry L. Perry.
Dr. Shaw spoke in part as follows :
"My son, f~rget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments:
"For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.
"Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck;
write them upon the table of thine heart:
"So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of
God and man.
"Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not upon thine own
understanding.
"In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct thy paths."
(Proverbs 3 :1-6.)
Who comes here this morning, my Brethren? Men wl;io have passed
through these. portals, some a long time ago, some recently. Those are
here today who, by efficiency, by application, by being worthy and well
qual.ified, have been lifted above their fellows and have become leaders,
rulers, and Masters of the craft.
And the very fact that we are here, my Brethren, must bring us face
to face with the tremendous responsibilities resting upon men and Masons
today! In this hour of uncertainty; in this hour of need ; in t?is hour
when the hearts of men are looking toward the anchorages which have

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

held them across the years, Masonry cannot fail Masons; Masons cannot
fail humanity and the state; Masons must not fail God.
The mayor of San Francisco, in an address yesterday morning before
a group of churchmen, Catholic, Jewish and Protestant, meeting with
labor leaders attending this great-labor convention now being held in San
Francisco, said : "We are now reaping the harvest of greed and selfishness
of the 1928 prosperity era, when we forgot spiritual things during economic prosperity."
"We forgot spiritual things," said the mayor.
Fundamental to every walk of life, fundamental to every · life, are
those great, undergirding, everlasting principles which make for the
eternities.
And today, the conditions out yonder which face us, threaten our
institutions! The government itself is questioned, and the very Name of
God, the "All Seeing Eye," is being ridiculed and scoffed.
Proverbs 3 :1: "My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep
my commandments. Let not mercy and truth forsake ,thee : bind them
about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart." So cried the
wise man in his generation. So cries the prophet today.
When a belief, when a faith issues into an action, it cannot be shaken;
but "when a belief is not allowed to prove its worth in action, it is likely
to be destroyed by the first big storm which comes along," truly said Dr.
Ernest Fremont Tittle.
"To believe in God and not to act, is to lose one's capacity for belief,
and the price is skepticism. The cost of emotion unrelated is cynicism,
and the result of cynicism.is bitterness and despair."
How can a man believe in mercy, who with tears in his eyes talks
aeout the poor and unemployed, yet closes his bowels of compassion and
writes not his check for poverty?
How can a man believe in the truth of God, who never lifts his heart
in prayer and finds the reassuring presence of the D ivine?
"Therefore, life must seem hard, and cruel, and bitter to the man
who can never lift up his eyes unto the hills and believe with all his heart
in the reality and the power of God."
The "All Seeing Eye" is fundamental to Masonry, and who knowil
but that for a time like this that Name which alone compels a Master to
doff his hat within his Lodge; who knows, I say, but that Masonry united
·together with all of like and kindred faith shall be a bulwark to stem the
tide and storm of today I We shall find a God Who can be trusted. "We
shall find that love is not weakness, but power-the greatest power we
have-and we shall achieve a life which will bear witness of itself that it
is destined to go on after death."

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

God grant that Masonry will produce men; men for the needs of our
civilization; men who have conviction; men who are willing to do and
dare; men who have a vision of service and are not afraid to act. Great
men, good men; men whom the spoils of office cannot buy. Men who are
willing to give themselves to worthwhile tasks for the benefit of men and
Masons.
When Lord Nelson fought his great naval battle at Trafalgar, which
victory influenced all civilization, it is said that through the smoke and
storm of battle every British tar saw written across the Admiral's flag,
"England expects every man to do his duty." Today, my Brethren, we
face the destiny of our civilization, and methinks from the battlements
of heaven God unfurls the banner with the slogan, "God expects .every
man and Mason to do his duty."

On Friday, October 13, 1933, you honored me far beyond my
deserts by electing and installing me your Grand Master, the most
exalted Masonic station, and today, in accordance with the requirements of our Constitution, I herewith respectfully submit a report of
a portion of my activities and in some measure give an account of my
stewardship.

Telegrams were received from Past Grand Masters
Boynton and Wollenberg, now in China; from Francis V.
Keesling and William A. Sherman, now in Chicago; from
Stanley S. Chapman, Grand Commander, K. T., and from
Frank K. Ebbitt, our Representative near the Grand Lodge
of Canada in Ontario.
·

I have endeavored to meet as many groups of our Brethren as
has been convenient and possible, having due regard for the necessity
of protecting my health and business. It has been my earnest desire
to promote harmony in the craft and to restore strained fellowships
wherever and whenever I found those conditions existing in the
jurisdiction. It has been my sincere purpose to administer the duties
and obligations of a Grand Master in a dignified, fir~, fair but sympathetic manner, and to acquaint the craft with the affairs of our
gra·nd jurisdiction to the utmost of my mental capabilities.

Distinguished Visitor
M.". W.". Ezra M. Wilson, Grand Master of Masons in
Oregon, was introduced and received with the honors due
to his office.

MESSAGE OF GRAND MASTER
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:

We ;i.re meeting today in our eighty-fifth Annual Communication
which takes us back in ret;ospect to a time prior to the admission of
our beloved and glorious State as an integral part of the Union. Ours
is a history of progress and achievement, of which we may justly
feel proud.
Necrology
There's a land far away, 'mid the stars, we are told,
. Where they know not the sorrows of time,
Where the pure waters wander through .valleys of gold,
And life is a treasure sublime.
'Tis the land of our God, 'tis the home of the soul,
Where the ages of splendor eternally roll;
Where the way-weary traveler reaches his goal,
On the evergreen Mountains of Life.

-J. G. Clark.
Once again as we look back over the year just passed, we are
saddened by the ravages the Grim Reaper has made in our ranks.
We are reminded of the words of Solomon embodied in the ritual:
"Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble. He
cometh forth as a flower and is cut down; he fleeth also as a shadow,
an.cl continueth not." We will never again clasp the hand or enjoy

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the fellowship of many of our Brothers who have been called to the
Lodge above. I have been particularly grieved by the passing of three
of our dear friends, co-workers and Masonic leaders of many ·years,
Brothers P . G. M. Gustav A. Hutaff, P. G. M. George F. Rodden
and Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker. In order to render a proper
tribute of respect to these Brethren, I have requested special eulogies
for them by P. G. M. Will H. Fischer, Inspector Kent J. C. Seymour
and P. G. M. Dana R. Well er, respectively, coincident with the report
by the Necrology Committee.

bank to pay for same. The building will surely be completed in due
time and will be an object of pride to our institution and its members,
and an appropriate memorial to the revered Mason who was once
Master of Alexandria Lodge.

12

Conference of Grand Masters
Your Grand Master, as sole representative of the grand jurisdiction of California, attended the annual conference of Grand Masters
in the city of Washington, D. C., last February 24 and 25. Forty-one
grand jurisdictions were represented out of a total of forty-nine. After
being privileged to attend the last three sessions, it is difficult to
fully estimate the great value of these conferences. In many instances
the problems of the craft in New York and Alabama, of Kansas and
Maine, are very . similar to those in California. It is of great benefit
to meet, compare notes and to learn what is being done in other
jurisdictions. We thus can profit by the successes and the mistakes
of others. We must not overlook the opportunity to work out interjurisdictional relations..Perhaps no other grand jurisdiction contacts
as many other Grand Lodges as does California, for obvious reasons.
It is an excellent thing to meet our Brethren of the other states and
talk over the many interests we hold in common. Doubtless there will
never be a general Grand Lodge. Each Grand Lodge defends its
independence, sovereignty and integrity ·with almost fierce conviction
and determination, and such attitude is in harmony with immemorial
Masonic tradition. But some measure of practical co-operation among
the Grand Lodges must be promoted, and these annual conferences
of Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries seem to provide the way.
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association
I represented the grand jurisdiction at the annual meeting of the
George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association at the
Memorial building in the city of Alexandria, on Washington's Birthday, February 22, 1934.
The Grand Lodge of California has a very substantial financial
interest in this worthy enterprise, and we are represented on the
Board of Directors by P. G. M. Albert E. ~oynton.
Slow but steady progress is being made toward the completion
of the interior of this national monument to Masonry. As you probably are aware, there are no debts and never will be, for the reason
that the Board of Directors make no contracts until money is in the

13

Visitations
One of the many joys of a year's experience as Grand Master has
been the visitations to Lodges and group meetings of the Brethren
in the inspection districts. The uniform courtesy, hospitality and inn_umerable acts of kindness and respect accorded the position of
Grand Master is greatly appreciated. It has been a distinct disappointment to have been unable to cover the jurisdiction more generally ;
nevertheless it has been my great pleasure and privilege to visit 72
inspectorial districts and thereby to contact 405 Lodges.
It is more apparent each year that it is impossible for the Grand
Master to respond to more than a comparatively few of the great
number of requests for personal appearances. Permit me to again call
your attention to the .three executive divisions of this jurisdiction
established by Grand Master Robert B. Gaylord and supervised by
the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens,
and the _availability of any of these line officers to represent the
Grand Master when it is impossible or inconvenient for him to r espond. You can relieve the Grand Master very materially by utilizing
the services of these Brethren.
Hawaiian Islands
Following the custom of many of my predecessors, I spent nineteen days in June visiting the eight Lodges and the Brethren on the
Islands of Oahu, Kauai, Maui and Hawaii. It was most interesting
and delightful experience. The hospitality of the Island people is traditional and justly celebrated. Mrs. Gist and I were the recipients of
many courtesies every day of our stay. I was very busy every moment
of my visit. I met a large number of our 1800 members, and also
many sojourning Brothers from all parts of the world. In one instance at Schofield Lodge, twenty-eight grand jurisdictions were represented. I was impressed with the universality of Masonry as never
before.
My experience has convinced me and confirmed my preconceived
opinion that the annual official visit of the Grand Master to the
Island Empire is very beneficial to the craft. It is practically the only
contact the m embers have with the Grand Lodge, and their appreciation is earnestly evidenced in many ways. When circumstances
have prevented a Grand Master from making the trip, their disappointment has been outspoken. I respectfully recommend the continuance
of these visits to my successors whenever it can conveniently be
arranged. It is well worth the time, effort and cost, I am sure.

a

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Special Communications
The following special communications were called since the last
annual communication of Grand Lodge :

By the Grand Master:
At San Jose, October 14, 1933, to lay the cornerstone of the new
Federal building at that place.
·
At the same meeting the . Grand Master installed the Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson.
At Inglewood, October 25, 1933, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
of Inglewood Lodge No. 421.

By the Deputy Grand Master:
At Oakland, November 7, 1933, in Sequoia Lodge No. 349, to
install the Senior Grand Warden, Earl Warren.
At San Rafael, March 10, 1934, to conduct the funeral of Past
Grand Master Rodden.
At Pittsburg, April 21, 1934, to lay the cornerstone of the new
Masonic Temple at that place.
By the Senior Grand Warden:
At Oakland, October 19, 1933, to conduct the funeral of Past
Grand Master Hutaff.
By the Gr!Jnd Secretary:
At Honolulu, T. H., February 13, 1934, to install the Grand Sword
Bearer, Walter C. Shields.
By Past Grand Master Mixter:
At Visalia, May 14, 1934, to lay the cornerstone of the new
Masonic Temple at that place.
Reduction of Fees
Many Lodges this year have requested permission to reduce the
fees for the degrees. I question the wisdom of this practice· and
believe the trend is in the wrong direction, but I also recognize the
fact that the individual Lodge is the final authority in the settlement
of this policy.
Reduction of Due's
I regret to note that a large number of Lodges are 'requesting
the consent of the Grand Master to reduce their dues instead of
building up a comfortable reserve. Of course, the Lodge should be the
best judge as to whether it' can afford to live on a reduced income
and at the same time maintain a safe financial condition to enable i~
to meet any possible future requirements, and particularly relief
obligations.

GRAND LODGE . OF CALIFORNIA

. 15

Delinquent Dues
Continuous, consistent and intelligent effort on the part of small
committees, I am sure, will produce satisfactory results. In the matter
of delinquent dues, it should be followed up every month in the year
in a friendly and frater'n-al but persistent campaign. It has been
·reported to me this year that in a number of instances it has been
discovered that the delinquent member was paying his dues in socalled "higher Masonic organizations" and to social clubs, but apparently felt justified in permitting his Lodge dues to go delinquent.
Such action, of course, cannot be excused. A Brother not in good
standing in his Blue Lodge should not be permitted to visit other
Masonic bodies.
Unemployment
The unemployment situation among our Brethren is still acute.
Splendid results have been accomplished by various agencies, including Lodge committees and employment bureaus. Desiring to encourage and stimulate increased effort along this line, I issued the
following bulletin, of date April 23, 1934:

To the Masters and Brethren of the Constituent Lodges
of this Jurisdiction :
It appears to be necessary and important that I again call your
attention, as has been done by the last three Grand Masters, to the
vital problem of unemployment among our Brethren, and urge your
co-operation in a united endeavor to alleviate in some measure the
present conditions, which are serious.
We must face the facts. Every Lodge should ascertain who and
how many of its members need employment. Classify them as to
occupations and organize job-finding machinery which will function
and get positive results. The opportunity is here for service. Ask
yourself this question: Am I my brother's keeper? The Masonic
answer is, "Yes, you are."
Today's challenge, then, to our fraternity is to make a practicable
application of the following principles:
The duty we owe to God,
The loyalty we owe to our country, and the
Fellowship we owe to our neighbor and our brother.
Some of the Lodges have appointed a Committee on Employment, whose duty it is to contact all members of their Lodge who
are employers and to urge them to notify the committee immediately
when any employees are needed. The Employment Committee also
makes a survey of the membership to ascertain who are unemployed,
what their qualifications are, and the nature of their experience, to
enable them to place these Brothers in positions which they are
qualified to fill. I recommend that each Lodge should have such a
committee.
The Lodges in the larger communities should also support the
collective efforts of their Brethren as represented in the Masonic
Employment Service. This agency supplements the services of the
Lodge on behalf of its members, but the primary responsibility is
that of the Lodge. Continue the support of that organization, but

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

also utilize the resources of your own Lodge. It is a well established
fact that a fraternal employment service is not to be confined to the
simple conduct of a labor agency. Through its fraternal resources it
must seek to meet the employment problems of the individual in a
fraternal manner. In addition to this, it must be constructive in its
aim and service. A survey of the -immediate and continued needs will
impress upon every member of the fraternity the importance of building up the value and usefulness of the Masonic Employment Service.
This is absolutely necessary if we are to meet in a real fraternal spirit
the many and increasing demands that face us now and will continue
to confront us. Through the tireless efforts of the Masonic Employment Service we secure a member of the craft a position, and in doing
this we not only assist our Brother, but we also help his Lodge.
The responsibility is yours. If your members do not obtain work,
whom do they call on for relief? It is up to you, and it is far more
desirable to get a man a job than it is to give him relief.
The question, therefore, of vital importance is not what has been
done, but what can be done to be of wider and more effective usefulness in these days. Let us all co-operate in this important task.
Fraternally yours,
JAMES B. GrsT, Gra.nd Master.

Charles M. Wollenberg, to assist Fairmount Lodge in adjusting its
difficulties, I restored their charter under certain conditions November 15, 1933. A full report will be made by said committee to Grand
Lodge.
·

Monthly Bulletins

Mr. Leon 0. Whitsell,
Chairman, Grand Lodge, Committee on Masonic History,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco, California.
Dear Brother Whitsell:
I have received your request that as Grand Master I authorize
the publication of the work of the History Committee of Grand
Lodge under the title of "History of Masonry in California." For
many years your committee has labored assiduously and zealously in
the collection and assembling of historical material and I deem it
appropriate that the results of your work be made available to the
Masons of California and such others as may be interested.
The history of Masonry in California is a long and honorable
one. From the early pioneer days of hardships and romance to the
present era of hundreds of Lodges and tens of thousands of members
it has reflected the accomplishment of the people of this State and
its contributions to benevolence, humanity and civilization have been
noteworthy. The volumes proposed to be published will set forth in
an orderly manner the facts of this long career, which should be made
known to our members.
I hereby sanction the proposal of the History Committee to
arrange for the publication of a History of Masonry in California.
Yours fraternally,

16

Realizing before my installation my inability to contact more
than a small percentage of the Brethren, I decided to issue a bulletin
each month to be read at the stated meetings, and also to be reproduced in the bulletins of those Lodges desiring, and who were financially able to do so. I have been gratified at the cordial reaction
resulting from this plan, and believe that considerable beneficial and
fraternal stimulation has resulted from it. The close contact between
the Grand Master and the Brethren occasioned by this medium has
been wholesome, intimate and altogether satisfactory, at least to the
Grand Master.
·
Life Membership Funds
Life membership funds should be carefully handled, as they
are sacred trust funds and should never under any circumstances be
commingled with any other money. The principal should not be used
for any purpose whatsoever except for income-bearing investments
legal for savings banks under the laws of California and the Territory
of Hawaii, as amended by Grand Lodge at the eighty-second annual
communication October, 1931. This is a matter of serious responsibility for each Master affected to accept and handle. I am simply
calling your attention to this v.e ry important matter at this time as
a precautionary measure.
Restoration of Charter to Fairmount Lodge No. 435
Upon the recommendation of the special committee composed of
Pas t Grand Masters Chas. Albert Adams, George L. Jones and

Masonic History
For several years past our very efficient Committee on Masonic
History in California, so ably led by Brother Leon 0 . Whitsell as
chairman, has been carefully collecting material and data to be printed
in book form. This is the only history of California Masonry sponsored by this Grand Lodge. It has already cost the Grand Lodge
several thousand dollars. During this year the committee has completed its work to date. Arrangements have been made with a reliable
printing house to publish this work in three volumes under certain
conditions and limitations without financial obligation to Grand
Lodge. To complete this record I append copy of letter written by
the Grand Master to Brother Whitsell.

JAMES GrsT.

Also circular issued by the Deputy Grand Master during the
absence of the Grand Master in the Hawaiian Islands to the officers
and Brethren:
Inspectors, Masters, Wardens, Secretaries and Members of the Masonic
Lodges of California:
For more than six years, and at great expense, the Grand Lodge
of California has been, through its History Committee, gathering
material for a complete and authentic history of Masonry in CaFfornia. Unusual pains have been taken by the committee to gather all

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

interesting and valuable data in order to make this work of genuine
value to the fraternity.
Af last, after great labor and care, the committee has completed
this portion of the work and is about to arrange for its publication.
Arrangements can be made for the publication of this history,
which will appeal to all Masons seriously interested in the activities
of the fraternity in the past, without cost to Grand Lodge, provided
interest enough is shown by individual members and Lodges to stimulate its sale. A reliable publisher is willing immediately to publish
the work, without cost or liability to Grand Lodge, provided sufficient
subscriptions can be obtained to warrant it in proceeding. In view of
pending advance of prices of materials and labor, this offer must be
acted upon promptly, and it is the purpose of this letter to get an
immediate expression as to the possibility of securing the necessary
subscriptions.
The enclosed circular will give you the details and show you
what the three volumes will look like when completed. The publisher
offers a special pre-publication price of $12 per set to members and
Lodges who place their subscription orders now, but the regular trade
price will be ~O.
Please brmg this matter to the attention of members, both at
meetings and individually, at once. We are desirous that every Mason
in California shall have the opportunity to secure a set at the prepublication price, but in order that this may be accomplished, it will
be necessary for prompt acceptance of the offer.
We are sending herewith subscription blanks to be used by your
Lodge and members in ordering at the reduced rate. Lodge Secretaries will please send pre-publication subscriptions directly to Leon
0. Whitsell, chairman, Grand Lodge Masonic History Committee
State building, San Francisco, Calif.
'
Fraternally yours,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,
Deputy Grand Master.
And copy of subscription blank:
Pre-publication Subscription Order for
HISTORY OF MASONRY IN CALIFORNIA
Date........................................................................
H. S. Crocker Company, Inc.,
Authorized Publishers,
"History of Masonry .in California,"
735 Harrison Street, San Francisco.
Gentlemen:
I hereby subscribe to a set of the three-volume authorized "History of Masonry in Californfa" at the reduced pre-publication price
of $12.00 f ?r the set. En~losed is my check for $3.00. I agree to pay
$3.00 additional upon delivery of each of the three volumes. It is our
mutual 1;1nderstanding that if for any reason publication of the first
volume 1s delayed beyond the year 1934, ·my initial payment will be
refunded in full.

I deeply appreciate the activity and labor ·of this committee and
feel that their important work should be perpetuated in a permanent
and creditable form, and I earnestly hope a sufficient number of subscriptions will be secured in the near future to warrant the publishing
company to proceed with the work.

18

x<l~~~~~e~:-~-·-~-~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Member of..,.·.·.·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~·::;_-_-_-;_-_-;_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_·_-_:_-_-.·--.·_-.-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_i.~dg·~·-N·~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::···········
(NoTE: Make checks.payable ~o H. S. Croc~er Co., Inc. Mail subscriptions to Leon 0. Whitsell, chairman, Masonic History. Committee State
building, ~~n Francisco.)
'

19

Masonic Education
Possibly the term "Masonic Education" is unfortunate. To so
many of the Brethren the suggestion that they are to be educated
awakens a certain prejudice and at times a real hostility, yet it must
be obvious that Grand Lodge has no desire to force instruction or
information upon unwilling pupils. Perhaps some · day some wise
Brother will evolve or invent a term that will be free from unpleasant
implications, but meanwhile we m ust use fo~ want of a better designation the term "Masonic Education."
Throughout the Masonic world there is a realization that the true
Mason is the intelligent Mason, the well-informed Mason, the instructed Mason. First of all he should be well versed in the ritual,
be able to pass a creditable examination in the lectures of the degrees.
He should be able to recount in approved language the experiences
through which he passed when he received the degrees of Masonry.
This is the foundation of all Masonic education. But merely to be
able to repeat, parrot-wise, certain set phrases and answers is of
little value. The question arises, " Does he know what they mean?"
The degrees may be likened to an inexpressibly valuable and
b~autiful jewel placed in a perfect setting. That setting or framework,
or background, consists of the moral teachings of the fraternity, its
symbolism, its history, its traditions, its jurisprudence. The Mason
who truly appreciates the privilege that is his in being initiated into
the craft will not be content merely to admire the jewel in a casual
and half-hearted way; he will want to know something of this background, this tradition, or, dropping the simile, he will want to know
what Freemasonry means. The bright, alert, curious young candidate
is usualiy anxious to know, to learn, to explore. But alas, too often
we pour cold water on his enthusiasm, rebuff his questions and discourage his curiosity. This is a mistake.
There are inexhaustible depths in ·F reemasonry and an abiding
inspiration for th6se who will search out the deeper meanings. I sincerely hope ways and means may be found to make Masonic education attractive, interesting and profitable. T he older, as well as the
younger, Masons will find it well worth while.
Masonic Clubhouses
One of the most interesting, and, I believe, profitable activities
of Grand Lodge is the maintenance of the Masonic Clubhouse at

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Berkeley and the one at Los Angeles. These institutions are maintained for the benefit of the young people from Masonic families attending the University. Here the young folks find opportunities for
social relaxation, for study and service.
The one at Berkeley was the first of our ventures in the way
of administering to the students of Masonic affiliation. The institution
from its inception a number of years ago has occupied a very prominent place in the student life on the campus. Three presidents-Dr.
Campbell, Dr. Barrows and _Dr. Sproul-have given hearty and unsparing commendation to the strong influence of the Masonic Club
on · the students of the university. The clubhouses have given to
thousands of young men and women from our Masonic families
throughout the State something they could not otherwise have enjoyed, that social contact under the direction of wise and experienced
counselors supplied through the members of the Board of Trustees,
the hostess, the members of the faculty of Masonic affiliation, and
membership of Lodges adjacent to the clubhouses. These clu.bhouses
have now become almost as established an institution as the university itself.
An estimate recently made at Berkeley by the management, after
a comparison of estimates of those in charge of the various activities,
permits the conservative and authentic statement that an average of
125 students used the clubhouse each day during the regular sessions.
There has recently been brought about a merger of the three men's
organizations functioning at the clubhouse into one. The result has
been helpful. The Women's Masonic Club continues to be an outstanding organization on the campus, and probably its most prominent activity is the Women's Masonic Glee Club, composed of a
large number of students with excellent voices and training. On
Wednesday afternoons there is held what is called an "Informal,"
devoted to social contacts of the young people. These meetings are
usually attended by about four hundred students. Each Sunday afternoon a "Fireside" is held at which helpful addresses and discussions
are offered by members of the faculty and other prominent men and
women of the Bay area.
·
Not all of the activities of the students using the clubhouses are
devoted to sociability. The Women's Club maintains a small loan
fund which has been of great benefit to many of the club members.
During the last semester one of the y~ung men of the club was
compelled to undergo an expensive operation at the infirmary. The
club members furnished the necessary funds. Each year the students
present to the clubhouse a handsome present of useful character.
Recently the students made a sort of declaration of benefits received
from the club, which is as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

"The young people (using the clubhouse) feel ~hat the b~nefit
they receive from social contacts and development m leadership at
the clubhouse is comparable to the academic work on the campus."
Mrs. Quinn, the efficient hostess of the club at Berkeley, who
has occupied that responsible position for a number of years, and
who has been in every sense a "mother" to the hundreds of young
people who have come and gone under her gentle administration,
says:
"I feel from years of observation t~at the Universi.ty of c;alifornia Masonic Club House fills a most important place m the hves
of our students which is of lasting value and credit to the craft."
At Los Angeles the same flattering references to Mrs. Quinn
apply with equal force to Mrs. Kempton. At Los Angeles the approximate daily attendance at the Club House is 112. During the last
year the study rooms were used by about 5000 students. The Dramatic Club is very active. It presented seven plays during the year,
repeating the plays before Masonic and other groups. To show that
an altruistic spirit prevails, it might be mentioned that the Areme
Club took for their project the care of a needy family in Sawtelle.
Clothing and food were provided, including milk, for the children,
baskets of food often, and a complete outfit for the oldest girl graduating from high school. This proves that the young folks are not
animated by a selfish purpose in using the Club House and its facilities, but are glad to render a service to those in distress-truly an
exemplification of Masonic charity.
Finally, bringing the students of Masonic affiliation together at
our Club Houses and providing ways and means whereby their
university life may be enriched and made more effective, is a work
certainly well worth while.
Decisions

Decision No. I: Donation of Lodge Funds to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. Donation of Board of Relief Funds to Masonic Homes
Endowment Fuiid.
During the month of May different Lodges inquired if it is permissible for a Masonic Lodge to donate funds of the Lodge to the
Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes. (The same question has
been asked regarding funds of Boards of Relief.)
I held that it is not permissible under Sections 88 and 89 of the
Constitution, providing for the disposition of Lodge funds. (Nor is
it permissible for a Board of Relief to dispose of any of its funds in
this manner.) The effort this month on the part of the Endowment
Committee is simply an opportunity for voluntary contribution for
this very worthy purpose on th~ part of the individual members of
the Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Decision No. 2: Donation of Lodge Funds for Expense of Conducting Public Schools Week Celebration.
Requests were made by different Lodges for a ruling on the
question of whether the funds of a Lodge can be used to defray expenses in sponsoring Public Schools Week programs.

accept shares in a Masonic Temple Association in payment of fees
or dues.

22

I here report my ruling:
It is my opinion that Section 88 of the Constitution does not
warrant such expenditure. I am further of the opinion that such. expenditures from the refreshment fund are fully authorized and justified, inasmuch as ·it is an activity directed by Grand Lodge itself, and
while it may be said to be a departure from th.e general plan of
Masonry, neverthe.less as long as Grand Lodge encourages it the
Lodges should be permitted to use a portion of their entertainment
funds for necessary expenditures in connection therewith.
Under Section 89 of the Constitution the refreshment fund can
be used for the "promotion of fraternal intercourse." In the language
of Grand Master Bledsoe, "the promotion of fraternal intercourse is
a very comprehensive expression, and as long as a subordinate Lodge
in good faith uses the social fund to such end as the general interest
and increased activity of the work of the .order is promoted, it is my
belief that the ·s upervisory powers of the Grand Lodge should be held
in restraint."
It appears to me that the same line of reasoning would apply to
the present question as to the circumstances under consideration
when the above opinion was uttered. It is therefore my ruling that
it is permissible for a constituent Lodge to use a portion of its entertainment fund for the purposes above referred to.
Decision No .. 3: Expense of Presenting Trowels to Candidates.
I held that the expense of procuring trowels to be presented to
candidates in the ceremony of conferring the degrees was proper, but
must be defrayed out of the refreshment fund.
Decision No. 4: Accept Shares in Temple Associatio1i as Pay of
Fees or Dues.
In one instance I was asked if a Lodge could accept shares in
the Masonic Temple Association which owns the building erected for
the occupancy, in part, of the Lodge, in payment of fees for degrees;
in another, in payment of dues of a member.
I held that, upon the Lodge obtaining permission to invest its
funds in shares of the corporation owning said building, from the
special committee as provided for in Section 87 of the Constitution, ·
it might purchase shares under the terms of its permit, and credit the
account of the seller with fees or dues and pay him the difference between the fees or dues and the fair ,value of the shares purchased at
the time of purchase. This is the only method by which a Lodge may

23

Decision No. 5: How Often Can Charity Be Dispensed to Same Recipient in a month?
I was asked how many times during the month between stated
meetings charity may be dispensed to ~he same recipient in excess
of the sum stipulated in the by-laws; and if the Charity Committee
does have the authority to dispense to the same recipient as frequently as it chooses, whether it then becomes necessary for the
Lodge to approve such action.
This involves the interpretation of Article X, Section 1 of the
Uniform Code of By-laws wherein the Charity Committee is given
power to draw upon the Treasurer for any sum "not exceeding" the
sum specified-in this case twenty dollars "at any one time."
It seems to me that it is clearly the intent of this by-law to
restrict the payment of twenty dollars to one individual to one payment per month. How.e ver, if under certain circumstances it appeared necessary to make more than one payment I presume the
Lodge would approve; but in any event, all payments of charity
should be reported at the next stated meeting of the Lodge for its
action, as to approval or disapproval. Splitting a sum greater than
twenty dollars into installments in an attempt to appear to comply
with the wording of the by-law is clearly a subterfuge and a flagrant
violation of Masonic law.
Decision No. 6: Divorced Wife Asking for Relief.
A Master of one of our Lodges asked a ruling in the following
case:
The divorced wife of · one of our members, at present in good
standing, has been left destitute with three minor children, aged sixteen, eight and three. The oldest boy is earning ten dollars a week,
which is the sole support of the family. Until recently the father has
contributed to their support, but he has now left the State and since
then has contributed nothing.
The wife appealed to the Master for assistance and a small
amount was given, pending the action of the Lodge at its next stated
meeting.
My ruling was, as follows:
"Our Constitution (Sec. 163) limits those who · have a right to
ask for and receive relief from the Lodge of which a Master Mason
is a member. During the life-time of such Master Mason he is the
only,.one wh.o has a right to ask f?r or receive relief from his Lodge.
Facts, ~f any there are, showing such Master Mason to be guilty
of unmasomc conduct, should be brought to the attention of the
J_unior .Warden of h_is Lodge. (See Const., Sec. 189, and Digest sections cited thereunder.) Whether or not he is entitled to remain in

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

good standing, and whether or not he is in distress, are facts that
your Lodge should determine promptly. Even though unworthy, until
suspended or expelled, he remains technically in good standing. So
long as he so remains technically in good standing he has a right to
ask for and receive relief from his Lodge during such periods as he
may be in distress. If in distress, and in good standing, this assistance
may be rendered by the Lodge through relief extended to a dependent
relative. The divorced wife is no longer a dependent relative.
"The determination of the question: whether such relief should
be rendered, may be through investigation by the Lodge without the
request of the brother. The action of the Charity Committee of your
Lodge (Art. X, Sec. 1, Uniform Code), or your action on your own
initiative, in granting relief to his dependents, prior to investigation
by the Lodge, should not be subject to legitimate criticism. Full investigation should proceed, however. If it be found that he is in distress and unable to aid his minor children, the Lodge should assist
them during his period of distress. If he is unworthy, the period oi
this assistance should be reduced by his trial and suspension or expulsion."

Decision No. 7: Incumbent Treasurer Must Be Installed.
I held that under Section 135 of the Constitution an incumbent
Treasurer must be installed as soon as practicable after his re-election.
Decision No. 8: Objection Made Before Initiation.
The Master of a Lodge asked a ruling on the following problem:
A petition for the degrees was presented to .a Lodge. Before it
was received formally a member called on the Master and registered
an objection, volunteering in detail his objection, and agreed with the
Master that investigation should be made by both the objector and
the Master. Each investigated the story leading to the objection, and
each agreed that the objection was not good, the objector withdrawing his objection. The committee on investigation made a full and
favorable report in due time, and the petitioner was elected. Before
the Lodge closed, the objector again interposed an objection, giving
the same reasons as theretofore. Query: Does Section 111 apply
here; that is, can the same objection be made a second time? The
objector was present at the meeting at which petitioner was elected.
I replied that Section 111 applies only when an objection is made
after initiation. One who has been made a Mason occupies an entirely
different position from one not yet initiated. He is entitled to certain
rights and privileges, including the right to be advanced in the absence of sufficient cause to the contrary.
Section 108 of the Constitution applies when the objection is
before initiation. Whether or not there is cause for such objection
is immaterial so far as its effect under Section 108 is concerned. As
interpreted by the Jurisprudence Committee (Proceedings 1879,
p. 168; D_igest 353) : "It is sufficient if the Master is advised by the
brother objecting that he does object."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

Decision No. 9: Physical Insufficiency.
Some Lodges have apparently wilfully ignored our law as to
physical qualifications of candidates and have received petitions from
applicants for the degrees that the officers must have known were
physically insufficient.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242 received the petition for degrees of a
candidate who had been rejected by that Lodge in 1931 because the
loss of a foot made it impossible for him to conform to what the
several degrees required of him. The Master, stating the above facts
and also that he was familiar with our Constitution and Decisions
relative to physica.1 qualifications of candidates, persisted by asking
a ruling from the Grand Master on facts that he admitted made the
candidate ineligible.
Antioch Lodge No. 175 admitted such a candidate. I wrote the
Master the following letter:
"My attention has been called to the fact that there has been
raised in your Lodge a brother who was physically insufficient, in
that his right hand was off.
"I call your attention to Section 94 of the Constitution and a
decision in the Digest No. 247, on p. 251. This decision was made
by Past Grand Master Ross and supported by the Jurisprudence
Committee and adopted by the Grand Lodge. I call your attention
particularly to the language: 'It is, however, the question of fact of
the physical insufficiency of the candidate that is to be determined
and not the question as to whether or not the Lodge is willing to
admit him in spite of the fact that he is physically insufficient. The
latter misconception of the law is found among many of the Lodges
and has led to admission of applicants physically insufficient. I have
'held that the fact for the Lodge to determine is whether or not the
applicant is physically able to conform substantially to what the
several degrees require of him without the aid of an artificial hand
or leg.'
"In cases of this kind the important matter is whether the candidate can conform or not conform to the requirements. In this particular case he undoubtedly could not conform. Therefore, it is my
opinion that your Lodge has committed a flagrant violation of the
law and you are warned at this time that should another violation
occur your Lodge will be disciplined. I would be inclined to take
measures to punish your Lodge at this time were it not for the
possibility of misunderstanding which seems to be somewhat prevalent throughout the jurisdiction. Therefore I am giving you the
benefit of the doubt as to your good faith in admitting this candidate."
This matter is so important, so fundamental, that it must be
admitted that a Lodge which wilfully admits a man in spite of the
fact that he is physically insufficient is incompetent to hold its
charter; and that a Master who permits it is unworthy to continue
in his office. I therefore recommend that it is the sense of this Grand
Lodge that if such a case occurs again, both the Lodge and the
Master should be disciplined.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decision No. IO: Withdrawal of Petition.
I have advised that in cases of ineligibility for want of proper
qualification the withdrawal of the application as provided for in
Section 104 of the Constitution is more courteous and . friendly than
to reject the candidate by a · negative ballot. I have held that when
a Master is aware that a candidate is ineligible for want of proper
physical qualifications it is not necessary to ballot upon the application. It is the duty of the Master to direct the withdrawal of
the application and return the fee to the candidate without further
action.
Decision No. I I: Liquor.
Many questions were asked relative to liquor. My decisions were all
in accord with the following bulletin:
"San Francisco, November 28, 1933.
"To the Brethren of the Jtirisdiction:
"I am in almost daily receipt of letters from Masters of Lodges,
making inquiry in the event that the 18th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States shall be declared repealed-and in all
human probability such repeal will be made early in DecemberMasons may engage· in the business of retailing spirituous, malt or
fermented liquors and whether or not a Lodge may lease a portion
of its premises for use as a beer garden, the lessee agreeing to sell
only such liquors as are permitted by law. I am also asked for an
official interpretation of the words 'any Masonic banquet or gathering,' now a part of Section 89 of our Constitution:
..
"These questions are pertinent and in my opinion deserve
answers which should go to every Lodge in the jurisdiction and all
can be considered together.
"At the annual communication in the year 1912 a new section was
added to the Constitution, reading, as follows:
'Sec. 129A. No Lodge shall receive an application for the
degrees of Masonry or for affiliation, from any one who is ·engaged either as principal, agent or employe, in the saloon business (except in connection with and as part of the operation of
a bona fide hotel or restaurant ), or who is a barkeeper; and any
Mason who may hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon
business, either as owner, agent, or employe, except in connection
with and as a part of the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper, shall be deemed
guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial and co·nviction of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges,
including membership in any Lodge.'
"Although this section does not appear in the Constitutions published since 1923, it has never been- repealed and continues to be a
provision of the law by which we are governed. It has been omitted
from the published Constitution only because the Committee appointed in 1923 to revise the form of the book, deemed its inclusion
unnecessary, in view of the fact that under .the law of the land there
could be no saloons or saloonkeepers, nor other persons who would
come within the purview of that section of our Constitution.
"The sentiment of Grand Lodge at its latest annual communication, represented by more than a thousand Masters and Past Masters

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

of our Lodges, clearly indicated that the serv.ing of spirituous! malt
or fermented liquors at any Masonic gatherin.g was s~bve~s1ve of
good morals and good Masonry. In this co?nect10n at~entton 1s called
to a quotation from the report of the Committee <;>n Pohcy and Gener:;il
Purposes in considering the question of serving beer at Masonic
gatherings:
'We believe that our Lodges should continue to operate upon
the highest plane of manifest propriety, thus observing the admonition so solemnly imparted to every Master Mason: To preserve unsullied the reputation of the fraternity ought to be your
constant care; and also the injunction laid upon every Master at
his installation: To avert the shadow of any scandal or reproach
against the fraternity.'
"Having in mind the specific prov1s1ons of our law wit~ respect
to the use of malt, as well as spirituous and _fermente~ hq~or, it
should be obvious that it would be decidedly inappropriate, 1.f ?Ot
grossly improper, for a Masonic Lodge to lease an:(~art.?f a b~1lding
under its control-and especially any part of a bmlding in which the
Lodge meets-'for use as.a beer garden.'
"I am therefore constrained to rule and decide:
"First: A Mason who engages in the business of reta!ling spirituous or fermented liquors to be consumed upon the premises, or who
engages in the saloon business, either as owner, agen! or employe,
except in connection with and as a part of the operation o~ a b<;>na
fide hotel or restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper, .1s gu1.l ty
of unmasonic conduct and charges sho1;1ld be preferred agau~st him.
Any Mason who retails malt o~ vinous hquors _except as permitted by
the law of the land is also g.mlty of unmasonic conduct.
"Second: No Lodge may let, or sub-let, for use a~ a beer garden,
or as a place where spirituous, malt or fermente.d .h qu?rs ar~ SC!ld
and consumed on the premises, any part of a bm!ding in which t!S
meetings are held; and this shall be construed to in~lude a Masonic
Hall Association, in which any portion of the sto~k is owned by the
Lodge. This inhibition shall not apply to the letting for the purpose
of conducting a bona fide hotel or restaurant.
"Third': Section 89 of the Constitution, as amen1ed in October,
1933, applies to all meetings of any kind held by, or m the nal?e, or
under the auspices of, any Masonic Lodge; and to any gathering or
assemblage of Masons as such.
]AMES B. GrsT, Grand Master."
It may be of interest to you to know that under the General
Regulations of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana it is provided under
Article VI, Section 1: "Every candidate for init iation into Masonry
must be twenty-one years of age. He shall 'not be engaged in the
manufacture, or sale of alcoholic, malt or vinous liquors as a beverage,
directly or indirectly;"
Decisions, 1920, pp. 87, 167-170: "If a member has been in the
liquor business, has quit the same, and contemplates re-entering it, it
will affect him the same as it would an applicant for the degrees. The
words 'directly or indirectly' mean that a member cannot engage ln
the liquor business as a hotel keeper, silent partner , or in any form.''

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decision No. 12: Lodge Funds Can Be Used to Purchase Masonic
History of California.
I was asked: Is it a proper expenditure of Lodge Funds for the
Lodge to subscribe for a set of the History of Masonry in California,
the same to be for the use and benefit of the members of the Lodge?
My answer was: After reading Section 88 of the Constitution
and Decision 431 and 431A in the Digest, made by Grand Masters
Bledsoe, Ross and Wollenberg, my decision is that, in my opinion,
there is no question but that a Lodge can spend its funds for the
purchase of books and maintenance of a library for the benefit of its
members.

Decision No. 13: Relief for Family of Deceased Brother Not Member For Three-Year Period.
Application had been made to the Masonic Homes of California
by one of our Lodges for relief of the chil!ren of one of its deceased
members who had not been a Master Mason for three years prior to
his decease. Under the rules of the Masonic Homes, as approved by
this Grand Lodge, children of a deceased member who had not been
a Master Mason for a period of three years prior to his decease, are
not eligible to admission. Relief having been necessarily denied by
the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, application for financial assistance was then made direct to the Grand Master on the ground that
the resources of the Lodge were insufficient for the relief of these
children.
I held that under our system of relief in California, assistance is
rendered directly by the Lodge (Const., Sec. 90) and " Must be determined by the resources of the Lodge and need for assistance by
other members of the Lodge." (Digest, 437a.) Inasmuch as Grand
Lodge has no system for furnishing funds to supplement the resources of the Lodge for the relief of its dependents, I refused to
authorize the expenditure of Grand Lodge funds for such purpose.
Decision No. 14: Suspension of Indigent Member for Non-Paymmt
of Dues.
It appears that on August 3, 1934, a Brother was on the roll of a
Lodge as a member in good standing; that said Brother was then delinquent in his dues since January 1, 1933; that at your stated meeting on
August 3; 1934, the Secretary duly notified said Brother "that unless at
the next stated meeting" (September 7, 1934) "either your dues be paid,
or sickness or inability to pay be shown as the canse of such refusal or
neglect, you will be suspended from all the rights and privileges of Masonry."
Replying to this notice in a letter addressed to the Master, dated
August 18, 1934, the Brother stated:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

29

"I can only repeat what you already know, my inability to find
work wherewith to pay my dues, and again request Covenant Lodge
for extension of time to December 31, 1934. I have· been promised a
SERA work order for my services in our unemployed co-operative
unit No. 29. ... If I am fortunate enough to receive a work order
I can then pay in full."
To this letter the Master replied on August 27, 1934, as follows:
"Since receiving your letter of August. 18 requesting an extension
until December 31, 1934, for payment of your arrear dues, I wish to
state that _after considering your case from every angle, I still see no
. reason why the request should be granted. Therefore, please be advised that unless your dues are brought to date by the September
stated meeting there will be no alternative from suspension on that
date."
The Master carried out this ultimatum at the stated meeting on September 7, 1934, and declared him to be suspended for non-payment of
delinquent dues from July 1, 1933, to June 30, 1934.

It is my decision that declaration of the Master is void and of no
effect, and that the Brother is in good standing in the Lodge. The Brother
had shown that inability to pay was the cause of his neglect to pay his
dues, and until the Master had reported this showing to the Lodge and it
had refused to remit the Brother's dues or grant him further time for
their payment, the Master had no jurisdiction to declare him suspended.
Regulation 442 of the Digest is particularly applicable to this case.

If true, as stated by the Brother, that he was unable to pay dues for
the year from July 1, 1933, to June 30, 1934, due to the fact that during
that period he was simply receiving provisions and food from the co-operative unit and that all his savings had been used up, it would ·be the duty of
the Lodge to issue him a receipt for dues to date, charging the same to the
Lodge. This should be done whether he requests it or not; otherwise, his
dues will accumulate and be still more impossible for him to pay.
Liquor
The repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment t o the Constitution of
the United States produced a flood of letters of inquiry to the Grand
Master from our brethren desiring information as to t he effect the
liquor business would have upon the standing of members of the
Craft who engaged in the same in various capacities.
From the volume of correspondence one might be led to believe
that a large percentage of our membership expected to engage in this
business. Accordingly ·! endeavored to cover the subject by a circular
letter to the brethren under date of November 28, 1933, copy of
which is reproduced under Decision No. 11.

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Transfer of Trials

Let no brother, therefore, feel that his participation in this event
is merely the perfunctory performance of a prescribed Masonic duty.
Rather is he fulfilling a great duty of citizenship, rendering a service
to the children, to his state and the nation.

A case originating in Orosi Lodge No. 383 was transferred to
Visalia Lodge No. 128 for reasons satisfactory to the Grand Master
for said transfer.

31

· Public Schools Week in April
No other institution in our country surpasses in importance the
public school system, nor is any more intimately associated with our.
daily lives and our future well-being. It is the mold and the fashioner of the lives and character of our children. Its establishment
and maintenance has long been distinctly and outstandingly an American institution, in harmony with the principles upon which our
nation was founded, and it is pre-eminently in accord with the principles of Freemasonry. Masonry in America has ever been alert to
its needs and active in its support. None .may gainsay the marvelous
achievements of our public schools under a constantly progressing
development. They are the priceless heritage, the strong bulwark of
a free people, established by the state and maintained by public funds.
Their financial structure and practical operation are subject to the
control of legally constituted representatives. The funds are supplied
by the P.e ople, the instruction and guidance of our youth are committed to the teachers and administrators. Even though these
agencies discharge their functions fully, is this enough? Will not
much be lost unless there be complete cooperation between the home
and the school? Will not also much be lost unless there be enlightened interest on the part of all others in our communities, those who
are actively in charge of the schools, our legislators, and the parents
of our school children?
The demands of the present day are such that it is difficult in an
individual, solitary way to keep ourselves informed about many things
that vitally concern us. It was for the purpose of keeping the general
public informed and-interested in the work, the problems and achievements of the schools, that Public Schools Week was first conceived
by P. G. M. Chas: Albert Adams and is now observed annually each
April in California. During this period attention is focused · upon the
schools in every community in the State. It has become entirely a
civic event, welcomed by the people generally and by the school
people especially. Through prosperous and adverse conditions it has
served as a means of bringing into closer relationship all connected
with or inte.rested in the training of our youth. During the last few
years of unparalleled distress, it is well there has been kept before
our people the necessity of preserving from destruction or serious impairment our great system of public education, and no means is more
potent than the exhibition of their work and the friendly interchange
of ideas brought about by this public observance.

PROCLAMATION
FIFTEENTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS WEEK

To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren of the Several Lodges of This
Jurisdiction:
The week beginning with the fourth Monday in April of each
year is Public Schools Week in California. MONDAY, APRIL 23,
1934, marks the opening of the Fifteenth Annual Observance.
The crisis in public education to which attention was called by
my predecessor in his proclamation last year still confronts us.
United States Commissioner of Education, George F. Zook, has expressed the belief that this year more than at any time in our recent
history the quality, and even the existence, of the schools in many
communities is at stake; and that we are in the grip of a social difficulty from which we shall extricate ourselves only with great effort
and pain.
·
Everywhere throughout the country generally not only in the
rural areas, but as well 1n the cities, where schools have not been
closed the terms have been shortened, classes have been increased in
size and some of the most valuable educational opportunities have
been materially restricted.
The situation prevailing in some of the rural districts is tragic.
For lack of funds almost 2000 rural schools failed to open last fall.
There are approximately 18,000 which will remain open for not more
than six months; and of these there are 700 in which the school term
will not exceed three months. As a result of this situation there are
over a million children in the rural communities who this year are
either being entirely denied educational opportunities or are grievously
handicapped by reason of the greatly shortened school term.
In California, while some educational opportunities have been
discontinued or materially curtailed, we have thus far escaped the
disastrous situation elsewhere prevailing. There can be no question
that this is due to the widespread interest of our people resulting from
the knowledge they have of the aims, purposes and achievements of
their public schools; and there is no movement better calculated to
maintain ·that interest than the annual observance of Public Schools
Week, when parents and the public are afforded an opportunity of
obtaining first hand information with respect to their local schools.
It is therefore my request and direction :
1. That Public Schools Week, commencing this year on Monday, the 23rd day of April, 1934, be observed by all our Lodges
according to custom:
2. That no "work" be done in any Lodge on the night on which
there is any gathering for the observance of Public Schools Week in

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the 'city or town in which the L~dge is loc!lted; al}d .tl'l~t i.f it can ~e
conveniently done, every Masomc Lodge in the Junsd1ctmn remain
"dark" during that week:
3. That our brethren join with the Parent-Tea~her groups, t~e
American Legion Chambers of Commerce, the service and wome_n s
clubs and other 'social and civic organizations to make the coming
obse;vance an outstanding success:
.
4. That this proclamation be read in full at the next succeedmg
stated meeting following its receipt.
Dated at San Francisco this 8th day of January, 1934. .
]AMES B. GrsT, Grand Master .
Attest:
JoHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.
GENERAL COMMITTEE PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

Visits to Schools a11d School Exhibits
In making arrangements for any observance it should be kept in
mind that the primary purpose is to afford an opportunitv for the
parents and public to obtain information with respect to their
schools; and whatever may be the program in any community it
should include visits to the ·schools and exhibits of school work.
The arrangements for the visits to the schools and for the program to be provided will be willingly assumed by the school people.
Where there is a Parent Teacher Association it may be advisable to
have the arrangements for the visits to the school with which it is
connected made through that organization. There are few com- .
munities in which arrangements could not be made to hold a
"Father's Night."
The exhibits will also be furnished by the school people. "Live
Exhibits" in store windows showing pupils at work provide an especial'ly attractive feature.

Although Instituted an<J Fostered by the F_raterooy the Obse.rvance of
Public Schools Week is a Community Affair and not a Masonic Event.
January 24, 1934.
To the Master of Each of the Several Lodges Within the Jurisdiction:
Worshipful Sir and Brother:
The Fifteenth Annual Observance of Public Sch?ol~ Week co~­
mences on MONDAY, APRIL 23, 1934; and by this ti.me :you will
have received the proclamation of the Grand Master directing t~at
the week be observed by all the Lodges in this jurisdiction according
to custom.
·
d" 1
·
If you have not already done so, you should 1mm~ 1~te y get in
touch with the Superintendent of Schools or the principal school
official in your locality ; and no committee in. charge of the obsei:vance anywhere should arrange a program which does not meet with
the approval of the school authorities.
Rural Districts
Masters of Lodges in rural districts should imi:nedia~ely conf~r
with the County Superintendent of Schools 'Yho. will enlist the aid
of the rural supervisors and teachers of the district schools.

Mcetmgs
In addition to the public meetings held in the evening in school
auditoriums, noonday meetings may be arranged where there are
service clubs, or other organizations which meet for luncheon; and
women's clubs meeting during that week would probably like to have
a speaker who woo-Id discuss some phase of pµblic education. Arrangements for meetings of this sort are necessarily made some
weeks in adv.ance and should receive immedie.te attention.

Committee of Arrangements
Wherever possible the committee of arrangements should include
representatives of not only the school people, but also of the Parent
Teacher groups, the American Legion, Chamb~rs of C?~merce, .the
Service and Women's clubs and such other social and c1v1c orgamzations as are willing to co-operate.
.
..
It has been found advisable to have the committee suff1c1ently
large to permit of its being .divid,~d in.to ~uh-committees. ~nclude~
in these might be the following : Auditoriums and Entertamment,
"Chairman and Speakers," "Visits to Schools," "Exhibits of School
Work" "Co-operating Organizations" and particularly, wherever
possible, a "Committee on Publicity.''
The Lodge committee might well be of a mo:e or less permanent
nature. If composed of three members, there might be one n.ew appointee each year. This would enable every Master to .appoint on.e
member deemed especially desirable, and at the sam~ time to .avail
himself of the services of those who had had the desired experience
· in arranging an observance.

Suggestions for O'bseril(Jnce
Details of the foregoing with further instructions and suggestions, together with descriptions of especially successful observances,
will be found in the "Handbook," a copy of which was sent your
Lodge with the request that it be preserved for the use of the committee in charge of the observance. If it has been lost or mislaid, an
additional copy may be had without charge by addressing the Grand
Secretary at his office in the Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
A Downtown School
A notable observance last year included what was called "A
Downtown School.''. Arrangements were made for the use, rent free,
of a large building which happened to be vacant; and ten classes
ranging from grades one to six were held here-each for a half day.
Two classrooms were set up in the front of the building next to the
windows facing the sidewalk-one for upper, and one for lower,
grades. These classes were taught alternately; one class meeting in
the morning and the other in the afternoon.

S11bjccts of Addresses
In selecting the speaker for any meeting it is suggested that at
the time the invitation is extended, the speaker be requested to deliver an address on some subject now engaging the attc:ntion of the
people. Among these would be included "Re-organization of the Unit
af Administration," "Educational Finance and Budgeting" and ':Improvement of Educational Standards." It would also be appropriate
to discuss the "Charter for Public Education" which has been drafted
by the State Department of Education with the advice of representatives of lay associations and organizations. Copies of this charter
may be obtained by addressing the State Department of Education in
Sacramento.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Through community assistance the pupils and teachers were
transported, without cost, from the regular building to the downtown
school and returned to the same point. Each teacher planned her half
day of work the afternoon preceding the demonstration by her class.
Signs on the windows invited the passersby to come in where they
found seats and sat at ease while they observed the pupils at work.
The unoccupied floor and wa11 space in the building was utilized
for a comprehensive exhibit of the work of the school children. And
there was installed, an exhibit comprising school products ranging
from samples of first grade work to elaborate lathes and furniture
. made by students of the Technical High School. There was also a
· display of charts and graphs showing school enro1lment, school costs
and similar information.
Various educational and character building agencies of the community, including the Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, the Camp Fire
Girls, the Safety Patrol and the Playground Department joined with
the schools in setting up exhibits of their activities. There was thus
presented by means of a great co-operative community endeavor an
opportunity for the public to visualize pract~ca1ly a11 the agencies interested in education.
Each afternoon a high school band or orchestra furnished a program from three to five o'clock; and through the co-operation of the
Parent Teacher Association light refreshments were served to
visitors.
The downtown s~hool was not only splendid publicity for the
week's observance, but also afforded the opportunity for a large
number of people who did not have time to visit a regular school to
acquire that information which could not be otherwise obtained.
The total cash outlay was less than fifty do1lars, which was
donated by private individuals. Detailed information with respect to
the downtown school may be obtained by communicating with 0. S.
Hubbard, Superintendent of Schools, Fresno. .
·
Broadcasts on Education
It is suggested that in connection with the observance in every
community, and throughout the preliminary publicity, attention be
ca11ed to the regular weekly radio programs of the National Educational Association and the California State Department of Education.
"Our American Schools" is broadcast by the N. E. A. on Sundays
at 3:30 P. M. over K. G.' 0. and "Education at the Cross Roads" by
the State Department on Saturday at 7 P. M. over K. P. O.
Publicity
The name of the chairman of the publicity committee (and if
there is no publicity committee then the name of the general chairman) should be sent immediately to our Director of .Publicity, Edward H . Hurlbut, 753 Pacific Building, San Francisco.
A file of clippings from the local press should be preservedpasted on letter sized paper and attached to, and made a part of, the
report of the Master at the conclusion of the observance.
Sincerely and fraterna1ly yours,

April 9, 1934.
To the Master of Each of the Several Lodges Withiu the Jurisdiction:
Worshipful Sir:
Enclosed is a form for your report on the Fifteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools week which should be promptly made
and returned in the enclosed envelope.
These reports are required not merely to learn of the activity
of ea;c~ L~dge, but. as well, a~d more particula~ly, for the purpose of
obtammg information on which may be predicated suggestions for
observances in the future.
Ev~ry ques.tion should be answered; and it will be exceedingly
helpful 1f anything deemed worthy of special mention is reported in
:i-:our ~wn language on pages of the same size attached to the questionnaire.
The newspaper clippings which I assume you have preserved in
accordance with the directions heretofore sent you should be pasted
011 sheets attached to the report; otherwise they do not appear in the
file of your Lodge preserved with the records of the General Committee on Public Schools Week.
I desire ~ repor.t .fr~m every Lodge in the jurisdiction; and if
your Lodge did not Jom m the obse1 \lance please do not fail to state
in detail the reason.
Sincerely and fraternally,
]AMES B. G1sT, Grand Master.

34

COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK.
By CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS, Chairma11.

35

Masonic Homes and Trustees
The relief work administered through our Masonic Homes justifies the pride of every member of our fraternity. This is the most
important al!tivity of our Grand Lodge. Too much praise and encouragement cannot be given to those devoted and self-sacrificing
brothers who are giving their time and ability to this great humanitarian effort year after year without stint and also without remuneration. I trust that the brethren, particularly our officers and leaders,
will acquaint themselves with this particular work and visit the two
Homes as often as convenient.
At Decotci, Brother Frank B.' Hartman, Superintendent, and Mrs.
Richardson, the Matron, are continuing the performance of their
exacting duties with fidelity and zeal. At Covina, the very efficient
superintendent, Brother J ohn M. Downen, is carrying on with the
help of his corps of assistants the many and heavy responsibilities in
a very satisfactory manner. I respectfu1ly refer you to the report of
the Trustees for details of the operations of the Homes and earnestly
hope you will familiarize yourselves with the same.
Masonic Home Survey by Outside Agency
At the last communication of Grand Lodge a recommendation of
the Finance Committee was adopted, authorizing the Grand Master
to employ some .recognized qualified agency to make a survey of the
Homes. On investigation it became apparent that both Homes could

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

not be properly surveyed by one agency, owing to the dissimilarity
of their types of work. It appeared that the organization best quaiified to survey the Covina Home was the Child Welfare League of
America of New York City, and I accordingly employed them for
that purpose.
They sent as their representative Mr. H. W. Hopkirk, who has
visited and studied more than 250 children's institutions in this country, and consequently has a wide knowledge in that field. He spent a
week at the Covina Home. His report, covering forty-seven typewritten pages, touches every phase of the Home's set-up and operation. He summarizes his findings in the following words:
"It has been shown in this report that for the most part the work
of the Masonic Children's Home is on a high level. It is not luxurious, but it is good enough to meet the principal needs of most of the
children. There is need for continuation and in some cases extension
of some services. The additional workers needed for these purposes
will add a little to the budget, but will add much more to the improvement of services which the children need.
"The principal items in the budget have 'b een scrutinized to ascertain where reductions might be made. There is. evidence of economie.s
already practiced. Any further substantial reduction of the budget
would mean an unfortunate impairment of the standards of good
service."
I am aware that the primary thought in the minds of those who
suggested this survey was the hope of discovering means by which
a. material reduction of expenses could be effected. From that standpoint the survey was not productive of the result hoped, for.. I am of
the opinion, however, that it was well worth while. It brought forth
convincing evidence that your Trustees throughout the years have
used careful thought and good judgment in their management, and
have already gone as far in effecting economies as can b.e done
without materially reducing the service we are rendering to our dependent wards. The report contains a number of constructive suggestions for improvement in carrying on the Home. It mus.t b.e said
that most of these are things which the Trustees have already had
in mind, but which they have not felt justified in adopting on account
of the added expense which would be entailed. It states that the two
principal items of expense, food and salaries, are about what may be
'e xpected in a well-managed institution. It points out that the hours
of duty per week exacted from those immediately in charge of children are more than they should be. The Trustees have long known
that to be true, but have not felt justified under present conditions in
adding to the number of employees.
A majority of the recommendations made would, if adopted, lead
to increase rather than reduction of expense. All of the recommendations are referred to the Trustees for their careful consideration, with ·
full confidence that they will give due weight to all conditions before
increasing the cost of operation.

37

In view of the outcome of the survey of the Covina Home I felt
there was doubt of the advisability of going ahead and incurring the
expense of a similar survey of the Decoto Home. It has been under
the management of the same Trustees as the Covina Home and it
seemed fair to assume that its management has not been less efficient.
If Grand Lodge still desires such a survey made the same can be
indicated at the present communication.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
The Endowment Board created at the annual communication of
Grand Lodge in 1932 has pursued a vigorous and intelligent campaign
of education to acquaint the brethren with the importance of continually increasing this fund. In furtherance of this program the
Grand Master consented that an appeal should be made to the Craft
last May, giving them an opportunity of making a voluntary contribution to this endowment, the income from which will aid in maintaining
our two Homes and eventually will assist in decreasing the per
capita tax. The results of their activity will be reported by that
committee.
Southern California Past Masters Association Placement Committee
. The annual report of the Superintendent of the Covina Home to
the Trustees last October called attention to the fact that children
need guidance and help between the time they leave the Home and
the time they become self-supporting. The Trustees of the Homes,
in turn, in their annual report to Grand Lodge emphasized the same
thought, as follows:
"These children are dismissed at an age when they seriously
need a warm and welcome friendship on the part of the brethren.
They need employment; they need the fostering assistance of friends
who can be trusted to direct them in paths of good conduct. They
need to be directed in their new environment to keep good company."
Following these suggestions, the Southern California Past Masters
Association at its annual meeting of ] anuary 20, 1934, resolved to
appoint a committee for the purpose of assisting the young people
who graduate from the Covina Home in June of each year. The committee appointed is as follows:
Junior Gran·d Warden Rollie W. Miller, and Inspectors W. B.
Ogden, \.Vilbur }. Stewart, Wm. L. Hovis, Herbert W. Walker, and
Frank G. FaHoon.
This committee is now endeavoring to determine the procedure
which it should follow in order to accomplish this objective. It has
r~quested and received the sanction and assistance of the Grand

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Master, as well as the Trustees of the Homes. This committee is
active and energetic, and we hope for splendid results eventually from
their good work. I have reproduced the committee's letter dated May
1, 1934, to Inspectors and Masters of the Fraternity:
" May 1st, 1934.
"Dear Brother Inspector and l.'.fembers of the .Fraternity:
"In June of each year, som~ fifteen or tw.enty of 'the ~oys and
girls of the approximate .a ge of .e1ght.ec;n years, in the Masonic Home
at Covina, California, fimsh their training there and step forth to find
their places in the world.
"Many of these young folks are without a father .or a m.other,
sometimes without either father or mother, and sometimes with no
near relatives. Two vitally necessary wants then confroi:it them-e_mployment suitable to their abilities . and. needs, and a kindly helping
hand from some Big Brother or Big Sister.
"The Southern California Past Masters Association is co<?perating with the Home in filling . these t~<? needful wants. It desires to
find Masons who might be in a position to offer employment, .a nd
what is still more important, to find Masons o~ couples, who might
welcome an opportunity to interest themselves in one of these you~g
people, contact them occasionally, co.unsel with them, .be a B!g
Brother or Big Sister to them, and assist them to find their place in
the world.
"Have any of the Lodges in your. D istrict ~ucI:i a Mason_? Will
you forward this letter to the Lo4ges .in your p1strict requesting t~e
officers to acquaint the me~bersh1p with ~he aims and objects of this
committee, and if at any h?le, now or in the future, they hear of
someone who is interested in such work, to fo~ward ~he name. and
address to you, so that you in turn can forwar~ 1t t~ this Comm1tte.e.
And if the Lodges can occasionally ~n? space m the1~ Lod~e ~ulletln
to publicize this Wl.)rk-even though 1t 1s only a fe~ Imes-it will help
keep this movement before the general membership.
.
"Please impress upon your Lo4ges that the l,odg.es will not be
asked for financial assistance, nor will the Lodges be given ~ny work
to do in connection with this movement. All the Lodges will be expected to do "".ill be .to. forward to you the names of those who would
be interested m assisting young people.
Fraternally yours,
SouTHERN CALIFORNIA PAST MASTERS AssocMTION,

By ROLLIE W . MILLER, Chairman, Placement Committee,
205 South Broadway, Room 812, tos Angeles, Calif."
Board of Control
The Board of Control is functioning in its usual efficient manner.
By a carefully prepared, systematic plan of operation for .the Boards
of Relief it has bee.n able to reduce the annual recurring loss of
money for inter-jurisdictional relief from a la~g~ ~m?unt to ~ co~­
paratively small sum, and each year shows a d1m1mshing deficit. This
committee deserves the whole-hearte4 cooperation of all concerned.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

Boards of Relief
The fifteen Boards of Relief are working harmoniously with one
anoth.e r and with the Board of Control and performing a wonderful,
humanitarian service to sojourning brothers in their respective localities. I want to pay a tribute to the brothers who direct the various
boards and handle their affairs. Their duties have been particularly
arduous and difficult during these unhappy days of stress and strain:
They have been called upon to grapple with an increased and increasing volume of distress calls, with a diminished and diminishing
source of supply. They have met the obligations with devotion, selfsacrifice and efficiency and are to be warmly commended not only for
their practical effectiveness, but for the tact and sympathy with which
they have done their work. After all, the dispensing of charity, or, as
we are pleased to call it, relief, the getting of employment and the
rendering of material aid, supremely important though they be, are
only part, and possibly the least important part of their work. Kindly
advice, hearty encouragement and the imparting of moral and spiritual strength when hope has flown and the morale is broken down,
are more necessary than dollars and cents. This significant service is
being rendered to discouraged brethren every day in the Boards of
Relief. There is where you see Masonry in action.
Inspectors
The Grand Master is fortunate indeed in having the generous
support and assistance of the splendid group of devoted, self-sacrificing and qualified inspectors. We appreciate more than ever that
the easy and efficient functioning of the craft in all its activities depends upon the Inspectors. It is impossible for the Grand Master to
maintain his supervision over the individual Lodges, and this responsibility devolves upon the Inspectors. As I have traveled over the
State I have been gratified by the beautiful, fraternal spirit prevailing
in the relations between the various Inspectors and the Lodges in
their care. Usually a real affection exists between the Inspectors and
the Masters. The Inspector is indeed the Big Brother, maintaining a
watchful, yet kindly eye, over the Lodges, quick to detect shortcoming in the ritual or procedure, earnest in holding high standards of
performance, but generous and sympathetic in spirit, always ready
to commend good work and earnest service, and constantly available
for counsel and assistance. Too frequently the Inspector is neglected
and unappreciated and very often made a target of criticism and complaint, but the high position held by the fraternity and the harmony
and good feeling prevailing throughout the jurisdiction are due in no
small measure to the special work of our Inspectors. T hey are of invaluable assistance to tlie Grand Master and deserve the cooperation
of all the brethren.

40

P\ROCEEDINGS QF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

District Officers Association

"You will recall Grand Master Gaylord divided the State into
three Executive Districts, thereby removing the responsibility of supervising ceremonies, visitafrons, etc., from one man to four : the Grand
Master, Deput:,• Gmnd Master and the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens.
"In line with this policy, and in the interest of economy and
efficiency, it has been decided to appoint a Grand Lecturer, without
salary, and a Deputy in each of the three Executive Districts above
referred to, who will also serve without pay, to teach the ritual to
Inspectors only, and they, in turn, to the officers . of the Lodges of
their respective districts. Thus the Inspector will be the final" authority on ritual in his i;listrict.
"The Chairman of the Ritual Committee, Past Grand Master
Dana R. Weller, himself a Past Inspector and a very efficient ritualist, will have direct charge of this work and methods of operation
through the Grand Lecturer and the three Deputies. He will be the
final authority on all misunderstood or disputed questions relating to
the ritual. I have accordingly appointed Grand Lecturer, Brother
Foster G. Dyer, Inspector of the 4Sth District, in San Francisco. He
will have supervision over thirty Inspection Districts, twenty-eight in
the vicinity of San Francisco, and two in the Hawaiian Islands, the
latter to be contacted during Grand Lodge week annually: Inspection
District Numbers 29 to 48, Sl to S4a, 102, 103 and 113 to llS.
In Executive District No. 1, twenty-seven fqspection Districts.
Brother Leslie E. Wood, Inspector of the 22nd District in Sacramento: Numbers 1 to 26 and SO.
In Executive District No. 2, eighteen Inspection Districts.
Brother Past Inspector Chest-el' H. Warlow in Fresno: Numbers
27, 28, 49 and SS to 69.
In Executive District No. 3, forty-three Inspection Districts:
Brother Sidney K. Lehman, Inspector of the 72nd District in Los
Angeles: Numbers 70 to 101, 104 to 112 and 116 and 117.
"We confidently expect the whole-hearted coop era ti on of the
Grand Lecturer and Deputies and the Inspectors and Lodge Officers,
and if we have this we cannot fail. Should the experiment prove
satisfactory, proper legislation will be presented at the next communication of Grand Lodge to make the plan permanent.
Fraternal!_y yours,
JAMES B. GrsT, Grand Master."

A particularly valuable phase of our Grand Lodge activity is our
District Officers Meetings held monthly in the Iospection Districts
un<ler the direction of the Inspector. This is a practical educational
s-yS'tem for .the preparation of officers for the positions ahead of _them.
The efficiency of this plan has been demonstrated over a per10d of
years, and I u.nqualifiedly recommend its continuance, and request
the cooperation of all members concerned.
Thes.e associations are no longer an experiment. As a result of
the success that has attended this activity in recent years, it has
definitely taken its place as a vital and integral part of our institution.
This monthly meeting of officers of the district has a positive educational value and is i~ a real sense the school of instruction, so that
when the Master is installed he is fairly well versed in Masonk law
and procedure. It also provides an opportunity for the officers to
talk over their common problems and benefit by one another's experiences. Not the least advantage is the feeling developed ·by such
association of the oneness of the fraternity. Any association that
brings the officers of the Lodges together as such and creates this
spirit of comradeship .and mutual service is well worth w·hi!e.
New Ritual Plan
The sudden death of Brother Thomas J. Baker, our Grand Lecture;, December 27 last, presented a problem for solution as to
whether we should continue as heretofore or change our system of
ritual instruction. After a great deal of consultation and careful consideration, and in the interest of economy and .efficiency, it was decided t-0 try a new plan, viz., a Grand Lecturer and three assistants
or deptlt·ies. T'his new method £.or teaching the r itual has now been
in opemtiGn five months and the results will be fully reported by both
the chairman of the Ritual Committee and the Grand Lecturer. Following is a copy of the Grand Master's circular letter on this new
plan effective May l, 1934:
"NEW METHOD FOR TEACHING THE RITUAL. EFFECTIVE MAY 1, 1934
''Tc the Jnsp.e.cton and Officers of Constitii,ent Lodges:

"Since the death of the Grand Lecturer, our beloved Thomas J.
Baker, the subject of how best to perpetuate t_he te~ching of .the ritual
has occupied the serious and d,eliberate cons1derat10fl of your Grand
Lodge Officers and associate Masonic leaders.
"We have agreed u,pon .a plan which is sim_Ple ai:id worthy of a
fair and impar.tial trial by all concerned and .which will save at least
$6000 annually to Grand Lodge, an impo~t~nt item we cannot afford
to ignore, particularly under present cond1t1ons.

41

Appreciation
I am very happy to avail myself of this opportunity to express
my sincere appreciation for the uniform kindly cooperation of the
brethren all over the jurisdiction, and particularly the Past Grand
Masters and line officers, the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior
and Junior Grand Wardens. The Grand Secretary has been a tower
of strength in many ways. He has been a wise counsellor, philosopher and guide, and has relieved the Grand Master of many exacting
details. The Grand Lecturei:, and the three Dep.uties, together with
the Inspectors, have been of invaluable assistance to the Grand
Master in relieving him of a portion of the responsibilities of his
position.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. 42

Conclusion
In bringing my message to a close I must express regret at my
inability to have made a more beneficial impression upon the craft
for the good of Masonry in general.
This year has been a marvelous exp.e rience in renewing old
friendships among the brethren and making many new ones all over
this wonderful jurisdiction.
I have been a member of this Grand Lodge for twenty-nine
years. It has honored me many. times and I acknowledge my grateful
appreciation. It has a very warm place in my heart and I wish for it
and my successors in office the fullest measure of usefulness and successful achievement.
Finally I bid you farewell as Grand Master.
"May the blessing of Heaven rest upon us and all regular Masons!
May brotherly love prevail, and every moral and social virtue cement
us!"
Most cordially and fraternally,
JAMES B. GrsT, Gralld Master.

October 9, 1934.

Referred to the following Committee on Segregation:
Lawrence C. Kelley, Lloyd E. Wilson, Gilbert C. De Forest.

43

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the M: ·

w: · Grand Lodge of California:

In presenting this, my twenty-seventh annual report for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1934, a falling off of membership is again
shown by unusually large numbers of suspensions and loss of revenue
also by remissions of dues. · The suspensions would indicate that the
Lodges are stronger in fact by the lopping off of members who were
not at any time imbued with th.e true spirit of Masonry, and that we
are now getting to a point where we represent a unity of purpose and
a keen desire to exemplify "a sincere wish to be serviceable" to our
fellows and to the community at large. The many members whose
dues were remitted also indicates clearly that the spirit of helpfulness
is much alive, and that the paying members are cheerfully carrying
on the rolls all worthy brethren who .are in distress.
Membership
1934
1933
Membership July 31 ........................................;.......
132,331
136,694
1,810
Initiations ................................................................2,098
Passed ......................................................................1,991
1,897
Raised .................................................................................. 1,898
1,997
Affiliated from other jurisdictions..................................
192
172
654
Affiliated from California Lodges................................
618
4
Dual members ....................................................................
11
477
302
Restored ..............................................................................
15
12
Gained by error in Lodge reports..................................
Gross gain.................................................................. 3,247

3,105

Withdrawn .......................................................................... 1,097
Suspended non-payment of dues .................................... 4,560
24
Expelled and suspended for cause..................................
Died ...................................................................................... 1,905
24
Loss by error in Lodge reports......................................

1,110
3,992

Gross loss ............................................................................ 7,610

7,047

Net loss in the year............................................................ 4,363
Dues remitted .................................................................... 7,368
Total dual members............................................................
37

3,942

29
1,897
19

7,904
26

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
Last year twenty Lodges were unable to pay their dues to Grand
Lodge, and fifteen Lodges made partial payments, the total sum of
unpaid dues amounting to $13,843.55. On the recommendation of the

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Finance Committee, the dues of five Lodges were remitted, and the
thirty other delinquent Lodges were requested to execute notes payable in six months, to cover the amounts due. Twenty-five of these
notes, aggregating $12,835.17, have been paid.
This year nineteen Lodges have failed in whole or in part to
pay Grand Lodge dues, the total arrearages being less than $3,000.00.

45

Fifty-Year Tokens

By order of the Grand Master, a duplicate of the charter of
Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448 was issued, the original having been lost.

T·here appear to be more veteran Masons in our Lodges than in
any other jurisdiction, indicating clearly-what we all know-that
California climate is indeed an aid to long life. In the year past, 101
fifty-year buttons have been issued, making a total of 992 since 1929.
The oldest veteran reported this last year was Benjamin Allen Price,
who was made a Master Mason in Eel River Lodge No. 147, May
12, 1876, and affiliated with Hartley Lodge No. 199 :in 1908, of which
Lodge he is yet a member.

Representatives Appointed

Following are the names of the veterans who received their
. tokens since the last report:

Duplicate Charter Issued

The Grand Master, under date of November 28, 1933, issued his
commission to W. Gustave Wilches, Past Master of Lodge Renovacion No. 12, as Representative of the Grand Lodge of California near
the Grand Lodge Nacional de Colombia.
Under date of April 23, 1934, the Grand Master ordered the issual)ce of a commission to Dr. Mario de Macedo Costa as Representative
near the Grand Lodge of Bahia, Brazil, vice Germano Fritz Hupsel,
deceased.
On October 7, 1934, w:. Vernon E. Bowler of Savannah, New
¥ ork, was appointed as our representative near the Grand Lodge of
N~w York.
Budget
The Finance Committee's budget, submitted to Grand Lodge at
the last annual communication, estimated the receipts for the year
ending July 31, 1934, would be $107,330.00, and that the disbursements
would be $40,400.00, plus appropriations of $56,200.00, or a total disbursement of $96,600.00, leaving an estimated surplus July 31, 1934,
of $10,730.00. The actual receipts for the year ended July 31, 1934,
including $12,391.11 cash in the treasury August 1, 1933, for the General Fund of Grand Lodge were $113,421.03, and the disbursements
were $101,847.96. The cash balance July 31, 1934, was $11,573.07.
The cash and securities as of July 31, 1934, amounted to $765,462.87.
The cash receipts for August and September, 1933 and 1934, were
as follows:
1934
1933
Grand Lodge, general fund ..........................................$ 66,895.25 $ 77,515.70
92,028.75
Home maintenance ........................................................ 92,423.85
Home buildtng .............................................................. 61,616.4-0
61,352.50
14,325.00
$25 Home fees ................. ~ ......................:..:.................... 18,475.00
Total receipts August l to September 22............$239,410.50 $245,221.95
Unpaid dues ............•.......,.......,......,...........,..,.......$ 3,810.00

!Vaine

II

l?aised

·Lodge

Allen, Halsey W ......................... _In 1883
Redlands No. 300
Anderson, George William..........June 30, 1883 Woodbridge No. 131
Bacigalupi, Paolo .......................... In 1884
Speranza Italiana No. 219
Badgley, Gilbert Benjamin .......... Aug. 30, 1883 Mission No. 169
Bailey, John Amity........................ Mar. 15, 1884 Laurel No. 245
Bandy, John C. .............................. Sept. 6, 1884 Palestine No. 351
Beck, Madison H ........................... Oct. 7, 1882 Durant No. 268
Berendes, Joseph Carl... ............... Aug. 27, 1884 Crockett No. 139
Bergwall, Gustaf A. ...................... July 28, 1883 Naval No.87
Bright, Luther Richard ................ N ov. 9, 188J Smyrna No. 532
Brooks, William Washington ...... In 1883
Fresno No. 247
Brown, Bernard Chas .................J uly 5, 1883 Fidelity No. 120
Browning, Charles Clifton .......... April 5, 1884 South Pasadena No. 367
Cass, Henry K. .............:................ In 1883
San Simeon No. 196
Clark, Daniel Wesley.................... April 5, 1884 Selma No. 277
Cottle, Rainsford Ensor .............. April 5, 1884 Pentalpha No. 202
Crandall, Almeron ........................ Mar. 30, 1883 Long Beach No. 327
Dalby, Joseph Berrhill ................ Sept. 14, 1883 Nicolaus No. 129
Davis, Charles F ........................... Oct. 16, 1883 California No. l
Davis, William E ........................... In 1883
Blackmer No. 442
Decatur, James Godfrey .............. April 6, 1882 Bethlehem No. 453
Dennison, Albert Henry.............. April 21, 1884 East San Diego No. 561
Dewey, Edwin Preston ................ Mar. 28, 1884 Covina No. 334
Dinkelspiel, Joseph Samuel... ..... Mar. 6, 1884 Fidelity No. 120
Doherty, George Lord .................. Feb.,
1883 Hollenbeck No. 319
Doty, Chauncey A. ........................ Aug. 9, 1884 Mount Diablo No. 448
Elwert, Charles Philip................ Jan. 28, 1884 California No. l
Ely, Martin J ................................. April 17, 1883 Van Nuys No. 450
Feagans, George Elmer................ Mar. 2, 1883 West Lake No. 392
Frolich, Theodore ........................ April 9, 1884 Mount Moriah No. 44
Gottwals, William ........................ Sept. 15, 1883 Enterprise No. 70
Grant, James C. .............................. Oct. 3, 1883 Palestine No. 351
Hadley, William Charles............ Mar .. 8, 1884 Yolo No. 81

46

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Raised
Lodge
Hall, Frederick Winslow............June 7, 1883 Naval No. 87
Haynes, John Randolph ................ Sept. 12, 1877 West Gate No. 335
Hibbard, William W .........-.......... June 6, 1884 Pomona No. 246
Henry, Joseph Baxter..................Sept. 2, 1881 Long Beach No. 327
Hoover, William F ..._................-June 10, 1884 Pasadena No. 272
Hopkins, Edwin Carmi, J r ......... May 30, 1884 Sacramento No. 40
Jewett, Stanley P .........................Mar. 17, 1884 Granada No. 608
Johnson, Benton 0 ....................... Jn 1876
Redlands No. 300
Johnstone, John ............................ Jan. 23, 1872 Alcatraz No. 244
Kerr, Archibald Thompson ........ May 4, 1881 Chico No. 111
Knight, Henry D ........................... Sept. 30, 1882 Olivet No. 205
. Lane, George Addison.................. Jan. 10, 1882 Oceanside No. 381
Leatherman, George A................. July 3, 1883 Blackmer No. 442
Lloyd, Hugh J ohn........................ Sept. 30, 1882 Crockett No. 139
Lockwood, Thomas .......:.............. May 20, 1884 Pacific No. 136
Logan, Allison Robert... ............... Dec. 15, 1883 Olivet No. 205
Martinoni, Emil ........,................... Nov. 27, 1884 Doric No. 216
Matthews, Francis Ima................ Oct. 12, 1883 Live Oak No. 61
McAninch, John ............................ Feb. 23, 1884 Eureka No. 16
McCabe, John A ........................... May 5, 1882 Vermont Square No. 515
Miner, Julius U ............................ Mar. 6, 1884 Cupertino No. 510
Mitchell, James R......................... Jan. 5, 1884 UnityNo.368
Mogk, John Charles.:.................... Mar. 22, 1884 Colusa No. 240
Muller, Louts ................................ May 26, 1884 • Hermann No. 127
Nielsen, Carl Henry.....,.............. Jn 1883
Naval No. 87
Oliver, John Baptiste.................... Sept.,
1883 Kilauea No. 330
Patterson, Albert Lewis C......... July 22, 1884 Live Oak No. 61
Peck, Thomas Charles.................. July 30, 1883 Los Angeles No. 42
Pennycook, William Gemmel...... April 16, 1883 King Solomon's No. 260
Phillips, Adolph ............................ Mar. 24, 1884 Pacific No. 136
Plummer, Jabez Chester.............. Jn 1884
San Jose No.10
Pratt, George Albert....................Aug. 2, 1884 Santa Rosa No. 57
Preston, Charles W ..................... April 19, 1884 Tuolumne No. 8
Price, Benjamin Allen.................. May 12, 1876 Hartley l'fo. 199
Rathbun, Franklin L..........,..........Aug. 11, 1883 Mountain View ~o. 194
Reed, James Denny........................ Aug. 24, 1883 Covina No. 334
Reynolds, Emery H ....................... Mar. 29, 1884 Sunnyvale No. 511
Robertson, Edgar Simpson.......... April 12, 1884 Eel River No. 147
Rowe, Pleasant Wm..................... May 3, 1884 Enterprise No. 70
Ruff, Samuel Francis......_............ Aug. 8, 1883 Morning Star No. 68
Salsbury, Charles ............:............. Dec. 13, 1883 King Solomon's No. 260
Schwartz, Henry Butler.............. May 13, 1884 Maui No. 472
Scribner, John Alexander T ....... April 28, 1883 Olivet No. 205
Sebree, Charles H ......................... Dec. 4, 1882 Pacific Grove No. 331

Name
Raised
Selover, Sidney .............................. Mar. 22, 1884
Sence, Addison .............................. Oct. 27, 1883
Smith, William Clay....,.-..............June 14, 1884
Sorenson, Neal .............................. Aug. 9, 1884
Stafford, Thomas Henry.............. Mar. 22, 1884
Steadman, John Judson................ Mar. 10, 1884
Stevens, Marcus Harloe.............. Mar. 27, 1883
Stockton, William Jasper............ Dec. 7, 1883
Stotesbury, Robert C..................... June 24, 1883
Straus, Louis ··-····························-Jan. 24, 1884
Thomas, Richard Baker................ Sept. 29, 1883
Thompson, Frank Augustus........ May 8, 1884
Trabucco, Frank Thomas............] une 7, 1884
Turner, Thomas Sloss.................. Oct. 13, 1883
Underhill, William H .................-Mar. 12, 1884
Van Sidklen, Fred. Wetherbee.... Nov. 10, 1880
Variel, William J.................:.......-Nov. 25, 1882
Wdssbein, Jacob .......................... April 24, 1884
Whitcher, Charles Rose................June 23, 1884
Witham, Alvin M....;...................... May 3, 1883
Whitham, Kenneth M .................... Mar. 29, 1881
West, Robert Bachman................ Aug. 30, 1883
Zintgraff, Theodore H ................. Mar. 12, 1883
Ziegler, Frank .............................. Aug. 22, 1884

47

Lodge
Pentalpha No. 202
Bur bank No. 406
Oakland No. 188
Alhambra No. 322
North Butte No. 230
Hollywood No. 355
Mountain View No. 194
Los Banos No. 312
Magnolia No. 242
Fidelity No. 120
San Diego No. 35
Las Palmas No. 366
Mariposa No. 24
Naval No.87
Santa Rosa No. 57
Mount Moriah No. 44 .
Hollenbeck No. 319
Fidelity No. 120
Confidence No. 203
Woodland No. 156
Cahuenga No. 513
California No. 1
Ocean Park No. 369
Fortitude No. 624

Trial Records

•

No. 804-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled September 11, 1933.
No. 805-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 621. Expelled
August 2, 1933.
No. 806-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Expelled
October 5, 1933.
No. 807-A member of Carmelita Lodge No. 599. Expelled
October 5, 1933.
No. BOS-A member of East' Bay Lodge No. 489. Acquitted.
An appeal by the accuser, December 11, 1933.
No. 809-A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657, tried
by a commission appointed .by the Grand Master October 18, 1933.
Penalty, deprived of office. Appeal by the accuser December, 1933.
No. 810-A member of Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. Acquitted
Octob.e r 6, 1933.
1No. 811-A member of South Gate Lodge No. 320. -Expelled
November 1, 1933.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 812-A member of Security Lodge No. 581; tried by Libertas
Lodge No. 466 and expelled December 5, 1933.
No. 813-A member of Cahuenga Lodge No. 513. Expelled
November 6, 1933.
No. 814-A member of El Sereno Lodge No. 588. Acquitted.
No. 815-A member of Martinez Lodge No. 41. Suspended
November 2, 1933.
No. 816--A member of Alameda Lodge No. 167. Expelled October 10, 1933.
No. 817-A member of Granada Lodge No. 608. Expelled January 11, 1934.
.No. 818-A member of Madera Lodge No. 280. Expelled December 4, 1933.
No. 819-A member of Olivet Lodge No. 205. Suspended.
No . .820-A member of Coalinga Lodge No. 387 and tried by
Visalia Lodge No. 128. Acquitted January 11, 1934. An appeal by
the accuser January 20, 1934.
No. 821-A member of Los Banos Lodge No. 312. Expelled
February 14, 1934.
No. 822-A member of Orange Grove Lodge No. 293. Expelled
February 6, 1934.
No. 823-A Fellow Craft member of Veteran L<'>dge No. 373.
Expelled March 7, 1934.
No. 824-A member of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212.
Acquitted April 5, 1934.
No. 825-A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Expelied
May 1, 1934.
No. 826--A member <'>f Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. Expelled
May 3, 1934.
No. 827-A member of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. Expelled
May 3, 1934.
No. 828-A member of Live Oak ·Lodge No. 6L Expelled February 2, 1934.
No. 829-A member of Richmond. Lodge No. 375. Expelled
June 4, 1934.
No. 830-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360. Expelled
July 2, 1934.
No. 831-A member of Alisa! Lodge No. 321. Expelled June
1, 1934.
No. 832-A member of Woodbridge Lodge No, 131. Expel1ed
August 4, 1934.

No. 833-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360. Expelled
August 6, 1934.
No. 834-A member of Henry Knox Lodge No. 662. Acquitted
May 2, 1934.
No. 835-A member of Calexico Lodge No. 412. Expell'ed April
11, 1934.
No. 836--A member of Acorn Lodge No. 494. Sentenced ti!>
reprimand November 2, 1933.
No. 837-A member of Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469. Suspended
August 2, 1934.
No. 838-A member of South Pasadena 1.odg<! No. 367. Expelled
September 4, 1934.
No. 840-A member of Long Beach Lodge No. 327. Expelled
September 61 1934.
No. 841-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120. Expelled September 6, 1934.
No. 842-A 111ember of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. Acquitted
August 6, 1934.
No. 843-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458. Expelled September 6, 1934.
No. 844-A member of LaBrea Lodge No. 650. Expeltecl July J,
1934.
No. 845-A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256. Acquitted Noveml>er
9, 1933.
No. 846-A member of Orosi Lodge No. 383, tried by Visalia
Lodge No. 128. Suspended September 6, 1934.
No. 257-A member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. Triecl by Mission Lodge No. 169 and expelled 1919. Petition for restoration.
No. 622.-Petition for restoration. A member of Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535. Expelled July 1, 1929.
No. 652-Petition for restoration. A member of Palos Verdes
Lodge No. 389 and tried by Southern California Lodge No. 278.
Expelled by Grand Lodge in 1930.
No. 465-Petition for restoration. A member of Loyalty Lodge
No. 529 (al]. Entered Apprentice). Ex:pelled 0ctober 6, 1925.
No. 356--Petition for restoration. A member of Frem~nt Lodge
No, 497. Expelled March 19, 1932.

48

49

Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life
memberships as follows:
Speranza Italiana No. 219, from $200 to $150; Fresno No. 247,
$225; Silver Gate No. 296, $200·; Liberty No. 299, $125; Golden Rule
No. 479, $125; Sun Garden No. 530, $200; Modesto No. 675, $200.

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dispensations Issued

Decreasing affiliation fee: Live Oak No. 61, to $25 and $10; East
Gate No. 290, to $10; Crocker No. 454, to $5; Rockridge No. 468, to $5.
Eliminating affiliation fee: Pentalpha No. 202; Whittier No. 323;
Moneta No. 405; Garvanza No. 492; Utopia No. 537; Glendale No. 544.
Clumging time of stated meeting: Alameda No 167; Janesville No.
232; Adin No. 250; Reading No. 254; Kilauea No. 330; Fairmount No.
435; Maric~pa No. 434; Chowchilla No. 485; Taft No. 516; Euclid No.
519; Craftsmen No. 559; Security No. 581; Truth No. 597; Melrose
No. 602.
Excepting holidays as stated meeting nights: Alameda No. 167; Pentalpha No. 202; Mt. Shasta No. 281; Sisson No. 310; Palestine No. 351;
Presidio No. 354; Fillmore No. 379; Maricopa No. 434; Lincoln No. 470;
Wasco No. 583; University No. 594;. Neptune No. 619; Normal Heights
No. 632; Alta Loma No. 643; Metropolitan No. 646; Triangle No. 648.
Resolution providing for change of meeting place: Mount Moriah
No. 44 ; Pittsburg No. 429; Fairmount No. 435 ; Lancaster No. 437 ; Benjamin Franklin No. 509; Queen Beach No. 540; Truth No. 597; Melrose
No. 602; Kaweah No. 665.
Analysis of Annual Returns
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1934
Initiations, 2098; Passings, 1991; Raisings, 1898 ;
Total degrees conferred at $1.00 each........................
$ 5,987.00
Total Master Masons, August 1, 1934............................132,331
Less members whose dues were remitted ..1..................... 7,368

The Grand Master approved requests for special dispensations
for various purposes, as follows:
· To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
La Parfaite Union No. 17; Crescent No. 45; Fidelity No. 120; Sincerity No. 132; Drytown No. 174; Evening Star No. 186; Inyo No.
221 ; Calistoga No. 233; Hill's Ferry No. 236 ; Olive Branch No. 269;
Maxwell No. 288; Hollenbeck No. 319; Starr King No. 344; Loyalton
No. 359; Turlock No. 395; Hammonton No. 433.
To re-ballot on candidates rejected within twelve months:
Livingston No. 658.
To receive and act upon petitions from members of the Army and
Navy who did not have the required residential qualifications:
Anaheim No. 207; Fillmore No. 379.
Amendments to By-Laws
Increasing fees:

Triangle No. 648, to $75.

Increasing dues: El Sereno No. 588, to $12; Mt. Shasta No. 281, to
$12; Maricopa No. 434, to $9.
Decreasing dues: Lexington No. 104, to $9; San Buenaventura No.
214, to $16; Santa Ana No. 241, to $12; Winnedumah No. 287, to $15 ;
Palos Verdes No. 389, to $9; Midway No. 426, to $12 ; Montebello No.
451, to $9; Atascadero No. 493, to $9; Silver Cord No. 505, to $12; Lakeshore No. 551, to $12; Jubilee No. 604, to $12 ; Larchmont No. 614, to
$15; Poinsettia No. 633, to $12.
Decreasing fees: Live Oak No. 61, to $50; Drytown No. 174, to
$30; Oakland No. 188, to $50; San Buenaventura No. 214, to $50; Santa
Ana No. 241, to $75; Alhambra No. 322, to $50; Redondo No. 328, to
$60; San Pedro No. 332, to $80; Fruitvale No. 336, to $50; Hollywood
No. 355, to $50; Moneta No. 405, to $50; Palos Verdes No. 389, to $75;
Balder No. 393, to $50 ; Burbank No. 406, to $50; Arlington No. 414, to
$50; Midway No. 426, to $50; Maricopa No. 434, to $50; Tyrian No. 439,
to $50; Carpinteria No. 444, to $50; Montebello No. 451, to $50; Crocker
No. 454, to $50 ; Rockridge No. 468, to $75 ; Thousand Oaks No. 478, to
$75; Patterson No. 488, to $50 ; Taft No. 516, to $50; Ionic No. 520, to
$50; George Washington No. 525, to $50; Covenant No. 527, to $50 ;
Glendale No. 544, to $50; Lakeshore No. 551, to $75 ; Chateau Thierry
No. 569, to $50; Sunnyside No. 577, to $50; Harding No. 584, to $70 ;
Truth No. 597, to $80; Larchmont No. 614, to $50; Atwater No. 622, to
$50; Poinsettia No. 633, to $50 ; Liber_al Arts No. 677, to $50.
Increasing affiliation fee: Fruitvale No. 336, to $25 . .

Total Master Masons at 50c per Capita......................... .124,963

51

62,481.50

Total Grand Lodge dues ..............................................................$ 68,468.50
124 963 Master Masons at 50c Building Fund................................ 62,481.50
124:963 Master Masons at 75c Maintenance Fund.......................... 93,722.25
2,098 Initiations for the year
192 Affiliations from outside jurisdictions
2 E. A. and F. C. from outside jurisdictions
11 Dual members from outside jurisdictions
2,303 Upon whom the $25.00 Home Tax is payable....$ 57,575
Less $25.00 Home Tax paid in three quarters
prior to Annual Returns.................................... 39,025
Total $25.00 Home Tax due on Annual Returns ........$ 18,550
Total $25 .00 Home Tax refunded on overpayments..
200
Net $25.00 Home Tax due on Annual Returns..........
18,750.00
Total due Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes on Annual
Returns .............................. _........................................ ,...... $243,422.25
JOHN WHICHER, Grand Secretsry.

53

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Auditors
Fina.nee Committee, Grand Lod~, F. & A . M. of California:
In accordance with your authorization, we have completed an
audit of the books of account of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of
California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1934. We submit herewith the following financial statements :
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit B: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Received for the
Account" of Masonic Homes.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit D: Grand Treasurer's Report of Assets on Hand July
31, 1934.
The scope of our examination included a verification of total
cash funds received during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1934, from
annual returns for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1933. Funds received
and on hand at the date of our audit, from annual returns for the
fiscal year 1934, were not included in our examination. Total receipts
due from subordinate Lodges as per individual annual returns on
file, and the recapitulation record, were found accounted for and the
total cash received therefrom deposited in bank accounts. Bank accounts were reconciled and verified, and sufficient examination of
detailed expense vouchers were made as to satisfy ourselves as to
the correctness of the accounting.
Subject to the foregoing, we certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements, with exception as to the stated value of the
securities on hand, reflect the financial condition of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, as at July 31, 1934, and that a proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified PulJlic Accountants.

By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Exhibit A
Report of the Grand Secretary
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEME NTS
YEAR ENDED J U LY 31, 1934

Genera.I Fmtd
Cash balance August 1, 1933............................................................ $ 12,392.11
Dues from Lodges.......................:..................................$ 82,801 .67
Dispensations ..................................................................
50.00
Collection:; for Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds 1,946.70

Sale of supplies :
Constitutions ......................................,...$1,640.75
Monitors .................................................. 550.98
Lodge dues receipts................................ 1,113.75
Blanks ...................................................... 269.30
Small diplomas ...................................... 286.54
Large diplomas ...................................... 111.25
Past Masters diplomas..........................
56.75
Card cases, Lodge lists, and Digests.. 243.00
Installation services and Proceedings
43.00
Bound volumes and funeral services
89.25
Masonic Law and Custom and sundries .......................................................... 307.21
77.50
Uniform systems of accounting..........
4,789.28
Refunds and reimbursements:
Wilcox Lodge, No. 10, Arizona........
Louis L. Collier, Missouri....................
Los Angeles Board of Relief ..............
Fresno Board of Relief... .....................

3.00
3.00
152.09
3.00
161.09

Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary.............. 89,748.74
Cash Received by Grand Treasurer
Bank interest ......................................::..........................$ 424.68
Bond interest .................................................................... 7,632.75
Dividends .......................................................................... 3,222.75
Total cash received direct by Grand Treasurer

11,280.18

Total cash to account for .............................~ ......................$113,421.03
Cash Disbursed on Grand S ecretary's W arrants
Grand Secretary's office:
Salaries ....................................~ .............$14,250.00
Rent ........................................................ 3,900.00
Postage ..................................................
503.13
Telephone and telegraph....................
220.84
Employers' Liability insurance..........
38.48
Supplies and sundry expense............
485.09
Office furniture-filing case................
83.90
- - - $19,481.44
Salary, Grand Lecturer ................................................ 1,800.00
Printing and binding Proceedings, etc....................... 4,200.39
Printing and binding supplies for sale...................... 3,408.14

54

55

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit B

503.13
Postage, shipping supplies... ·-········-····-······················
Expense, Grand Lecturer (Baker) ............................
161.84
Expense, Deputy Grand Lecturers ........................... .
384.17
Relief, order of Grand Master
6,524.21
Representatives' payroll ..........
19,590.04
Board of Control ..........................................................
537.45
Committee on Public Schools Week
657.96
525.17
Inspectors' stationery ··········-··-·········::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Inspectors' aprons ....................................................... .
215.06
Annual Grand Lodge Week (including annual
communication and activities) ........................... . 2,473.78
Gold buttons, fifty-year veterans ................................
369.75
Traveling expenses Grand Lodge officers,.............. .
33.50
Grand Master's conference.............................·.............
50.00
Premiums on Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds 1,777.43
25.25
Burial expense ····················································-··········
298.65
Miscellaneous expense ..................................................

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes
.

::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934

Per capita tax, 128,790 Master Masons :
Maintenance fund at 75c......................................$ 96,592.50
Building fund at 50c.............................................. 64,395.00
Total tax due..........................................................$160,987.50
Deductions :
Dues remitted by Grand Lodge to
Lodges ··························-················'.$1,503.75
Amount remaining unpaid for
1933-1934 ·········································· 785.00
Total deductions ............................................
Cash received for the year 1933-1934............... .
Cash received for prior years ..............................

Appropriations :
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ..$ 8,232.03
Boards of Relief and Lodges............ 2,091.67
Miscellaneous sundry items................
30.25
Employment Bureaus .......................... · 9,900.00
Lo.an, Seal Beach Lodge....................
350.00
Masonic Club houses............................ 12,752.90
Chairman Committees on Cor~s- ·
pondence 1932-1933 ....................
500.00
Expense, Grand Treasurer ................
350.00
Salaries, Grand Organist and Grand
300.00
Tyler ...........'..................-~ ..............
Reimbursement, Frank W. Mixter .. 1,125.00
198.75
Travel expense, David Reese ... .
Grand Master, James B. Gist... ........ . 3,000.00

2,288.75
$158,698.75
584.10

Initiation tax:
595 initiates, fiscal year 1933..............................$ 14,875.00
1574 initiates, fiscal year 1934.............................. 39,350.00
Overpayments (refunded by Masonic Homes)
225.00
Total tax due ..........................................................$ 54,450.00
Deductions :
' Initiation tax-held in suspense ..........$175.00
Amount remaining unpaid for 1933-34 150.00
Overpayments (refunded by Grand
Lodge) ................................................ 275.00

38,830.60
Total disbursements ..............................................

600.00

Cash received for the year 1933-1934....... .
Cash received for prior years ................... .

53,850.00
140.00

$101,847.96
Total cash received for Masonic Homes and turned over
to the Grand Treasurer........................................................$213,272.85

Cash Balance July 31, 1934:
Funds with Grand Treasurer ........"......................:.$ 11,073.07
Funds with Grand Secretary................................
500.00

$ 11,573.07

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

56

Exhibit C
REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER
Cash Receipts and Disbursements
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934
General Fund
Cash balance August 1, 1933-.........................................................~.-·$ 11,892.11
Receipts
From Grand Secretary....................................................$89;748.74
Bank interest ...................................................................
424.68
Bond interest ...................................................................: 7,632.75
Dividends .......................................................................... 3,222.75
Total receipts

101,028.92

Total cash to account for ......................................................$112,921.03
Disbursements
Grand Secretary's warrants................................................................ 101,847.96
Cash Balance July 31, 1934:
The San Francisco Bank. .......................................$ 6,640.27
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co.................
527.59
Crocker First National Bank................................ 2,110.43"
Bank of America-......................................................
389.18
Anglo California National Bank.......................... 1,405.60
$ 11,073.07
Exhibit D
Schedule of Assets
General Fund

JULY 31, 1934

Cash in banks .....:....................................................................................$ 11,073.07
Bonds at cost: (Market Value $163,370.75)
$ 6,000 Southern Pacific Co., First Mortgage 4%
due 1955 ............................................................$ 5,580.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Co., 4~% due 1981........ 9,565.00
9,000 California Gas & Electric Corp., Refunding Mortgage 5% due 1937............................ 8,550,00
8,000 Pacific Telephone· & Telegraph Co., First
and Collateral trust 5% due 1937................ 8,000.00
2,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., First
Mortgage 5% due 1939.................................. 1,860.00
4,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., General
Mortgage 5~% due 1934.............................. 3,935.00
5,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., General
Mortgage 6% due 1942.................................. 5,068.75

57

5,000 Southern California Gas Co., First Mortgage 5~% due 1952._..................................... 4,787.50
9,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First Mortgage 5~% 1952................................................ 8,946.25
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., General Mortgage 5% due 1942............................................ 4,720.00
4,000 California Oregon Power Co., First Mortgage 5~% due 1955......................................
3,970.00
5,000 San Joaquin Light & Power Corp., Refunding Mortgage 5% due 1957.................. 4,912.50
5,000 Central Arizona Light & Power Co., First
Mortgage 5% due 1960.................................. 4,812.50
10,000 New York Telephone Co., General First
Mortgage 4~% due 1939.............................. 10,000.00
5,000 Mercantile American Realty Co., First
Mortgage 5% due 1951.................................. 4,912.50
5,000 Brooklyn Edison Co., General Mortgage
5% due 1949...................................................... 5,250.00
10,000 Philadelphia Electric Co., First lien 4~%
due 1967 ............................................................ 9,925.00
5,000 Union Electric Light & Power Co., General Mortgage 4~% due 1957.................... 4,938.55
4,000 U. S. A. Liberty Loan 1917, 3~% due
1947 .................................................................... 4,000.00
1,000 U. S. A. First Liberty Loan, converted
4~% due 1947................................................
1,000.00
10,100 U. S. A. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4~%
called
15,000 U. S. A. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4~% due
1938
20,000 U. S. A. Treasury Bond, 4~-3~% due
1945 .................................................................... 45,356.25
- - - 160,089.80
Stocks-at cost :
58,955 Shares Masonic Temple Association ..........$589,300.00
200 Shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (Market Value $3,950) First Pref. 5~%.......... 5,000.00
- - - - 594,300.00
Total assets ................................................................$765,462.87
WILLIAM P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
At 12 :30 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until
2 .o'clock p. m.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jn ~ranb JLobge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 9, 1934.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Obedient to the requirements of our Constitution, I herewith submit
my report as Grand Lecturer, with certain observations for your consideration.
In my report to the Grand Lodge, it might not be inappropriate to
say that I appreciate the high honor which has come to me by appointment
to serve as Grand Lecturer for the unexpired term of our beloved Brother,
Thomas John Baker. Brother Baker served this Grand Lodge with all
that he had for more than a quarter of a century. He had more friends
than any other in the jurisdiction. He loved those friends and they loved
him. Those of us who knew him best loved him most. He was so much a
part of the Grand Lodge that it is difficult to realize that he is gonegone Home, where the Keeper of the Pearly Gates will find a seat for
him on the Golden Throne. Not dead to us who loved him ; not lost, but
gone before. He lives with us in memory and will forevermore.
During the past five months, beginning May 1st, I have acted as
Grand Lecturer with direct supervision over the Inspectors of the San
Francisco Executive District and the Deputies in the Los Angeles, Fresno,
and Sacramento Executive Districts.
At the suggestion of the Grand Master, the chairman of the Ritual
Committee, Past Grand Master Dana Weller, the Deputy Grand Lecturers
Sidney K. Lehman, Chester Warlow and Leslie R. Wood, ·and the Grand
Lecturer met in the Grand Lodge office on April 28 and 29, for the purpose of agreeing upon the wording and interpretation of the ritual, and
the methods of application of the new ritual plan. We were together two
full days and had many interesting discussions on the ritual and the new
plan as given us by the ·Grand Master. A number of corrections and interpretations of the ritual were agreed upon and have been given to the
Inspectors, and through them to the Lodges. These suggestions as to corrections and interpretation have all been well received by Inspectors and
officers· of the Lodges. The Deputy Grand Lecturers have contacted all
of the Inspectors in their districts, and report that they have had excellent

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

59

co-operation on the part of the Inspectors in the promotion of the new
ritual plan.
The report on the present plan of teaching the ritual with relation to
the Grand Lecturer will be presented to Grand Lodge by the chairman of
the Ritual Committee. Because of my position as Grand Lecturer, I refrain
from any comment here.
I have counseled and advised with the Inspectors of the San Francisco Executive District singly and in groups, and held lodges of instruction for the Inspectors.
. At the invitation of Inspectors, I have attended district meetings in
an advisory capacity.
The Forty-fifth Inspection District, over which I have presided for
many years, has held officers' meetings monthly. I have attended these
meetings and carried on the duties of Inspector as heretofore.
At the invitation of various Lodges and officer groups, it has been
a pleasure to address them on Masonic subjects. When on missions such
as this, while in districts other than the one over which I preside as Inspector, I have carefully avoided discussing ritual. Under the new plan,
this is the province of the Inspector, the Grand Lecturer contacting Inspectors only on matters pertaining to that subject.
In the interest of economy, I have refrained from any unnecessary
traveling, this as agreed upon with the Grand Master. Many invitations to
meet with and address the Brethren have been declined, with economy in
view.

Officers' Associations
The officers' associations have been very successful in a great majority of the districts.
In sections where these meetings have been held regularly, the officers
and Inspectors have shown a sincere interest in Masonry, and real progress is being made in the development and the training of the Brethren in
the administrative as well as the ritualistic work of the Lodges. The
Inspectors are to be highly commended for their efforts in behalf of these
group meetings, the object of which is the development of more proficient
officers and better Lodges. It seems almost unnecessary to sound a note of
warning. The discussion of controversial subjects should not be permitted
in these meetings for the same reasons that they are not permitted in the
Lodges.
In remote sections of the State, the Inspectors report that the district
meetings of officers are not practical because of the great distance between
Lodges and the condition of the roads in the mountain districts. There
are thirteen of these districts, nearly all of which are situated in the
northern part of the State.
There is so much to be gained by the interchange of visits between
the officers of the Lodges and discussion of their problems that I offer the
suggestion that the Inspectors in the remote districts endeavor to bring

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

60

61

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

the officers into joint meetings at least two or three times a year. The
result to be obtained will be worth the effort.
Too many Masters of Lodges are elevated to that important position
with little or no knowledge of their executive duties or the fundamentals
of procedure which are so necessary for the proper government of their
Lodges. This condition is gradually being improved by the free discussion
of the everyday Lodge problems in the officers' associations, and it is
well to urge the junior officers to enter into these discussions in order
that they may be prepared for advancement. The form of the examinations
for Masters and Wardens should and no doubt will be revised to include
hypothetical questions setting forth the various Lodge problems with which
the Master may be confronted from time to time. And when the Master
has answered these practical problems, he will be better prepared to
administer the affairs of his Lodge.
Ritual
I should like to emphasize the statement that the ritual is a very
important part of Masonry, and those thousands of officers and more than
a hundred Inspectors throughout the jurisdiction of California who are
teaching and endeavoring to perfect themselves in the rendition of the
esoteric work are to he commended highly for their intense interest and
attachment to this activity.
Too many members treat the efforts of these Brethren lightly. Take
the ritual away from Masonry and you have but an empty shell. The
ritual is not the last goal in Masonry, but it is a very important fairway
along which Masons may travel in search of perfection.
Condition of Lodges
The reports of the Inspectors i:ndicate that the Lodges throughout
the jurisdiction are functioning .in a wholesome manner.
The ·great majority of these have had very few or no petitions, and
with the absence of degree work, the officers and members have had more
time for fellowship. Many of the Lodges have made a real effort to supply
iriteresting entertainment and social gatherings on meeting nights when
there are no degrees.
Others have improved their meetings by discussion of educational
subjects, not only Masonic, but also social and economic questions being
presented by competent and informed civic workers, who are generally
members of the craft.
To quote in part from one of the reports: "We are suffering frcm
not drawing the practical application of our Masonic principles into the
affairs of our communities, our states and our nation. Where ultraconservative organizations are siding in the solution of vital social and
economic problems, Masonry, wh1ch has a liberal background in principle
and profession, remains dormant and inactive, and ~s consequently losing
its influence in m;my communities. The discussion of social and econcmic

problems does not, of course, involve taking a position on economic questions, nor committing Masonry to any particular position, nor introducing
controversial subjects, but it may have a pure and effective educational
influem:e upon the members of the craft which would bring them back
into the Lodges for enlightenment."
One of the greatest problems facing the Lodges is the collection of
dues. In most cases, the Inspectors report that committees are doing yeoman service in this most important work. The efforts of these Brethren
will be reflected in the financial report as made to Grand Lodge.
It is gfatifying to n~te in many of the reports the splendid work of ·
the Lodges in caring for their needy and distressed members, and looking
after employment. Too much praise cannot be given to those Brethren
who have given so liberally of their time, effort and influence in this most
important work.
Summing up the information contained in the reports of the Inspectors in a general way, the interest of the officers in their Lodges, and
their attention to duty is commendable. The general condition of the
Lodges reflects improvement throughout the jurisdiction.
Inspectori>
Through the evolution of circumstances and requirements, the importance of the office of Inspector has been greatly enhanced in recent
years. We cannot overestimate the services performed by an efficient and
attentive Inspector.
The Constitution says that an Inspector is an important officer of ·
Grand Lodge.
The question is often asked : What is the Inspector supposed to do
other than teach the ritual to the officers? What are his powers? It is not
so in;iportant to know what his powers are as it is to know what his duties
are. The Inspector is the local representative of the Grand Lodge, in
charge of the Lodges in his district. He is the representative of the Grand
Master, the Grand Lecturer, and the Grand Secretary, and in their absence
he should counsel and advise with the officers of the Lodges in his district coocerning the administration of the law as laid down in the Con~
stitution, and its application to the operation of the Lodges. He should
· also instruct, qualify, and supervise the officers in the per_formance of
their Lodge duties and in the rendition of the ritual.
In order that the Inspector may be more effective in his district, I
suggest that consideration be given to a i>!an whereby requests for decisions or rulings by the Grand Master be made through the Inspector of
the district, and the decisions or rulings be given to the Lodges through
the Inspectors. Under this plan, all important communications between
Grand Lodge and the constit1:1ent Lodges would be carried on through
the Inspector, and in cases where this is not practical, the Inspector should
be furnished with copies of the correspondence.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Inspector is an important officer of Grand Lodge, and business
of · importance should be transmitted through him to and from the Lodges.
The foregoing will prevent such embarrassment as occurred several
years ago, when a Master was removed from office by the Grand Master
for cause, and several weeks later the Inspector learned of the incident
through one of the junior officers of the Lodge.
In another case, an executive officer resigned, an election was authorized, and installation date arranged, without consulting or advising the
Inspector until he was requested to qualify the advancing officers.
The Inspector should be informed concerning all matters of business
which are transacted in the district over which he has jurisdiction.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MESSAGE OF
GRAND MASTER

62

To the Ins~ectors I extend my sincere thanks for their wholehearted
co-operation and assistance which has been so freely given to the Grand
Lecturer in his efforts to carry on the duties of his office.
The Deputy Grand Lecturers Leslie R. Wood of Sacramento, Chester
Warlow of Fresno, and Sidney K. Lehman of Los Angeles have given
freely of their time and talents in the discharge of their duties as assistants to the Grand Lecturer. Their co-operation and support is sincerely
appreciated.
To the chairman of the · Ritual Committee,' Past Grand Master
Dana R. Weller, I offer acknowledgments for his counsel and advice. He
is to be commended for his active interest in the affairs of Grand Lodge.
To the Most Worshipful James Black Gist, Grand Master, I offer
· special acknowledgment for the confidence which he expressed in selecting
· me as a member of his official family. His graciousness and tact in directing the affairs of Grand Lodge have endeared him to all of us. I shall
cherish his friendship for all time.
In conclusion, may I say that Masonry is an instrumentality for good
in every community where it exists, and there is more reason for its
existence today than ever before in its history.
"More potent today than at any period of the world's history are the
instrumentalities for good. Let each Craftsman realize his responsibility,
his high privilege, in these earnest days, of bearing some humble part in
working out the great designs that look to the purification, the uplifting
of mankind. With such aids, such · inspiration, the· world wiJI, with the
rolling years, grow better ... the sum of human happiness will be increased. Truly, the future is resplendent with hope. Out of the shadow of
night, the world moves into light; it is daybreak everywhere."
Respectfully submitted,
FosTER G. DYER, Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the following committee: Oakley K. Morton,
Arthur E. Overton, Wesley W. Kergan.

63

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to which the message of the Grand Master was referred begs leave to make its report.
The message of the M.". W.'. Grand Master, delivered to us this
morning, recounts his activities during the past year and gives a detailed
report of his stewardship, hut, necessarily, we must look between the lines
to see the hours and days of strenuous labor for the good of our beloved
fraternity. It cannot but inspire us to strive the harder that the tenets of
Freemasonry may become a part of our everyday life and conduct.
For more than thirty years our Grand Master has been a member of
this Grand Lodge and has taken an active part in its deliberations and
has assisted in directing its activities and shaping its policies. For more
than fifteen years our Grand Master has rendered invaluable service to
the fraternity as a member of the Board of Trustees of our Masonic
Homes. With this background and this experience, it is little wonder that
his year as Grand Master has been filled with hwnan interest and true
Masonic understanding.
His monthly messages have been a source of inspiration and encouragement, and have made us realize more than ever in these days of depression, when communism, atheism, and other kindred forces are striving to
tear down and destroy, that the principles of Masonry are not dead, but
must be relied upon more than ever to maintain the true spirit of brotherhood and to maintain and protect our national government.
We recommend that decisions rendered be referred to the following
committees :
Decision No. 1-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 2-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 3--To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 4-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 5-To Com,mittee on . Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 6-ToJurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 7::-To JuHsprudence Committee.
Decision No. S-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 9-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Decision No. 10---To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 11-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 12-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Decision No. 13-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
J ur:isprudence Committee.
Decision No.14-ToJurisprudence Committee.

What a noble way to close an inspiring message and to close a wonderful year as Grand Master, yet how characteristic this is of our Grand
Master. This is truly ·the same sentiment fostered by him during the last
thirty years of service. We hope and pray that he will be spared to us for
many more years of wise counsel and kind, friendly, and loving service.

64

Most Worshipful Sir: Your Brethren of this jurisdiction extend to
you their earnest and heartfelt thanks.
LAWRENCE C. KELLEY,

G. c. DE FOREST,

We also recommend that the Grand Master's message be segregated
and ·portions thereof be referred to the following committees:

Necrology-To Committee on Necrology.
Benefits to Be Derived from the Grand Masters' Conference and
Visitations to the Hawaiian Islands-To Committee on Finance.
Reduction of Fees-To Committee ·On Policy and General Purposes.
Reduction of Dues-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Delinquent Dues-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Masonic Histor:y-To Committee on Masonic History.
Masonic Education-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Masonic Clltb Houses-To Committee on Finance.
Masonic Home Survey by Outside Agency-To Committee on Policy
and General Purposes, and Finance Committee, and Masonic Trustees.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-To Finance Committee.
New Ritual Plan-To Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
Ritual Committ-ee, and Jurisprudence Committee.
Public Schools Week-To Committee on Public Schools Week.

In this connection, we call your particular attention to the very terse
and noble sentiment expressed, as fol·lows :
uLet no Brnther-, therefore, feel that his p~rticipation in this
event is merely the perfunctory performance of a prescribed Masonic
duty. Rather is he fulfilling a great duty of citizenship., r'e ndering a
service to the children, to his state and the nation."
Your committee recommends that this statement be referred to all of
the representatives present, with the admonition that they take it back '.o
their respemive Lodg~ and 1.:iy it upon .the hearts of tme craft of this
jurisdiction.
The Grand Master closes his message with language which is familiar
to every Mason in this jurisdiction :
"May the blessing of heaven rest upon us and all regular Masons!
May brotherly love preva·il, and every moral and social virtue cement
us!"

65

LLOYD WILSON,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE. ON GRAND
SECRETARY'S REPORT
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to which was referred the report of the Very W orshipful Grand Secretary, begs leave to make its report.
The Grand Secretary has presented his twenty-seventh annual report
to this Grand Lodge. We congratulate him upon passing another milestone
in Masonic service. In passing the milestone he has made many new
friends both in and out of this jurisdiction. The Grand Lodge is very
fortunate in having our efficient Grand Secretary on the job at a time
like the present, when it becomes necessary to cut expenses at every
corner.
He again reports a loss in membership. We are very sure that the
Lodges have not suspended any worthy member; and, therefore, we
agree with the Grand Secretary when he states :
"The suspensions would indicate that the Lodges are stronger,
in fact, by the lopping off of members who were not at any time
imbued with the true spirit of Masonry."
We believe that the greater the number of delinquents, the more
necessary it is that we have strong committees on delinquents. Dues are
payable quarterly in advance ; and if this is impressed upon the membership and upon the Committee on Delinquents, and the delinquent members
referred to the committee promptly, we believe that the Lodges will have
fewer suspensions and will be able to collect their accounts receivable in
a much more satisfactory manner.
Your Committee recommends that the report of the Grand Secretary
be segregated as follows :
.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues-To Finance Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

66

Duplicate Charter lSS1~ed-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Represe11tatives Appointed-To Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
Budget-To Finance Committee.
Trial Reports-To Grievance Committee.
Life Memberships-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Dispensations Isrned-To Jurisprudence Committee.
Amendments to By-Laws-To By-Laws Committee.
Analysis of A11niwl Returns-To Finance Committee.
In connection with unpaid Grand Lodge dues, your committee believes that when a Ledge has failed for thirty days to remit to the Grand
Secretary any money due Grand Lodge, the Grand Secretary should notify
the Inspector of the Lodge, who should make an immediate investigation
of the assets of the Lodge and of the income and of the expenditures of
the Lodge, paying particular attention to the amount spent by the Lodge
for refreshments, Past Master's jewel, and other items which might be
termed luxuries ; and make a full and complete report to the Grand Master
and to the Grand Secretary, to the end that the cause of the delinquency
may be definitely determined, and, wherever possible, the cause removed.
No one can read the report of the Grand Secretary without realizing
that he has been and now is a distinct asset to the Grand Lodge. He is
an outstanding figure among the secretaries of all jurisdictions. We trust
that we may have the benefit of his guiding hand for many years to come.

c. KELLEY,
c. DE FOREST,

LAWRENCE
GILBERT
LLOYD

Adopted.

E. WILSON,
Committee.

67

ANNUAL ORATION
Most Worshipful Grand Master,
Officers and Members of the Grand Lodge:
The beginnings of Freemasonry are lost in the dim vistas of
antiquity. An ancient tradition links our venerable institution with
the Dionysian Artificers, that marvelous fraternity of architects and
artisans that flourished in the centuries preceding the Christian era
and left the enduring memorials of their splendid achievements in
the massive temples and magnificent stadiums of Asia Minor, (1)
and with the Roman Collegia, that heroic order of builders who in the
glamorous period of Rome's sky-ranging grandeur constructed cities,
raised monuments and erected public works whose proportions and
symmetry awaken our admiration and astonishment even today
when we can view them only in ruins. (2) But for our purposes we
need not go so far afield.
The earliest Masonic records extant are made up of soaring
spires and flying buttresses, of ornamented rose windows and delica~ely carved pillars. I allude, of course, to those supreme creations
of human genius, the glorious cathedrals of Europe. "These grand
cathedrals rose, one by one, out of the fervent heart of the time and
by the well-taught head and hand. So when they touched a stone,
it blossomed into beauty, and where they laid it, there it stayed.
They never made a false line and never carved an ugly thing, except
by" pure intention." (3) Goethe called these cathedrals "frozen
music."
Through the centuries we trace the history of Masonry. In one
age it builds miraculous cathedrals. In another age it lays aside the
apron and the trowel and assumes the sword in valiant warfare for
liberty of thought and freedom of conscience. In still another it
formulates a priceless ritual through which it instructs the neophyte
in the age-old truths of philosophy and morals. Again it battles for
free education.
. As Masons we are proud of our history. And justly so. Nor do
we forget that the past was the matrix of the present, even as tomorrow lies expectant in the womb of today. We may appropriate and
apply the senfentious words of Dean Inge: "Believe me, the only
promise of a better future for our country is to be looked for fro.m
those to whom her past is dear." ( 4) So with the light of the past
shining upon us we gaze into the future.
Disconcerting Statistics.
The future of Masonry! Ah, that thought gives us pause! Has
Freemasonry a future? There are those, critics speaking exultantly,
and devoted adherents speaking sorrowfully, who point out that the

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

craft is suffering a serious decline in membership. In 1931 the total
membership of the fraternity in the United States was 3,287,153. In
1934 the membership totals 2,910,273. A loss in three years of 376,980;
nearly 12 per cent. -(5) What greater proof do you need, ask our
enemies, that Freemasonry has reached its apogee and is now in
process of rapid disintegration? That the imperial page~nt passe~ and
moves to a drab, inglorious end? And the figures are d1sconcertmguntil we remember that the pessimism rests on an error, the obvious
fallacy being the belief that membership statistics are a true test of
the vitality of the Masonic institution.
I do not wish to speak unkindly or disparagingly of those who in
the stressful years just past have left us, nor do I w ish to underestimate any significance there may be in their going, but I do assert
that when men -d rop their m embership in a Masonic Lodge because
they are unwilling to make the sacrifice necessary to pay their dues
the craft is stronger for every such man who leaves it. We have constitutional ways of taking care of the unfortunate Brother who, -h aving
fallen upon evil days, must ask the indulgence of his Brethren in the
matter of dues ; butrhen a man is not willing to give up a package
of cigarettes a week lo keep himself in good standing in his Lodge, it
is proof apparent that he never really belonged.
Let us face our own responsibility frankly. Let us place the blame
where it belongs. A sardonic wit has said that the present t1me is
notable for three passings-the passing of the buffalo, the passing of
the Indian, an d the passing of the buck. Let us not maK:e that error.
The fact is, during the days of h ectic prospedty we were so "hypnotized with the fascination of our rapidly mounting membership figures
that we fai led in the first and last and most important care of a Lodge
of Masons when convened-to see the Lodge duly tiled-and vast
numbers slipped through the carelessly g uarded doors who never
should have been given admitta nce. Now they are teaving us, a11d we
wish them Godspeed. They never were -duly and "trttly prepa:red, t'hey
never learned the true password. It .is -a purging that our fraternity
sorely needed.
Hear me I The strength of Freemasonry is not found in the number of its members, in its wealth, nor in its prestige. Our ritual alludes
to the pestilence that fell_ upon Israel because David numbered the
people. ( 6) Go back with me to the second degree and rehea rse once
more the significant story of Gideon. (7) We Americans are especially prone to fall into the error of thinking in terms of numbers,
statistics; tables.
[t is a perversion of values to measure the Masonic fraternity by
membership tables. Mere quantity _is a dangerous yardstick. There
are more bacilli in a putrefying ca rcass than there are men in a great
city. A billion m ay be less than one if you are comparing beetles
with the brain of a n Einstein. The re is only one thing in life worth

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FO RNIA

69

measuring, and that is quality ; and quality can be appraised, but it
cannot be measured. You can weigh beef and count .g arbage cans, but
mother love and patriotism and human genius and religion defy your
measuring rods and your chemical retorts, because they are spiritual
qualities.
·Strength of Masonry
The strength of Freemasonry lies in its spiritual possessions: its
teachings, its symbolism, its venerable history, its ancient tradition,
and above all, in the character of its members.
This is o ne reason why you cannot reduce Freemasonry to a
formula or confine its free spirit within the limits of a definition. In
m y libra ry I have a folder with many definitions of Freemasonry :
some are eloquent, some are bizarre, some are unique, so me are
ingenious, some are challenging, but I have yet to fi nd a definition
that is adequate. The best, the most comprehensive, leaves something
unsaid. Masonry being in essence spiritual, it cannot be defined, it can
only be characterized. You search the Scriptures in vain for a definition of Deity, but the writer of the letter that bears the name of
St. John gives us a perfect characterization : God is love (8)-and we
feel that is adequate and in it we have received a revelation of the
F ather.
So grasping the great universal symbols we are enabled to characterize Freemasonry and obtain an understanding of its genius, its
inner power, its essential nature; determine whether or not its vitality
is spent; and from that vantage point glimpse somethi ng of the part
it is to play in the world of the fu ture.
Masonry Defined
What is F reemasonry? Freemasonry is the sky. Who shall encompa,ss it? Like the resplendent canopy of heaven, it o'erarches human
life ; at times a translucent radiance, at times an alluring m ystery, a
velvet darkness tremulous with stars. The scientist can calculate the
flight of a sunbeam and stretch his measures over t he vast spaces, bu t
can he capture the elusive beauty that quivers in the twilight or imprison the su btle influences that rain from those s hining orbs? Its
vastrfess, as limitless as eternity, declares Infinity.
Freemasonry is the sea. Who can plumb its depths? Moved by
cosmic impulses, it elibs and flows responsive to compelling forces
behind the dis tant suns. T ouching all shores, it is circumscribed by
none. Receiving into itself all ri"vers, it loses not its identity; being
enriched by all tributaries, it absorbs yet is not changed. Unfathomable, it forever reflects with undimmed purity the ever-changing beauties of the changeless sky.
Freemasonry is the light. What shall withstand it ? As silently as
the dawn it comes. Before its irresistible advance t he noxious things

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of shadowy night flee in terror. The sun of righteousness with healing
in his wings arises, and at his smile the earth is flooded with glory.
The mission of Masonry was formulated on that first day when the
Creator scattered the prevailing darkness with the potent word: Let
there be light! Light, all-pervading, life-giving, world-conquering
light!
Freemasonry is the wind, blowing where it listeth, bearing on
its wings a fragrance of acacia broken but blooming hard by a mound
of fresh-laid clods, bringing an odor of myrtle and cypress, suggesting
the perfume of blood-red roses blossoming on a crown of thorns;
bringing, too, an echo of old-time chants in sacred groves to longforgotten gods, a murmur of immemor.ial prayers richly intoned by
deep-voiced priests, reminiscent of all the beautiful dreams and aspirations of humanity-a dynamic wind, a breath, a spirit, causing the
prophet to cry, "0 wind, breathe upon these slain that they may live!"

"It is by the real that we exist; it is by the ideal that we live. Would
you realize the difference? Animals exist, man lives." (9)
Our trouble is that our understanding of Masonry is too narrow,
too circumscribed. We . have been content to think of the institution
merely as one more fraternity whose main business is the conferring
of ritualistic degrees, the cultivation of social contacts, and the practice of. a petty philanthropy. Now, of course I do not depreciate degree
work, good-fellowship, and benevolence. These are all good in their
place: but they should be simply means to an end. When the end is
forgotten in an overzealous cultivation of the means, they become
trivial and unworthy. With good old Walt Whitman I cry:
"Long enough have you dreame\i contemptible dreams;
Now I wash the gum from your eyes;
You must habit yourself to the dazzle of the light,
And of every moment of your life." (10)
We are like those jungle people to whom was given a sundial, and
they wishing to honor it, builded over it a windowless hut and there
in the darkness they rendered it homage. At last a wise man came
along who tore down the hut, and for the first time the glory and the
purpose of the sundial were revealed: From the fathers, we, the
Masons of today, have received a priceless possession. In our overanxious efforts to honor it and them we have hidden it under ritualistic
precisianism and Lodge routine minutae and have missed the transcendent meaning and purpose of our Masonic inheritance. The time
has come for a reassertion of values.
My good friend, H . L. Haywood, whose book, "Symbolical Masonry," is one of the finest interpretations of Masonic teaching, tells
us that one evening he missed his little son, four years old. Going out
into the yard, under the cloudless splendor of a desert sky, he found
the little lad, pail in hand, clambering up a stepladder. "What are
you doing?" asked the father. And the little fellow replied: "Why,
daddy, I'm going to get a bucketful of stars." So today, frankly, I am
trying to hand you "a bucketful of stars." You may toss them aside.
You may admire them and wear them as jewels on your heart. You
may use them to light you along the pathway of life. Or you may let
them guide you, as a certain lustrous star led the wise men of old, to
a sacred shrine where you will bend the knees of your soul in worship
and offer a loving sacrifice of gold, frankincense and myrrh.
Lest you think I am alone in this exalted conception of Freemasonry, may I quote that great commentator on Masonic symbolism,
to whom I have already alluded, Brother H. L. Haywood, who asks:
"What is a Mason, if not an architect of the mystical
order? In so far as he is true to his Royal Art he is one
engaged in building up within himself a real, but viewless
Temple; its foundations laid deep in character, its walls

70

Freemasonry is the ancient sphinx dreaming by the crowded ways
of men. Who shall read her riddle? Her voiceless lips propound the
tragic challenge upon which hang the issues of life and death. Deliberately she misleads her children and bewilders them with .explanations
of her symbols that confuse and distract. Ruthless, she casts aside the
wretched mortal whose · darkened mind brings no solution, but
wreathes with immortal bays the brow of him who answers well her
questioning. And it is well. He only is worthy of the high revelation
who gives his soul to obtain it and will not be satisfied with trivialities.
Tinsel may be bought for a farthing, but gold must be digged from
the depths.
Freemasonry is one with that transcendent mystery that broods
o'er every cradle, smiles o'er every marriage bower and watches with
an infinite tenderness by every bier. It is the wonder of the child, the
ecstasy of the lover, the question of the scientist, and the vision of the
seer. The shekinah shedding its mystic light over the mercy seat, the
lambent flame illumining the holy altar, the radiance shining from
the luminous pages of every Scripture, the ineffable splendor of the
Sacred Name-Freemasonry is that! We do not know what it is,
but it gives meaning to life. We cannot touch it, but it is more real
than the sun that glows at noontime. In its presence we are dumb,
yet it makes the soul articulate. Possess it and find immortal life.
Thus I characterize Freemasonry.
Star-gazing and High Values
You say I rhapsodize. I admit it. I do not apologize for lifting
this discussion of Freemasonry out of the drab and commonplace into
the realm of ideals. By our more literally-minded Brethren I expect
to be scorned as a star-gazer and a dreamer of dreams. So be it. But
I remember the words of that great French Mason, Victor Hugo:

71

72

PROCEEDJN.GS OF THE
formed of the solid stuff of genuine manhood, its roof the
stately dome 0f truth, its spires the upreaching of that aspiration toward a Higher which was the original inspiration of
every great cathedral." (11)

World Needs Masonry
In describing Freemasonry as a spiritual force I would not have
you think that Masonry consists of beautiful but impractical ideals;
a kind of fairy fantasy woven of rainbows and gossamer, poetry and
high-flown sentiment; as alluring as the lovely Antares, yon red star
clinging to the neck of the Scorpion, glorious but unattainable.
. My contention is that the distinctive doctrines of Freemasonry
are eminently practical; that until mankind frankly, sincerely and
wholeheartedly adopts them as its social and political objectives it will
wander lost and bewildered in the wilderness of confusion and distraction; that when the principles upon which Freemasonry is based
are accepted as the foundation stones of civilization and the teachings
of our gentle craft are taken as the working program of statesmanship
and social progress, the golden age of which man has dreamed and· of
which poets have sung, will be close to realization.
THEREFORE THE WORLD NEEDS FREEMASONRY ,
AND BECAUSE OF THAT NEED THE FUTURE OF FREEMASONRY IS ASSURED.
May I ther~fore, in the remainder of the time that is allotted to
me, direct your thought to Freemasonry as a social force in this
modern world, in the years of the immediate future, in this period of
unparalleled importance and significance.
Marvelous Modern World
We are living in the most marvelous and pregnant age in the
woFld's history. I have no sympathy with those fearsome, defeatist
Brethren who read the future in the terms of cataclysm and disaster.
It is true that at the present time society is in a state of ferment.
Institutions that have endured for centuries are crumbling into ruins.
The ancien·t authorities are flouted and the immemoria l traditions are
discredited. But these disturbances are not signs of decadence, they
are the bir.th-pangs of a new era. Civilization is being reborn. Stupendous forces are at work remolding the social order. High-power machinery, mass production and scientific management are giving us a
new ir1dustrial ocganization. Radio, the telegraph, rapid transportation
have shrunk the globe into a very small ball. Tomorrow morning the
happenings of toda-y in London, Calcutta, Buenos Aires, Cape Town,
will march across our breakfast tables.
·Know.ledge has increased ·beyond the wildes t dreams of the fathers. We have pulverized the atom, explored the far-distant constellations and revolutioni:ii:ed the fundamental concepts of physics. The ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

children in our homes, coming from high school, chatter glibly of
curv~d space, fields of electro-magnetic energy, and Freudianism.
Man s m:derstanding ?f the universe has become more and more refined until 1~ow the scientist solemnly avers, "The universe begins to
look more hke a great thought than like a great machine." ( 12) The
new knowledge has not only given us a new and expanded view of the
cosmos, it is revolutionizing human relations.
In the reajm of government we see mighty id~as and ideals in
dea~~-grappling. conflict ; democracy, socialism, communism, fascism,
~az1-1sm. Who ~s seer enough to predict the outcome? But I believe
111 these f.ormatJve years, these tremendously significant years of reconstruction, Freemasonry must be, yes, will be, dynamic. In these
f~teful decades when the fortunes of a thousand years rest upon decisions .and events, Freemasonry must be a directing, stabilizing constructive force.
'
At this point a· word of warning must be spoken. The craft must
never become entangled with purely local and temporary issues. Any
endorsement by the fraternity of political or industrial movements
"".oul~ not ?nly be disloyalty to its sacred tradition, it would be a
v10latJon of its very nature. It has never exalted any dynasty preached
the propaganda of any man's glory, nor loaned its holy banners to
the cru s ~ders of any temporary political panacea or social regime.
Sue~ actJo? w:ould be contrary to its very genius, and would be disruptive of its mfluence and destructive of its power.
. Free~as onry st~nds for certain fundamental principles, certain
timeless ideals, certam profound spiritual truths, too transcendent to
be ~ se? as slogans for any localized crusade, worthy though it may
be 111 itself. Whe~ Emerson was once chided because he did not
espouse
some· particular reform he declared • "'My refor m me
· Iu des a 11
h
" S
ot .ers.
o with _Masonry. Its power lies in its aloofness from partisan
strife an~ s_ectanan rancor, lies in its eternal declaratioh of universal
tr~th. This 1t does by the i?struction of its members, by baptizing them
with a consecrated enthusiasm, by sending them out into the world of
d
d
darkness and error to declare the truth of the living God b
deed.
Y wor an
Now to par~icula~ize_. May I name, briefly and all too inadequately,
seven great social p;mc1p~es that are implicit in the ritual of Freemasonry, that con~htute its holy doctrine, for which it has fought
earn~stly and consistently through the centuries, and which honestly
applied to present day problems would, we believe supply th n
'ddl
.
•
e a swer
t
o our n · es, and a solution to our problems.
Significance of Individual
The first and most fundamental of these teachings t o whf h I
would call your attention is: THE TRANSCENDENT
CANCE OF THE INDIVIDUAL MAN. There is a school of sociai

SIGN~FI

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and political economy that declares that in civilized society the state
must be supreme and that the · individual is of worth only as he is
subordinate to and of service to the state. To this teaching Freemasonry can never give consent. I quote you familiar yet momentous
words: "We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are
created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness; that to secure these rights governments are instituted
among men." Individuals do not exist to serve the government, the
government exists to protect the individual in his rights. We must .
never lose sight of the truth, as Plato holds, that the state is the
individual writ large, and when any government, no matter under
what name or pretension it may masquerade, invades the rights and
liberties of the individual citizen to serve the interests of any class or
group as against the welfare of the nation as a whole, that government
becomes repugnant to the genius of Freemasonry. Any regimentation
that places s!iackles upon the hands or minds of the people must be
stoutly resisted by every Mason. That is why every despotism,
whether it be the dictatorship of the proletariat, or the tyranny of the
corpor~te state, or the absolutism of an imperious spiritual authority,
strikes its first desperate blow at Masonry.

the slain president, was deeply concerned about the safety of the
president's widow. Upon his promise as a Master Mason that he would
return, the warden permitted him to leave the prison. He placed the
widow in the care and under the protection of the Japanese embassy
and then returned, as it was believed, to certain death. This is a
perfect and historic illustration of the Mason's pledged word. This is
the moral law as a quality of character.
The only nation truly prosperous with an enduring prosperity is
that nation dominated and led by men to whom moral principles are
their dearest possessions. Again let me quote Victor Hugo: "There
is only one power, conscience in the service of justice; and there is
only one glory, genius in the service of truth." (15)

74

Furthermore, only that government is in full accord with the
spirit of Masonic idealism that sets the rights of the individual man
superior to every consideration of dollars and markets and industrial
wealth. °James Truslow Adams, whose soul-stirring "Epic of America" should be read by every Mason, asserts that the unifying, inspiriting force in American history is "the American dream"; "that
dream of a land in which life should be better and richer and full~r
for every man, with O,Pportunity for each according to his ability or
achievement." ( 13) That is good Masonic doctrine.
The second mighty principle is, THE SUPREMACY OF THE
M 0 RAL LAW; and ·the moral law is not a simple set of ethical
precepts, it is the integrity of the whole man. I have said that in
civilized society the individual is the vital unit that integrates the
social structure into a living thing. The strength of the social organism
is the strength of these living units. Personal integrity is the one
essential in the social order. Says Dr. J. A. Leighton: "To me, history
teaches that the only sure ways to lasting social progress and individual welfare lie through the selfl.ess devotion of the individual spirit
to truth, integrity, the highest quality of workmanship, and the spread
of the sp"rit of free fellowship and co-operation among human beings
who otherwise differ, and are unequal, in powers and functions." (14)
Harry Carr tells us that when President Madero of Mexico was
assassinated, and his entire staff was arrested, Col. Octavio Serrano
(now living in Hollywood), a high staff officer and a close friend of

75

Religion Without Superstition
I pass quickly to the third great ideal: PURE RELIGION THE
BASIS OF A HUMANE CIVILIZATION. "No civilization has yet
survived after the downfall of its gods," declares Sir Philip Gibbs. "Its
doom is declared when the faith and idealism which formed the basis
of its laws, the inspiration of its art, and the meaning of its life are
challenged by skepticism, and then abandoned in disbelief." To this
statement Masonry would give full acceptance.
Freemasonry is not a religion, it is religion. ( 16) Its creed may be
simply and quickly stated. It believes in the fatherhood of God, the
brotherhood of man, the infinite value of the human soul, the inescapable obligation of the moral law, the Golden Rule, and immortality.
A Mason may believe more; he cannot believe less. Upon these indispensable beliefs the whole structure of our English-speaking civilization rests.
There are those who tell us that religion is outgrown and that
man has no further need of it. Certain nations are trying to get along
without it. But alas, where religion is suppressed the emotions and
urges of the human soul find expression in the wildest excesses of
superstition and perversion. A writer in the London "Sphere" tells of
an experience in a Russian village. A commotion on a village street
awakened him at midnight and he went out to find the entire populac
tion engaged in the weirdest ceremonies of witchcraft, in which men
were beating naked wo1nen with knotted thongs. This is said to be
a common occurrence in the Russian hinterland.
Deprive the masses of the moral incentives of religion and they
rapidly descend to the level of the beasts. Take away from your intellectuals the stabilizing, sanative influence of religion and their mental
brilliance withers and dies under the blight of a shallow cynicism or
a despairing pessimism. A nation, even though it be rich and prosperous, that neglects the cultivation of the spiritual life of the people,
slips quickly down the primrose ways to decadence and death. May
I quote you a provocative word of our own great Californian, Dr.

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Robert A. Millikan, who says: "Personally, I believe that essential
religion is one of the world's supremest needs. And I believe that one
of the greatest contributions the United States ever can, or ever will,
make to world progress-greater by far than any contribution which
we ever have made or ever can make to the science of governmentwill consist in furnishing an example to the world of how the religious
life of a nation can evolve intelligently, wholesomely, inspiringly,
reverently, completely divorced from all unreason, all superstition,
and all unwholesome emotionalism." ( 17) Every Mason conversant
with Masonic history would give unqualified endorsement to this vivid
statement of the present need.
Now this concept of RELIGION APPLIED TO AFFAIRS OF
STATE GIVES US DEMOCRACY, and for three centuries Masonry has struggled to establish in human relations the principles
of liberty, justice, equality, toleration, sympathy, altruism-all synonymous with and included in democracy-and to inculcate the spirit of
fraternity in the hearts of men. Time does not permit an extended
discussion of these dynamic ideals of free society, but may I dwell,
just for a moment, . upon two-liberty and toleration. These two
principles are inextricably interwoven. You cannot have one without
the other, and no form of human society is worthy of this glorious
modern age that does not elevate as of greatest worth-liberty and
toleration.
To understand the truth of this assertion scan with me the pages
of history.
Five centuries before Christ, Anaxagoras of Clazomenae, teacher
of Pericles and Euripedes, was banished from Athens for asserting
that the stars were red hot balls of fire and that the sun was thousands
of times bigger than the whole of Greece.
The Stoic, Cleanthes, two centuries later, denounced Aristarchus
of Samos, as impious because he attempted to prove that the earth
moved around the sun.
Hypatia of Alexandria, bright star of paganism, renowned teacher
of philosophy and science, was brutally killed in the fifth century of
our era by a mob of infuriated monks. In their frenzy they dragged
the exquisite maiden, naked, through the streets and scraped the very
flesh from her bones with oyster shells.
In the sixteenth century Giordano Bruno swept the midnight
skies with a crude telescope, then shouted across Europe that the
stars wert flaming worlds. He paid for his audacity with his life and
died at the stake on February 17, 1600.
Servetus, the discoverer of the lesser circulation of the blood,
was burned by Calvin at Geneva in 1553, a victim of fanaticism and
cruelty.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

77

Thomas Woolston, a Fellow of Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, in the eighteentli century subjected the miracle stories to a
searching criticism and for his temerity he was deprived of his fellowship, was prosecuted for libel, and sentenced to a fine of £100 and
a year's imprisonment. Unable to pay, he died in prison. (18)
These instances could be multiplied a thousand times. Pitiful,
indeed, are the stories of cruelty and heartbreak that clutter up the
pages of history.
;roday _there are in the world powerful movements, social, political, mdustnal, that depend for their success upon the suppression of
free speech, free activity and individual initiative. Men imbued with
the spirit and traditions of Freemasonry cannot look with complacency
upon their advance to places of dominance.
Freemasonry, acting through its inspired votaries, has combated
fanaticism and intolerance in all its forms, and on a thousand bitter
battlefields has lifted its white standard of liberty and toleration.
Perhaps even in this radiant age of scientific progress and economic
development it may again be necessary to unfurl the snowy banner
of freedom in challenge to those forces that would lay the human
spirit under the thrall of despotic authority and control and if that
hour arrives Freemasons will not be found wanting.
'

. In a. challenging speech recently delivered, Dr. E. C. Moore,
v1ce-pres1dent and provost of the University of California at Los Angeles, declared that fascism and communism in contrast with democracy were "iron ways of governing flesh and minds. They are
molochs created by the human imagination and worshipped with
human sacrifices." "The future of democracy," he continued, "is more
democ~acy-?emocracy r~cher and fuller-for under no other plan can
each smgle life come to its full flowering, " a state of social relationship, where "the poorest he may live his life as the richest he." To
such a social relationship liberty and tolerance are indispensable.
We must never let our children forget that this is the meaning of
our beloved flag:
"Y Dur flag and my flag, and how it flies. today,
In your land and my land and half a world away.
Blood red and rose red, the stripes forever gleam,
Snow white and soul white, the good forefathers' -dreamSky blue and true blue, with stars that gleam aright
The ~lorious guidon through the day, a shelter throu~h the
mght.

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Your flag and my flag, to every star and stripe,
The drums beat as hearts beat and fifers shrilly pipe;
Your flag and my flag, a blessing in the sky,
Your hope and my hope, it never hid a lie.
Home land and far land, and half the world around,
Old Glory hears our glad salute and ripples to the sound.
"Your flag and my flag, and oh! how much it holds
Your land and my land secure within its folds.
Your heart and my heart beat quicker at the sight,
Sun kissed and wind tossed, red and blue and white;
The one flag, the great flag, the flag for me and you,
Glorified all else beside, the red and white and blue."
(Brother Wilbur D. Nesbit.)
Education and World Concord
The three remaining principles that must prevail in the new social
order now corning into being-principles that grow out of Masonic
teachings as naturally and as inevitably as the Giant Sequoias rise out
of the soil of our majestic Sierras-I can do no more than mention.
EDUCATION THE RIGHT OF EVERY CHILD, WITHOUT DISTINCTION OF CASTE, CONDITION OR RACE! This
right must be emphasized and reiterated now when under the stress
of economic stringency there are those who advocate drastic curtailment of popular education. Such a policy in a democracy is suicidal.
Again I quote Victor Hugo: "Compulsory education is a recruitment
of souls for the light. Henceforth all human advancement will be accomplished by swelling the legions of those who read. The diameter of
the moral and ideal good corresponds always to the caliber of men's
minds.· In proportion to the worth of the brain is the worth of the
heart .... What humanity requires, is to be fed with light." ( 19) Feeding human souls with light! What a challenging conception of education! And it is one to which Masonry can give full approval.
WORLD-WIDE AMITY AND CO-OPERATION, AS
AGAINST WAR AND NARROW NATIONALISM! The Masonic
order is the world's greatest peace society. It ramifies through all
nations, all castes, all religions, all races. Men of divergent creeds
whose religious taboos will not permit them to break bread together
nevertheless meet as brothers around the Masonic altar and unitedly
lift hands of prayer to the common Father. International compacts,
diplomatic treaties, and trade agreements serve a noble purpose, but
at the last the only sure defense against war is a sense of world-wide
brotherhood, transcending all our petty suspicions and sordid hates,
and fusing all our differences in a globe-girdling affection. Said Emerson: "This great, overgrown, dead Christendom of ours still keeps
alive at least the name of a lover of mankind. But one day all men

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

will be lovers; and every calamity will be dissolved in the universal
sunshine." (20) This is part of the radiant hope of Masonry.
Onward Forever
The last dynamic truth I would bring before you as being distinctively Masonic is THE BELIEF IN HUMAN PROGRESS; and
I remind you that Masonry is a progressive science.
Einstein interrupts his contemplation of the infinite vastness to
observe that there is no hitching post in the universe. The foremost
scientist of the age tells us that exploration of the cosmos does not
reveal any tethering stake. What is true of the universe at large is
true of humanity. Forever the marching orders are given: "Get thee
out of thy country ... into a land that I will show thee." (21) The
Spirit of Life forever commands: "Speak unto the children of Israel,
that they go forward." (22) The Kingdom of Heaven is kinetic, not
static.
In our own ritualistic ceremonies, just when we think we have
attained and the precious jewel glitters on our breast and we sit down
to rest, we are summoned to the East, the Master bids us travel, and
we set off anew upon our journey.
Science interprets the rhythm of the universe in the terms of
evolution, and history is understood as a colorful pageant showing
humanity on the march; sometimes swinging along like a victorious
army with all flags flying and bands playing. At other times the dust
of horrid conflict and ruthless warfare obscures the line of advance.
But still mankind moves on, lured by an unquenchable hope, impelled
by an irresistible interior power.
This emphasis upon evolution discourages red revolution and
cataclysmic social upheavals. Freemasonry is a stabilizing influence
in human affairs. It is opposed to violent and revolutionary programs.
Human society is not a machine to be knocked down and put together
again according to some blue-print of academic reform. It is a living
thing, like a tree, like an animal; it grows, it develops according to
fixed laws and logical progress. The power that reforms, redeems,
recreates man is not an imposition from without. It lies at his heart,
it resides in his soul. Men are gods in the chrysalis, and as the cocoons
of selfishness, hatred, and meanness break, the spirit is released and
takes the higher forms.
In the palace builded by the enchantment of Merlin were fom
zones of sculpture:
"And in the lowest, beasts were slaying men,
And in the second, men are slaying beasts,
And in the third are warriors, perfect men,
And in the fourth are men with growing wings."

81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

By consecration to the highest purposes men co-operate with the
forces of nature, which operate as the will of God.
Recognizing this truth, Masonry keeps its heart and mind open
to the revelation of today, allowing no past revelation to eclipse the
light of the present, knowing that:

Masonry Militant
But that you may get the full significance of the mission of Freemasonry in the troublous but potent years of the immediate future,
may I call to your remembrance the spectacle of the workers who rebuilded the ancient city of ] erusalem after the Captivity, how "they
that builded on the wall, and they that bore burdens, with those that
laded, every one with 0 ne of his hands wrought in the work, and with
the other hand held a weapon. For the builders, every one had his
sword girded by his side, and so builded." (25) So I am not unduly
confusing the similes by calling upon the Masons of today to be
builders and crusaders at the same time. In one hand a trowel with
which to build, in the other a sword with which to fight.
The warfare of Freemasonry is not against men or institutions,
not against governll'ents or churches, but against the tyranny that
would reduce men to mere automatons, standardized, repressed, regimented; against the superstition that would befog m en's minds with
lies and corroding fear; against the spiritual thralldom that would
shrink a band of iron around the brow of man and forbid the thought
of man to expand, to develop, to grow; against the despotism that
would prevent the freest expression of the human spirit; against
slavery of every kind, whether it be to an autocrat, to an industrial
overlordship, to a soulless bureaucracy, to false doctrines, or to
craven, self-created terror; against ignorance, prejudice, hatred, materialism, Phariseeism, and all the black brood of shams and pretensions that have weighed like an unutterable anguish upon the soul of
man.
It is a glorious war. A war for human rights, for the cause of
righteousness, for little children yet unborn. It is the warfare of
Socrates, of Martin Luther, of Wilberforce, of Washington, and, I say
it re~erently, of that Divine man who gave his life upon the cruel cross
that men might be free.
·
There is a legend in the Frankish Alps that .C harlemagne did not
die but that angels carried him to a mountain cavern where they
laid him, cap-a-pie, with his falchion by his side, and there he sleeps,
waiting un til humanity, bowed beneath its woes, migh t call him to
the rescue.
Freemasonry is that ·legendary Charlemagne, and humanity, embattled and distraught, calls upon the craft to make good its an cient
tradition and draw sword in defense of those eternal principles to
which it is dedicated. The hosts of light are gathering under the white
banners of freedom and brotherhood. The trumpet sounds the advance.
Already the advanced forces are ·clashing with the enemy. This is no
time for cowards and self-seekers. Only men with stout hearts and
clear minds and consecrated souls are equal to the demands of this
great day.

80

"New occasions teach new duties;
Time makes ancient good uncouth ;
They must upward still, and onward,
Who would keep abreast of truth." (23)
And Freemasonry assumes the resolve that Plato puts at the end
of his Republic: "We will ever cleave to the upward road."
Temple of Humanity
So, to use a simile familiar to every Mason, the craft in this latter
day adds its contribution to the building of a spiritual temple. High
engraved over the portal of the beautiful Scottish Rite House of the·
Temple in Washington the declaration is made: "Freemasonry builds
its· temples among the nations and in the hearts of men." And it is so.
This modern order of craftsmen is engaged in e~ecting an invisible
but vitally real tem"ple in the souls of men, builded of hopes and
dreams, of prayers and noble resolves, of kindly sentiments and
loving deeds-the temple of a redeemed humanity. We may adopt the
description of the spiritual temple that Charles Rann Kennedy, brilliant dramatist and earnest Mason, puts in the mouth of Manson:
"You must understand, this is no ·dead pile of stones and unmeaning timber. It is a living thing. . . .
·
"When you enter it you hear a sound-a sound as of some mighty
poem chanted. Listen Jong enough, and you will learn that it is made
up of the beating of human hearts, of the nameless music of men's
souls-that is, if you have ears. If you have eyes, you will presently
see the church itself-a looming mystery of many shapes and shadows,
leaping sheer from fl.oar to dome. The work of no ordinary builder! ...
"The pillars of it go up like the brawny trunks of heroes; the
sweet human flesh of men and women is molded about its. bulwarks,
strong, impregnable; . the faces of little children laugh out from every
cornerstone; the terrible spans and arches of it are the' joined hands
of comrades; and up in the heights and spaces there are inscribed the
numberless musings of all the dreamers of the wotk!. It is yet building- building and built upon. Sometimes the work goes forward in
deep darkness; sometimes in blinding light; now beneath the burden
of unutterable anguish; now to the tune of a great laughter and heroic
shoutings like the cry of thunder. Sometimes, in the silence of the
night-time, one may hear the tiny hammerings of the comrades at
work up in the dome-the comrades that have ~limbed ahead." (24)

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Let us slumber no longer. The Great Commander summons all
men to the colors. The battle lines are forming. In the name of God
and oppressed humanity, forward-to victory!
References
1. Joseph Ford Newton: "The Builders," p. 76.
2. Mackey's "Encyclopedia of Freemasonry"; article on Roman Collegia.
.
3. Robert Collyer: "Clear Grit," chapter on Cathedrals, p. 50.
4. Very Rev. Wm. Ralph Inge: "Things New and Old," p. 68.
5. Bulletin of the Iowa Masonic Library, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, June,
1934.
6. Lecture of 3°, " Monitor," p. 35; also II Sam. 24:1-16.
7. Judges 7:1-7.
8. I John 4 :16.
9. Victor Hugo: "William Shakespeare," p. 295.
10. Walt Whitman: "Leaves of Grass," p. 88.
11. H. L. Haywood: "Symbolical Masonry," p. 228.
12. Sir James Jeans: "The Mysterious Universe," p. 186.
13. James Truslow Adams: "Epic of America," p. 404.
14. Dr. James A. Leighton: "Field of Philosophy," p. 402.
15. Victor Hugo's address on the lOOth anniversary of the death o•
Voltaire, Paris, May 30, 1878.
16. Joseph Fort Newton: "The Religion of Freemasonry," p. 11.
Albert Pike: "Morals and Dogma,"
161.
Carl H. Claudy: "Foreign Countries," p. 8.
17. Dr. Robert A. Millikan: "Science and the New Civilization," p. 194
18. Many other illustrations may be found in a provocative book h
J. B. Bury: "A History of Freedom of Thought" (Home Univt•
sity Library).
19. Victor Hugo: "William Sqakespeare," p. 97.
20. Ralph Waldo Emerson: ·"Man the Reformer" (Concord Edition
Vol. 1, p. 255).
21. Gen. 12:1-5.
22. Exodus 14:15.
23. James Russell Lowell: "The Present Crisis."
24. Charles Rann Kennedy: "The Servant in the House."
25. Nehemiah 4:17, 18.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF RITUAL COMMITTEE
Past Grand Master Weller, chairman of the Committee
on Ritual, reported verbally relative _to the method of teaching the ritual and appointment of Lecturers, recommending
that the method set out in the Message of the Grand Master
be adopted. After full discussion the further consideration
of the subject was postponed until Wednesday. On W ednesday afternoon the -chairman of the committee amended his
original motion by recommending that a Grand Lecturer
be elected and paid a salary to be fixed by Grand Lodge,
and that said elected Grand Lecturer shall have power to
appoint,_ subject to the approval of the Grand M aster, four
assistant Grand Lecturers; the duties of the Grand Lecturer
and his assistants to be as outlined in the circular letter
and Message of the Grand Master, and the present plan of
ritualistic instruction be continued for the ensuing year.
Grand Lodge concurred in the report.

p.

On motion of Past Grand Master Filmer the Grand Secretary was directed to cause the oration to be printed and
a copy mailed to e~ch Lodge in the jurisdiction.

83

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HOMES

appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. He
was graduated with honor in June, ranking 41 in a class of 465.

84

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
We have the honor to submit herewith the forty-third annual
report of the property, condition and operation of the Masonic Homes
for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1934.
As required by the Constitution, the board organized immediately
following the close of Grand Lodge, October 13, 1933, as follows:
President, Charles M. Wollenberg, term expires 1934.
Vice-President, John Stewart Ross (1935).
Samuel E. Burke (1936).
Chas. Albert Adams (1937).
Randolph V. Whiting, Deputy Grand Master.
Earl Warren, Senior Grand Warden.
Rollie W. Miller, Junior Grand Warden.
Treasurer, William P. Filmer.
Secretary, John Whicher.
Last year we looked forward with hope for better times, but our
hopes ended in disappointment. We take heart, however, in knowing
that the men of our fraternity still have faith in those cardinal tenets
of Freemasonry, brotherly love and relief; and also iQ knowing that
notwithstanding hard times, the members of our great fraternity have
pleasure in contributing to the relief of those in physical and mental
distress, and cheerfully assist in the maintenance of our Homes. At
the Home for adults at Decoto our Lodges provide a shelter and a
shield against the adversities and infirmities which are too often the
heritage of old age; and at the Home for children at Covina provision
is made for the care and education of little ones who have been bereft
of father or mother, and who otherwise might become social outlaws.
The labors of the fraternity are a part of the splendid work of exemplifying Masonic charity, and no Mason will deny to our poor the shelter
and care provided by the Homes.
The reports of the superintendents of the Homes, submitted herewith and made a part of this report, disclose the internal conditions
at the Homes. Brother Hartman at Decoto and Brother Downen at
Covina are doing splendid work as superintendents, and we take pleasure in commending them, particularly for the whole-hearted, enthusiastic spirit manifested in all their labors. The report of the Secretary
and the auditors employed by the Committee on Finance are also
appended, references to which will appear later in our report.
Grayson Merrill
This boy, admitted to the Home in 1921 from Highland Park
Lodge No. 382, was graduated from the Covina High School in June,
1929, and after serving a year as a "gob" in the navy, received an

85

Placing Children Who Leave the Home
In our annual report last year we referred to the responsibility
of Lodges to children who are honorably dismissed from the Home
by reason of age or graduation from high school.
We stated that "these children are dismissed at an age when they
seriously need a warm and welcome friendship on the part of the
Brethren; they need employment; they need the fostering assistance
of friends who can be trusted to divert them into paths of good conduct; they need to be directed in their new environment to keep good
company. They stand in truth 'where the brook and river meet'."
During the fiscal year 39 children were dismissed. The Secretary of the Homes wrote to each Lodge interested, soliciting aid in
the way of employment or further schooling for them, and sad to
relate, only one Lodge, le Progres de l'Oceanie, responded in a
material way.
However, the seed sown in our appeal last year was not wholly
thrown on stony ground. The Southern California Past Masters'
Association at its annual meeting in January, 1934, appointed a committee to assist the young people who graduate from the Covina
Home each year. The_ committee is composed of Rollie W. Miller,
William B. Ogden, Wilbert J. Stewart, William L. Hovis, Hubert W.
Walker and Frank G. Falloon. Fifteen of the children dismissed in
June were expected. to remain at or near Los Angeles. We are informed that this committee has not been idle, but has taken a real
fatherly interest in the youngsters, and either personally or through
the interested Lodges is carrying out .the full spirit of our request.
Reappointment of Children
In 1931 your Board of Trustees adopted a resolution providing
that the continuance of any child in the Home beyond the age of
16 must be authorized by special action of the board. The superintendent notified each child coming within the rule to make written
application for reappointment, which applications are considered by
the board at the May meeting. This year 22 boys and 19 girls had
reached the age limit, and proper showing having been made they
were continued" at the Home for another year.

A fine sample of the applications for continuation is given here,
as tending to show the mental attitude and appreciation of the children, and a splendid example of self-analysis on the part of a 15-yearold girl:

86

GRAND LODGE OF°CAhIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"In making out this statement for reappointment to the Masonic
Home for my senior year, I wish to say that I am 15 years of age
(16 in October) and am a junior in high school. My school work has
been good. During my freshman year I made three A's, and two
C's-an average of about 365 points, which would be a B minus average on the point scale- which we use here. During my sophomore
year I brought my average up to 395 points on an A minus average.
This year, my junior year, is not complete yet, but so far I have made
an average of 403 points, or an A average. I am sure that when this
year is complete it will average an A. Next year I intend to take five
solids instead of four as I have done these three years, and I am sure
that I shall make at least a high B average. I am going to fry very
hard for an A. I am really interested in making a good scholarship,
as I hope to go to college, and I am sure that my scholarship of next
year, if I am reappointed, will cause you no anxiety.
"As yet I have no plans for future occupation. I have had several
ideas, but none of them seem to suit me, so. I am taking a college
entrance course, hoping that I shall be able to obtain a college education. I should like to get at least two years of college and four or
five years if possible. I am hoping that by the combined efforts of my
mother, father, and myself, this can be arranged.
"Since the beginning of this school year, I have earned $68.67.
My present balance is $26.37. I rate myself as a worker better than
average because I feel that I can do very well on a job in which I
take an interest. I find it very hard to take interest in jobs such as
fixing butter before each meal-still, if I had to do it I would make
the best of it. I do like working with the younger children, and have
found that I can do very well with that type of work. I enjoy regarding it from not the money standpoint, but from the standpoint of
getting a certain valuable knowledge; as well as learning to work
with younger children in such a way as to be satisfactory to all. I
think that in a field of this type I would consider myself a good
worker. At the present time I am assisting the Junior Boys' housemother with boys and enjoy it very much.
·
"My conduct in the past year has been nothing to criticize, as I
have been little interested in doing what I should not. I like to consider m yself as above that type of thing. As far as I can recall, I have
not been summoned to the superintendent's office for correction of
any sort. I have had some very instructive talks with him, which I
know will help me a great deal. I honestly consider my conduct of
the past year as above reproach.
"There are several reasons why I should like to be reappointed
to the Masonic Home for my next and last year. One is that I am
. very fond of the place, having lived here for seven years. Another is
that I should like very much to finish my senior year at Covina instead of starting at another school. There are lots o f advantages to
living here, some of which are not realized until one can see the time
one is to leave on the horizon. Personally, I should be very happy if
I were allowed to remain here next year, as I know it would he a
happier situation than that of my own home. If I wer e allowed to
stay here next year, I know that I should do everything in my p ower
to uphold the standards of the senior girls, and the whole Masonic
Home. I should try to live my life so as to have nothing but good
influence on the younger girls, who are apt to be influenced by the
older girls. I should try to set an example by obeying all rules, showing a g ood attitude toward my superiors, and toward the whole

87

Home. I should be willing to co-operate in any ~ay I was able
would be. a good .worker, a good student, and a good citizen. In orde;
to do t~1s., I thmk that I most need to improve my disposition.
U sually 1t ~s good, but there are time.s whc;n I lose my temper. If I
co~ld refran~ from outwardly. expressmg disapproval of some things
which are distasteful ~o me, 1f ~ would only remember not to make
these remarks-some~1mes only .m fun-I should be a better example.
I a_m often too free m express.mg an opinion, and often say things
which I do not mean, but which soun.d rather rude, or flippant to
those around me. In ot~er words, I thmk the most important thing
I should tr:i; to control 1s my tongue. I am really quite level-headed
and do n.ot mtend to ~a:m myself or anyone else by losing my head
and ~lakmg hasty dec1s.10ns. I know it is an honor to be allowed to
rema1~ here for _my sen!or :i;ear, and I only hope that after balancing
my v:1ces and virtues, 1t will be decided that I will be allowed to
remam here next _year. If so, I promise to live up to the above statements."
This g irl was granted another year at the Home.
Endowment Donations
At a general meeting of the Trustees held at San Francisco on
the 25th day of,August, 1934, all members being present, the policy of
the board with relation to the allocation of funds received from bequests was declared to be as follows:
"In addi~ion to bequests . for ~he Endowment Fund, all bequests
to the Masomc Homes of Cahforma, except those for a particular purpose other than for endowmen t, shall be credited to the Endowment
Fund."
Scholarship Donations
McCloud Lodge No. 430......................................................................$119.00
Mary Shepherd ................................. _. ...................... '. .............................
5.00
• Taft Lodge No. 516.......................-........................................................ 50.00
Sa n Francisco Lodge of Perfection ..............................,................... 750.00
Frank G. Watson ................:......................:............................................ 105.00
Alhambra Lodge No. 322............................................................................ 25.00
Los Angeles Bethel No. 36, Job's Daughters.......................................... 10.00
Mercedes Chapter No. 126, 0. E. 5......................................................... 10.00
Legacies

~ir;J~~f.~,-::-:- -~~~=:t-_~t~j:=t===:t:~~:~~

E,..

Another Gift by Frank G. Watson
~ur

Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson, in addition to his yearly
<lonat10ns to the Homes, has donated an eight-cylinder Buick auto-

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mobile, fully equipped with all modern gadgets, including radio, to
the Covina Home, for which we tender_ our thanks.

In c.onnec.tion with our reference to the indebtedness to the Endowment Fund, mention may be properly here made of the fact that
that indebtedness was incurred only because the Trustees did not
have sufficient money to pay for the buildings authorized by Grand
Lodge to be erected at Decoto and Covina; and that the money so
borrowed was used only for that purpose. This was the procedure
suggested by Grand Master Keesling during the course of the construction of the buildings at Covina. The building funds were exhausted and it became necessary to arrange for the money needed
for the completion of the buildings. He recommended "as the best
plan to be pursued, borrowing the necessary funds from the Endowment Fund upon note of the Trustees," and pointed out that "to
the reimbursement of the Endowment Fund the Grand Lodge is as
much obligated as it would be to pay any indebtedness."
Your Trustees have heard the statement made that the fund
raised by the fifty cent building tax has been used for maintenance
purposes. Now, the exact converse is the fact. Instead of using any
part of the building fund for llll!intenance purposes, we have paid a
large part of the cost of the buildings out of the maintenance fund.
The building fund was created in 1912, and the total amount collected since that date is $1 ,092,439.55. During the same time there
was expended for building $2,244,961.29. In other words, the cost of
the buildings was $1,152,521.74 in excess of the amount received from
the fifty cent building tax. Of this amount there is still due the Endowment Fund $200,000, and the remainder, to-wit, $952,521.74, has
been paid out of our other funds.
In considering the expenses of the Homes it should be remembered that we have a problem that is not comparable to those met
with in a going business where merchandise of one sort or another
is bought and sold. There is no question that in such a business, cut
after cut can be made in rents, wages, overhead and other items, and
the merchandise on the shelves will not suffer; but in our Masonic
Homes we are dealing with human beings who cannot be treated as
merchandise, i.e., handled for profit.
We believe that with the reductions we have already made, our
schedule of salaries and wages is as low as ca n be justified for the
services rendered. If any further curtailment in our expenditures is
to be made it must be in food, clothing or medical attention. It is
our belief that Grand Lodge would not favor any retrenchment which
must be so effected.
·

88

Care of Bodily Afflicted

In 1920, Grand Lodge gave careful consideration to the subject
of outside relief. To quote from the report:
"Our regulations provide that an applicant suffering from any
disease or ailment necessitating hospital treatment will not be received. As pointed out elsewhere, our hospital is overcrowded with
those who became ill after their admission to the Home. The Grand
Lodge should give this regulation most careful consideration. Are
we fair to the brother Mason in good standing for many years, who
becomes incapacitated through paralysis or other ailment, spends his
savings in attempted cure, and after years of Masonic fraternalism,
when he needs help and wishes to end his days among his brethren,
is refused admission to the Home?"
The Grand ~odge authorized your Trustees to give aid to such
cases.
In 1921 there was spent $570.00. For the ·year just closed the
expense was $46,721.50.
There is some question as to whether this amount should be
charged to the Homes expense, as the cases involved are not eligible
to the Home in most instances, according to the regulations of Grand
Lodge.
We would suggest that your Trustees be authorized to carry this
account as a separate activity of Grand Lodge, .separating it entirely
from Hom_e affairs. It will not result in any additional expense, but
will result in giving a true picture of the Home expenditures.
Finances
Your Trustees have devoted a not inconsiderable amount of time
to the study of ways and means whereby the expenses of the Homes
might be reduced; and we are pleased to be able to report that substantial economies have been effected and our financial condition has
been materially improved. And this notwithstanding the continuance
of the economic condition which has resulted in not only a material
decrease in our revenue, but as well in an increase of those in need
who must be cared for by our Homes.
We entered this year (August 1, 1933) with a deficit of $13,020.
This deficit was due to the fact that in addition to meeting the
current expenses of the Homes we had made a payment of $25,000
on our indebtedness to the Endowment Fund.
This year, instead of a deficit of $13,020, we had a surplus of
$25,759.52-a net gain over expenditures of $38,779.52 for the year.
We therefore, on September 1, 1934, made another payment of
$25,000 to the Endowment Fund, thus reducing the original indebtedness of $325,000 to $200,000.

89

Receipts and Disbursements
The reports of the Secretary and the Auditors are appended
hereto. They show in detail all the items that go to make up the
receipts and disbursements of the Homes; but in order that the exact
financial con. Ii ti on of the Homes may be more readily and easily

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

90

understood, we submit the following table which sets forth in brief
and concise form the aggregate amounts of all moneys received and
ex~ended for. the maintenance of the two Homes, including outside
r~hef, taxes, insurance, clerical work, and all other expenditures inc1.de.nt to the operation of the relief work of the fraternity in the jurisdiction. The expenditures for the year 1933 are appended to show
that substantial reductions have been made in the year just closed:
Expenditures
1933
1934
Decoto Home .............. _........ ____.................................$ 91,634.07 $ 85,578.14
75,600.97
46,721.50
2,156.81
2,162.68
Trustees Expense ..........................................................
693.25
482.90
2,310.0Q
Accounting ...................................................................... 2,357.49
266.50
Safekeeping of securities..............................................
266.50
204.00
175.00
Federal check tax............................................................
68 10
73.26
208.83
Miscellaneous ..................................................................
92:28

f.#.!:'.I~: ~ : : : :::::: : ~ 1:E1l

~~~~;i:g -::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=::::::::::::::=

;;~:~~

$226,496.77 $215,940.59
Receipts

:2~~l£n~~;~:~:::=:: =: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :=: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :$ i~:~;i:~~

I~terest and dividends............................................................................ 22,804.64
Gifts .......................................................................................................... 9,807.37
R~al estate sales, rentals, etc.........................- ....................................
8,561.35
Miscellaneous (salvage) .......................................................................
299.77

Total receipts ..................................................................................$254,470.98
Total e~pense .................................................................................. 215,940.59
Surplus for the year............:......................................................:..$ 38,530.39
C. M. WOLLENBERG, P resident
JOHN STEWART Ross, Vice President
SAMUEL E. BURKE
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
RANDOLPH V. WHITING
EARL WARREN
ROLLIE W. MILLER, Trustees.

91

Report of Auditors
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
In accordance with the authorization of the Finance Committee,
we have made a general audit and examination of the books of account of the Masonic Homes of California, giving particular attention to the verification of the balance sheet as at July 31, 1934.
Sufficient examination and testing of detailed revenue and expense
accounts was made as to satisfy ourselves as to the correctness of
the accounting. We present herewith the following financial statements:
Statements of Accountability for Funds and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B : Balance Sheet-General Fund, July 31, 1934.
Schedule B-1: Summarized Statement of Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-2: Summarized Statement of Students' Loan Fund.
Schedule B-3: List of Securities, Notes Receivable, and Insurance Policies-General Fund (two pages).
Schedule B-4: Composition of Special Trust Funds and Residents' Deposits.
Statements of Revenue .and Expense and Operation
Exhibit C: Summary Statement of Revenue and Expense
(General).
Exhibit D : Statement of Direct Operating Expensc-Decotoless sundry direct revenue received.
Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covinaless sundry direct revenue received.
Schedule D-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in detail at
Decoto.
Schedule E-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in detail at
Covina.
COMMENTS

Sernrities, Notes Receivable and R eal Estate, Etc.:
All of the general securities listed under Schedule B-3 have been
donated with the exception of 10 shares of the Glendora Water Company stated on the books at cost. The stated, or book value, in the
case of donated securities represen ts the value placed upon the
securities at the time of donation. Where such value has been difficult to determine, because of its being an unlisted or closely held
security, or of uncertain value, then the par, face, or a nominal value
is entered on the books by the office solely as a matter of record.
Notes receivable vali.Jes represent the unpaid portion of notes receivable on hand. All but two notes are secured by real estate as
noted in Schedule B-3 by the letter "S." Insurance policies, received
mainly from residents of the Homes have been listed on the books

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

by the office at the face or value recoverable upon the death of the
insured, as a matter of record. (In 1933 the cash surrender value of
these particular kind of policies was $1,630.00).
The securities contained within the Students' Loan Fund,
Schedule B-2, are stated on the books at cost, with the exception of
the 100 shares of Masonic Temple Association received by donation
and valued on the books at par.
Real estate donations have increased through bequest and donation from a relatively few parcels to as many as forty parcels during
the last few years, some of which are of considerable value. As noted
in former reports, it has been the practice, in the absence of appraised
values, to record such values, only as and when sold and a value thus
ascertained, and then set up in the books as a note rece.i vable as per
Schedule B-3. Beginning August 1, 1934, these properties are being
recorded in the books at the assessed value for record purposes. A
list of the forty items of r eal estate is being furnished the Finance
Committee separately rather than increase the size of our report.

The total book value of cash and securities of the Endowment Fund
($772,614.59) is set out in Exhibit B-Page 6 of the separate Endowment Fund report.

92

General:
The change made in the system of accounting at Covina has
resulted in the necessity of adjusting the general books to take up
the July, 1933, sundry Covina revenue ($1,242.28) which under prior
procedure was entered in the books a month later, for each month
throughout the year, as and when received at San Francisco in cash.
While there appears to be a decided improvement in classification of
accounts and detailed information furnished, the necessity of now
submitting separate statements materially lengthens the report.
The building fund tax, which is Constitutional, has been carried
on the books along with other maintenance revenue accounts, and
not considered as a separate fund. However, it is interesting to note
that an analysis made by the office of the Grand Secretary of the
annual Proceedings back to 1912 shows $1,092,439.55 collected under
the building fund tax, and $2,244,961.29 expended for buildings and
improvements, etc.
A consolidation of Masonic Homes funds, or consolidated balance sheet so-called, shows the following:
Values
per Books
General Fund-Exhibit B ........................................................ $ 2,266,561.91
Students' Loan Fund-Schedule B-2....................................
40,801.18
Special Trust Funds-Schedule B-4:
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund ..................................
28,800.00
1,455.73
Gloria Benjamin Fund.................................................... ..
Eunice Botts Fund ..............................................................
780.18
2,116.85
Resident deposits .............................................................. ..
Total funds (or net assets) ......................................................$ 2,340,515.85

93

Subject to the foregoing, we certify that in our opinion the attached statements, with exception as to the stated value of securities
on hand, sundry real estate, and the actual vafoe of the fixed properties at Decato and Covina, set forth the condition of the Masonic
Homes of California at July 31, 1934. From a general review and
examination of the records, we are of the opinion that all receipts and
disbursements are properly accounted for.
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants.
By FLO.YD T. WEBB.
Exhibit A.
Secretary's Report
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934

General Fund
Cash balances, August 1, 1933:
In banks ............................ ~ ............................................................$ 14,020.00*
Petty cash, Covina and Decato................................................
1,000.00
Receipts
Maintenance fund :
Home maintenance tax-annual
returns ....................................$ 95,494.80
Home buildi'ng tax-annual returns ........................................ 63,788.05
$25.00 Home tax............................ 53,715.00 $212,997.85
Endowment fund interest and dividends ..............
Interest on Endowment fund (note) .................. ..
General maintenance-credits :
From bequests .........·-···-------.$ 9,807.37
From general securities................ 13,554.94

23,362.31

Advances-subordinate Lodges-Decato ............ ..
Advances-subordinate Lodges-Covina ............ ..
State aid-Covina .................................................. ..
Outside care of children-credits ............................
Farm produce sales, etc.~Covina ........................ ..

3,950.00
3,088.00
3,691.10
682.64
3,369.66

*Debit.

22,804.64
11,250.00

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Farm produce sales-Decoto.·-································
Farm rent-Decoto ..................................................
Funeral expense-credits ........................................
Entertainment fund-credits ..................................
Student's loan fund-'-credits .......................'...........
**Receipts for July, 1933, Covina, etc...................
Miscellaneous accounts receivable--Covina........
Salvage and miscellaneous receipts ........................
Miscellaneous income--Covina ..............................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67.58
85.95
5,683.74
3,578.66
3,272.01
1,242.28
463.89
15.80
293.20

95

Composition of Bala11ce
Anglo-California Trust Company (commercial
account) .............................................................. $ 4,179.36
Security First National Bank of Los Angeles
(commercial account) ......................................
4,120.18*
Anglo-California Trust Company (endowment
interest account) ................................................
23,543.37
Security First National Bank-Pasadena............
1,156.97
Petty cash funds, Covina and Decoto....................
1,000.00

Total receipts.............................·--··········--·······_;····-- ····- 299,899.31

Total.......... -............................ -··--······--·--····· $ 25,759.52

-....,*....,D=-e_,b....,.it-.Total to account for .......................................................................... $286,879.31

Exhibit B
BALANCE SHEET-GENERAL FUNI>-JULY 31,

** Refer to editorial for explanation.

1934

Assets
Disbursements
**Operating expense-Decoto (maintenance) ..........$ 93,177.80
**Operating expense-Covina (maintenance)........ 85,613.50
Outside relief ·······································'························ 43,208.00
. Interest-endowment fund note $225,000.00............ 11,250.00
Outside care of children-debi'ts................................ 4,196.14
General and other expense :
Interest ................................................$ 204.00
Insurance ······················---·- ················ 2,162.68
Taxes .................................................... 2,156.81
Secretary's salary .............................. 1,500.00
General office accounting.................. 810.00
Trustees' expense .............................. 482.90
Safe keeping of securities, etc......... 266.50
Miscellaneous expense ...................... 208.83
Auditing .............................................. 175.00
8,039.98
Federal check tax ..........'....................
73.26

Cash:
In banks ····-················-··············:·~·-····-·······-$
Revolving Funds, Decoto and Covina........
*Securities: (Book value)
General Fund securities (Schedule B-3) ..
Sundry Receivables:
Due from Students' Loan Fund..................
Sundry accounts-Covina ..........................

24,759.52
1,000.00 $

25,759.52

52,642.92
198.82

407.79

606.61

Decoto H ome: (At cost)
Land ................................................................
44,969.90
Buildings ........................................................ 1,480,246.37
Building equipment ................:.....................
56,452.55
Improvements ................................................
48,411.26
Power piant and laundry..............................
75,177.83
Furniture and fixtures ..............................c•••••
71,728.50
Farm equipment ............................................
5,406.00

1,782,392.41

Cash balance July 31, 1934......................................................_........ $ 25,759.52

Covina Home: (At cost)
Land ..................................................................
Buildings ..........................................................
Building equipment ........................................
Improvements ................................................
Laundry machinery ........................................
Furniture and fixtures ....................................
Hospital building ..:.......................................
Farm improvements and equipment........... .

604,093.98

**Refers to footnote-Exhibits D and E for reconciliation with statements of direct operating expense.

*Market Value of stocks and bonds are noted on Schedule ~-3 opposite the respective captions.

Head stone expense....................................................
Funeral expense-debits ...............................·- ······General maintenance-debits ..................................
Entertainment fund-debits ·--·-·················-············
Student's Loan fund-debits ........_..........................
Miscellaneous accounts-receivable-Covina ......
Total disbursements ........•...........................

427.37
4,956.60
4,993.59
1,935.13
2,450:00
871.68
$261,119.79

24,300.00
474,330.09
7,956.49
20,000.00
6,609.80
14,517.66
53,999.09
2,380.85

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Farm Investment, Decoto: (At cost)
Camp Tucker:
Land ..........................•.............................
Improvements ........................................
Automobiles ·············································-·······.. ····
Stores and Supplies:
Deco to ..............................................................
Covina ..............................................................

GRAND I.ODGE O.F CALIFORNIA

Schedule B-1
SUMMARIZED STATEMltNT nll' RNTltRTATNMENT l'UND FOR FISCAL YEAR

12,749.00
12,347.00

25,096.00
1,482.78

3,789.63
1,654.75

5,444.38
Balance, July 31, 1934...."•..•··-·····-···,.,.-.. -~..·-·-·-······.. ···-······•·•-..$5.956.GB
Schedule B-2
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN FUND FOR THE FISCAL
YEAR ENDING JULY

230,956.68
$ 2,266,561.92

Total liabitities-General Fund..........
Ex~ess of Assets over Liabilities ....... .

Capital Account
Net Worth Balance: August 1, l9J3-prior
report ........................................................ 2,216,839.06

31, 1934

Balance, August 1, 1933:
Cash (due the General Fuiad)r..•.... - .....................$ 1,020.83*
Securities .................................................................. 41,000.00 $39,979.17

Receipts During the Year:
Earning~ on securities.............................................. 2,028.01
General contributions ··'·······················-.. ·-·-·········- 1,244.00

3,27-·2'.0l

ToW..-·······--····--··-·----·-..----·

43,251.18

Disbursemetat.s During the Year:

1,242.28

Total net worth (as adjusted)............ 2,218,081.34
Donated securities received by General
Fund-fiscal year 1934. (Included in
General Securities) .........·-······················
9,950.19
Net revenue-fiscal year ending July
31, 1934, (reference, exhibit C-revenue
and expense) ..................................................
38,530.39
Net Worth Balance, July 31, 1934......................

ENDING JULY 3.1, 1934
Balance, August 1, 1933 (Due from General :Fund) ..........................$4,3'13.15
Receipts during tfte year ........................................................ :................. 3,578.66

Total...................................................................................................$7,891.81
Disbursed during the year ......................... _.•....................•...................... 1,935.13

Liabilities
Notes Payable-due endowment fund .. :..:..........$ 225,000.00
Due Entertainment Fund:
(included in General Fund cash accounts)
5,956.68

Add:
Adjustment to prior year accounts:
Covina direct revenue, July, 1933, entered books August, 1933-adjusted due
to change in method of accounting at
Covina, ($1,117.28) and other sundry
capital adjustments $125.00 (included in
cash accowit) ...................................... ., ... .

97

Educationa.l puq1oses ·························-····-·•···--·-

2,4.50.00

Balance, July· 3.1, }93t4..,,,_.......- ........- .................-....

$40,801.18

Cotn/!Qsition of Funds
Cash (due the G@neral Fund) ..................................... _

$

198.82*

tSecurities:
Bonds: (Ma.itket Value $16,187.75)
S $1,000.00 Sugar Pine Lumber Company
6% First Mortgage due 1939........ 5,000.00
1,000.00 Yonmite Luml!ier Company
6~% First Mortgage due 1940.... 1,000.00
$ 2,266,561.92

Note : ( 1) No depreciation on fixed properties is reflected on the books or
in the above balance sheet.
(2) Refer opening comments as to book value general securities,
and real estate received by donation.

"'Debit.
t Note: All of the above securities with the exception of the Masonic
Temple Association are included on the books in the "George
and Laura Brigham Scholarship Fund," $40,000.00.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

98

Building & Loan Certificates: (Donated)
California Mutual Building & Loan Ass'n ................
Columbia Building & Loan Ass'n ................................
Fidelity Definite Term Certificate........................... .
Fidelity Participating Certificate................................
San Jose Building & Loan Ass'n ................................
San Jose Pacific Building & Loan Ass'n.. ...................
California Bldg. & Loan Ass'n (Claim $2,212.80)

5

1,000.00 Broadway Department Stores,
Inc., 6% Sinking Fund Deb. due
1941 ·················································· 5,000.00
5 1,000.00 Blue Diamond Company 6%
First Mortgage, due 1942:............. 5,000.00
5 1,000.00 Los Angeles Railway Company
5% First Mortgage, due 1938...... 5,000.00
St!Jcks: (Market Value $16,187.75)
100 Shares Masonic Temple Association........ 1,000.00
527 Shares Pacific Gas and Electric Co. 6%
Preferred ............................................ 14,000.00
250 Shares Sruthern California Edison Co.,
Ltd., 6% Preferred.......................... 5,000.00

41,000.00

Total.. ............................................................ ..

$40,801.18

(From Donated Property or Notes)

LIST OF SECURITIES, NOTES RECEIVABLE, AND INSURANCE POLICIES
GENERAL FUND, JULY 31, 1934

Book
Stocks: (Market Value $750.45)
Value
Shares
(Donated)
7.34
2 California Prune & Apricot Growers Ass'n ....$
25 Consolidated Metals Corporation ....................
25.00
* 10 Glendora Water Co......................~ ...................... 2,000.00
4 Graton & Knight Co., Pref............................... 400.00
10 Craton & Knight Co...........................................
10.00
* 15 Kern County Building & Loan Capital Stock 1,500.00
*
4 Kolster Radio Corporation............ ,................... 240.00
* Script Kolster Radio Corporation................................ 6.20
*
1 National Leather Co., Pref............................... 100.00
5 National Leather Co.............................................
50.00
7 Transamerica Corporation ................................ 175.00
6/10 Transamerica Corporation ................................
10.00
95 Transamerica Corporation :............................... 475.00 $4,998.54

* Unknown market value donated stocks.
Glendora Water Co. valued at cost.

2,817.86

Notes and Contracts Receivable:

Schedule B-3

$500.00 Clift Realty Co., First Mortgage 6% Bond
(donated). (Market value $245.00)..........................

500.00
202.81
750.00
250.00
300.00
151.21
663.84

500.00

500.00

John and Rosati M. Atkins .............~ ...... S 7/15/33 1,548.92
J. B. and Esther Anthony........................ S 3/23/31 2,834.88
522.06
Morris and Lois .M. Cooley.................... S 4/ 4/33
A. D. Curtis.............................................. S 9/12/32
272.00
John G. and Anna G. &lwards .............. S 3/27/34
360.27
Emilie Fleeger ................ :......................... S 9/ 7/30 1,298.89
Edgar B. Giauque .................................... $ 10/ 1/33 3,267.73
David E. Groo .......................................... 9/22/28 1,000.00
G. H. and E. A. Hoag............................ S 12/18/29 2,050.00
H. W. and Leona C. Humphrey............ S 10/28/32 1,430.75
387.40
H. ]. and Ida Johnston .......................... S 5/ 1/29
Samuel Leask ............................................ 1/15/33 2,475.00
G. A. and J. C. Livingston .................... S 6/23/34 1,980.00
Mildred A. Logan .................................... $ 5/ 8/33 2,365.79
500.00
J. Donald McCready................................ 7/ 1/31
Howard A. Miller...................................... S 9/26/33 410.00
Eldon M. Peck.......................................... S 1/20/34 1,337.43
274.29
W. H. and Ruth Peck.............................S 9/10/31
Wallace D. and Bernice Swanson ........ S 2/19/31 2,923.86 27,239.27
"S" indicates secured by real estate following sale of property.
Insurance Policies: (Donated)
Grand International Auxiliary Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers (2 policies No. 2865
and 2866) .............................................................. 1,000.00
147.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co ....... No. 30555452
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co ....... No. 30538768
102.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co ....... No. 30627500
90.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co ... :...No. 22627
500.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co ....... No. 1015118 1,000.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co....... No. 1366705
237.00

100

GRA ND LODGE OF -CALIF ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.......No. 44577
Hercules Life Insurance C'O of
ChicagQ ··················-····-················N,,.l;aB@.iA
The H<imesteaders' Life A~s'n ..........No. 643ll
The Phoenix Mutual Life Ins. C1l.....No. 284323

Western States Liie Insurance C<> •.. No. 58434
Widows' &Orphans' Fund (Aahme!
Temple) (S policies $1500 eadl
and 1-$1000) ................................
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
(Agnes Crystal) ··················-······No. '2:2627
Equitable Fraternal Union
(Abraham Lincoln Hamblin) .... No. 872

238.00
1,000.00

1,000.00
700.00
1,000.00

General Maintenance:
From General Fund bequests................................ 9,807.37
From General Fund securities, etc....................... 8,561.35

18,368.72

299.77

Total.- -:-··- ·····:·································-·························- - $265,720.98

1,073.25 17,987.25
$52,"642.92

COMPOSITION OF SPSCIAL TRUST FUNDS AND RESIDEN TS
DEPOSITS, JULY 31, 1934

"John and Lena Luckenbach Fund" (A special fund-elldowed)
Portion of $60,000.00 bequest received to .date....•. ----··---$i8~00.00
Transferred from Endowment Fund bank accounts to
special designated fund as per terms ot wi11-;)t'iRcipa1 to
remain intact, interest only to be used.
Sundry Trust Funds :
Gloria Benjamin-Deposited The San Fr~nciiao Baulc
( Sp·ecial acoount) ········································--·-··----~~····· 1,455.73
Eunice Batts-Deyosited The San Francisco BQtlk (Special
account} -··-·--~·-··'-····-································--······--·
780.18
Residents' Deposits:
Cash on de_posit in special bank ~unL--·-····--····-·-- Z,116.85
Exhibit C
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF REVENUE AN D EXPENSE (GENERAL) FOR THE

Interest and dividends received from endowment
fund ~ccurities :.·--······-·······-··- ···-- - - ···-

11,250.00

Miscellaneous ······························-············------··-

500.00

FISCAL YEAR E N DED J ULY 31, 19.34
R evenue
Revenue from General Sonn:es :
Maintenance Fund:
Per ~pita tax .........--'-..:...............-.~·-- ....---·-···-$9$.~.~
Building fond tax.:·-·····-·-·······-·-·----.--···- 63,788.05
$25.00 Home •,~-····--·~·······-·-·------···- 53,715.00

Interest on $225,000.00 Endowment ftmd note......

( Including revenue derived from General
Fund secucities, real estate iiales, rentals, etc.)

8,500.00

Grand Total ·- ·········-··- ····- ···-·············- ····-····-· ..~----Schedule B-4

101

212,997.85

22,-804.64

E xpenses
Operation of Homes: (Direct)
Excess operating expense over stmdry direct
revenue-Decoto .................................................. 85,578.14
Excess operating expense over sundry direct
revenue-Covina ···········································-··- · 75,600.97

161,1'9.ll

(Reference detail :analyses Exhibit D and E,
and Schedules D-1 and E-1)
Outside Relief and Care:
Outside relief ············- ···-·······································- 43,208 00
Outside care of chil.dren-Covina...................... 3,513:50

46l21.50

Interest-Endowment Fund Note (Contra) ............

11,250.00

Administrative and General Expense:
Taxes
2,156.81
Insuran~~······· ··················-········ ······..-························
2,162.ffl
•••••••• • •.a•u••U••••• •u• •••••••••• • •O••• ••• • • • • H•••••-••• • •
Interest
204.00
Sccretar;;~--~~j~;;··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~::::::=~ 1,500.00
810.00
General office accounting.........................-·-··········
482.90
TTustees' expense ·················-·········-····-················
175.00
Auditing ············································-······················
266.50
Safe keeping of securities. eb:.--···················
208.83
Miscellaneous ····-- ···-···--- ····- -- --··
7.320
F ederal check t D - - - -·.:· -- -··- - · - ·

8,039.98

Tot.al-..;.--··--'- - · - - ·-·- ····- -·--- -

227,190.59

Excess of Revenue Over ~peuses .................................- - - $ 38,530.39

I

102

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Deduct:

Exhibit D
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-DECOt'O-"-LESS SUNDRY DIRECT
REVENUE RECEIVED FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934

*Operating Expenses :
Maintenance ................................ (Schedule D-1) $44,233.30
Hospital ........................................ (Schedule D-1) 12,112.02
Farm ............................................ (Schedule D-1) 4,193.24
Laundry ........................................ (Schedule D-1) 3,77026

7,072.30

Total
From Operation of Farm, etc. :
Farm produce sold outside.......................... 3,060.54
Farm produce consumed............................ 5,158.52
Sa.le of water.................................................. 131.70
Miscellaneous .....................................·-······ 177.42

Total
8,528.18
Total revenue received direct............................................................ 15,600.48

3,950.00

From Operation of Farm, etc.:
Farm produce sold outside................$ 67.58
Farm produce consumed .................... 4,951.73
Farm rent ..............................................
85.95
Miscellaneous ...................................... · 15.80
Total ......................................................
Total revenue received direct ................

Revenue: (Received direct by Covina)
From general sources :
Special advances from subordinate
Lodges (for maintenance) ................$3,088.00
State aid receipts .......................................... 3,691.10
Miscellaneous ................................................ 293.20

General and Administrative:
Salaries and wages.......................................... 13,33828
Expenses ················································-·········· 17,002.10
Total...·-········································-····-··············
$94,649.20
(Reference: See Schedule D-1 for detailed
accounts in support thereof.)

Deduct:
Revenue : (Received Direct by Decoto)
From General Sources:
Special advances, from subordinate Lodges
for maintenance ..............................................

103

Excess of Operating Expense over Sundry Direct Revenue........$75,600.97

*Note: T?tal. operating expenses Covina $91,201.45 above, include distnbut10n of cash expenditures $85,613.50 Exhibit A page 2 and
$4,729.~, representi?g farm produce consumed $5,158.52 less' perpetual inventory adJustment for stores issued $429.43.
5,121.06

9,071.06
Schedule D-1

Excess of Operating Expense over Sundry Direct Revenue ........$85,578.14

*Note: Total operating expenses Decoto, $94,649.20, above, include distribution of cash expenditures $93,177.80 Exhibit A page 2, and
$1,471.40, representing farm produce consumed $4,951.73 less
perpetual inventory adjustment for stores issued, $3,480.33.
Exhibit E
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE--COVINA-LESS SUNDRY DIRECT
REVENUE RECEIVED FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934

Operating Expenses : * (See note next page.)
Maintenance (care of children) .... (Schedule E-1) $71,181.62
Administrative expense ................ (Schedule E-1) 11,239.12
Far~ expense .................................. (Schedule E-1) 8,780.71
Total ..............................................................................
(Reference : See Schedule D-1 for detailed accounts in support thereof.)

$91,201.45

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPE NSES IN DETAIL AT DECOTO FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934

Mainten.ancc Expense
Groceries ..............................................................................."....$ 4,872.87
Meat.
5
Fish

~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ·~~:1;

!ff;}~~~~b~::;:~j _:~~::-:;::;:::: :j:~F,
Clothing ..........................................................................~.......
Shoes

Beddin~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

953.43
401.53
359.37

Pll'OCE'EDINGS OF THE

104

Kitchen and dining room:
Operating and miscellaneous e~e-- ...$5,.300.55
Salaries and wages ..............:....................... 8,798.85

GRAND LODG.E OF CALIFORNIA

Schedule E-1
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSE IN DETAIL AT COVINA FOR THE

14,D99.4D.

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934

Expenses

Total.................................................

Care o.f Children
Food:

Hospital Expense

---···-····---------$

Salaries and wages......
7,648.29
Miscellaneous expense ........................................................ 4,463.73

Total...................................................'-················

12,112.02

Farm Expense
Salaries and wages....------······························-·············· 1,195.53
2t8.4S
Tools and equipment.·--·--·····..··········································
86.33
Seeds ····························-- -·················································
Z,Z5'3.SO
Feed ····································'···················································439.43
Miscellanea.us expense ..........................................................

'F~........................................................................

4,193'.24

pmse
Salaries and wages.................................................................. 2,601.07
Mis<ellaneous expense :-···-- ··-········---··-········-·-··-- 1,169:~

1'oal....._........._......_._______ _;_ ______.-~----

Meats ........., ...·-····························-················:.............$ 2,577.92
Fresh fruit and vegetables.........·--······-········-····· 2,735.JP
Canned goods .............................................................. 1,535.ZQ
Butter and cottage cheese...........·- ···················-·--- 1,3<!8.63
Milk ···--···-················-·················:.............................. 4,27:1.'90
Eggs ··-·-·······························································-···· l,Gi9.87
Baker supplies ............................................................ 2,148.38
Cereals ·······································································-·
425.58
· Other groceries ................................................:.·-···· 1,657.10
Outside meals - ··-······················-····················-·--···· 6,144.54
$23,904.51

LllU~ &

Kitchen and dining room :
Salaries and w~eS---··--·-······-·--·-·-·············- 4,613.71
Suppties -······--·-···-·-·:·-····-····-·-·············-·······-· 1,296.51
Equipment repairs and replacements......................
142.10
6,'152.32

3,770.26

Clothing:
Ready-made wearing apparel.. _____ ...........·--········ 3,243.U
Repaits and cleaning_.__________________________________ ,

1,003-.91

Drygoods and notions..................-·-·-···-······-··-..··

General Expense
Salaries and wages .................................................................. 13,338.28
Other expenses :
Light, heat, power, and water ................$W,490.90
Plant repairs and maintenance.............. 1,614.31
FFeight :?.nd exJ>"SS---···-·--··---~·--·
292.55
Office printing ····---···-···-···-·····-249.01
Replacements : furniture and fixtures..
252.16
633.74
Telephone and telegraph ........................
Miscel!'aneous ex:pense ............................ 3,469.43 17,002.10
'fbt.af,...............................................

105

570.13
4,817.17

Laundry:
Salaries and wages ......................,............................... 1,619.62
399.21
Sapplies ...............................................--····-···-······Equipment repairs and replacements......................
41.39
2,060.22
Dormitories :
SalaTies and wages .................................................... .. 8,?85.9-2
Supplies ........................................................................
935.61
Equipment repairs and replacements ...................-.
270.27
30,340.JS·

Grand total. operating expenses-Decoto....................................... _...$94~~20

No te: Incluees farm produce consumed and stores used in addi~ion to cash
expenditures.

9,991.80
Hospital :
Doctors' and dentists' fees .........·-·'········-······-········ 2,308.25
SalaTics and wages ................................ :..................... 2,1"39.04
Medical supplies and drugs ...................................... 1,024.87
Other supplies ................................:...........................
173.57
Equipment repairs and rcplacemef)ts ......................
41.52
Outside hospital, X-rays, glasses, etc.....................
402.03
6,139.28

106

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Farm
Dairy:
Salaries and wages ............-..........................................$ 1,304.65
Feed .............................................................................. 2,552.12
Supplies and expense..................................................
275.33
Herd replacement ......................................................
602.24

General-care of children:
76.85
School supplies ........................................................... .
437.50
Tonsorial service ·······'················································
292.95
Toilet accessories and supplies ............................... .
Miscellaneous ............................................................. . 1,348.55
438.23
Domestic science cottage ..........................................
400.82
Automobile expense ................................................. .

4,734.34
2,994.90

General House and property expense :
Power plant:
Salaries and wages ............................ 1••••••••••••••••••••••••• $ 1,246.91
Fuel Oil ...................................................................... 1,217.01
Repairs and renewals..................................................
86.38
Repairs to buildings:
Salaries and wages...................................................... 2,029.07
Supplies and expense.................................................. 1,410.63

Poultry:
Salaries and wages ................................................... .
Feed ..............................................................................
Supplies and expense..................................................
Flock replacements ................................................... .

177.99
655.54
99.29
167.00
1,099.82

3,439.70
967.50
268.52
1,236.02
General:
Gas ............................................................................... .
Water ........................................................................... .
Light.:............................................................................
Automobile expense ..................................................
Supplies and expense ................................................. .

Orchard:
Salaries and wages .................."....................................
700.94
Supplies and expense.................................................. 1,286.60
1,987.54

$ 2,550.30

Care of Grounds :
Salaries and wages .................................. ,.................. .
Supplies and expense ................................................. .

107

1,537.21
2,095.40
2,713.73
22.60
1,626.46

Other Farm Expense :
Pig feed ..................................................................... .
Pig sty expense ............................................................
Horse feed ................................................................. .
Farm equipment ....................................................... .
Tractor fuel and expense ......................................... .
Sundry farm expense ............................................... .
Pig replacement ......................................................... .

258.55
57.96
108.14
12.46
46.50
439.40
36.00
959.01

Total Farm Expense....................................... .

$ 8,780.71

7,995.40
Grand Total .............................................................................................. $91,201.45
Total for care of children........................... .

$71,181.62

Administrative Expense
Salaries-Superintendent and office................................$ 7,335.18
Stationery and printing......................................................
863.32
Postage ·········'······································································
299.68
Telephone and telegraph ..............·-························:·········-584.34
55.41
Traveling expense ............................................................. .
Automobile expense .......................................................... 1,506.45
331.22
Miscellaneous ..................................................................... .
183.14
Freight and express ............................................................
80.38
Office equipment ...............................,............................... .
Total administrative ~xpense ........................

$11,239.12

Note: Includes farm produce consumed and stores used in addition to cash
expenditures.
Endowment Fund
To the Endowment Fund Committee, Masonic Homes of California:
In accordance with your authorization, we have audited the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes
of California for the fiscal year enaed July 31, 1934. We present herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B: Statement of Composition of Fund (six pages).
In the case of securities purchased the stated value referred to
above represents cost. However, many of the securities included
within the Endowment Fund have been donated. In the case of such
donated securities the stated value represents the vilue placed upon

108

PROCEEDINGS OF T'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the securities at the time of donation. Where such value has been
difficult to determine, because of its being an· unlisted or closely held
security, or of uncertain value, then it has been the practice of the
office to .enter the par, face, or a nominal value solely as a matter
of record.
We have re-arranged the securities alphabetically, and have
marked with a "D" those bonds received by donation or bequest. All
stocks have been acquired by donation or bequest. Additions during
the fiscal year 1933-34 have been set forth at the close of Exhibit B-:page 6 for ready reference.
We ce.rtify that the attached statements, in our opinion, set forth
the condition of the Permanent Endowment Fund as at July 31, 1933,
with exception as to the stated value of the securities on hand, and
that a proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountaiits.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Exhibit A
Secretary's Report-Endowment Fund
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1934
Cash on hand, August 1, 1933......................................., ........................$35,470.24
Transfer to "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
(a special fund-endowed) as per terms of will... ..................... 28,800.00
Cash baTance, August 1, 1934, as ad.justed..........................................$ 6,670.24
Receipts
Donations-regular ......................................$ 1,225.22
*
-special June and July, 1934,. 58,260.73
$59,485.95
1,319.10
Bequests ........................................................ ..
Redemption of securities :
$2,000.00 (2) City of Richmond
Municipal Improvement 5%........ 2,000.00
$1,075.00 (2) City of Santa Barbara
4~% .......:...................................... 1,075.00
Sale of 13 shares Bond and Share Co.
stock ...................................................... ..

109

Disbursements
Purchase of Endc>wment Fund securities:
$30,000.00 Golden Gate Bridge and
Highway Dist. 4+;4%, 1968-69.... 29,827.63
$1.(4000.00 City of Los Angeles
Wattr Works 5%, 1974.............. 11,115.73
40,943.36
Sundry expense:
Federal tax, collection charges..........

.74

Total disbun;ements .................................. _............._ .......... 40,944.10
Cash on hand, July 31, 1934 (Composition-Exhibit B) ................$29,682.11

*Note: Report No. 34--<lonations from Lodges, etc., $2,828.50, entered
books in August, 1934, is included above.
Exhibit B

COMPOS~TION OF ENDOWMENT FUND--JULY 31, 1934
Cash (Savings Accounts) :
Crocker Fin;t Federal Trust Company ......................$ 330.48
American Trust Company:...................-......................
9.92
Anglo California Trust Company.............:................ 2,181.73
96.22
Bank of America (Humboldt Branch) ......................
Bank of America (French American Branch)........
74.30
The San Francisco :&ank.............................................. 55,789:46

Total........................................................................

$58,482.11

Transfer to "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund''
(a special fund-endowed), as per Exhibit A........

28,800.00

Total.. ........................................................................................$29,682.11
BONDS: (Acquired' lltior to July 31, 1933)

Book Value

$ 9,000 Ashland, City of, water 5% due 1959..................................$ 9,000.00
9,000 California Gas & Electric C6rp., Unifying and Re-3,075.00

75.92

Total receipts.. ............... _....................................................

63,955.97

Total cash funds to account for .................................................- .....$70,626.21

funding Mortgage, 5% du~ 1937.......................................... 9,000.00
1,006 Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Railrnad C., 47'2% due
1937 ................ :. ......................................................................0
880.00
5,000 East Bay Municipal Utility District, water, 5% due 1947 5,326.55
500 Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. of Spokane, First
Mortgage Gold, 5% due 1936............................................D
500.00
1,500 Jonathan Club Building Co., 2nd Mortgage Leasehold
serial Gold, 7% due 1952.................................................... D 1,500.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

5,000 Long Beach City High School District, 5% due 1944.... 5,417.65
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control District, Serial 2,
5% due 1950.............................................................................. 10,720.64
5,000 Los Angeles Railway Co. of California First Mortgage
Gold, 5% due 1938.................................................................... 5,000.00
1,000 Northern California Power Co., Convertible and Refunding Mortgage, 5% due 1948.......................................... 1,000.00
1,000 Oroville Union High School District, County of Butte,
Gold, 5% due 1935.................................................................. 1,038.21
2,000 Oroville Union High School District, County of Butte,
Gold, 5% due 1936.................................................................... 2,076.42
2,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First and Refunding Mortgage, Gold, 6% due 1941....................................................D 2,000.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., General and Refunding,
5% due 1942.............................................................................. 5,000.00
1,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First and Refunding Mortgage, Gold, 6% due 1941.................................................... D 1,070.00
17,000 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co., First Mortgage &
Collateral Trust Sinking Fund, 5% due 1937.................... 17,000.00
1,000 Pick Barth Holding Corporation Five Year Note, 6%
due 1949 .................................................................................... 1,000.00
2,000 Richmond, City of, Municipal Improvement, 5% due
1949-52 ...................................................................................... 2,000.00
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Sewer, 5% due
1945-47 ...................................................................................... 10,000.00
1,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Municipal Improvement, Street Railway, 5% due 1934.................................... 1,000.00
35,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Retch Hetchy,
5%% due 1963..........................................................:...............
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Retch Hetchy,
5~% due 1955.........................................................,................. 48,267.94
.21,000 San Francisco, City and County, City Hall, 5%. due
1939-60 ...................................................................................... 21,000.00
30,000 San Francisco, City and County, Water, 4Y,% due 1942 30,000.00
10,212Y, Santa Barbara, City of, 4Y,% due 1935-44...................... 10,212.50
1,000 Santa Barbara, City of, Municipal ·Improvements,
water, 4Y,% due 1948.....:........................,............................. 1,000.00
53,950 U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4~% called 10/15/34........ 53,950.00
80,500 U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4~ % due ·1938.................... 80,500.00
11,700 U.S. First Liberty Loan, 4~% due 1947.......................... 11,700.00
48,400 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 4}:1-37:1% due 1945........................ 48,400.00
100 University Masonic Temple Association, 2nd Mortgage
(registered), 6% due 1949..................................................D
100.00
3,125 Upland, City of, Municipal Improvement, 6% due
1935-42 ..............._ .................................................................D 3,125.00

Irrigation Bonds: (Donated)
1,000 Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation District, F irst Issue
No. 7, 6% due 1937 ( Mkt. V. 150.00) ............................D
1,000 Arizona, State of, Queen Creek Irrigation District, 6%
due 1949 (Mkt. V. 80.00) ................ ~ ................................D
1,000 Donna Irrigation District, Hidalgo County, 5% due
1950 (Mkt. V. 350.00) .............................................:..........D
1,000 Imperial Irrigation District Issue No. 4, 6% due 1938
(Mkt. V. 455.00) ................:.............,......................1. . ...........D
3,000 Ochoco Irrigation District, Deposit Certificate, due
1930 ..........................................................................................D
1,000 Oroville Wyandotte Irrigation District, County of
Butte, 6% due 1953 ( Mkt. V. 230.00) ............................D
1,000 Palo Verde Irrigation District, County of Riverside,
California, 6% due 1949 (Mkt. V. 180.00) ....................D
1,000 Pecos County Water Improvement District No. 1, State
of Texas, First Refunding Coupon, 6% due 1934........ D
1,000 Reclamation District, No. 1660, County of Sutter, 6%
due 1943 ( Mkt. V. 730.00) .......................................:..........D
1,000 Terra Bella Irrigation District, First Issue, 6% due
1945 ( Mkt. V. 200.00) ........................................................D
1,000 West Okanogan Valley Irrigation District, Oroville,
Washington, 6% due 1945........ :...........................:.............D

111

1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1.00

Total......................................................................................$406,787.91
"D" indicates bonds received by donations.
STOCKS: ( All Donated) (Acquired prior to July 31, 1933)

· Shares
Book Value
10 American Telephone and Telegraph:...........................,.........$ 1,066.00
1 Baker, Hamilton & Pacific Company, Pref.............................
100.00
5 Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Pref... .................,...................... · 500.00
10 Broad River Power Co., Pref................................................... 1,000.00
24 Calamba Sugar Estate...............................................:................
480.00
61 Calamba Sugar Estate, Pref...............:..................................... 1,220.00
9 California Packing Corporation................................................
207.00
7 Calwa Company ..........................................................................
70.00
10 Central Indiana P ower Co., Pref...............................................
720.00
15 Central Public Service Co., Pref.............................................
825.00
14 Central States Power & Light Corp., Pref.............................
728.00
5 Central & Southwestern Utilities Co., Pref.......................
450.00
25 Colma Land Company..................................................................
25.00
11 Continental Oil Co........................................,..............................
66.00
5 Coon, W. B. Company, Pref.....................................................
500.00
15 Coon, W. B. Company..................................................................
11.00

112

2
10
17
5
12
5
16

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS "OF THE

Crocker First National Bank of San Francisco....................
200.00
Crown Willamette P~er Co., First Pref........•.·-············-····
520.00
Deep Rock Oil Corporation, ~ref·-········-······-········-············
340.00
Eastern Public Service Corp., Class A. Pref.......---·············
1.00
Ewa Plantation Co. ··········-···········-···········································
240.00
Ga11and Mercantile Laundry -Co.·--'······-----·--··------160.00
Guggenheim & Co.. First Pre"!......._______________________,_________.._ 1,312.00

20 Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar 'Co.....·--·······-.w····-·-·······
500.00
25 Hawaiian Sugar Co•.....___________..,.........-----··..-····-··---500.00
14 Honolulu Oil Corporation, !.tiL.................- ·-·············-·········
196:00
38 International Hydro Electric 'Sfsteg;i. __________..... ~-······ -·····
874.00
38/50th International Hydro Electric ~Sl$:W,.---······················--·-·····
8.36
7-9 Los Angeles Investment -Co.,.___________,... _ ....••.....______~---······
790.00
2329}4 Masonic Tetnllle Ass'n of Ca1iforn1a, 11\C..............____________ 23,292.50
5 Mercantile American Realty Co., t>re'L--··········-··········-····· 330.00
5 Oahu Sugar Co,, 1.td..•....._ ........;..____________~-----·-·······
100.00
15 Oklahoma Natura1 Gas Coi:poration, t'cet.~---·················-·····
431.25
5 Olympian Dredging Co..........______,.___________...,...._......
500.00
42
3
10
316
50
47
29
9
10
68
28

Z
5
2
10
11
15
5
49
6
44
2
10
4
240
5
14

Onomea Sugar Co. ··························- ···--------····-------------·--·····
Orpheum Circuit, Inc., 'Pref......_~···-----·····-·--·-····-·····
Pacific American. Fisheries, Inc-···-··················--·······---·····
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Pref. (6%) ..---·················-·-·····
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Pref. (50%)..............................
Pacific Gas & Electric Co....................................·--······- ·········
Pacific Lighting -Corporation....-.............................................:..
Pantepec Oil Co. of Venezuela...•.•..... _......... _......_.................
Peoples' Light & Power Corporation, Pref....·-···-················
Pig'n Whistle Cor,p., Pfftf..........-·-··•··•··-----..··--···---···~--Pineapple Holding Co., Ltd.....·-······························-················
Public Service Co. of Oklahoma, Pref...................................
Pure Oil Co., The--···············-····-··-··-···-·······~-------············Realization Co. ···········-·····························- ········-·······-··········Schultze United 5c· to $1 ·stores, lnc., '.Pref.........._...............
Shell Union Oil Corporation..................'"-···········-·····-·········-·
Shenandoah Corporation, 'PreL.....:.....•_ ..........._...._............
Sinc1air ·consolidated Oi1 Corp., Pref....._., ....__,______________
Socony Vacuum 'Corpora:tion.............
Southern Ca1ifornia Gas Coqi., Pref....._............._____________
Southern California Edison Co............... _ ..........._................
Southern California Edison Ca., "Pref......_...........................
Splitdorf Bethlehem Electrical Core----·------------..............._..
Standard Oil Co. of Indiana....~---···························--·-·······----·
Standard Oi1 Co. of Ca1ifornia.....·-····--········-·············-····-..-·
Standard Power & Ligbt Cor1,>0ration, Pref .._.___........_.
Standard Public Service Co., Pref..............·-····-·····v········--··
h

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . .. ., _ _ _

840.00
48.00
80.00
4;914.00
1,050.00
1,175.00
1,508.00
7.00
1.00
204.00
560.00
200.00
125.00
12.00
2.00
66.00
195.00
500.00
1,225.00
630.00
1,073.60
50.00
1.00
100.00
8;640.00
485.00
1.00

113

15 Staley, A. E., Manufacturing Co., Pref................................. 1,500.00
lJ. Sun !}rug Co., The, Pf'ef...........................................................
1.00
2 Taf.t Masonic Temple Ann .................................................,.......
100.00
11 "Telephone mvestmerrt C~irti~..........................................
226.00
S Tidewater Associated Oil C1'., Psef.........................................
Sfll'l.00
4 United Linen Supply Co.........-..................................................
96.00
5 United Stores -Cerpenrtien..........................................................
8.50
.Q United Stores Corporation, PreL..-------'- · ··-------- · 141.00
8 Universal Consolidated Oil Co·--·-·--·-····--·······--·-··-··
80.00
20 Universal Chain Theatres Corporation....................................
40.00
10 \ljsalia Building & Loan Ass'n····················--··•··-·~-········ 1,000.00
7 West Ohio Gas Co., Pref...........................................................
644.00
15 Yosemite Portland Cement Corporation..................................
150.00
~-----·-------··---------·--.J--····--··------~136.21

Miscellaneous:
Maso~ic Homes of California-Note 5% ............$225,000.00
.$225,000.00
Total---···-···--·~---··----·····---·-···--·----····-Book
Valul'
Addilfion-s to FutKi 1933-.1934 :
iPvr-chased : ( 1933-34)
$30,000.00 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway Dis-trict -4~ % due 1'968 and 1969................$ Z9,8Z'l:tiJ
1-0,000.00 Los Angeles, City O'f, Water Works
Class H-Series N o. 1 5% ·due 197.f.... 11,115:73
_ __.,.;$ 40.Q43.36
Donated Securities : ( 1933-34)
$500.00 Policy.,..-New York Life Insurance
(Clifford W . Richter) (Premium paid
by insured) ······································-········
Fraternal Building Certificates, etc.:
(Payable upon death, or as redeemed)
9 shares-Al Maliakah Auditorium Co.
@ 100 par..................................................
5 shares-Altadena -Masonic Temple @ 50 par
1 cert. -Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2
@ 20 par....................................................
1 cert. -Mason Temple Ass'n of Sacramento
@ 100 par..................................................
3 cert. -Aahmes Temple Shrine Ass'n @ 100
par ............................................................

1.00

9.00
50.00
1.00
1.00
3.00

65.00

Total Additions 1933-34..........................................................$41,008.36
Total Cash, Bonds, Other Securities, etc.........................................$771,614.59

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Summary of Endowment F11nd
Total Cash (Savings Accounts) ...........................................•....,.........$ 29,682.11
Total Bonds (Market Value $459,127.25) ........................................ 447,731.27
T otal Miscellaneous (including Masonic Homes note) .............. 225,065.00
Total Other Securities (Stocks) (Mkt. V. $33,273.90) ................ 69,136.21
Total (as above) ................................................................$771,614.59
John and Lena Luckenbach fund .......................·--·························· 28,800.00
George and Laura Brigham bequest....'·············'······························· 40,000.00
Notes:

Grand Total........................................................................$840,414.59

( 1) "D" under bonds above, indicates received by donation. All other
securities, etc., were received by donation.
(2) The book value of certain irrigation bounds and sundry stocks of
unknown or no market value were written down to $1.00 each by
write off of $5,836.58.
(3) Donations of Fraternal Building Certificates and Life Insurance
Policy received during 1933-34 have been entered on the books at
$1.00 each, as per request of Endowment Committee. Principal
sum is payable upon death, or as redeemed.
( 4) "John and Lena Luckenbach Fund" $28,800.00 principal, transferred to separate account, representing total cash funds received,
(principal of bequest) prior to August 1, 1933.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

115

Report of Superlntendent-Decoto Home
To the Board of Trustees:
I hereby present for your consideration my twenty-fifth annual
report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Decoto, California,
for the year 'e nding August 31, 1934.
There has been but little change in the policies governing the
management of the Home during the past year.
For many years past, it has been the purpose of our endeavor to
assist the members of our large family in developing a home-like
atmosphere. This in a large measure, has been realized and it is this
family spirit that has created an esprit de corps that practically dominates and controls the daily life of the Home.
The facilities now afforded by the fraternity enable the management to render a higher standard of service. To care for the
members of a Home where each one has his or her own individuality,
their own self-expression, calls for a consecrated spirit of service on
the part of those whose duty it is to minister to their physical, moral
and spiritual welfare.
While every reasonable effort is made to promote harmony and
contentment, yet it is a truism that each one brings to the Home his
or her own personality, the sum total of which leaves its impress on
the social life of the Home.
In connection with the above, I am pleased to state that, as a
whole, there has been a marked improvement in the general conditions. The family, generally speaking, are conscious of and deeply
appreciate the provisions made for their comfort and well-being.
It has always been our aim to operate the Home as economically
and efficiently as possible, to have the buildings and grounds present
a neat and attractive appearance, and provide every comfort possible
for the residents of the Home.
Residents.--At the beginning of the fiscal year, there were 359
residents·. There were admitted during the year, 68 residents, making
a total of 427. 58 have passed away. T here are now at the Home, 369
r esidents. 197 men and 171 women; of this number there are 33 married couples.

' '

Health-The general health of the Home has been normal with
the exception of those who are infirm and 'feeble owing to advancing
years.
Hospital-There are now 50 of qur members being cared for in
our hospital department. Equipped with every sanitary device, the
facilities afforded enable our physician and nurses to give to those
who are ill every care and attention for their comfort. Day and night

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALil''OR.NIA

nurses are in attendance. The number requiring hospital care is constantly increasing.
In the near future when necessity requires it, additional room can
be provided by the completion of the interior of the second floor of
the two wings of the hospital building, which are at t.he present time .
unoccupied.
Industrial-All the members, in keeping with their strengtll, are
encouraged to interest themselves and assist in the dally routine work.
During the past year, a large number of the men residents have contributed to the welfare of tile Home by their services in the hospital,
engine room, laundry, eal'penter, paint and barber shop!!, care of
garage, mail, passenger, e'Kpress and freight au.to service, kitchen,
pantry, dining· rooms, vegetab~ room, store rooms, office work,
library, club and reception rooms, janitor work, teleph()!le switch
board, information desk, floral decorations, care of elclvatol'S, flower
beds, and lawns, watering trees, plants and shrubs, vegetable and
berry gardt:ns, operation Gf stage, stereopticon and moving picture
machines, poultry yards and many other light duties in a genera.I way.

The aerating building which receives the sewerage water after
passing through the two septic tanks, has been repaired and painted,
and water can now be used for irrigation in the orchards and fields.
The banks of the creek, south of the main buildings, have been
cleared of all brush, the trees have been pruned; all this has resulted
in a great improvement in the appearance of the grounds. Many trees,
shrubs, fruit and ornamental, have been planted in the orchards and
about the grounds. Many more will be set out the latter part of the
year. All the garages and farm buildings, with the exception of the
barn, have been repaired and painted.
The roads about the grounds have been graded and prepared to
receive gravel, when needed.
Library and Club Rooma--There are now 6500 be>oks on the
shelves of our main library and branches located in the several•departments of the Home. The Masonic Hill branch of the Alameda
County Free Library continues to enable our family to obtain many
of the latest books, and on application, to secure special ones. In addition, we are the recipients, through friends and members of the
fraternity, of books, daily papers, magazines and periodicals which
are placed on the tables in the hospital, library and club rooms, and
the ladies' social halls.
Social Life-Th~ social life has been greatly enriched by literary
and musical entertainments given by generous volunteers from Oakland, San Francisco and nearby towns. Our assembly hall, with our
modern stage and moving picture equipment has made possible the
presentation of dramatic plays, operettas, etc., given by visiting
Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters and friends, all of which has contributed to the pleasure of the members of our family. The evening
programs often close with dancing.
All holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The
specials are those held on New Year's Eve, New Year's Day, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Easter, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Halloween, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas. All
these programs are prepared and presented by the members of the
Home.
A Happy Hour Club has been organized by the members of the
Home, and they hold their meeting every Monday evening in the
Assembly Hall. All are privileged to attend and take part as dancers
or onlookers. The old-time quadrilles, Virginia .Reels, waltzes and
two-steps are the favorite dances. The members furnish their own
music and appoint their own floor manager. Card parties are held
in the library and reception rooms every Tuesday evening, chorus
practice on Friday evenings. Every Sunday afternoon fi nds the residents of the Home in the Assembly Hall for Sunday services, after
which, a selected musical program is given by the Home orchestra,
or by visiting friends.

116

The women residents attend' to the making, mending and marking of all linen, sheets and pillow-slips, table-cloths and napkin&, etc.,
aloo assist in the preparing of fruit and vegetables in the kitchen and
dining rooms, wiping of silver, changing tal:>le•linen, diet kitchen,
clerical work, attending telephone calls, showing visitol's about the
Home, care of music and reception rooms, care of their rooms and
general light household duties, etc.
During. the year, all the 65 rooms, halls, floors and woodwork in
the men's Dormitory· building have been painted, the beds enameled
and the furniture varnished, repairs of furniture, windows, doors, lock
and keys, radios, etu. All this work has been done by the brethren
of the Home.
Farm-As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been
leased or on cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of frtiit, figs,
berri~ and nuts for table use. The return from the hay 1;rop has
been light this year on account of the scarcitr. of rain fall. The garden has supplied a variety of vei;:etables, etc, The chicken ranch
has supplied all the eggs for table use, the surplus ·being sold or
preserved.
Water-Our deep well pump continues to furnish. a plentiful
supply of water for household, garden and irrigating purposes, also,
for fire protection. Our reservoirs, with a storage capacity of 600,000
gallons are full at all times.
During the year, our two large reservoirs were emptied, one at a
time; the walls were repaired and cleaned, and are now in good serviceable condition.

,

117

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Radios have been installed in the Club and Reception Rooms,
where at all times, the members of the Home can enjoy them. In
addition, many of the residents have radio sets in their rooms. This
privilege is particularly appreciated by those who are blind and those
who are confined to their beds in the hospital department.
A reading class for the blind and those with failing eyesight,
meets daily in the small reception room, at which time the daily
papers, etc., are read to the·m.
Arrangements are made, whereby, the members of the family, a
few at a time, may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest; also
an occasional visit to nearby Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters.
During the year, many trips have been made to Oakland, San Francisco, and towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Grand Master James B. Gist and officers of the Grand Lodge,
have made a number of visits to the Home during the year; also, a
large number of brethren from various Lodges, etc. The number of
visits this year show an increasing interest in the welfare of the
Home.
From time to time, Masonic Degrees are conferred in our Temple
by the officers of visiting Lodges for the benefit of the brethren of
the Home.
In conclusion, I wish to extend my appreciation of the services
rendered by the officers and employes, throughout the year, in their
respective departments, and to express to the members of the Board
of Trustees my sincere gratitude for the counsel and advice given
when meeting the various problems connected with the management
of the Home.
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

October 26, 1933, Rockridge Chapter, Order of De Molay. First
and Second Degrees.
October 28, 1933, Illustrated Lecture, "Where Rolls the Oregon."
November 5, 1933, Halloween Party. By members of the Home.
November 13, 1933, Mission Chapter, Order of De Molay, First
and Second Degrees.
November 18, 1933, Charity Lodge No. 362. Musical program
by High School Orchestra.
November 23, 1933, Lodges of 39th Masonic District: Eden No.
113, Alameda No. 167, Mosaic No. 218, Eucalyptus No. 243, and
Alisa! No. 321. Program by members of the Home.
November 25, 1933, Thanksgiving program by members of the
Home. Dancing.
December 3, 1933, Musical program given by members of the
Home.
December 9, 1933, Antioch Lodge No. 175. Third Degree.
December 10, 1933, Pupils of Dan O'Brien Studio, San Francisco.
Opera "Faust."
December 15, 1933, Junior Red Cross, Livermore High School.
Musical program.
December 20, University Chapter, Order of De Molay. First and
Second Degrees.
December 24, 1933, Christmas services in Assembly Hall.
December 25, 1933, Christmas Carols. Distribution of present3
by Santa Claus.
December 31, 1933, New Year's Eve. Program by members of
the family.
January 19, 1934, Charity Lodge No. 362. Program given by
Campbell Union High and Grammar School Orchestra. Musical and
Miscellaneous Program.
January 29, 1934, Women's Choral Club of Trinity Center, San
Francisco. Colonial program. Singing and Dancing.
February 3, 1934, Camp Girls of Washington Towns.hip. Musical
entertainment.
February 22, 1934, Washington's and Lincoln's Birthday program
given by residents of the Home.
February 24, 1934, Friendship Lodge No. 210. Program by members of Girls' Dancing Class.
February 25, 1934, J. A. McDaniels, accompanied by Miss Edna
Bettencourt and friends, gave a miscellaneous program.
March 4, 1934, Pupils from Eberts School of Music, San Jose.
Instrumental music.
March 11, 1934, Argonaut Lodge No. 461. Musical Comedy, "The
Merry Widower."
March 16, 1934, Mosaic Lodge No. 218, and Semper Fidelis
Chapter No. 135, 0. E. S. Minstrel Show.

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 17, 1933, Pupils from dancing school, San Francisco.
Musical program. Tap dancing.
September 17, 1933, Visit of officers and members of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.
September 26, 1933, Pacific Service Employees' Association, Oakland. St'll~e Play, "The Lucky Break." Three-act comedy.
September 30, 1933, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215. Program by
Alameda High School Orchestra. Dancing.
October 6, 1933, Illustrated Lecture on Mexico, by W. C. N.
Thomas, San Jose.
October 9, 1933, Annual visit of the officers and delegates of the
Grand Lodge.
October 25, 1933, Pupils from Miss Katherine Bowman Studio.
Vocal and instrumental program. Dancing.

119

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

March 18, 1934, Armstrong Business Sch001, Oakland. The
Modern and Medieval Ballad of Mary Jane.
April 7, 1934, Thcmsand Oaks Lodge No. 47$, and Indian Rock
Lodge No. 638. Stage Play "The Passing of the Third Froor Back."
Dancing.
April 8, 1934, Mt. Oso Lodge No. 460. Orteretta "Bits of Killarney."
April 12, 1934, Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403. Musical and
Literary Program.
Apl'il 21, 1934, Golden Chain Chapter No. 303, 0 . .£. S. Miscellaneous en t.ertairune.nt.
April 21, 1934, Excelsior Lodge No. 166, and Golden Cha;n Chapter No. 303, 0. E. S. Excelsior Lodge conferred a Third Degree in
the Temple in the afternoon. In the evening, a musical program in
the Assembly Hall.
April 22, 1934, Easter services .given by the members of the
Home.
.
April 28, 1934, Naval Lodge No. 87. Third Degree in the Temple
and a miscellaneous program in the Assembly .Hall for the ladies of
the Home.
April29, 1934, Oakland Chapter No. 140, 0. E. S. Stage play by
"The Tulip Troopers."
:May 12, 1934, Lodges ~th Masonic District: Martinez No. 41,
Alamo N'm. 122, Antioch NIO.. 175, Brentwood No. 345, Pittsburg No.
429, and Mount Diablo No. 448. A Third Degree ·was conferred in
the Temple.
May 13, 1934, Stockton Pyramid No. 5, A. E. 0. of Sciot'S. Band
concert.
May 20, 1934, San Francisco Chapter, Order of the De M_olay.
Mothers' Day Ceremony.
May 23, 1934, Sunny:f'alle Lodge No. 511. Third Degree.
May 26, 1934, Oa1c ·Grmre Lodge No. 215. Miscellaneous program. Dancing.
May 30, 1934,- Memorial Day exercises. Annual visit to the Home ·
Cemettry.
June 6, 1934, Parents and Teachers Union Choral Society. Frick,
FTemont and Whittier High Schools. Musical program.
June 11, 1934, San Jose Lodge No. 10. Miscellaneous entertaimnent.
June 12, 1934, Pupils of Decato Grammar School. Stage play.
s.ill'ging and dancing.
June 17, 1934, San Francisco Pyramid; Order of Soi0>ts. Band
concert.
June 20, 1934, Jewel Lodge No. 374. Band concert.
June 2Z, 1934, San Jose Glee.men. M.usici.I entertamment.

June 26, 1934, Thousand Oaks Chapter No. 375, 0. E. S. Mi&cellana:ons program.
July 4, 1934, Masonic Home Family. PatriotK: program. Dancing.
August 11, 1934, Foothill Lodge No. 564, and' Foothill Chapter
No. 433, 0 . E. S. Miscellaneous program. Dancing.
August 18, 1934, Annual vis.Lt of the East Bay Past Matrons'
Association, accompanied 9y the Worthy Grand Matron and the
Worthy Grand Patron. Vocal and instrumental music.

120

121

Donations to Decoto Home
William Berry, Niles-1 large framed pictnre, "Mission San Jose in
1852."
East Bay Past Matrons' Association, Oakland-61 bureau scarfs, ZS
hospital gowns, 14 ladies' night-gowns, 24 comforters, 6 cushions,
. 2557 jars and glasses of jelly.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215-25 lbs. candy, 150 cigars, 2 vols. miscellaneous oooks.
Dempsey F. Du Four, Solano Lodge No. 229-2 large American
flags.
Mrs. E. Baker--8 miscellaneous books.
J. A. Glasser, Palo Afto No. 346--8 books, 1 large package magazines.
Southern California Lodge No. 278-1 large box of magazines, 25
books.
J. A. Barnes-1 pkg. Masonic magazines.
George W. Miller-1 Buick automobile, 4 passenger.
Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Taylor, Pomona-3 suits men's clothes, 12 shirts,
4 pairs of shoes, underwear, etc.
Berkeley Chapter No. 178, 0. E. S.-25 jars of jelly and jam.
Selma Lodge No. 277-50 lbs. of almonds.
Mrs. M. B. Barrett, Pomona, No. 24fr-1 b.ox of maaazines, 1 American flag.
E. D . Hayward, Manhattan Beach-1 box periodicals.
1931 Warders' Club, 0. E. S., Oakland-15 books.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 large Christmas box miscellaneous present.s.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gals, ripe olives.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-5 gals. ripe olives.
Al Malaikah Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., Los Ange!es-462 boxes 0£
oranges.
Peter H. Petersen, Apollo Lo~ No. 396-10 books.
Wm. A. St. John, Hawthorne-10 kalcidbscopes.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-35 lbs. dates, (Coachella).
A. Ferrante, Decoto-1 large Christmas cake.
Btirden's Creamery, Hayward-1 frozen ice cream pudding.

· 122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Porterville Lodge No. 303-2 boxes of oranges.
W. A. Taylor, San Francisco-20 packages cigarettes, 100· cigars.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. S06-1 large box of books and magazines.
Mrs. M. C. Perry-S vols. fiction.
J. A. C. Akerly-1 pkg. magazines.
Aahmes Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S.---0 ivory billiard balls.
William Otto Emerson, Hayward-40 oil paintings.
T. H. Lengle, Argonaut Lodge No. 461-2 suits of clothes.
Charles L. Beal-lS books, 1 pkg. periodicals.
Thomas H. Lee, Monterey-3 suits of clothing, 2 overcoats, etc.
Islam Shrine Cluh, San Francisco-SO packs playing cards.
H. V. Carter, Oakland-9 vols. miscellaneous books.
Myron M. Casterline-2 vols. fiction.
San Jose Lodge No. 10--lS gals. ice cream, 1 box of magazines, 150
cigars, 50 lbs. of candy.
I. Gonzabel, Oakland-1 vol. "Oregon Free Masonry."
Mrs. Fannie Davis, San Anselmo-18 pairs of blankets, 19 bedspreads, 20 table-cloths, 30 napkins, 40 towels, 24 pillow-cases,
20 white curtains, IS sheets; etc., 20 books.
Fred Hamlin-I American flag.
Elmer W. Barnes-S9 books.
Union League Club, San Francisco-34 packs' of playing cards.
Mrs. Lema Alden-IS books.
H. C. Cranz, Los Angeles-7 vols. "Mackay's History of Masonry."
F. D. Parsons-I arm chair, 1 desk.
Samuel J. Daly-2 rugs, 1 radio, 1 desk, 3 framed pictures, 2 tables,
2 bureaus.
Wm. B. McCulley-1 wardrobe trunk, I suit case, I chest carpenter
tools.
Mary A. McKinnon-I radio, 1 table.
George Hyde-I refrigerator, 1 rug.
John Tonningsen, San Francisco--! wardrobe trunk, S suits of
clothes, 2 overcoats, 6 hats, 7 pairs of shoes, 12 shirts, 10 suits of
underwear. 8 oajamas, 2S ties, collars, handkerchiefs, etc.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home
Lodge
No.
Acorn ............................ 494
Alameda ...................... 167
Alamo .......................... 122
Alcatraz ..................... 244
Alisa! ..................;......... 321
Alpha ........................... .431
Alturas ................~ ...... .248

Amt.
$10.00
10.00
S.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
S.00

Lodge
No.
Amador ........................ 6S
Antioch ....................... .175
A.polio .......................... 396
Argonaut ....................461
Argonne ...................... Sl4
Ashlar .......................... 306
Atascadero ................. .493

Amt.
S.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge ,
No.
Athens ..........................228
Azusa .......................... 30S
Balder .......................... 393
Bay City........................ S26
Bay View......................401
Bear Mountain ............ 76
Berkeley ...................... 363
Blackmer ......................442
Blythe ........................ ..47S
Brooklyn ......................22S
Buckeye ........................ 19S
Burlingame ................. .400
Cahuenga ....................S13
Calaveras .................... 78
Caledonia ....................486
California .................... 1
Callayomi ....................282
Carquinez .................... 337
Charity ........................ 362
Charter Rock ..............410
Chico ............................ 111
Clay .............................. 101
Clinton ........................ 119
Cloverdale ..................140
Coalinga ...................... 387
Colusa .......................... 240
Confidence ............... ,....203
Corinthian .................. 9
Corona ..........................324
Coronado ......................441
Covenant .... :................. S27
Crockett ...................... 139
Cupertino .................... SlO
Delta ........................... .471
Doric ............................216
Downey ........................220
Dunsmuir ................... .297
Durant ..........................268
East Bay....................... .489
East Gate ......................290
El Cajon........................ S76
El Centro ...................... 384
El Dorado .................... 26
Elmhurst ......................610
El Segundo.................. S07

Amt.
5.00
5.00
2S.OO
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
15.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
2S.OO
5.00
10.00
S.70
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
1.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00

Lodge
No.
Eucalyptus .................. 243
Eureka .......................... 16
Evergreen ....................259
Excelsior .................... 166
Fairmount ..................435
Fallbrook .................... 317
Far West ....................673
Ferndale ..................... .193
Fidelity ........................ 120
Fillmore ...................... 379
Forest .......................... 66
Fort Crook ............:..... 575
Francis Drake ............ 376
Freemont .................... 497
Fresno .......................... 247
Friendship ................... .210
Fruitvale ...................... 336
Galt ..............................267
George W ashington .... 525
Golden Gate.................. 30
Golden Rule ................. .479
Gold Hill... ................... 32
Guardian ...................... 596
Hammonton ............... .433
Hanford ..................... .279
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry Clay.................. 95
Henry Morse Stevens 541
Hermann ......................127
Hesperian ....................264
Highland Park ............ 382
Hill's Ferry..................236
Hiram .......................... 48
Hollenbeck .................. 319
Hollywood .................. 355
Honolulu ......................409
Howard ........................ 37
Humboldt .................... 79
Illinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ................ 638
John P. Jarman ..........669
Jewel ............................ 374
Jonathan ...................... 545
Kilauea ........................ 330
Lake Shore .................. 551

123
Amt.
2S.OO
2.50
12.50
12.50
10.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
6.00
5.00
S.00
5.00
IS.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
S.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
S.00
5.00
S.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
S.00
10.00
68.00
5.00

124

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
La . Mesa........................407
La Parfaite Union ...... 17
Las Palmas..................J&ii
Laurel .....c.................... 245
Le Progres de
i'Oceanie....................371
Libertas ....................... .4M
Liberty ................. ,..... .299
Live Oak ...................... 61
Lodi ..............................256
Long Beach ..................327
Los Angeles.................. 42
Los Gatos ....................292
Madera ........................280
Madison ........... ,............ 23
Maricopa ......................434
Marin .......................... 191
Martinez ...................... 41
McKinley .....................347
Mendocino .................. 179
Midway ........................ 416
Military Service .......... 57(1
Mill Valley...................356
Mission ........................ 169
Modesto ......................6'l5
Monterey ................... .217
Morgan Hill... ............. 463
Mosaic ' ..........................218
Mountain View............194
Mt. Diablo....................448
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Natoma ........................ 64
Naval ............................ 87
Nevada ........................ 13
Nicolaus ...................... 129
Norwalk ........ :.............315
Oak GroYe....................215
Oakland ........................ lgg
Oasis ............................6'4
Occidental .................... 22
Ontario ........................50t
Oriental ......................144
Orland ..........................~
Oxnard ........................J41
Pacific .......................... ~

Amt.
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00

5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
12.50

5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
20.00
10.ElO

25.00
7.50
15.00
20.00

Lodge
No.
Pacific Grove ................331
Pajaro ........................:..110
Palisades ............ :.........6.17
Palo Alto ......................346
Palos Verdcs ................389
Park ............................. .
Parnassus ................... ,388
Pasadena .......... ~ ...........'02
Paso Rob!es ..................286
Paul Revere ................462
Penrhyn ......................258
Perris ........................ ..4U
Petaluma .......,..............180
Phoenix :.......................178
Piedmont ......................521
Pinole ..........................353
Plumas ........................ 60
Point .............................503
Point Firmin................ 558 •
Point Loma ..................620
Presidio ........................354
Provident .....................009
Reading ........................254
Redwood City............. .lti8
Richmond ....................J75
Rio Vista ....................208
Rising Light... .............397
Riverside ......................635
Roosevelt ...................... 500
Roseville ......................222
Sacramento ................ 40
San Benito................... .211
San Bernardino ..........348
San Diego.................... 35
San Francisoo .............. J(i()
San Gabrfol.. ............... 546
San Gorgooio ..............668
San J acinto .................. 338
San Jose ...................,.... 10
San Mateo .................... 2~
San Mignel... ...............285
San Pedro ....................33!!
San Simeon ............:.... .1%
Santa Barbara ............192
Smita Ro911 .................... 57

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
1.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
1-0.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
12.50

Lodge
No.
Seaport - ......................559
Security - ......... ,..........581
Selma ............................Zll
Sequoia - ......................3'49
Silver Gate................. .296
Silver Trowel.............. 415
Silveyville _ ...............201
'Sincerity ------·-----·-W
Sisson ............................310
Snow Mountain ..........271
Southern California 278
South Pasadena..........367
So. San Francisco......212
Speranza Italiana....... .219
Standard ............ ~ ......... 440
St. Helena .................... 93
Starr King ....................344
Suisun ........ _............... 55
Sunnyvale · · - -........ 511
S. W. Hackett............ 574
Taft .............................. 516
Tehachapi ....................313
Tehama ~---------------· 3
Te:mblor ---··--··- ·-----.4"1
Texas ............................ 46.

Amt.
Lodge
No.
5.00 Thousand Oaks.......... ..478
5.00 Truckee ........................ 200
5.00 Tuolumne .................... 8
10.00 Tuscan ..........................261
12.50 Union ............................ 58
15.00 Vacaville .................. ~...134
10.00 Vallejo ........................ 487
5.00 Veritas ........................640
5.00 · Vesper .......................... 84
5.00 Victorville .................. 634
25.00 Victory ........................ 474
10.00 Visalia ..........................128
10.00 Washington ................ 20
5.00 Western Star .............. 2
5.00 White Pine ..................555
5.00 Willow Glen ................676
25.00 Wilmingtnn ................ 198
5.00 Winnedumah ..............287
10.GO Wi:>odbridge ................ 131
5.00 Woodland .................... 156
5.00 Woodstock ................. .491
20.00 Yerba Buena................ 403
20.00 Yolo .............................. 81
5.00 Yosemite ...................... 99
2.50 Yount ............................ 12

125

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5;00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15:00
10.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50

Commanderies, K. T.
C ommandef'y
No.
Anburn ........................ 52
Berkeley ...................... 42
Calvary ........................ 62
Chico ............................ 12
Colusa .......................... 24
Fresno .......................... 29
Golden Gate.................. 16
Marysville .................... 7
Mount Shasta.............. 32
N-aval ............................ 19
Nevada ........................ 6
Oakland ....................... .' 11
Oroville ................ ,....... 5

Ami.

$ 2.50
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
6.25
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

C0Mm1Jiulery
No.
Pacific .......................... 3
Palo Alto...................... 47
Pasadena ...................... 31
Riverside .........:............ 28
Sacramento .................. 2
San Francisco ............ 41
San Jose ...................... 10
Santa Cruz: .................. 44
St. Bernard ................ 23
Vacaville ...................... 38
Visalia .......................... 26
W atsonviile ................ 22

Amt.

$ 5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chapters, R. A. M.
Amt.
$10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00

Chapter
No.
Antioch ........................ 65
California .................... 5
Chico ............................ 42
Coalinga ...................... 114
Colusa .......................... 60
Cyrus ............................ 15
Hanford ...................... 74
Pomona ........................ 21

Chapter
No.
Riverside ...................... 67
San Francisco ............ 1
Santa Cruz.................... 38
Searchlight ..................133
Siloam .......................... 37
Sonora .......................... 2
Wilmington ................141

Amt.
$ 2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Councils, R. & S . M.
No.
Co1111cil
California ······································ 2

Amount

····-················································ $5.00

L odges of Perf ection
No.
Lodge
California ........:.......... . 10
Fresrto .......................... 6
Oakland ....................... . 2

Amt.
$25.00
25.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Sacramento ................ 4
San Francisco ............ 1
San Diego .................... 8

Amt.
$12.50
25.00
25.00

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No .
Mercedes ...................... 126
Miguelito .................... 176
Mill Valley................. .219

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
10.00

Chapter
No.
Mira Monte..................141
San Raf:eL .................215

Amt.
$ 5.00
10.00

Individuals aiid Miscellaneous

A friend ...................-.......................................................................................$ 10.00
Berkeley H igh School Twelve Club.......................................................... 5.00
Brandson K. G., Fresno Lodge No. 247.................................................. 5.00
Braun, John, Oildale, California................................................................ 2.50
Breckenridge, F. J., Hollywood No. 355.................................................. 1.00
Burrows, Mr. and Mrs. Henry G., Coalinga........................................ 20.00
Chamberlin, Lewis, Rio Vista.................:................................................ 50.00
East Bay Past Patrons Association........................................................ 3.50
H illebrand, P. H ............................:.............................................................. 10.00
Masters', Wardens' and Senior Deacons' Club, 39th District............ 10.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association.......................................................... 5.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club..................................:....................................... 5.00
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers' Association................................ 10.00
Trask, C. F ...................................................................................................5.00
Watson, F rank G........................................................................................... 10.00

127

Names of Residents-Decato Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home,
the date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number of the Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges,
complete to August 31, 1934.
MEN, 197. Average age, 74.01.
Name
A dmitted
Akerly, James C..,............]uly 26, '31
Alderman, Alfred H ......... Oct. 6, '26
Allison, Thos. S ...............Jan. 23, '33
Allen, Henry D ............... Apr. 15, '34
Alseth, Lars...................... Mch. 7, '34
Anderson, Julius ..............Aug. 19, '30
Ansley, James G...............Feb. 28, '26
Armstrong, Geo. R. ..........Jan. 6, '34
Archer, Edward H ......... Mch. 2, '34
Atwood, Ira A ...................Sep. 7, '31
Bader, Henry ................ Nov. 28, '28
Bane, Paul D ...................July 20, '32
Bang, Anders ..............- ....Jan. 29, '30
Bailey, Wm. J ...................Dec. 25, '28
Barker, Harry W ...........July 23, '28
Barnett, Joseph ................ July 23, '33
Barnes, Albert .............:....May 7, '28
Barnes, Elmer W ...............July 7, '34
Battle, Jos. D .....................Dec. 9, '30
Beal, Chas. L .....................Feb. 15, '34
Beck, Herman H .............Aug. 28, '24
Bell, John H .......................May 1, '33
Benninger, Wm. G.........Mar. 27, '34
Bentley, Isam H ...............Jan. 31, '31
Bernstein, Jacob A.........J une 26, '24
Bidwell, Edward W .........]une 24, '34
Blankinship, Jos. w ....:..June 16, '34
Bly, Carl D ...................:.....July 7, '34
Boehm, Hiram J ...........:...July 19, '31
Bonde, Hans P ...................July 6, '32
Buckner, Andrew B.......Mar. 27, '32
Bull, Clint M ................... Aug. 11, '21
Bush, Elmer E ...................Jan. 13 '30
Carden, Wm. L ............... Nov. 27, '30
Carey, Wm. F .....,...........Sept. 16, '31
Casterline, Myron..........Nov. 16, '32
Chase, Willis S ............... Mar. 19, '22

Lodge
N o.
Town
Age
Live Oak .............. 61 . Oakland ............73
Corinthian ............ 9 Marysville ........72
Golden Gate ........ 30 San Francisco ..61
Park ......................449 . Sari Francisco..64
Moneta ................405 Los Angeles......60
King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco..9()
Jonathan ..............545 San Francisco..72
Excelsior .............. 166 San Francisco..81
Landmark ........... .253 · Esparto .......~ ....83
El Cajon Valley.. 576 El Cajon ..........72
King Soloinon's ..260 San Francisco..70
Orland ..................265 Orland ..............70
Fresno ..................247 Fresno ..............75
Callayomi ............282 Middletown ....85
San Pedro ............332 San Pedro ........64
Livingston ............658 Livingston ........77
Hawaiian .............. 21
Honolulu ..........88
Liberty ..................299 Santa Oara......65
Stanislaus ............206 Modesto ............74
Hawaiian .............. 21 . Honolulu ..........68
Nicolaus ....- ........129 . Wheatland ......80
Lomita ..................644 Lomita ..............74
Han ford ..............279 Hanford ..........68
Oakdale ................275 Oakdale ............74
Berkeley ~............. 363 Berkeley ..........80
San Joaquin .......... 19 Stockton ..........74
Hartley ................ 199 Lakeport ..........72
Hollenbeck ..........319 Los Angelcs......74
Big Bear ..............617 Pine Knot ........71
Pleasanton ......71
Alisa! ....................321
Welcome ..............255 ·Lemoore .~........78
Moneta ..................405 Los Angeles...... 57
Alturas ................248 Alturas ............72
Charter Rock ......410 Berkeley ..........68
San Pedro ......'......332 San Pedro ........64
Oceanside ........69
Oceanside ............ 381
Turlock ................395 Turlock ............84

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
· Admitted
Clemenson, Newton.........June 2, '28
Closson, Harry J--·-··-·..MkT 4, '3'1
Cole, Geo. W·-····------Jllint~~·33
Collins, Nelson W .......- ...sq,t;._12. '19
Corson, Jos. M ................. Dec. 30, '33
Cowan, John S.................Jan. 22, '28
Crystal, William.............. Nov. 20, 'J'.l
De Wolf, Jah!t W ........•-J'1ly 12, '34
Dalon,. Robem ---···----Jul¥ 28,.'32
Dines~ ]hmb. N·- ······--Nov.1. '32
Diiil:s, ]clm A.---·--·····-Dec...19, '29
Dodd~ 'Fhoit. - ..:................Dcc...24, '28
Dolan. ]1.ihn: c..-~•............Aug, 4. '31
Dowm, Benj. Fi..•..-......••].il.ot 23,. 'JZ
Eagl11, Wm. Rf. ________ -1Jec. 12, '31
Ernst, Cnno A--····-·······.JlUJit, 26, '32
Fender, Ancincw J •......-Dec. 5, '30
Ferguson, PariS )'...........Ma,r-l!ti, '34
Fisli, Chas.. E----····--.Air. a, 'JG.
Fi.iii.er, Homer C,.._......-11lay. 28,.'32
Fitting, Hans. lL--······..May 27, '33
Fraihergct',. Mu --·····-Stpt. 12, •33,
FN.Ser, Ga.rtret W •......_ .Oct. 19, '32
Franck, lsadoN ·-·······-Jan. 10, '14
Gibbs, Jahn W-·-······-Aug.. 5, '30
Gifford,. SQmonr C.....•..f.une.29, '31
G~e,. Samuel Ji,. _ ______ JHar. 28, '31
Godfrey.,. ~--····---Jan..1.3, '32
Goodric~ &i..mc........ _Aug.. 8. '31
Goodman,. Wm. K:...... __ Oct. 2.0. '32.
~o. L~ 1'1......•.•l'eb. ~ '28
Grant.. G.eol"ge: L.-·····---Oct.. 6, '32
Gt"C&ves,. Waltr:r:--········-Oc:.t._ 18. '32
Grimshaw, Fredk. C....-June.2.,'32
Ifaq>.iJJ. Rflht il-...... __Qc:.t._ 2.3. '33
Hamlin,. Fte.t!k. &...........-•..Dec..8, '33
Hamblin,. Abramm L .•....Jan.8, '34.
illlmiltoi:r.. Hiram M .....•..Mar. 15, '32
Ha.rdage, James M ......... Mar. 13, '17
Harms. Hem!Bia....- .........Mar.16,-.31
Harris, Louis ·----------Jan. 13, '23
Harpster, Harry W .....-.Nov.S., '30
Hathaway-, John S ......_•..Aug. 7, 'JQ
Haupt,
]unc 28, 'le
Hazard, Emi J--····---..AU&:. 10, '25

Oecair--:.-........•

Lodg_1
No.
Marin ....................l91
Tuolumne ·----- 8San Benito______ _au

Town
Age
San Rafael... .....77
Tuolumne •.......65
Holiistec ____.JW
Calisroga -··--·-2'll Calistoga ____ J2
Valley ····------·135 Linden _ .....-77
Morgan Hill ........463 Morgan Hill ....80
So. San. Fran.......2!2 San Francisco..70
Santa Baa:bara...... 192 S. Barbara.......J~1
Libcaty --·-----~ Santa Cla;ua......82'
Li.Ye Oak; ______ 61 Oakland _ _.JQ
So. San F.raa.....-2!2 San Frazt<:isco.. 7~
:S:ooklyn -·-···-·Z!S Oakland --·······-Sil
Redlands· ______ Jro Redlands ........-6'l
Silver Gate ··-·-···2'6 Sall' D~o---··-6S
Pentilpha ...-.-2Jl2 Los Anceles._...6.4
Titb.ama ·------ 3 Sac!at11entG- .•_..iJr
N<a.rthern Lilhl:....100 Millville· .......JI
Sot>yomt ......__,:123. Healdsbuirg, --·90
Vesper ..........______ 84 Red Bluff ..........&1
Janesville ····----..252. J anesvillrt ..........9.a
San Bernar&no....348 . S. Beruairdibo•.&)
Pacific --·····--··--M6 San Jfraac;iscB..6$
California. -······ 1 San Francisco..60
LaPllrfaile Unioo 17 San Fi;anc:iSCQ..86
Berloeley ····-------363 Berkclciy ----·-M
San Joall1tfn _____ , 19 s toc:ktQD; ______.fi&
La Mesa.......•......••.407 La Mesa..-.......aa
Nevada - ........._.. 13 Nevada City ....~
Fresno -----·····-··~7 Fresoo -·------'~
Fra6!rnity ·····-··---399 San Jo&e--·-···8Q
Cra..kett ··--··;tg.
Ca:rquin~ ·------387
Geor~n _.;t2
Gtongetown ···-·· 25
Apolto -·-·--·---396 Al~
Western St<ll.'···-- 2 Shasta ••.•..••_'4
Si.Iver 'FrowuL_.415 los Angllles...-.•~l
&orn ··-····--...-494 Oakland! ···-·-··5'>
S<>uthwest ------!83 NatiQnaJ <Ci~ _QB.
CadHorma ··-······- 1 San· Francisco...21
Sunset ................. ..3152 Los Angeles......9J.
A.cacia -·····--·---"38 Los Aagela;.•..-81
Los Angcilea...._.SS
Luc;. An~-----· 42
TehachaJ!i ····-····-311.3 Tehachapi ·--"1'
Vas.J: NUB1S ...........4150 Los .A~s ..--29'
.-......-71
Naval ···-···-·-··-- 87 Vall.e:i,o
San Jose ........._. 10 San- .i;...______Je·

-·-·-··65

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
IIedley, John .................... Dec. 16, '33
Golden Gate.......... 30
Henry, Albert P ............. Mar. 17, '34 Jordan ..................654
Herford, Wm. B............... May 9, '31
West Gate ............335
Herndon, Edward M ..... Mar. 19, '33 Mountain View.... 194
Hirlinger, Chas. M .........Aug. 30, '31
Bell ··········-····-······483
I Jotchkiss, Marshall ......June 11, '30 Santa Cruz............ 38
Hughes, Eugene F ......... Mar. 11, '33 - Phoenix ................ 178
I Julsizer, John H ............. Mar. 31, '32
Phoenix ................178
Hyde, George ..................Dec. 22, '30
Mill Valley ..........356
Hyde, Jos. H:..................June 10, '34 Franklin .......c•••••• 143
Hunn, George....................Aug. 1, '34 Salinas ..................204
Jack, David ........................June 1, '31
McKinley ............347
Jensen, James L •..............Mar. 2, '33 Texas .................... 46
Johnson, Daniel F .........Sept. 16, '29 Dinuba ..................385
Journal, Phillip S ............. Mar. 6, '27
Sequoia ................349
Keith, Herbert B.............Nov. 17, '33 Oriental .........o.·•••••144
Kellogg, Irving M ............. Dec. 2, '30 Chula Vista ........626
Kesner. James P ............. Nov. 14, '23 Nicolaus .......c...... 129
Mount Moriah...... 44
Kimball, John C.............Mar. 27, '33
Kittredge, Chas. H ........... Nov. 1, '33
Hollenbeck ..........319
Kupfer, John A. ..............Feb. 10, '34 Alisa! ....................321
Lacy, Herbey R...............Aug. 16, '34 Solano .......:..........229
Lagomarsino, G............. May 12, '33 Speranza Ital.......219
Lang, Edmund W ........... May 20, '33 East Bay ..............489
Laton, Edward L ............. Apr. 23, '32 La Fayette ..........126
Lee, Abraham ..................May 1, '30
Pacific Grove ........331
Lehmann, August H ....... Dec. 14, '28 Santa Monica ......307
Lewis, Fredk. M .............June 10, '33
Hawaiian ............ 21
Libby, Chas. F •................Dec. 18, '31
Mission ................169
Lockwood, Tom ..............Feb. 13, '28
Pacific .................J36
Lund, Andrew J ...........,.Sept. 29, '27 San Joaquin .......... 19
Marsh, Chas. P ...............Oct. 10, '31
South Gate............320
Martin, Benj. R............... May 15, '24 Santa Cruz............ 38
Martin, Henry W ........... June 29, '32 Eden ...................... 113
Matson, Martin B........... Dec. 15, '27 Eden ........c...... .......113
McClain, Chas. A.............Jan. 26, '33
Mosaic ..................218
McDonald, Frank .......... Nov. 21, '26 South Gate............320
McRae, Alexander ........Oct. 20, '30 Laurel ...c..............245
East Gate ............290
Merrill, Chas. H ...............July 29, '30
Messe, George W ...........June 21, '34 Monterey ..............217
Meuser, Alfonso ............ Sept. 19, '26
Palo Alto .............346
Miller, Samuel C............. May 16, '29 Mount Dia:blo......448
Miller, John W .................Jan. 22, '30 Et Dorado ............ 26
Miller, George W ............. Mar. 5, '34 Oriental .............,..144
Millar, David S ................. Apr. 2, '32 .So. California......278

129

Town
Age
San Francisco..85
Los Angeles......75
Los Angeles......81
Mount'n View..72
Bell ....................61
Santa Cruz........71
S. Bernardino..81
S. Bernardino..90
Mill Valley ......75
Courtland ........85
Salinas ..............71
Richmond ........70
S. J. Bautista....72
Dinuba ..............83
Oakland ............&3
San Francisco..71
Chula Vista ......79
Wheatland ......89
San Francisco..77
Los Angeles......70
Centerville ......67
Vallejo ..............57
San Francisco..78'
Berkeley ····-····72
Sebastopol ....- ..69
Pacific Grove ....85
Santa Monica ..75
Honolulu ..........76
San Francisco..75
San Francisco..82
Stockton ..........78
Los Angeles......71
Santa Cruz........69
San Leandro....81
San Leandro....77
Livermore ........80
Los Angeles......80
Willows ............70
Los Angeles ......73
Monterey ..........63
Palo Alto..........80
Concord ............88
Placerville ......88
San Francisco..74
Los Angeles ......76

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

130

131

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Milisich, C......................... Oct. 5, '31
Speranza Ital.......219
Morrison, George D .......Mar. 20, '30 Golden State........358
Morrison, Wm. F ...........June 27, '32 Solano ..................229
Morris, Harry B............. Nov. 28, '30 La Fayette .......... 126
Murden, Robt. J ............. Mar.26, '28 Alcatraz ................244
Myers, Wm. P ...................Feb. 1, '32 Las Palmas ..........366
Nannestad, Henrik ..........Mar. 8, '23 Doric ....................216
Nice, Harry W .................July 11, '32 Alhambra ............322
North, Edwin B.................Apr. 2, '29 Vesper .................. 84
Oates, Lewis D ................... Feb. 3, '34 Clay ......................101
Olesen, Peter.................... Aug. 30, '33 Los Banos ............312
Otto, Fred A.....................Feb. 23, '30 Lassen .................. 149
Owen, William L ...........Aug. 12, '22 Mission ................169
Parker, David N ............. Mar. 14, '33 Pasadena ..............272
Peppin, Raymond C....... Mar. 14, '34 Golden W est........455
Plowman, Alfred R. ........Jan. 17, '30 Consuelo ..............325
Porter, Fred .................... Aug. 29, '33
Hartley ................199
Potter, Loyal A ...............Jan, 21, '30 Union .................... 58
Quilty, Frank E .................Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210
Rawlings, Levi ................July 11, '33
Northern Light....190
Righetti, Robt. .................. Mar. 9, '18 Pentalpha ............202
Risher, Chas. B...............Aug. 24, '29 Redlands ..............300
Roscoe, Thos. H ...............Jan. 13, '32 Oroville ................103
Rummelsburg, Alex.........]uly 10, '33 Oxnard ................341
Russell, Geo. McC. ............Feb. 2, '34 Beverly Hills........528
Sangster, Donald................ Oct. 4, '32 Mendocino ..........179
Schmidt, Edward.............. Aug. 1, '32 Golden Gate.......... 30
Scott, Walter L ................. Apr. 1, '34 Burlingame ..........400
Senestrari, Jacob T ......... Mar. 27, '33 Monterey ..............217
Sessions, Chas. B.............Dec. 23, '33 Richmond ............375
Sill, George W .................Feb. 22, '33 Pajaro ···'···-··········110
Smith, Herbert W ...........Jan. 15, '34 McKinley ............347
Smith, Charles .................. Sept. 2, '31
Georgetown ........ 25
Smith, William C........... Apr. 25, '28 Oakland ................ 188
Smith, Roland A. ............Jan. 29, '27 Callayomi ............282
Sniffen, Samuel T ...........Jan. 31, '33 West Lake............392
Spencer, Sheldon............Sept. 15, '31 Ione ...................... 80
Standeford, Wm. B....... Nov. 12, '29 Live Oak .............. 61
Starkweather, R. E.........May 28, '29 Corinthian .......... 9
Starbuck, Henry F ......... Feb. 24, '32 Jas. A. Foshay....641
Stevens, Charles D ........... Apr. 6, '32 Santa Rosa .......... 57
Stewart, Wesley G......... Mar. 12, '32 · Concord ................117
Swaffield, Thos. W ...........Feb. 4, '29 Apollo ..................396
Swain, George ................ Nov: 29, '31
Durant ..................268
Swedburg, Eric ................ Oct. 19, '29 Reading ................254

Town
Age
San Francisco..70
Los Angeles......70
Vallejo ..............72
Sebastopol ........70
Oakland ............68
Fresno ..............65
San Francisco.. 88
Alhambra ........68
Red Bluff..........77
Dutch Flat........72
Los Banos ........72
Susanville ........68
San Francisco..75
Pasadena ..........87
San Francisco.. 59
Escondido ........81
Lakeport ..........75
Sacramento ....75
San J ose............81
Millville ............67
Los Angeles......82
Redlands ..........70
Oroville ............72
Oxnard ............80
Beverly Hills....71
Mendocino ......78
San Francisco..66
Burlingame ......61
Monterey ........70
San Francisco..83
Watsonville .... 78
Richmond ........81
Georgetown .... 74
Oakland ............74
Middletown ....74
Los Angeles ......79
Ione ..................85
Oakland ............67
Marysville ...... 70
Los Angeles......84
Santa Rosa ........83
Sacramento ......61
Alameda ,.........86
Berkeley ..........88
Redding ............ 79

Name
Admitted
Taylor, Geo. McC...........July 14, '25
Theiss, Henry D .............June 27, '34
Thomas, Wm. E ............... Apr. 27, '33
Thompson, John W ....... Aug. 11, '34
Travelli, Joseph.............. Sept. 24, '32
Trenchel, August F ....... Sept. 18, '25
Trost, John H .................Mar. 15, '32
Tucker, Ira W ................. May 12, '33
Viles, Charleton H ......... Oct. 24, '29
Wallace, Robt. G.............June 23, '34
Watkins, David K ........... Nov. 29, '31
Walbridge, Otis C........... Oct. 25, '33
Walker, Chas. C...............Jan. 21, '30
Weston, Frank.................. Mar. 4, '33
Whitaker, George A.........Jan. 30, '32
Wigginton, James W .....July 15, '29
Williams, Laurence..........Jan. 27, '34
Wilhelm, Fredk. G...........Oct. 25, '27
Willard, Thomas............ Aug. 23, '27
Wilson, Charles.............. Sept. 22, '32
Williams, Wm. J ............... May 8, '32
Witcosky, John A ...........Sept. 16, '30
Wood, Uriah S ............... Aug. 21, '31
Yarrington, James T .......Feb. 26, '29
Young, Lars G................... Apr. 1, '23

Lodge
No.
Excelsior ..............166
Washington ........ 20
San Diego ............ 35
Caledonia ............486
Oakdale ................275
Live Oak .............. 61
Ferndale •-·········'--193
San Jose .............. 10
Abell .................... 146
Petaluma ..............180
Paul Revere..........462
East Gate..............290
Palo Alto..............346
St. Helena ............ 93
Caledonia ............486
S. W. Hackett......574
Santa Rosa............ 57
LaParfaite Union 17
Petaluma .............. 180
Parnassus ............388
Fortitude ..............624
Amity ..................370
Mount Oso ..........460
University ............394
Oak Grove............215

Town
Age
San Francisco ..72
Sacramento ......57
San Diego........80
Bakersfield ......69
Oakdale ............72
Oakland ............83
Ferndale ..........80
San Jose............80
Ukiah ................77
Petaluma ..........77
San Francisco ..62
Los Angeles......68
Palo Alto..........83
St. Helena........74
Bakersfield ......78
San Diego ........77
Santa Rosa ......68
San Francisco..80
Petaluma ..........73
San Francisco..66
Oakland ............62
San Francisco..55
Tracy ................76
Los Angeles......72
Alameda ..........84

WOMEN, 171. Average age, 73.71.

Name
Admitted
Albrecht, Ruth R ...............Jan. 5, '33
Alden, Lena ...................... Oct. 29, '33
Archer, Phella E ............. Mar. 2, '34
Armantage, Theresa..........]an. 5, '19
Atwood, Ida !................... Sept. 7, '31
Ayers, Sarah A ............... May 14, '32
Bane, Florence A ............. Nov. 13, '29
Bane, Annabell E .............July 20, '32
Barnes, Elaine G............... July 7, '34
Barton, Annie H ............. Aug. 27, '33
Becker, Elizabeth A. ........Jan. 5, '31
Beebe, Annie L ................. Mar. 1, '28
Bell, Florence C.. ,.......... ,.July 30, '33
Bemis, Ellen J ..................June 26, '29
Berge, Lilly By..............Sept. 30, '26
Bernstein, Cornelia ........June 26, '24
Billings, Martha V ......... Apr. 30, '33

Lodge
No.
Selma ....................277
Liberty ..................299
Landmark ............253
Needles ................ 326
El Cajon Valley.. 576
Hanford ..............279
Rockridge ............468
Orland ..................265
Liberty ................299
Truckee ................200
Santa Ana ............241
Porterville ..........303
Standard ..............440
Dinuba ..................385
West Gate ............ 335
Berkeley ..............363
Drytown .............. 174

Town
Age
Selma ................78
Santa Clara......71
Esparto ............80
Needles ............77
El Cajon ..........69
Hanford ..........75
Oakland ............69
Orland ..............67
Santa Oara......64
Truckee ..:.........82
Santa Ana ........77
Porterville ......80
Oakland ............73
Dinuba ....·..........84
Los Angeles......80
Berkeley ..........75
Plymouth ........70

132

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

Lodge
No.
N ame
Admitted
Blinn, Sophia w...'............Jan. 20, '30 Truckee ................200
Bolting, Isadore L...........Dec. 29, '33 Silver Gate ..........296
Bradley, Na!lllie ····-······:.Apr. 30, '25 Oriental ..............144
Brassfield, Maggie E ....... Feb. 11, '28 Santa Barbara......192
Brown, Rosalind V, ...... Mar. 27, '24 Natoma ................ 64
Brown, Lima C............... May 25, '34 Bethlehem ............453
Buzzo, Oct;ivia................Jwie 26;'33 Natoma ................ 64
San Pedro ..........332
Carey, Laura E ............... Sept. 16, '31
Carlsen, Laura L. ............ Feb. 10, '20 Excelsior ............ 166
Carpenter, Tillie C. ........ May 30, '30 King Solomon's ..260
Cash, Alllla ············-······---July 7, '22 South Gate .......... 320
Cass, Mary E .............- ....- July 7, '28 Sisson ····-··- -······310
Cassidy, Lottie ................ May 30, '33 Silver Gate ..........296
Casterline, Mary A ....... Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside _ .........381
Coar, Lydia E................-.Feb. 11, '34 Alex. G. Bell...... 595
Cohn, Sarah ··················--Sept. 8, '22 Los Angeles ........ 42
Collister, Mary L."............Jan. 19, '30 Vitruvius ..............145
Copeland, . Wilhelmina....July 11, '32 Golden Gate........- 30
Cope, Ida L..................... Nov. 19, '32 Charter Rock ......410
Cosner, Lydia C. .............. May 3, '30 Colusa ..................240
Berkeley .............. 363
Cowley, Cerita ]. ............ Sept. 18, '25
Coyne, Helen M............. Nov. 27, '32 Union .................... 58
Crawley, Nellie G.....-.... Dec.19, '27 Willits ..................365
Crill, Flora A .....................Dec. 1, '28 Valley ..................135
Crystal, Agnes ................ Nov. 20, '32 So. San Fran ...... .212
Davis, Grace G.................July 25, '16 Naval .................... 87
Davis, Fannie ..................Jwie 24, '34 Mount Moriah ...... 44
Pacific ..................136
Dickson, Alice W ...........June 11, '21
Parnassus ............ 388
Dougherty, Lucy H ..:........ Apr. 3, '26
Unity ....................368
Drew, Minnie ..... :............ Oct. 20, '33
Dryden, Sarah S ............. Feb. 26, '26 Tyrian ..................439
Oroville ................ 103
Dunn, Annie C. ................June 22, '25
Edgar, Ida T ................... Apr. 21, '34 Durant ................. .268
Elder, Ellena R. .............. Sept. 18, '28 · Corinthian ............ 9
Ellis, Mildred A............•Mar. 30, '34 Mission ................169
Everett, Charlotte ............May 9, '33 Mount Moriah ...... 44
Fanshaw, Mary E ...........Oct. 22, '29 Los Angeles .......... 42
Felter, Eliza D .................July 24, '23 King Solomon's ..260
Ferguson, Hattie M. ...... May 25, '34 Silver Gate ......... 296
Ferguson, Ruth R. .......... May 26, '34 Sotoyome ............123
Fitting, Alice M............... May 27, '33 San Bcrnardino ....343
Fortriede, Augusta.......... Apr. 24, '25 Crockett .............. 139
Foster, Nellie G...............Jan. 21, '30 Berkeley ..............3'l3
Garland, Susan C. .......... Aug. 18, '25 Consuelo ..............325
San Joaquin ........ 19
Gifford, Kathryn ........... .June 29, '31

Town
Age
Truckee ····-······74
San Diego ........75
San Francisco .. 66
Santa Barbara ..80
Folsom City...... 79
San Francisco..78
Folsom City....,.73
San Pedro ........63
San Francisco .. 71
San Francisco ..71
Los Angeles ......75
Mt. Shasta........ 78
San Diego ........ 73
Oceanside ........61
Los Angeles ......82
Los Angeles ......77
Bloomfield ........80
San Francisco..61
Berkeley ..........74
Colusa ..............84
Berkeley ..........78
Sacramento ......80
Willits ..............74
Linden ..............67
San Francisco.. 66
Vallejo ..............80
San Francisco..78
San Francisco .. 74
San Francisco .. 73
Glendale ..........74
Manteca ............ 93
Oroville ............87
Berkeley ..........74
Marysville ......75
San Francisco ..72
San Francisco ..72
Los Angeles ...... 94
San Francisco ..72
San Diego ........62
Healdsburg ...... 77
S. Bernardino ..64
San Francisco ..57
Berkeley .......... 71
Escondido ........85
Stockton ..........72

Name
A dmitted
Lodge
No .
c;oodman, Orpheus · O .....Oct. 20, '32 Fraternity ............399
<;ordon, Isabel C. ..............Feb. 12, '28
Carquinez ............337
Go rdon, Mary ]. ..............July 13, '27 Board of Relief..
Grant, Lillian A................. Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ........ 25
Grant, Hattie H ........:........ Feb. 6, '22 San Jose .............. 10
Greaves, Margaret !....... Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ..................396
Gregg, Letitia .................,.. Dec. 4, '32 Durant ..................268
Gregory, Emily ................ June 6, '33 Concord ................ 117
Halek, Al_bertine C. ........Dec. 20, '32 Victory ................474
Harris, Louise C.............Feb. 19, '33 Pacific .................. 136
Hattersley, Emily K. ....Aug. 19, '33 Henry Clay ........ 95
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10
Heitman, Evelyn S ...........Apr. 3, '33 · union .................... 58
Heith, Catherine ............Oct. 16, '10 Fresno ..................247
Hibbard, Elizabeth ........ Mar. 22, '30 Oakland ................ 188
Hill, Barbara M...............July 26, '27 Brooklyn ..............225
Hodgson, Mary A...........Apr. 19, '29 Santa Rosa .......... 57
Hollis, Ella A.....................Oct. 7, '31
Dunsmuir ............297
Honey, Alice ....................July 22, '34 Keystone ...........:.. 161
Hughes, Laura H........... Mar.11, '33 Phoenix ................ 178
Humiston, Isaphene........ Sept. 11, '24 Mountain View.... 194
Hutchinson, Sara J .........Jwie 11, '34 Liberty ..................299
Irvine, Adelaide H ........... Nov. 4, '31 Sacramento .......... 40
Jack, Mary ........................ June 1, '31
McKinley ............347
Jackson, May R. ............ Aug. 27, '25 · Lompoc ................262
James, Jennie L......,........ Nov. 19, '33 Live Oak ··········-·· 61
Jenkins, Mary E............. May 21, '31
Durant .:................268
Johnson, Julia H ............. Aug. 23, '31 Patterson ..............488
Johnson, Jane H ...............- Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ................ 354
Jones, Camilla T ...............Apr. 8, '34 Occidental ............ 22
Kalfus, Sarah W .............Jan. 29, '19 San Jose .............. 10
Keenan, Effie .... ~ ............ .July 17, '33 Jewel .................... 374
Kellogg, Lillie F ............... Dec. 2, '30 Chula Vista ........626
Kidd, Millie A. ...............~ Aug. 21 , '32 Amity ..................370
Kiesling, Caroline ........Aug. 31 , '33 So. Pasadena........ 367
Kimball, Camelia L ....... Sept. 19, '26 San Francisco ......360
Kimball, Lila M.............oMar. 27, '33 Mount Moriah .... 44
Kimball, Annette C...........Aug. 3, '32 Enterprise ............ 70
Knapp, Lizzie T ..... _........ Aug.·5, '33 Sequoia ................ 349
Knight-White, Alda ........Mar. 6, '34 California ............ 1
Langworthy, Martha......J uly 23, '26 San Pedro ............ 332
Laufman, Anna ....... :...... Aug. 27, '24 Sincerity .............. 132
Leonard, Lois ....................June 7, '30 Oroville ................103
Lightner, Sarah J ............. Oct. 9, '28 Starr King ..........344
Lindsley, Luella P .........Aug. 16, '34 Morning Star...... 68

133

Town
Age
San Jose............80
Crockett ..........60
San Francisco ..85
Georgetown ....61
San Jose ............ 70
Alameda ..... :.... 54
Berkeley .......... 78
Sacramento ...... 66
San Francisco.. 70
San Francisco .. 59
Sutter · Creek ....74
San Jose ............64
Sacramento ......78
Fresno ..............88
Oakland ............ 77
Oakland ............71
Santa Rosa ........85
Dunsmuir ........ 67
Milton .............. 75
S. Bernardino .. 79
Mount'n View ..80
Santa Clara......72
Sacramento ......85
Richmond - ......67
Lompoc ............ 75
Oakland ..:.........72
Berkeley .......... 64
Patterson ........ 64
San Francisco ..68
San Francisco .. 64
San Jose .......... 71
San Francisco .. 57
Chula Vista ...... 78
San Francisco .. 67
So. Pasadena ....82
San Francisco .. 69
San Francisco ..63
Yuba City ........ 72
Oakland ............ 75
San Francisco .. 75
San Pedro ........ 64
Greenville ........83
Oroville ........... .81
San Francisco .. 74
Stockton ..........68

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Town
Age
Lodge
No .
Name
Admitted
Lillie, Amelia F ...............May23, '32 Woodland ............ 156 Woodland ........82
Truckee ................200 Truckee ............67
Longfellow, Sarah J ..... Nov. 15, '31
MacCleverty, Edna·........ Apr. 12, '34 Jewel ....................374 San Francisco..64
Maddrill, Mary L ...........Apr. 15, '32 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley....69
Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ............66
Mann, Bertha M ............June 10, '33
Chico .................... 111 Chico ................81
Martien, Alice..................Aug. 31, '33
Eden ....................113 San Leandro ....73
Martin, Arethusa G.......June 29, '32
Merced ............89
Mast, Frances C.............Aug. 31, '12 Yosemite .............. 99
Matthews, Louise L ......... Aug. 7, '22 Yount .................... 12 Napa ----··---·---·-·79
Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ·-·-·-----·-80
McGuire, Mary................July 14, '26
Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ............58
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32
Meyer, Mary ..............,,.. Apr. 13, '28 Acorn ....................494 Oakland ............80
Miller, Esther J ...............Mar. 5, '34 Oriental ................144 San Francisco..67
Mills, Kate D .................Mar. 21, '28 Santa Cruz............ 38 Santa Cruz........74
Moore, Mary S ................. May 9, '33 Redwood City...... 168 Redwood City..71
Newman, Susanna............June 4, '29 Antioch ................ 175 Antioch ............72
Nielson, Mary V ............. Nov. 21, '27 Santa Cruz............ 38 Santa Cruz........73
Noble, Grace F ...................July4, '32 • Trinity° .................. 27 Weaverville ....74
Nutter, Martha L ........... Mar. 25, '23 East Gate..............290 Los Angeles......79
Pankow, Catherine..........Apr. 29, '29 Crockett ................139 San Francisco..69
Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena ..........80
Parker, Calista A ........... Mar. 14, '33
Peppin, Jennie M ........... Mar. 14, '34 Golden W est....... .455 San Francisco.. 56
Percival, Hannah D ....... Dec. 29, '29 Liberty ..................299 Santa Clara......91
Perry, Mary C................. May 12, '30 Mendocino .......... 179 Mendocino ______67
Phillips, Sarah J ............. Feb. 22, '32 Mission ................169 San Francisco..80
Pajaro ..................110 Watsonville ......99
Proctor, Caroline A ......... May 5, '30
San Jose...... _, ____ 79
Quilty, Flora S ................... Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210
..............
139
San Francisco..76
Crockett
Rackerby, Elizabeth......Mar. 29, '30
Rassette, Sarah B...........Mar. 12, '31 San Francisco......360 San Francisco.. 76
Rickard, Jennie S ............. Dec. 7, '32 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco..79
Oakland ............84
Richardson, Julia ............Mar. 13, 'lt: Live Oak .............. 61
Rogers, Leonora .............. Oct. 6, '25 King David's........209 S. Luis Obispo..75
Root, Emma F ............:......Dec. 2, '32 Occidental ............ 22 San Francisco..69
Roscoe, Nettie P .............Jan. 13, '32 Oroville ................ 103 Oroville ............63
Russell, Elvira H ............... Feb. 2, '34 Beverly Hills ......528 Beverly Hills....70
Martinez ..........68
Sandell, Selma S ............. Dec. 31, '31 Martinez ---·--··-····· 41
Sawyer, Ella B...............Sept. 18, '13 Natoma ---------·------ 64 Folsom City......84
Berkeley .......... 70
Schmidt, Ella M .............Mar. 18, '34 Charter Rock ......410
Shearin, Eliza E .............Mar. 16. '31 Pai aro .................. 110 Watsonville ....79
Los Angeles ......78
Sniffen, Eugenia B...........Jan. 31, '33 West Lake ..........392
Pasadena ..........77
Corona
-·-···----·-------324
Soale, Carl B ................... May 15, '32
Los Angeles......63
Starbuck, Catherine........Feb. 24, '32 Jas. A. Foshay....641
San Francisco..90
Stevenson, Sarah ............June 30,_'33 California -----------· 1
Santa Rosa ........ 77
Stevens, Isabella................ Apr. 6, '32 Santa Rosa............ 57

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Stevens, Mary H ...............July 8, '32
Stewart, Mary ..............Mar. 12, '32
Surface, Emma .............. Aug. 19, '16
Tate, Sarah Ann .............. Aug. 29, '31
Teall, Lena ...................... Aug. 22, '32
Terrill, Cynthia E ......... Sept. 15, '27
Thomas, Ida .................... Nov. 23, '32
Thompson, Celia ............ Dec. 16, '33
Torr, Georgina R. ............Jan. 14, '33
Walker, Emma 0 .............June 1, '28
Walton, Ida M................ .]une 22, '25
Waterhouse, Flora E .....Apr. 20. '29
Weigle, May L................. Apr.10, '32
West, Eva. L..................... Aug. 9, '23
West, Henrietta B ........... May 10, '30
White, Martha J ............... Oct. 2, '30
Williams, Lillias ................ May 8, '32
Wilson, Emeline K .........Dec. 12, '33
Withers, Phoebe ............June 13, '27
Yarrington, Grace M..... Feb. 26, '29

Lodge
· No.
Golden State ........358
Concord ................117
Ione -------·---··-···----- 80
Brooklyn ---·-·-·--····225
Golden Gate.......... 30
Yosemite .............. 99
Bear Mountain .... 76
Eden ...................... 113
Elmhurst ..............610
Roseville ..............222
Oakland ................ 188
Oroville ................103
Marin .................... 191
Mission ................ 169
Santa Rosa ............ 57
Natoma ................ 64
Fortitude ..............624
Colusa ..................240
East Belt ..............391
University ............394

135

T own
Age
Los Angeles......78
Sacramento ......64
Ione ..................81
Oakland ............71
San Francisco.. 71
Merced ............79
Angels Camp ..65
San Leandro ....63
Oakland ............68
Roseville .......... 76
Oakland ............75
Oroville ............72
San Rafael........69
San Francisco..80
Santa Rosa ........82
Folsom City......82
Oakland ............63
Colusa ..............82
Tuolumne ........81
Los Angeles ......65

Admitted ditring the year, Men, 39. Average age, 71.23.
Name
Admitted
Allen, Henry D ............. Apr. 15, '34
Alseth, Lars .................... Mch. 7, '34
Armstrong, Geo. R .........Jan. 6, '34
Archer, Edward H ....... Mch. 2, '34
Barnes, Elmer W ........... July 7, '34
Beal, Chas. L ................. Feb. 15, '34
Benninger, Wm. G ..... Mch. 27, '34
Bidwell, Edward W ...June 24, '34
Blankenship, Jos. W ...June 16, '34
Bly, Carl D .....................July 7, '34
Corson, Jos. M ............. Dec. 30, '33
De Wolf, John W .........July 12, '34
Ferguson, Paris J ......... May 26, '34
Fraiberger, Max............ Sep. 12, '33
Halpin, Rob't L........... Oct. 23, '33
Hamlin, Fred'k S ...........Dec. 8, '33
Hamblin, Abraham L ...Jan. 8, '34
Hedley, John ................ Dec. 16, '33
Henry, Albert P ......... Mch. 17, '34
Hunn, George................ Aug. 1, '34
Hyde, Jos. H .................June 10, '34

No.
Lodge
Park ....,...............449
Moneta ............. .405
Excelsior ............ 166
Landmark ..........253
Liberty ..............299
Hawaiian.............. 21
Hanford ..............279
San J oaquin........ 19
Hartley................ 199
H ollenbeck .....,..319
Valley .................. 135
Sant,la Barbara.... 192
Sotoyome .......... 123
Pacific ................ 136
Silver Trowel ....415
Acorn ..................494
Southwest ..........283
Golden Gate ...... 30
J urdan ................ 654
Salinas ................204
Franklin ............ 143

Town
Age
San Francisco 64
Los Angeles ....60
San Francisco 81
Esparto .......... 83
Santa Clara ....65
Honolulu ........68
Hanford ..........68
Stockton ........ 74
Lakeport ........ 72
Los Angeles ....74
L inden ............77
Santa Barbara 81
Healdsburg ....90
San Francisco 68
Los Angeles ....61
Oakland ..........56
National City..68
San Francisco 85
Los Angeles.... 75
Salinas ............ 71
Courtland ...... 85

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Keith, Herbert B......... Nov. 17, '33 Oriental ..............144
Kittredge, Chas. H ....... Nov. 1, '33 Hollenbeck ........ 319
Kupfer, John A. .......... Feb. 10, '34 .Alisa! .................. 321
Lacy, Hervey R. ..........Aug. 16, '34 Solano ................ 229
Messe, George W .......June 21, '34 Monterey .......... 217
Miller, George W .......Mch. 25, '34 Oriental .............. 144
Oates, Lewis D ............. Feb. 3, '34 Clay .................... 101
Perkins, Richard V ..... Dec. 15, '33 Veteran ..............373
Peppin, Raymond C. .. Mch. 14, '34 Golden W est......455
Russell, George McC. .. Feb. 2, '34 Beverly Hills ......528
Sessions, Chas. B.........Dec. 23, '33 Richmond ..........375
Scott, Walter L ............. Apr. 1, '34 Burlingame ........400
Smith, Herbert W .......]an. 15, '34 McKinley .......... 347
Theiss, Henry D .........June 27, !34 Washington ........ 20
Thompson, John W ...Aug. 11, '34 Caledonia ......c.....486
Wallace, Rob't G.........June 23, '34 Petaluma ............ 180
Walbridge, Otis C. ......Oct. 25, '33 East Gate ..........290
Williams, Laurence......Jan. 27, '34 Santa Rosa .......... 57

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
San Francisco 71
Los Angeles ....70
Centerville .... 67
Vallejo ...........:57
Monterey ........63
San Francisco 74
Dutch Flat......72
W. Los Angeles
San Francisco 59
Beverly Hills ..71
San Francisco..83
Burlingame ....61
Richmond ......81
Sacramento .... 57
Bakersfield .... 69
Petaluma ........77
Los Angeles ....68
Santa Rosa ......68

Admitted during the year, Women, 29. Average age, 71.24.
Name
Admitted
. Alden, Lena ......................Oct. 29, '33
Archer, Philla E .............Mch. 2, '34
Barnes, Elaine G...............July 7, '34
Brown, Lima C.................May 25, '34
Bolting, Isadore L........... Dec. 29, '33
Casterline, Mary A. ........Apr. 10, '34
Coar, Lydia E ................... Feb. 11, '34
Davis, Fannie....................]une 24, '34
Drew, Minrtie.................... Oct. 20, '33
Edgar, Ida T ..................... Apr. 21, '34
Ellis, Mildred A.............Mch. 30, '34
Ferguson, Hattie M ....... May 25, '34
Ferguson, Ruth R. .......... May 26, '34
Honey, Alice ....................July 22, '34
Hutchinson, Sara ]. ........July 11, '34
James, Jennie Lee............ Nov. 19, '33
Johnson, Jane H .................Jan. 6, '34
Jones, Camilla T ............... Apr. 8, '34
Knight-White, Alda ........ Mch. 6, '34
Lampe, Charlotte A......... Sep. 19, '33
Lindsley, Luella P .........Aug. 16, '34
MacCleverty, Edna.......... Apr. 12, '34
Miller, Esther J ...............Mch. 5, '34

Lodge
No.
Liberty ~.................299
Landmark ............253
Liberty ................ 299
Bethlehem ............453
Silver Gate............296
Oceanside ............381
Alex Graham Bell 595
Mount Moriah...... 44
Unity ...............,....368
Durant ..................268
Mission ................169
Silver Gate............296
Sotoyome ............ 123
Keystone ..............161
Liberty ................ 299
Live Oak................ 61
Presidio ................354
Occidental ............ 22
California.............. 1
California.............. 1
Morning Star........ 68
Jewell ....................374
Oriental ................144

Town
Age
Santa Clara......71
Esparto ............80
Santa Clara......64
San Francisco.. 78
San Diego ........75
Oceanside ........61
Los Arigeles......82
San Francisco..78
Glendale ............74
Berkeley .......... 74
San Francisco..72
San Diego ........62
Healdsburg ......77
Milton .............. 75
Santa Clara......72
Oakland ............72
San Francisco..68
San Francisco..64
San Francisco..75
San Francisco..88 ·
Stockton ..........68
San Francisco..64
San Francisco..67

Name
Admitted
Mitchell, Evelyn E ............. Oct. 8, '33
Peppin, Jennie M ........... Mch. 14, '34
Russell, Elvira H ...............Feb. 2, '34
Schmidt, Ella M.............Mch. 18, '34
Thompson, Celia ............ Dec. 16, '33
Wilson, Emeline K .........Dec. 12, '33

Lodge
No.
Triangle .............. 548
Golden W est........455
Beverly Hills........ 528
Charter Rock ......410
Eden ....................-113
Colusa .................. 240

137
Town
Age
Venice ..............64
San Francisco.. 56
Beverly Hills....70
Berkeley .......... 70
San Leandro ....63
Colusa .............. 82

Died during the year, Men, 36. Average age, 79.44.
Name
Age
Lodge
No.
Date
Buried at
Aiken, William N.........82 Eureka ........~ ....:.. 16 Nov. 28, '33 Decoto
Bane, John L...................74 R,ockridge ..........468 Jan.
9, '34 Decato
Anderson, Alfred ..........83 Gravel Range .... 59 Mch. 5, '34 Camptonville
Barnes, Joshua D ...........83 Golden Gate:....... 30 Oct.
4, '33 San Mateo Co.
Baker, John L.................75 San Jose.............. 10 July 30, '34 Decato
Brown, Wallace C.........80 El Dorado .......... 26 Sep. 19, '33 Pacific Grove
Brooks, William W .......71 Fresno ................247 Jan.
8, '34 Fresno
Baker, Napoleon ............82 Waucoba .......... 413 July 31, '34 Decoto
Burkett, Thomas R .......85 Woodbridge ...... 131 June 11, '34 Lodi
Cowan, William H .........80 . Friendship ........210 Jan. 19, '34 San Jose
Chase, Lloyd W .............75 Vallejo .............. 487 Mch. 26, '34 Vallejo
Crill, Howard..................71 Valley ................ 135 June 21, '34 Decoto
9, '34 Oakland
Daly, Samuel J ...............83 Mission ..............169 Jan.
Elder, George W ...........83 Corinthian ........ 9 May 13, '34 Decoto
Green, Phillip..................79 San Miguel........285 Feb. 15, '34 Paso Robles
9, '34 Alhambra
Harrison, John ................75 Hollenbeck ........319 Feb.
Haviland, Emerson ........76 Temple City ......612 June 14, '34 Decoto
Humphreys, Thomas ....96 Forbestown ...... 50 Apr. 4, '34 Decato
Kiesling, Henry..............84 So. Pasadena ....367 Oct. 28, '33 Decato
MacMurdo, Wirt R. ...... 81 Bakersfield ........224 Jan.
2, '34 Decato
Martien, Jos G...............85 Chico ..................111 Apr. 21, '34 Chico
Maxwell, John ................71 Hollywood ........355 July 26, '34 Decato
Mensch, William A.......85 Hollywood ........355 May 23, '34 Glendale
Meyer, · William D........:72 Mountain View 194 Oct.
3, '33 Decoto
McCulley, William B...80 South Gate ....:...320 June 22, '34 Decato
Newell, Eben P .............76 Occidental .......... 22 Sep. 30, '33 Decato
Newman, Adolph............90 Antioch .............. 175 Jan. 18, '34 Decato
Parsons, Fred'k 0 .........69 Bay View ..........401 Aug. 17, '34 Decato
9, '34 Decato
Perkins, Richard V.......83 Veteran ..............373 Feb.
Prosser, Thomas J .........83 S. W. Hackett..574 July 28, '34 Decoto
Rhodes, Eustace H .........78 Laurel ................245 May 9, '34 Willows
1, '34 Decato
Rickard, Wiltse W .......76 Parnassus .......... 388 Jan.
Rolfs, Ernest ..................73 Hermann .......... 127 Oct. 20, '33 Fruitvale
.Rouland, Neils P ...........92 Southwest ........ 283 Aug. 6, '34 Decato
Russell, William H .......67 Antioch ..............175 Jan. 20, '34 Oakland
Watson, Matthew P .......82 Long Beach........327 July 16, '34 Decato

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Died during the year, Women, 22. A verage age, 76.77.
Name
Age
Carroll, Margaret R. ....72
Cash, Mary E.................84
Charbonneau, Elizabeth 67
Cook, Becky L ...............76
Davis, Eliza A ...............87
Evans, Mary J ...............79
Forbes, Louisa $ . ..........82
Godfrey, J ennie..............61
Hipkins, Sue B ...............89
Lampe, Charlotte A .......87
MacDuffie, Dorothy ......69
McKinnon, May A .......86
Mitchell, Evelyn E. ......64
Mitchell, Eliza................85
Morrison, Louisa B.......69
Nourse, Florence A .......78
Risher, Louise E ...........61
Risdon, Imogene B .......81
Seiler, Alice C.................77
T hurling, Angeline........80
White, Clara McG .........68
Wooten, Mary A ...........87

Buried at
Date
Lodge
No.
Crockett ............ 139 Oct. 19, '33 San Mateo Co.
San Jose .............. 10 Sep. 20, '33 San Jose
5, '34 Deco to
Carmelita .......... 599 Apr.
9, '33 Los Angeles
Hollenbeck ........319 Dec.
Keith .................. 187 Aug. 14, '34 Decoto
Whittier ............ 323 Oct. 13, '33 San Diego
Petaluma .......... 180 Feb. 19, '34 Oakland
7, '33 Deco to
Nevada .............. 13 Dec.
8, '34 Deco to
Thousand Oaks 478 July
California .......... 1 Dec. 18, '33 San Francisco
Foothill ..............564 Jan. 12, '34 Oakland
Morning Star.... 63 Feb. 17, '34 Deco to
Triangle ............548 Aug. 4, '34 Los Angeles
Fresno ................247 June 11, '34 ,Santa Cruz
7, '34 Deco to
Golden State......358 Feb.
Natoma .............. 64 Apr. 15, '34 Deco to
2,'34 Deco to
Redlands ............300 June
Consuelo .......... 325 Jan. 25, '34 Deco to
Mount Moriah .... 44 June 22, '34 Decoto
Argonaut ..........461 Dec. 18, '33 Oakland
Mission .............. 169 Dec. 31,'33 San Mateo Co.
Mill Valley........356 May 30, '34 San Francisco

Departures d14rinq the year, I .
Name
Age
Towzey, William J .............88

Date
Sept. 18, '33

Lodge
No.
Las Palmas..........................366

Outside Relief-Adults
Monthly
Allowance
Date Began
Name
Lodge
Aug. 4, 1932 Salina L. Dewey................ California No. 1..................$15.00
Dec. 7, 1928 Mrs. J. J. Terry.................. Western Star No. 2............ 25.00
Sept. 28, 1932 Arthur M. Stillwell .......... Washington No. 20............ 30.00
Feb. 28, 1931 Mary J. Wilgeroth............ Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
July 28, 1932 George Watson .................. San Diego No. 35................ 30.00
June 28, 1933 Sarah M. Watson .............. San Diego No. 35................ 15.00
Mar. 28, 1933 James E . Briggs................ Canoga No. 611.................. 20.00
Mar. 28, 1933 Tsabel M. Briggs................ Canoga No. 611.................. 20.00
May, 1929 Silas A. Williams .................... Forbestown No. 50............ 30.00
Apr., 1933 Benj. Geo. Ross ........................ lone No .. 80.......................... 15.00
Dec., 1932 Ellen Nutting .......................... Yolo No. 81... ....................... 30.00
Jan., 1927 Rebecca A. Sherwood............ Naval No. 87........................ 15.00
June, 1925 Frances M. Jack ...................... Chico No. 111...................... 30.00

139

Monthly
Date Began
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Mar., 1924 Geo. W. Forsythe.................... La Fayette No. 126............ 30.00
June, 1932 Mrs. B~rt L. Whitehead........ Woodbridge No. 131.......... 15.00
Feb., 1934 Del Eleanor Connor................ Curtis No. 140...................... 20.00
Apr., 1932 Minnie Mcfarlane .................. Franklin No. 143................ 15.00
Aug., 1930 Kittie May White.................... Excelsior No. 166................ 20.00
Aug., 1932 Frank R. Ridell ........................ Redwood City No. 168...... 25.00
Sept., 1932 Claude Willson ........................ Drytown No. 174................ 15.00
June, 1933 Martha L. Fortin.................... Oakland No. 188................ 30.00
June, 1932 Ellis P. Moore and wife........ Santa Barbara No. 192...... 30.00
Feb., 1929 Adolph Isaac .......................... Doric No. 216...................... 30.00
Mar., 1934 Lyman H.&Ella R.Barber.. .. Roseville No. 222................ 35.00
Nov., 1932 Wm. H. Thomas and wife.... Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Nov., 1932 Rudolf Oppenheim and wife .. Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Nov., 1932 Mrs. Prince L. Tople.............. Santa Ana No. 241............ 15.00
Feb., 1931 Iva B. Llewellyn...................... Reading No. 254.................. 30.00
Dec., 1930 James S. Smithson.................. Reading No. 254.................. 20.00
June, 1929 James A. Bowen...................... Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
Nov., 1933 Richard Burrows .................... Penrhyn No. 258................ 25.00
Jan., 1932 Rupert Shaw and wife ............ Evergreen No. 259............ 30.00
Jan., . 1932 John A. Spencer...................... Tuscan No. 261.................... 25.00
July, 1932 Christian Dahl ........................ So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Feb., 1927 Cora Lee Bennett.................... So. California No. 278...... 25.00
Feb., 1932 J. William Rumbek ................ Mt. Jackson No. 295.......... 25.00
July, 1934 Ruby L. Bunger...................... Ontario No. 301.................. 25.00
.Tan., 1934 Lizzie Kingsley ...................... Hollenbeck No. 319............ 15.00
Nov., 1923 Daniel R. Ballinger ................ Needles No. 326.................. 10.00
Feb., 1932 Chris. D. Metcalf.. .................. Redondo No. 328................ 10.00
Dec., 1931 Ella Y. Shanks........................ Hawaiian No. 21... ............. 25.00
Nov., 1930 Margaret K. Williams .......... Fruitvale. No. 336................ 30.00
June, 1929 H. Truitt.................................... Fruitvale No. 336................ 30.00
Feli., 1933 Isaac J. Bories and wife ........ Starr King No. 344............ 25.00
Jan., 1929 John M. Keeley........................ Sequoia No. 349.................. 30.00
May, 1931 Theo. Wetzel and wife .......... Presidio No. 354................ 50.00
Feb., 1933 Beulah M. Fitch..................... Hollywood No. 355 ............ 25.00
July, 1933 J ohn N. Terry.......................... Golden State No. 358. ....... 12.50
Mar., 1934 Clarence S. Biser and wife .... San Francisco No. 360...... 22.50
Sept., 1931 Julia W. ,\llison...................... Las Palmas No. 366............ 25.00
Feb., 1933 Wm. Whiteside and wife ...... Amity No. 370..................... 30.00
Oct., 1925 Nathaniel Black ...................... Palos Verdes No. 339........$30.00
Oct., 1931 Daniel deBarrows and wife .. Balder No. 393 .................... 25.00
Dec., 1933 Geo. Wilson and wife............ Fraternity No. 399.............. 40.00
July, 1934 Jos. A. Patton and wife ........ Charter Rock No. 410........ 50.00
Oct., 1932 Anna E. Curryer...................... Elysian No. 418................. 25.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Monthly
1
Allowance
Name
Lodge
Date Began
June, 1934 Earl L. Howard arid wife ...... Elysian No~l8 ........ ~.-- .... 45.00
June, 1933 Milford H. Mincey and wife .. Upland No. 419 .................... 31.55
Dec., 1929 John W. Moore and wife ...... Exeter No. 424.................... 30.00
Sept., 1932 Manford F. Tucker ............... ~ Midway No. 426 ................ 20.00
Mar., 1929 George F. Geibel... ................... Fairmount No. 435 .... ,....... 30.00
Feb., 1931 Mrs. William Judd .................. Sunrise No. 522.................. 12.50
June, 1933 James F. Price.......................... Bellflower No. 523 .............. 40.00
Oct., 1932 Herbert J. Middlemist... ......... Seal Rock No. 536 .............. 30.00
July, 1933 Wm. H. Lipphard .................... Utopia No. 537.................... 25.00
Feb., 1933 Albert H. Kimmeritz.............. Signal No. 543 .................... 20.00
July, 1931 Robt. E. Mims and wife........ Cifrol No. 656 .................... 40.00
Sept., 1932 George H. Shapiro.................~ Oakland No. 188................ 25 .00
July, 1931 Robert A. Martin .................... Eden No. 113...................... 25.00
Dec., 1930 Addie Cohn .............................. Monterey No. 217 .............. 30.00
Feb., 1930 Clara Scott .............................. So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Sept., 1926 Guy Fallai ................................ Silver Gate No. 296 ............ 25.00
June, 1933 . Sarah C. Stoudt ........ ,............... Emmanuel No. 318 ............ 10.00
Apr., 1933 Ida Schwartz ............................ Hesperian No. 264.............. 25.00
Apr., 1934 Sarah C. Vermilya .................. Tehama No. 3.................... 20.00
Dec., 1932 Catherine E. Kenny ................ Benicia No. 5...................... 25.00
May, 1933 Edgar L. Lewis ........................ Ha waiian No. 21... ...... ,.... :. 30.00
May, 1931 Wm. A. MacLeod .................... El Dorado No. 26.............. 30.00
June, 1933 John A. Lundey ........................ Yolo No. 81... ..................... 30.00
Oct., 1931 Minnie J. Fitzgerald ................ Sotoyome No. 123.............. 15.00
Aug., 1932 Emma Irish .............................. Truckee No. 200................ 25.00
Jan., 1933 Stella M. Jewell... ................... Rio Vista No. 208 .............. 25.00
July, 1927 Walter J. Smith ...................... Sisson No. 310 .................... 25.00
Sept., 1932 Chas. H. Pfeiffer and wife .... leProgres de l'Oceanie
No. 371 ............................ 50.00
July, 1931 Edward H. Silsby.................... Palos Verdes No. 389 ........ 20.00
July, 1934 J ennie N. Hanlin ...................... Mt. Diablo No. 448............ 25.00
Apr., 1931 Martha J. Snyder .................... Lassen No. 149.................... 20.00
Sept., 1932 Mabel C. Gupton...................... Reading No. 254................ 15.00
Dec., 1933 Alice C. Powell ........................ Silver Gate No. 296 .......... 25.00
June, 1933 Maud Tucker .......................... Tehachapi No. 313 .............. 25.00
Dec., 1932 Rachel H . Van Nest ................ San Francisco No. 360...... 25.00
Dec., 1932 Albert P. Fonte and wife...... Libertas No. 466................ 45.00
bee., 1931 · bavid S. Gittings ..... ,.............. East Jiay No. 489 ................ 25.00
Aug., 1933 Arthur G. Cartwright... ......... East San Diego No. 561.... 30.00
Aug., 1933 Lydia Cartwright .................. East San Diego No. 561.... 15.00
Sept., 1933 Louis W. Hills ........................ Golden Rule No 479.......... 30.00
Dec., 1932 McCoy Fitzgerald .................. Reading No. 254.................. 15.00

Report of the Superintendent-Covina

140

Monthly Total August, 1934.................................,..........................$2,469.05

141

To the Trustees of lhe Masonic Homes:

As in previous years, details of the operation of the Covina Home
have been made known- to you in monthly reports. In summarizing
the work of the past yea~ there is little to recount in the way of innovations. This is not a t~e for innovations; we should be satisfied
if we can hold the gains previously made.
Health-The health of the children during the year was on the
whole excellent. An average of 3.2 per cent of the children was under
care in our hospital. Surgical work done included the following:
Tonsillectomy ................:............................... 13
Appendectomy .............................................. 6
Hernia repair ................................................ 1
Coccyx removed ..........................................
Circumcision ...........................................•...... 1
Abdominal abscess ...................................... 1
Epidemic diseases included five cases of scarlet fever, one case
of chicken pox, and one case of infantile paralysis. The epidemic of
poliomyelitis (infantile paralysis) in southern California during the
summer of 1934 caused us to restrict the movements of children and
the visitations of Lodges. On medical advice we also kept the children at Covina during the summer instead of sending them as usual
to the camp at Balboa. One case of ihis dreaded disease made its
appearance in the Home, a little boy eight years old. Fortunately he
made a good recovery without any ·impairment of function.
Dietary Study-We were fortunate in securing a careful study
of the diet of the Home, made without charge by the Home Economics Department of the University of California. This study was
based upon the total consumption of all foodstuffs for the month of
October, 1933. Not only were the menus taken into consideration
but an analysis was made of the total consumption of the variou~
classes of ~oodstu~s. The report states: "The meals are well planned,
and there 1s a variety of healthful foods each day, which is essential
to the normal growth of children. . . . The diet furnishes sufficient
calories, proteins, calcium, phosphorus and iron ... . There are sufficient vitamins present." The cost of the dietary was found to be
10.8 cents per meal.
Admissions and Discharges-The admissions during the year have
numbered 26, of whom 10 were boys and 16 were girls. During the
same period we have discharged 39, the largest outgoing number in
any one year of the Home's history. The causes of discharge were
as follows:

\

142

PROCEEDINGS· OF THE

.

I
Graduation fr?U: high. school.............~--··-·--···-······-- 15
Reached age hm1t of eighteen.................... ---····--····· 4
Remarriage of surviving parent....,........ ····---··--······- 9
Improvement in financial status of fa ily.............. 4

····-·-·---··--1·····--··----·--·--·--···--

Unsatisfactory conduct
3
Other miscellaneous causes........... -··-·······-······--······ 4

.

GRA~D

LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

143

/'

-

39
Of those discharged, 22 were boys and 17 were girls. The average age of those discharged was 15 years. The average length of
their residence in the Home was 5 years, 7 months.
Placement of Graduates-The placemertt of those who leave the
Home by reason of graduation or age limit continues to be an important problem, rendered more acute by the general unemployment
situation. Appeals have been made to Lodges that they assume responsibility for their wards upon discharge from the Home, and in
some cases a most excellent response has been made. This work has
further been aided by the Southern California Past Masters' Association, which has created a Covina Home Placement Committee. Acknowledgment is also made of the interest and effective work of
Brother W. P. Jeffries in finding places for several of our boys.
These youngsters passing out from the portals of the Home, fill ed ·
with hope but bound for an uncertain destination, appeal strongly to
those who have been concerned in bringing them thus far along the
road of life.
'
How They Turn Out-The ultimate· test of the work done in
caring for children in the Covina Home must be their ability to take
their place in life as members of society. They were taken into care
by the fraternity because of circumstances which would have deprived
them of the normal •advantages of childhood, and the lack of which
threatened to prevent them from growing up as normal human beings.
How well, then, have these boys and girls succeeded in developing
as normal people?
The class of 1930, now away from us four years, included four
boys and ten girls. Nine of the fourteen secured further vocational
training after leaving the Home. Three of them have graduated from
College. One has had the same job in a legal office ever since he left
here. One boy, with a talent for drawing, spent several years working on shipboard, has saved his money, and is now attending an art
school in New York. Of the ten girls, six are married and are
making a success of their domestic life, refuting the charge sometimes
made that being brought up in an institution disqualifies an individual
for normal family life. Not one of the fourteen is a failure or living
on charity.

Worthy\f remark is the success of Grayson Merrill of the class
of 1929, who i'l\June was graduated from the U. S. Naval Academy
at Annapolis, rahl<ing 41st among the 465 members of his class.
The Home an~he Community-It used to be thought that if a
child could be with rawn from the outside world and placed safely
within an institution, e could be ideally prepared for life in that protected atn:ospher~. In N;_cent years it has come to be recognized that
the best kmd of hfe for a\?roup of children in an institution is one in
which they have the samt contacts with the community in which
they live as are enjoyed by children who live in private homes. We
now believe that what the child needs is not segregation from the
world in the sterilized atmosphere of an institution, but rather a
chance to live normally in the world under favorable conditions, and
thus gain experience and knowledge of real living.
It is fortunate that the Covina Home has from the beginning
been committed to the policy of providing such contacts for its
children. They attend the public schools, where they mingle with
~he _children of the community; they take their part in school organ1zat10ns. and clubs; they attend entertainments and make small purchases m , the local stores; they exchange visits with other children
of the community. All of this has its effect in building up their selfrespect and in keeping them free from that peculiar stigma which
many an orphanage-raised child has carried through life.
The Children's Money System-An important factor in our children's learning the art of living is their experience with money. The
pract.ical concerns of the everyday lives of all of us have to do at
every turn with money; the man or woman who is unskilled in its
use is not apt to succeed in life.
We carry an individual money account with every child. After
they reach the age of thirteen or fourteen, we begin to pay them for
work which they do in the Home, not in actual cash but in credits
on their accounts. At the same time we begin to charge them for
most of the things which they receive, except board and room and
~ealth _care. From the standpoint of our operating expense, it makes
httle difference whether we pay a boy for his work and charge him
for his shoes, or require him to work for nothing and give him his
shoes. However, it makes a tremendous difference to the boy in his
attitude toward work and in the way he takes care of the shoes.
Money for spending by the children is disbursed only upon checks
signed by them and countersigned by their housemother. Their expend_itures are carefully supervised. Much pains is taken day by day
to give them useful practical experience in the handling of money.
While the operation of this system costs something there can be
no doubt of its great value as training for life.

144

/

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

/

i~ t~hnse

There is little "discipline" in the Home,
of rigid
control. Where two hundred people live together, as e do, a certain
degree of routine and regularity is essential, but e have as little
mass movement, as few bells, signals, and drilt;ss possible. Obedience is required and secured, as well as a decen
respectful attitude
by children toward staff members in authority ver them.
Visitors are almost invariably impressJ by the atmosphere of
freedom. We think it better to allow the «j{ildren too much freedom
than too little. Sometimes there is an older boy who does not seem
to get along welt in this atmosphere, and whose behavior suggests
that a term in the navy or in a military school would do him good.
Since we cannot make the Home or any part of it into a military
establishment, occasionally it is necessary in the interest of harmony
and good order to remove such a one. Three discharges of this kind
were made in the past year; in two of these cases those discharged
were placed in outside care under our supervision.
It is fortunate that by the time a child gets old enough to be
troublesome in his conduct, he is usually able to realize his advantages
as a member of the Home and to know that he cannot expect to continue enjoying those advantages unless he does a reasonable pa~t as a
member of our Home community. The rule adopted a few years ago,
making the continuance of membership of each child beyond the age
of sixteen dependent upon annual reappointment ·by the Trustees, has
had a marked effect in causing the older boys and girls, leaders of
thought in the group, to value their privilege of membership, and to
strive to deserve it.
Interest of the Fraternity-On many occasions during the past
year the children have been made to realize that they are the objects
of love and interest of Masons throughout the jurisdiction. The
visitations of Lodges and other Masonic bodies, listed separately herewith, have brought to them a desirable contact with the great outside
world, and have given them that sense of being secure and of being
cherished wh~ch is one of the rights of childhood.
A fine thing was done for the Home by the Masonic Digest of
Los Angeles, in the presentation of ten free scholarships in the Mackay
Business College. These scholarships have been eagerly sought by
our graduates, placing at their disposal vocational training which is
greatly needed.
The cash donations made by many Lodges and other Masonic
bodies at Christmas are listed herewith. These generous contributions
have been used, not only for toys and gifts at Christmas time, but
also· to meet recreational needs throughout the year.
Miscellaneous donations are also listed herewith. One of these
deserves special mention, the gift of a complete Western Electric
Talking Picture equipment, from Mount Olive Lodge No. 506. This

145

Lodge, compo ed largely of men in the motion picture industry, has
long been spec1 Hy interested in the children of the Home. It is a
signal achieveme for one Lodge to have made so splendid a gift,
one that will long c~tinue to bring happiness to many children.
· ·
1
JoHN M. DOWNEN, Superintendent.
\

Visi~ns

to Covina Home

September, 1933:
16-17-Board of Trustees met at the Home.
October, 1933:
I-Pasadena Lodge visited the Home.
10-Social Club, Pomona Chapter No. 110, 0. E. S., visited the
Home and spent the day sewing for the children.
19-Covina Chapter, 0. E. S., spent the day at the Home sewing
for the children.
22-Fairview Lodge No. 629 visited the Home.
Service Lodge No. 594 visited the Home.
29-Nazareth White Shrine brought their lunch and visited the .
Home in the afternoon.
November, 1933:
19-Corona Lodge No. 324 visited the Home.
December, 1933:
3-The Gardens Lodge No. 621 visited the Home.
10--Alt States Lodge No. 593 visited the Home.
Citro! Lodge No. 656 visited the Home.
17-Mt. Olive Lodge visited the Home.
Melita Chapter No. 467, 0. E. S., spent the day at the Home.
February; 1934:
7-Glendale Auxiliary spent the day at the Home sewing for the
children.
11-Bethel Chapter No. 17, Job's Daughters, visited at the Home,
bringing a girls' orchestra for a concert in the afternoon.
March, 1934:
7-Hollywood 0. E. S. Auxiliary visited the Home and spent
the day sewing for the children.
11-0fficers' Association, 89th Masonic District, visited the
Home.
14--Social Club, Glen Erie Chapter No. 237, visited the Home and
spent the day sewing for the children.
25-Moneta Lodge No. 405 visited the Home, bringing an entertainment.
April, 1934:
8-0fficers Associaticn, 72nd District, visited the Home.

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

22-De Molay Mothers Club of Huntington Pa
visited the
Home.
.
Officers Association, lOlst District, visi~ed e Home.
29-Garvanza Lodge No. 492 visited the Ho e.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380 spe the afternoon at the
Home.
May, 1934:
13-Board of Trustees met at the Ho e.
20-0fficers
Association, 96th Distr· t , brought their lunch and
..
v1s1ted the Home in the afternoon
Veteran Lodge N·o. 373 visited the. Home.
Columbia Chapter, 0. E. S., visi:ted the Home.
Betsy Ross Chapter, 0. E. S., visited the Home.
Bethel Chapter No. 91, Job's Daughters, visited the Home.
27-Atwater Lodge No. 622 visited the Home.
South Park Lodge No. 563 visited the Home.
June, 1934:
3-Benevolence Lodge No. 631 visited at the Home.
Pasadena Sciots visited the Home bringing their band for a
concert in the afternoon.
Crescenta Valley Lodge No. 652 visited the Home.
9-Eastern Star Matrons of Covina visited the Home in the
afternoon.

ii

Entertainments and Speakers, Covina Home
October, 1933:
27-Mr. Terence Vincent of Los Angeles gave an interesting
talk on toy aeroplanes and their construction.
November, 1933 :
12-Voorhis School for Boys'_ Band entertained the children of
the Home with a concert.
17-A dance was held at the Home, the orchestra being furnished
through the good offices of Brother Wm. Abrams of Pasa- .
dena.
'

19-C~rona Lo~ge .N_o. 324 presented a fine program of Walt

Disney talking pictures.
December," 1933:

.

15-Through the kindness of Brother H . de Waard of Pasadena
an orchestra was furnished for a dance at the Home
'
17-Presentation cerem?ny for .the gift from Moun,t Oli;e Lodge
No. 506 of the talking motion picture equipment.
22--Monrovi~ Lodge No. 108 and Sojourner Lodge No. 607 together w~th other Masons re_siding in Monrovia entertained
all the ch1l~ren of the Home at an entertainment and Christmas tree with presents for each child, the same being held in

'\\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

147

the ~mple of Monrovia Lodge; the transportation to and
from M~nrovia was furnished by the entertaining brethren.
23-As· the gl\es-ts of Mr. Irven G. Reynolds of Covina and the
Fox Pomo~a Theatre, all the children of the Home were entertained at ilie Fox Pomona Theatre to see "Alice in Wonderland."
\
·
27-Chief Happy H\e,rt of the Cherokee Tribe gave an interesting talk at the Home on Indian lore.
28-Eighteen children were taken to Pasadena Community Playhouse -to see "Mr. Pickwick."
January, 1934:
27-Twenty children were taken to the Pasadena Playhouse to
see "Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch."
February, 1934:
11-Downey Bethel No. 17 Girls' Orchestra entertained the children at the Masonic Home.
12--Twenty older children saw the play of "Macbeth" at Pasadena Community Playhouse.
25-Mr. Alan A. Hunter, Mt. Hollywood Congregational Church,
addressed the Home as . a Sunday Service speaker.
March, 1934:
23-Thirty Intermediate boys and -girls saw the Covina Minstrel
Show through the courtesy of the Covina Lions Club.
25-Moneta Lodge No. 405 brought an entertainment to the
children.
28-Twenty children saw "Passing of the Third Floor Back" at
the Pasadena Community Playhouse.
April, 1934:
1-Rev. Leland S. Brubaker of Covina conducted the Easter
Services at the Home.
15-A returned missionary from Tibet spoke at the Sunday
services.
June, 1934:
3-Roy C. Bryan, Los Angeles, addressed the Sunday morning
devotional service.
A concert was given by the following musical organizations:
Moreno's Hollywood Trumpeteers, Southgate Girls' Band,
and Pasadena Sciot Band No. 44.
8-Attorney Lance D. Smith of Puente talked on the Pueblo
and Navajo Indians and showed moving pictures of the same.
11- Walt Disney Studios furnished films of Mickey Mouse,
. "Three Little Pigs" and so forth.
July, 1934 :
15-Robert W. Filmer of Inglewood addressed the Sunday morning devotional service at the Home.

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

18-Biola Ladies Quar.tette and two devotio~~ speakers addressed the children of the Home.
29-Ray Horton of Los Angeles visited the Home and addressed
the Sunday morning devotional group.
Donations to the Masonic Ho~ at Covina
Abrams, William, and Pasadena CommuniJ& Playhouse-20 tickets to
each of four plays, 50 tickets to one play.
Abrams, William-4 jars fruit and jam.
Alhambra Commandery No. 48---8 pairs roller skates.
All States Lodge No. 593-54 jars jams and jellies, 1 jar pickles, 2
jars tomatoes, 1 pkg. marshmallows, 3 handkerchiefs, and 2 boys'
knives.
·
Alseth, Julius-1 merry-go-round.
Appleton, Mrs. W. E.-9 scrapbooks.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-60 jars fruit and jellies.
Aurora Club-Auxiliary of Majestic Chapter No. 480, 0. E . S.-3
quilts.
Azusa Chapter 0. E. S.-150 boxes candy.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509-1 piano.
Betsy Ross Chapter 0. E. S., Bethel 91, Job's Daughters-29 jars
jams and jellies.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S.---8 jars jam.
Bullock's Dept. Store-1 exercising machine, 1 toy motion picture
machine, 1 lot miscellanequs toys, and 2 portable golf sets.
Carroll, Mrs. Mary L.-5 books, 1 jig saw puzzle.
Citro! Lodge No. 656-1 lot jams and jellies, 2 lbs. walnuts, 2 dolls.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-35 lbs. dates.
Corona Lodge No. 324---8 qts. 12 pts. canned fruit, 8 qts. 83 pts. jam,
86 glasses jelly, 5 qts., 6 pts. honey, 5 pts. pickle relish, 1 pkg.
raisins.
· Custer, Christiansen & Moore-Free ambulance service whenever
needed.
Damascus Lodge No. 648-12 qts. jams and jellies.
Daniel, ]. C.-4 qts. fruit, 4 glasses jelly, 3 lbs. prunes, 2 lbs. beans.
Davis, Mrs. Louise M.-18 jig saw puzzles.
Day, John-1 carton jig saw puzzles.
Falkenrath, Mrs. Annette-5 lbs. box candy.
Farris, Hulda-1 scrap book.
Fink, Matthew-9 loaves bread, 3 doz. rolls.
Fox Theatre and lrven G. Reynolds-175 tickets to "Alice in Wonderland."
Franklin Chapter No. 20-1 keg olives.
Gail, Mrs. E. 1.-3 pints canned fruit, 3 lbs. dried figs , 9 pints jam,
and 5 lbs. nuts.

149 -

Gardens Lodge, The, No. 621-36 jars jams and jellies.
Griswold's Fruit Preserving Co.-7 gallons fruit syrup.
Grossman, Harry-1 bottle of vanilla flavoring.
Hancock, 0. F.-10 jars jelly.
Hoffman, A. E.-4 doz. hand balls.
Hollywood Assembly No. 38, Social Order of the Beauceant-16 jars
jams and jellies, 1 can cor·n beef.
Hollywood Chapter No. 209, 0. E. S.-Rug and dresser for Hollywood 0. E. S. Room in Senior Boys' Bldg.
Koehler, Jack-1 small motion picture machine, 1,000 feet film, 1 lot
slides.
'
Los Angeles Film Exchange Board of Trade-Gratis films for entertainment of children every week.
L. A. County Forestry Dept.-5 venison.
Love, C. L.-15 lbs. walnuts.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E . S.-2 boxes candied fruits.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 lot miscellaneous games and toys.
Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los Angeles-$165.57 for purchase of playground equipment.
Mayhugh, Claude-2 boxes toys, 1 box phonograph records, 1 pair
skates, 1 lot books and magazines.
McDonald, Frank-1 desk.
McKesson Western Wholesale Drug Co.-25 cases grape juice.
McNatt, W. E.-30 tickets to Lions' Minstrel Show.
Meglin Dance Studios-60 jig saw puzzles.
Melita Chapter No. 467, 0 . E. S.-1 lot toys, 1 lot jams, jellies, pickles.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-1 large lot jams, jellies and foods, 1 large
miscellaneous lot ·recreational materials-golf clubs, balls, toy
balloons, etc., sail boat.
Moore, T.-18 cases orange marmalade.
Moss Stores, Inc.-39 suits underwear.
Mothers' Club, Huntington Park De Molay-1 lot books, pictures,
toys and clothing.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506-Complete installation of Western Electric
talking picture equipment in Masonic Home Auditorium.
Mt. Olive Lodge No: 506-93 qts., pts. jams and jelli~s, 5 lbs. honey,
5 lbs. peanut butter.
Mulligan, Mrs. Myrtle E .-1 dresser.
Nazareth White Shrine-78 jars jams and jellies, 9 jars canned fruit,
1 can honey, 1 can beans.
Ocean Park Lodge -No. 369-1 phonograph, 1 lot records.
Officers' Assn. 72nd District-I lot jams and jellies.
O fficers' Assn. 89th Masonic D istrict-I lot jams and jellies,
Officers' A ssn. 96th District-! lot jams and jellies.
0rnville Lodge No. 103-1 keg olives.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAl\D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pacific Wholesale Grocery Co.-2 cases of jams.
Pasadena Assembly No. 44, Social Order of the Beauceant-31 pints
19 qts. jams and jellies.
Pasadena Community Playhouse and William Abrams-20 tickets to
each of four plays,, SO to one play.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-l large lot jams, jellies, foods, toys, etc.
Pasadena Sciots-Sl qt. jars of jam, SS pt. jars jam, 96 glasses jelly,
4 qts. fruit.
Pomona Chapter 0. E. S.-3 qts. jam, 2 qts. fruit, 17 pints jam, lS
glasses jelly. ·
•
Porterville Lodge No. 303-lS lbs. almonds, lS lbs. candy.
Ramona Lodge No. 4S7-200 candy canes.
Rankin, Mrs. Rosemand T.-1 picture, 46 books.
Redfield, M. B.-1 lot piano sheet music.
Redlands Lodge No. 300-Curtains for Room 2, Senior Girls' Building.
Reynolds, Irwen G., and Fox Theatre-17S tickets to "Alice in Wonderland."
Robertson, Irene Lorraine-I qt. jelly.
Rouch, Alva-SO lbs. raisins.
San Gabriel Valley Humane Society-3 guinea pigs, 1 white rabbit.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 4S2-2 boxes cranberries, S lbs. candy, S lbs
nuts, 30 lbs. dry onions, 206 qts., 212 glasses, 262 pts. fruits, jams
and j ellies.
3chmick, W. H.-1 qt. jelly.
Selma Chapter 0. E. S.-24 cans applebutter.
Service Lodge No. 9S4-SO jars jams and jellies, 3 jars and 1 can fruit,
1 jar peanut butter, 87 jig saw puzzles, 9 masks.
Sewing Club of Hayward Chapter 0 . E. S.-4 doz. dish towels.
Silvera, Ivan E.-16 banners.
Silver Trowel Lodge N o. 41S-1 lot jams and jellies.
Smith, Mr. and Mrs. Fred H.-14 books.
Smith, Mrs. Joseph-3 qts. jam, lS pts. jam, 14 glasses jelly.
Snyder, Mrs. A.-12 books.
South Park Lodge No. S63-11 jars fruit and jelly.
State Fish and Game Dept.-1 venison.
St. John, Mr.-4 kaleidoscopes.
S ugar, Mrs. Edward C.--8 dresser covers.
Terminal Refrigerating Co.-1 case eggs.
Uhring, R. V.-14 jars jams and jellies.
Victorville Lodge No. 634, F . & A. M.-7 jig saw puzzles.
Webster, Mrs.-1 player piano, 1 lot music rolls.
Westlake Lodge No. 392-1 Sunlight Carbon Therapeutic Lamp.
White, Homer C.-6 books.
White, Mrs. Mattie B.- SO lbs. walnuts.
Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. F r an k-2 gallons of paint, 14 pairs of tapestry

curtains, 1 lot framed pictures, 1 floor lamp and shade, SO bamboo
fishing poles.
Wingo, M. A.--8 boxes candy.
Wolf, F. E.-1 lot ties, handkerchiefs, pictures, etc., 8 boxes pictures,
post cards, books of views.
Wollenberg, Chas. M.-1 lot girls' clothing.

lSO

lSl

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home
L odges

August 1, 1933, to July 31, 1934
Lodge
. No.
Acorn ............................ 494
Alamo ............................ 122
Alisa! ..............................321
Alpha ..............................431
Alta Loma ....................643
Alturas ·......................... .248
Amador .......................... 6S
Amity ............................370
Antioch ......................... .17S
Argonaut ......................461
Argonne ........................ S14
Ashlar ............................306
Atascadero ................... .493
Athens ............................ 228
Azusa ......................"......30S
Bay City ........................S26
Bear Mountain ............ 76
Bellflower ...................... S23
Blackmer ......................442
Blythe ............................473
Buckeye ........................19S
Burlingame ..................400
Cahuenga ...................... S13
Calave ras ...................... 78
Caledonia ......................486
California ...................... 1
Callayomi ......................282
Canoga .:........................611
Carquinez ......................337
Center ............................ 46S
Charity ..........................362
Charter Rock ................410
Chico ............................. .111

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
5.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
2.SO
S.00
10.00
7.SO
S.00
S.00
2S.OO
S.00
11.lS
10.00
10.00
S.70
lS.00
S.00

Lodge
No.
Chowchilla ....................485
Clay ................................101
Clinton .......................... 119
Coalinga ........................387
Confidence ....................203
Corinthian .................... 9
Corona ..........................324
Covenant ........................S27
Crockett ........................ 139
Cupertino ......................SlO
Curtis ............................ 140
Delta ..............................471
Doric ..............................216
Downey ........................220
Dunsmuir ......................297
East Bay ........................489
East Gate ......................290
El Cajon Valley............576
El Centro ...................... 384
El Dorado .................... 26
Elmhurst ........................610
El Segundo .................... S07
Eureka ··.·························· 16
Evergreen ......................259
Excelsior ......................166
Fairmount ................... .43S
Fallbrook ......................317
Ferndale ........................193
Fillmore ........................379
Forest ............................ 66
Fort Crook .................... 575
Francis Drake ..............376
Fremont ....................... .497

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
2S.OO
2.50
5.00
S.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
1.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
2.50
12.50
12.50
10.00
2.50
10.00
25.00
6.00
5.00
S.00
5.00

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Friendship ...................210
Fruitvale ··········-··········336
Galt ··········'-··'·-·············267
George Washington ....525
Golden Gate .................. 30
Golden Rule ..................479
Gold Hill ....................., 32
Guardian ........................596
Hammonton ..................433
Hanford .......................279
Hawaiian ...................... 21
Henry Clay .................. 95
Henry M. Stephens......541
Hermann -·········-'··'·····.127
Hesperian ......................264
Hills Ferry ...................236
Hiram ............................ 43
Hollenbeck ....................319
Hollywood ....................355
Holtville ........................425
Ho~olulu ......................409
Howard -~·-······················ 37
Humboldt ...................... 79
Illinoistown .................. 51
Indian Rock ..................638
John P. Jarman............669
Kilauea ..........................330
Lakeshore ......................551
La Mesa ........................407
Las Palmas ....................366
La Parfaite Union........ 17
Laurel ............................245
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie......................371
Lexington ..................:...104
Libertas ..........................466
Liberty ..........................299
Lindsay ..........................416
Live Oak ........................ 61
Lodi ................................25.6
Lompoc ..........................262
Long Beach ..................327
Los Angeles .................. 42
Los Gatos ......................292
Madera ..........................280

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
68.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
12.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Madison ........................ 23
Maricopa ........................434
Marin ............................ 191
Mariposa ........................ 24
Martinez ........................ 41
Mendocino ....................179
Meridian ........................667
Midway ..........................426
Military Service ..........570
Mill Valley ·········-·········356
Mission .......................... 169
Monterey ......................217
Mosaic ............................218
Mountain View ............ 194
Mount Diablo ..............448
Mount Moriah .............. 44
McKinley ......................347
Naval .............................. 87
Nevada .......................... 13
Nicolaus ........................129
Norwalk ........................315
Oak Grove ....................215
Oakland ........................ 188
Oasis ..............................664
Occidental ..................... 22
Ocean Park ..................369
Ontario ..........................301
Orange Grove ..............293
Oriental ........................144
Orland ............................265
Oxnard ..........................341
Pacific Grove ..............331
Pajaro ............................ 110
Palestine ........................351
Palisades ........................637
Palos Verdes ................389
Park ................................449
Pasadena ......................272
Paso Robles ..................286
Penrhyn ........................258
Perris ........................... .411
Phoenix ........................178
Piedmont ........................521
Pinole ............................353
Plumas .......................... 60

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
. 5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
7.50
15.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
2.50

Lodge
No.
Point Firmin ................558
Point Loma ..................620
Presidio ........................354
Progressive ..................578
Redwood City ..............168
Reseda ............................666
Rio Vista ........................208
Rising Light ................397
Riverside ......................635
Rockridge ......................468
Roosevelt ......................500
Roseville ........................222
Sacramento .................. 40
San Bernardino ..........348
San Diego ...................... 35
San ·Francisco ..............360
San Gabriel ..................546
San Gorgoilio ................668
San Jacinto ....................338
San Jose ........................ 10
San Mateo ....................226
San Miguel ....................285
San Pedro ....................332
San Simeon ..................196
Santa Ana ..................~.241
Santa Barbara .............. 192
Santa Rosa ................:... 57
Seaport ..........................550
Security ........................581
Selma .............................277
Semper Virens ............552
Sequoia ..........................349
Silver Gate ....,...............296
Silver Trowel ..............415
Sincerity ........................ 132
Snqw Mountain ..........271

Lodge
No.
Amt.
10.00 South Pasadena ............367
5.00 South San Francisco....212
12.50 Speranza I taliana ........219
7.00 Standard ........................440
10.00 St. Helena .................... 93
5.00 Suisun ............................ 55
10.00 Sunnyvale ......................511
1.00 S. W. Hackett..............574
2.50 Taft ................:...............516
12.50 Temblor ........................477
2.50 · Temescal ........................314
5.00 Texas ............................ 46
10.00 Trinity ............................ 27
5.00 Truckee .........................200
25.00 Tujunga ........................592
10.00 Tuscan ··················-········261
5.00 Unity ..............................368
10.00 University ....................394
15.00 Vacaville ........................134
5.00 Vallejo ..........................487
10.00 Veritas ..........................640
10.00 Vesper ............................ 84
5.00 Victorville ....................634
10.00 Victory ..........................474
10.00 Visalia ............................ 128
10.00 Washington .................. 20
12.50 White Pine ....................555
5.00 Willow Glen ................676
5.00 Wilmington ..........•.......198
7.50 Winnedumah ............:...267
10.00 Woodland ......................156
10.00 Woodstock ....................491
12.50 Yerba Buena ................403
15.00 Yolo ................................ 81
5.00 Yosemite ........................ 99
2.50 Yount ............................ 12

153
Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
' 5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
7.22
10.00
10.00
13.75
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50

$1 ,935.32
Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No.
California ...................... 2

Amt.
$ 5.00

Council
No.
Pomona .......................... 21

Amt.
5.00

$10.00

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chapters,R. A. M.

San Diego Lodge of Perfection, Scottish Rite Bodies .......................... 25.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club .......................................................................... 5.00
Sentous, P. F ............................................................................................. 5 00
Townsend, G. E ............................................................. _.......................... 2.00
Watson, F . G....................................................:............................................ 15.00

Chapter
No.
California ...................... 5
Chico .............................. 43
Cyrus .............................. 15
Dixon ............................ 48
Hanford ........................ 74
Petaluma ........................ 22

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50

Ch.apter
No.
Riverside ........................ 67
San Francisco .............. 1
Searchlight ................... .133
Siloam ............................ 37
Wilmington .................. 141

Amt.
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Amt.
$ 7.50
5.00
6.25
25.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00

Commandery
No.
Oroville .......................... 47
Palo Alto ...................... 47
Pasadena ........................ 31
Riverside ........................ 28
St. Bernard ....:............... 23
Vacaville ...................... 38
Visalia ..............~............. 26
Watsonville .................. 22

$115.00
Treat Fund Cash Donations-Covina Home

$70.00

August 1, 1933, to July 31 , 1934

Amt.
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00

Amoimt
Aurora Club, Majestic Chapter N o. 480, O. E. S .................................$ 10.00
Brown, Edw. A ............................................................................................. · 3.00
Davidson, N .....................................·........................................................ 10.00
Emera Club, Libertas Chapter No. 362, 0 . E. S................................. 5.00
Follett, G. and Noddin L., Memory Father C. A. Ocker .................... 100.00
Garvanza Lodge No. 492............................................................................ 2.00
Mt. Olive Recreation Fund...................................................................... 1.80
Nord, J. E....................................................................................................... 5.00
Ramblers of '28.......................................................................................... 8.17

$106.25

Total ..............................:.....................................:...................................$144.97

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Calvary .......................... 62
Chico .............................. 12
Golden Gate .................. 16
Los Angeles .................. 9
Marysville .................... 7
Mount Olivet .............. 22
Mount Shasta .............. 32
Naval ............................ 19

155

Chapters, 0 . E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amapola ........................119
Coalinga ........................ 114
Ione • ...............................283
Jewel ..............................238
Josephine ......................104
Mercedes ........................126

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
62.97
10.00

Chapter
No.
Miguelito
176
Mill Valley ....................219
Mira Monte ..................141
San Rafael ....................215
Santa Clara .................. 195
. A . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Scholarship Fund Cash Donations-Covina Home

Amt.
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

Amount
Alhambra Lodge No. 322..............................................................................$25.00
L. A. Bethel No. 36, J ob's Daughters.~ ................................................. :.. 10.00
Mercedes Chapter No. 126, 0. E . S ........................................................... 10.00

$142.97

Total .................................... .......................................~ ............................$45.00

Miscellaneous
Amount
Berkeley High Twelve Club......................................................................$ 5.00
Bra!Jn, John ..................................................................................................... 2.50
Breckenridge, F. J......................................................................................... 1.00
Hayward, S. M............................................................................................... 5.00
Hildebrand, P. H........................................................................................... 10.00
J ohnson, J. A............................................................................................. 10.00
Mette, C. A.................................................................................................. 1.00
Oakland Lodge of Perfection................................................................ 5.00
Parr, F. A................................................................................................. 1.00
Past Masters' Association of Bakersfield................................................ 5.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association........................................................ 5.00
Sacramento Lodge of Perfection, A . & A. S. R..................................... 12.50

August 1, 1933, to July 31, 1934

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

156

157

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1934
Boys-79

Name
Admitted
Athan, Byron....................Dec. 29, '27
Baker, Kenneth................Aug. 3, '28
Baker, Philip.................... Aug. 3, '28
Bayer, Oscar.................... Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy Charles ........ Aug. 27, '33
Blair, Arthur..................Sepf 13, '31
Blair, James .................... Sept. 13, '31
Blair, Theodore..............Sept. 13, '31
Bounds, Edward............Sept. 14, '31
Bounds, Wallace............ Sept. 14, '31
Boyer, Clarence................ Oct. 15, '30
Breinin, Lawrence.......... Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Robert.................. Dec. 8, '29
Brown, William................ Dec. 8, '29
Burgen, Fred.................... Aug. 23, '32
Carroll, Charles............ Mar. 17, '28
Clark, Harry S ...............May 28, '32
Cooksey, John E............. Aug. 27, '32
Countryman, Robert ...... Nov. 20, '30
Crawford, Robert H .........Oct. 1, '32
Cuniberti Remo.............. Nov. 18, '28
Davis, Harold James ...... Nov. 8, '32
Dearman, Walter Ed..... Dec. 18, '32
Falkenrath, John Alex ....Jan. 21,'32
Fasshauer, Jacob............June 12, '28
Firgins, Her·b ert.............. Apr. 28, '32
Gee, Hubert James ..........Oct. 26, '32
Gorbett, William.............. Nov. 4, '28
Hall, Henry Warren.....,.. Oct. 7, '32
Hocks, Russell ................]une 23, '27
Jewell, Donald................Sept. 12, '31
Udell, Ernest..................Aug. 29, '31
Lips, LeRoy........................]an. 3, '33
Lord, Edmund..................] uly 27, '29
Lord, Raymond ................July 27, '29
Lord, Richard ..................July 27, '29
Lord, Robert....................July 27, '29
Mark, John ........................ Aug. 6, '29
Maxwell, Allan Arthur..Mar. 4, '32
· Maxwell, Martin L ......... Mar. 4, '32
McRinnon, J ack.............. Dec. 16, '24

Lodge
No.
Petaluma .............. 180
Westlake ..............392
Westlake ..............392
Palestine ..............351
Palestine ..............351
Maui ......................472
Maui ......................472
Maui ......................472
Fullerton ..............339
Fullerton ..............339
Alhambra ............322
San Bernardino....348
Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles.......... 42
Alhambra ............322
Pentalpha ............202
So. California......278
North Star............ 91
Occidental ........,... 22
Pentalpha ............202
Speranza
I taliana ............. .219
Tujunga .............. 592
Fullerton .........:....339
Larchmont ..........614
Durant ..................268
Monrovia ............308
Covenant .............. 527
Ontario ................301
Sunnyvale ............511
Grand Lodge........
Rio Vista ..............208
Pasadena ..............272
Lankershim ........452
Golden West ........455
Golden West ....... .455
Golden West ........455
Golden West ........455
Whittier ..............323
Albert Pike ........484
Albert Pike ........484
Sequoia ................349

Location Age
Petaluma ......... .16
Los Angeles ...... 9
Los Angeles......12
Los Angeles...... 8
Los Angeles ...... 6
Kahului, T. H . 14
Kahului, T . H. 13
Kahului, T. H . 11
Fullerton ......·.... 12
Fullerton ..........14
Alhambra ...,.... 13
San Bernardino 9
Los Angeles...... 8
Los Angeles......10
Alhambra ........ 14
Los Angeles ......15
Los Angeles...... 7
Ft. Jones ............13
San Francisco 15
Los Angeles ...... 10
San Francisco 14
Tujunga .........~ ..14
Fullerton ..........15
Los Angeles......15
Berkeley............ 17
Monrovia ........ 13
Los Angeles ...... 15
Ontario ...........JS
Sunnyvale ........ 11
.......................... 15
Rio Vista ........ 14
Pasadena ..........13
N. Hollywood 13
San Francisco ..14
San Francisco 15
San Francisco 9
San Francisco 11
Whittier .......... 14
Los Angeles...... 9
Los Angeles ...... 11
Oakland ............14

McLean, Norman H .......Jan. 20, '32
Michelletti, Alfred..........Feb. 14, '32

Mount Moriah ...... 44
Speranza
I taliana..............219
Monroe, James................Jan. 21, '31
Orland ..................265
Monroe, Preston..............Jan. 21, '31
Orland ..................265
Morgan, John.................... Mar. 2, '31
Amity ......:........... 370
Morris, Thomas................]uly 1, '33
Silver Gate..........296
Myers, Harvey................ Aug. 23, '32
University ..........394
Myers, Wilbur............- .. Aug. 23, '32
University ..........394
Nelsen, Nels.................... Nov. 27, '27
Las Palmas .......... 366
Nelson, Alva.Lee............Oct. 23, '30
Montebello ..........451
Nelson, Calvin A.............Oct. 23, '30
Montebello ..........451
Nelson, Wesley EarL......June 8, '34
Montebello ..........451
Nix, Len Doran................ Oct. 8, '33
Ho11enbeck ..........319
Noren, Richard .......- ..... Sept. 13, '31
East San Diego.... 561
Plaster, George................Aug. 23, '32 · South Park..........563
Prewett, Norman..............Jan. 4, '28
Sisson ..................310
Reynolds, Ivan..................May 7, '28
Live Oak ...........·. 61
Richards, Langton.......... May 17, '30
Mt. Davidson ......381
Richardson, Joseph........ Nov. 18, '28 Golden State........357
Riddell, Edwin................ May 29, '30 Amity .................. 370
Riddell, Robert................ May 29, '30 Amity .................. 370
Rouch, Herbert.................. May 4, '26 Trav_er ..................294
Rouch, Melvin .................... May 4, '26 Traver ..................294
Rowland, George.............. Aug. 1, '33
Mariposa .............. 24
Rowland, James................Aug. 1, '33
Mariposa .............. 24
Runkle, Robert... .............June 15, '25
Lompoc ................262
Schwartz, Adolph ............Apr. 27, '30
Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles ........ 42
Schwartz, Joseph............ Apr. .27, '30
Lafayette ............ 126
Short, Ralph ...................... Aug. 4, '28
Simon, Teddy.................. Sept. 22, '26
Ocean Park..........369
Smith, Robert ....................Sept. 4, '33
Fullerton ..............339
Taylor, Floyd.................... Oct. 19, '22
Woodstock .......... 491
. Thacker, Marvin............June 18, '32
San J acinto..........338
W innedumah ......287
Walline, Cleon..................Jan. 31, '30
Walline, Harold................Jan. 31, '30
Winnedumah ......287
Watts, Jack Dean.............. Feb. 7, '32
American ..............475
Zahn, Jerome....................Oct. 19, '33
San Francisco......360

San Francisco

9

San Francisco 12
Orland ............ _ll
Orland ..............10
San Francisco 12
San Diego ........14
Los Angeles......10
Los Angeles...... 14
Fresno .............. 17
Montebello ......13
Montebello ...... 10
Montebello ...... 5
Los Angeles ......14
San Diego ...... 16
Los Angeles...... 15
Mt. Shasta ...... 16
Oakland ............13
San Francisco 16
Los Ange!es ...... 15
San Francisco 13
San Francisco 15
Kingsburg ........17
Kingsburg ........ 15
Mariposa .......... 10
Mariposa .......... 7
Lompoc ............ 15
Los Angeles......15
Los Angeles ......13
Sebastopol ........12
Ocean Park......17
Fullerton .......... 12
Alameda .......... 15
San Jacinto...... 15
Bishop .............. 10
Bishop ..............12
Los Angeles...... 13
San Francisco 10

Girls-76

Name
Admitted
Bailey, Georgia................ Feb. 17, '31
Bailey, Haroldine............June 22, '31
Bayer, Blanche F ........... Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Carol Jo ..............Aug. 27, '33

No.
Lodge
Redondo ..............328
Redondo ..............328
Palestine ..............351
Palestine ..............351

L ocation Age
Rodondo .......... 13
Redondo .......... 15
Los Angeles...... 12
Los Angeles...... 10

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Benjamin, Gloria ............Mar. 9, '30
Bowser, Verna................ Sept. 9, '27
Brown, Virginia................Dec. 8, '29
Burgen, Marie................ Aug. 23, '32
Burton, Carol.................. Aug. 27, '33
Clark, Dorothea..............June 15, '26
Clark, Frances................June 15, '26
Clark, Phyletha..............June 15, '26
Clay, Betty Jo..................Feb. 12, '33
Clay, Billie Kathryn ........Feb. 12, '33
Colby, Maxine................ Nov. 28, '29
Countryman, Barbara.... Nov. 20, '30
Coz, Emily........................May 16, '26
Craig, Bonita..................June 24, '34
Crawford, Marion June ....Oct. 1, '32
Davis, Georgiana Sue.... Nov. 8, '32
Ede, Thelma............~ .......Aug. 24, '26
Eremin, Zenith................Oct. 16, '27
Ernst, Gladys....................June 6, '31
Ernst, Marian ................ Sept. 14, '31
Fahringer, Helen............Feb. 10, '29
Falkenrath, Frances ........Jan. 21, '32
Firgens, Margaret..........Apr. 28, '32
Gee, Ethel Jane ................Oct; 26, '32
Germond, Dolly.............. Nov. 12, '24
Gorbett, Ruth .................... Nov. 4, '28
Hass, Dorothy..................Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Helen....................Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Marion..................Dec. 30, '33
Hildebrand, Majorie........July 4, '32
Horr, Margarite..............Jan. 27, '30
Jordan, Dorothy............May 28, '27
Jordan, Mildred..............May 28, '27
Kahl, Lydia Pauline...... Nov. 12, '32
Kahl, Patricia Claire.... Nov. 12, '32
Lewellen, Edna May......July 18, '34
Lewellen, Ida Belle..........July 18, '34
Lewin, Rosetta ................Aug. 23, '33
Lips, Janice........................Jan. 3, '33
Mark, Elizabeth................ Aug. 6, '29
Mark, Martha .................. Aug. 6, '29
Miller, Anna May.......... Apr. 29, '28
Miller, Ruth .................... Apr. 29, '28
Nelsen, Lillian................ Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Ina May..............Oct. 23, '30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Location Age
Lodge
No.
Los Angeles ......12
Manchester ..........585
El Monte ..........17
Lexington ..:.........104
Los Angeles ...... 15
Los Angeles.......... 42
Alhambra ........16
Alhambra ............322
Buena Park...... 5
Buena Park. .........357
Los Angeles ...... 11
So. California......278
So. California......278 Los Angeles......13
Los Angeles......12
So. California......278
Bakersfield ......13
Bakersfield ..........224
Bakersfield ......11
Bakersfield ..........224
Los Angeles ......13
Covenant ..............527
San Francisco 13
Occidental ............ 22
Fresno
12
Center ..........~ .......465
Los Angeles...... 14
Gardens ................621
Pentalpha ....-........202 · Los Angeles......14
Tujunga ..........13
Tujunga ................592
Beckwith .......... 16
Hope .....................234
Los Angeles ...... 12
Los Angeles.......... 42
Merced ............. .14
Yosemite .............. 99
Merced ............ 16
Yosemite ............:. 99
Los Angeles...... 16
Ascot ....................538
Los Angeles......10
Larchmont ..........614
Monrovia ....... .14
Monrovia ............ 308
Covenant .............. 527 Los Angeles...... 13
Pasadena ..........15
Pasadena ..............272
Ontario ............ 13
Ontario ................301
San Francisco 14
San Francisco......360
San Francisco 12
San Fcancisco......360
San Francisco.. 11
San Francisco ......360
Fresno .............. 15
Las Palmas ........366
San Francisco 11
Military Service.. 570
San Francisco 11
.Justice ..................549
San Francisco 15
Justice .................. 549
Chowchilla ...... 15
Chowchilla ..........485
Chowchilla ......14
Chowchilla ........ ..485
Los Angeles ...... 9
Euclid ..................519
Los Angeles...... 9
Euclid ..................519
University ............394 Los Angeles......12
N. Hollywood 12
Lankershim ........542
Whittier .....;.... 16
Whittier ..............323
Whittier .......... 18
Whittier ..............323
Berkeley .......... 13
Durant ..................268
Berkeley ..........15
Durant ..................268
Fresno ..............15
Las Palmas ........266
Montebello ...... 8
Montebello ..........451

Name
Admitted
Osborn, Betty Jo ............June 16, '34
Parbery, Alice................ Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Catherine........ Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Phyllis............ Mar. 26, '31
Plaster, Elizabeth ..........Aug. 23, '32
Prim, Maxine.................. Nov. 15, '28
Reynolds, Juliette............ May 7, '28
Richter, Joan Jennie......Dec. 16, '33
Richter, Rose Mildred....Dec. 16, '33
Rouch, Doris.................. Sept. 11, '31
Schulte, Helen.................... Apr. 2, '25
Shaw, Lorraine................Jan. 13, '23
Short, Beth Marie............ Aug. 4, '28
Short, Dorothy Mae........ Aug. 4, '28
Smith, Gwendolyn Dawn Sept.4, '33
Tyler, Barbara..................Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Dorathy..................Jan. 9, '26
Urban, Helen Elizabeth May 3, '34
Wall, Eleanor Jean .......... Apr. 5, '32
Walline, Lois....................Jan. 31, '30
Warren, Ruth ................Sept. 11, '26
Washabaugh, Doris........Dec. 18, '32
White, Marjorie..............Jan. 18, '31
Willgeroth, Eleanora.... Feb. 25, '32
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina Feb. 25, '32
Williams, Irene..............Aug. 28, '27
Williams, Patricia B ..... Aug. 28, '27

Lodge
No.
Montebello ..........451
Excelsior ..............166
Excelsior .............. 166
Excelsior .............. 166
South Park ........563
Holtville ..............425
Live Oak .............. 61
Moneta ................405
Moneta ................405
Traver ..................294
Hermann ..............127
King David's ......209
Lafayette .............. 126
Lafayette ............ 126
Fullerton ..............339
Palto Alto ............346
Palo Alto ............346
Park ......................449
Monrovia ............ 308
Winnedumah ......287
Alhambra ............322
Francis K.
Shattuck............ 571
Fairmount ............435
Hawaiian ............ 21
Hawaiian ............ 21
Downey ................220
Downey ................220

159
Location Age
Montebello ......14
San Francisco 10
San Francisco 7
San Francisco 8
Los Angeles...... 7
Holtville .......... 13
Oakland ............15
Los Angeles......13
Los Angeles...... 15
Kingsburg ...... 13
San Francisco 16
S. L. Obispo...... 17
Sebastopol ........13
Sebastopol ......14
Fullerton .......... 9
Palo Alto.......... 12
Palo Alto.......... 16
San Francisco.. 11
Monrovia ........ 9
Bishop .............. 16
Alhambra ........16
Berkeley .......... 11
San Francisco.. 12
Honolulu .......... 11
H onolulu .......... 12
Downey ............ 17
Downey ............ 14

Outside Rclicf-Childreti-By Trustees
Date Began
Sept., 1932
Nov., 1933
Aug., 1928
June, 1931
Feb., 1931
July, 1933
Nov., 1930
July, 1934
Mar., 1930
Apr., 1933

Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Geraldine Tripp ......................San Jose No. 10..................$20.00
Ruth E. Owen ..........................Vacaville No. 134................ 25.00
John E. and Leota E. Wear .. Excelsior No. 166................ 25.00
Corrine C. and Dawn Cornett ................:.......................Santa Ana No. 241.............. 40.00
Audrey J. Llewellyn..............Reading No. 254.................. 30.00
Harold J. Samson, Jr .............Durant No. 268 .................... 15.00
Clifford A. Stewart................ Elsinore No. 289.................. 10.00
Arthur, Hugh, Paul, Robert Hopkins .......................... Santa Paula No. 291.......... 30 .00
Ellsworth . K. and Cressie
.
Wisler .................................... Porterville No. 303............ 30.00
Vaughn E. Hayes .................... Monrovia No. 308.............. 25.00

160

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Monthly
Name
Lodge
allowance
Date Began
Feb., 1926 Willard Chandler .................... Alpha No. 431...................... 20.00
Nov., 1930 Bone (four children) .............. San Pedro No. 332.............. 50.00
Aug., 1932 Delphine V. Beauchamp........Fullerton No. 339................ 20.00
Aug., 1932 Jacqueline M. Beauchamp...... Fullerton No. 339................ 20.00
Feb., 1934 Ruth 0. Doblough....................Sunset No. 352............:....... 15.00
Feb., 1934 Grace M. Doblough ................ Sunset No. 352.................... 15.00
May, 1933 Ruth and Marion Casabian.... Sunset No. 352.................... 25.00
Mar., 1930 Edward DeNike ...................... Presidio No. 354.................. 15.00
Aug., 1930 Walter and Mary Smith........Ocean Park N-0. 369.......... 10.00
Aug., 1931 Mary L. Bibby..........................Occan Park No. 369.......... 30.00
Mar., 1932 Curtis M. Langford ................ Fraternity No. 399 .............. 20.00
May, 1927 Pearl 0. Vincent.................... Yerba Buena No. 403.......... 10.00
Fep., 1933 Charles, Harold, Richard,
Olive Bowen ........................Arlington No. 414.............. 40.00
Mar., 1933 Lader (two children) .............. Schofield No. 443................ 20.00
June, 1929 Phillips (three children) ........Mt. Oso No. 460.................. 60.00
Apr., 1928 Abraham Ottenberg ..............Lincoln No. 470.................. 20.00
Aug., 1934 Troup (four children) ............Golden Rule No. 479.......... 20.00
Sept., 1928 Abraham S. Hitch.................. Point No. 503...................... 20.00
Mar., 1932 Maas (three children) ......:.....Cupertino No. 510.............. 60.00
Feb., 1934 Earl, Milton, Eileen Locke.... Ascot No. 538...................... 30.00
Dec., 1931 Robert and Wm. Reese.......... Sunnyside No. 577.............. 30.00
Nov., 1933 Manley P. Jones ......................Compass No. 590....:........... 20.00
Oct., 1930 Wm. and Jas. Todd.................. Palisades No. 637................ 30.00
Nov., 1925 Havlin (two children) ............ Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371 ............................. 30.00
Jan., 1927 Thomas McL. Carlisle............Schofield No. 443................ 20.00
Feb., 1927 Raymond Sherrer ....................Veteran No. 373.................. 30.00
June, 1933 Edmund B. Nutting................Evening Star No. 186........ 30.00
Oct.,. 1931 Edward and Norman Johnson .......................................... Point Firmin No. 558........ 30.00
Total ........................................................................................................$990.00
Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home
July 31, 1934
Name
L odge
No.
*Botts, Eunice......................................Dinuba ........................385
Burns, Janice Helene........................ Veteran ......................373
Dennett, Wm. H ............................... San Gabriel ................546
*Helwig, Benjamin C......................... Orange Grove............293
Liddell, Samuel T ............................. Pasadena ....................272
*Smith, Walter.................................... F.ullerton ....................339
*Williams, Robert R ........................... Artesia ........................377
*Previously cared for in the Home.

Date Began
Oct. 8, '32
Apr. 18, '30
Oct. · 20, '33
Dec. 1, '29
Sept. 9, '31
Feb. 8, '34
July 23, '33

161

Departed During the Year

September 1, 1933-July 31, 1934
Boys-22
Name
Admitted
Departed
Bergman, Roy ................Dec. 30, '29 Returned to mother .......... Sept. 1, '33
Brooks, Edward ................July 8, '34 Returned to mother ........July 15, '34
Chapin, Philip ..................Oct. 30, '25 Returned to mother ........June 17, '34
Chapin, Robert D .............June 22, '22 Returned to mother .......... Sept. 1, '33
Cuniberti, Elby................ Nov. 18, '28 Returned to Lodge ........Sept. 19, '33
Davis, Frank .................... Aug. 5, '28 Returned to mother ..........Sept. 8, '33
Enslow, Lawrence..............]an. 6, '30 Placed with sister............June 19, '34
Gittings, George.............. Sept. 16, '29 Returned to brother........Sept. 10, '33
Greene, William..................Oct. 3, '26 Placed in outside care.... Sept. 17, '33
Kathan, Frederick..............Jan. 2, '32 Returned to father ..........Dec. 16, '33
McFarland, Floyd............Oct. 30, '32 Returned to mother ........July 20, '34
McFarland, Wallace........July 30, '33 Placed in outside care.... Sept. 11, '33
McKinley, Douglas........ Aug. 31, '21 Placed with sister..............July 6, '34
McNamara, Edward ......Apr. 23, '30 Returned to mother ......Mar. 31, '34
Myers, Lawrence............ Aug. 23, '32 Returned to father ..........June 16, '34
Ogden, Allen.................... Aug. 31, '31 Returned to father ..........June 16, '34
Schulze, Frank..................May 11, '28 Placed in sanitarium...... Sept. 21, '33
Shoupe, Billie..................Sept. 10, '27 Returned to Lodge..........J une 28, '34
Smith, Walter ....,...........,.Sept. 3, '33 Placed in outside care...... Feb. 8, '34
Taylor, Lauryn................f'\.ug. 29, '21 Returned to father ..........Oct. 27, '33
Traxler, Arnold ................June 8, '29 Returned to mother ........June 19, '34
Williams, Thomas ..........July 12, '30 Returned to father ............ Nov. 2, '33
Girls-17
Bailey, Apjtp,.................... Sept. 10, '25 Returned to mother ........June 17, '34
Brooks, Christine................July 8, '34 Returned to mother ........July 15, '34
Brown, Elean-0r...................D~. 8, '29 Returned to father ..........June 17, '34
Browne, Alberta ..............July 16, '24 Returned to mother ........June 26, '34
Clarke, J osephine ............Apr. 23, '27 Returned to Lodge ..........June 17, '34
Fowler, Alice....................June 28, '27 Returned to mother ........June 15, '34 ·
Germond, Ramona .......... Nov. 12, '24 Returned to mother ........June 18, '34
Gittings, Helen................ Sept. 16, '29 Returned to brother ........June 15, '34
Harris, Annabelle............June 24, '23 Returned to Lodge ..........June 18, '34
Hedrick, Bernice..............Jan. 22, '29 Returned to father ..........June 15, '34
McNamara, Anna............ Apr. 23, '30 Returned to mother ........Mar. 31, '34
Odell, Betty .................... Mar. 12, '23 Returned to mother ........June 15, '34
Ogden, Ruth .................... Aug. 31, '31 Returned to father ..........June 16, '34
Reed, Lila............................Dec. 2, '28 Placed with stepmother..June 15, '34
Runkle, J ean ....................Nov. 13, '22 Returned to mother ........June 15, '34
Williams, Dorothy ..........July 12, '30 Returned to father ............ Nov. 2, '33
Zbinden, Shirley.............. Sept. 14, '31 . Returned to mother ........June 16, '34

162

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS

Admitted to the Covina Home

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

August 1, 1933-July 31, 1934
Boys-10
Name
Admitted
Bayer, Oscar ... :......,....... Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy ...................... Aug. 27, '33
Brooks, Edward ..................July 8, '34
Nelson, Wesley ..................June 8, '34
Nix, Len Doran .................. Oct. 8, '33
Rowland, George .............. Aug. 1, '33
Rowland, James ................ Aug. 1, '33
Smith, Robert .................. Sept. 3, '33
Smith, Walter .................. Sept. 3, '33
Zahn, Jerome.................... Oct. 19, '33

Lodge
No.
Palestine ........351
Palestine ........351
Golden State ..358
Montebello ... .451
Hollenbeck ....319
Mariposa ........ 24
Mariposa ........ 24
Fullerton ........339
Fullerton ........339
San Francisco 360

163

Location
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Montebello
Los Angeles
Mariposa
Mariposa
Fullerton
Fullerton
San Francisco

Your Committee on Accounts, in accordance with Constitutional requirements, met at the office of the Grand Secretary on the last Saturday
of each month and audited such bills, claims and demands that were
·found in order.
Your committee respectfully submits the following amendments to
the Constitution:
Section 37e, fifth line, amend to read, "to the Committee on Accounts
for their approval, and when" •..
Section 37k, sixth line, amend to read, "and approved by the Committee on Accounts, be ·allowed."
PAUL NATHAN,

V. E. PERRY,
MAX

J. MERTENS,

OTTO G. FREYERMUTH,

Committee.

Girls-16
Bayer, Blanche .............. Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ........351
Bayer, Carol Jo .............. Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ........351
Brooks, Christine ................July 8, '34 Golden State .. 358
Burton, Carol .................. Aug.27, '33 Buena Park ....357
Craig, Bonita................... .]une 24, '34 Gardens .......... 621
San Frandsco 360
Hass, Dorothy Rose ........ Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Helen Lenell... ....... Dec. 30, '33 San Francisco 360
Hass, Marion Jane .......... Dec. 30, '33 San Francisco 360
Lewellen, Edna ................June 13, '34 · Euclid ............ 519
Lewellen, Ida ....................July 13, '34 Euclid ............ 519
Lewin, Rosetta. ............... Aug. 23, '33 University ...... 394
Osborn, Betty Jo ..............June 16, '34 Montebello ....451
Richter, Joan Jennie ........ Dec. 16, '33 Moneta ..........405
Richter, Rose Mildred .... Dec. 16, '33 Moneta ......... .405
Smith, G. Dawn................ Sept. 3, '33 Fullerton ........ 339
Urban, Helen Elizabeth.... May 8, '34 Park ............... .449

Adopted as read.

Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Buena Park
Los Angeles
San Francisco
San Francisco
San Francisco
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Montebello
Los Angeles
Los Angele~
Fullerton
San Francisco

Report adopted, and proposed amendments referred to
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the M. '. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The decision of the Grand Lodge at its last annual communication,
and as matter of economy, to omit the Report on Correspondence from
the proceedings, has p·recluded its preparation. The committee has, however, ventured to write briefly, with hope of bringing within the compass
of a few pages something of the more important trends within the
American craft. There are in the fraternity movements discernible and
influences at work that should be known and estimated by the Brothers
generally, if they are to think and act intelligently in their Lodges.
As might be expected, the continuing period of depression and uncertainty assumes first place in the thought of all. This holds true for the
deliberations of Grand Lodges and the discussions in the constituent
bodies. The whole craft has been injuriously affeeted by the disturbed
conditions, as have all institutions. Revenues have progressively decreased,
as result of unemployment and financial losses reaching to the membership. Economies have been forced, and many activities have suffered. The
problems facing those in places of authority and responsibility are serious
beyond precedent.
There has come, as a consequence of the economic pinches, a great
falling away of membership. Many, timid or uninformed, have expressed
fears not justified by the facts. A survey conducted by the Grand Lodge
of the District of Columbia has discovered that, contrary to the generally

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA '

accepted belief, the suspensions for non-payment of dues do not represent
the largest loss in membership. In other words, the voluntary action of
those who have left the Lodges is responsible for the greatest losses. This
would indicate an inferior class of material gathered during the years of
easy money and consequent carelessness. Therefore, instead of regretting
that such men have left the fraternity, there is cause for congratulation
in that they have voluntarily severed a relationship of no worth to themselves, and the continuance of which would constitute a dead weight to
the Lodges of their membership.
In attempting to cope with the decreasing revenues, many Lodges have
advocated a lowering of dues and fees. In several Grand Lodges this has
been a subject for earnest discussion. But the weight of informed opinion
has been against any effort to place Masonry upon the "bargain counter."
The effect of such cheapening would be, as has been pointed out, to bring
in a new crop of candidates, financially and mentally unfit, thus repeating
the same mistakes that have contributed to the present troubled condition.
The need for strictest economy is apparent in all jurisdictions, and
this phase of the situation is commanding the attention of Brothers best
fitted to deal with such subject. It is realized that there is nothing to be
gained by impulsive or disruptive effort. A clear knowledge of conditions,
as to causes and effects, must precede any beneficial action. Impatience,
natural to those who suffer, must be held in curb, until such time as plans
can be formulated and put into operation.
In the meantime, the old "hit and miss" style of dealing with finances
of the Lodges must be ended, if the Brothers are to have peace of mind
and the sense of solvency in their fraternal relations. It was possible a
few years ago to meet any deficit from the fees. Thus carelessness was
engendered ; dues were allowed to remain unpaid and to accumulate in
amount. The Lodges operating in such manner were unable to meet the
strain to which they were unexpettedly subjecte>d. The demand is ·no'Oll,
however belatedly made, that the dues or other certain income of a Lodge
must be wholly relied upon to cover expenditures, and plans to gain such
desirable end are being worked out in many of the juri§dktions.
The financial troubles of the Lodges have neeessarily affected the
Grand Lodges, and here again economies have been forced because of a
diminution of revenues. To such an extent has such decrease gone that
at least in one jurisdiction (Indiana) the annual communicaticn could not
be held. In several others the annual sessions have been shortooed to the
bare minimum of time required for a hurried transaction of essential
business. In all the governing bodies important services have been threatened, have been cut down or suspended. The great organized charities of
the craft have suffered severely. Faced by ever-increasing demands, and
with diminished revenues, the outlook has in some cases assumed a-perilous
aspect. The particulars in several instances would supply important information, but are beyond scope of this brief writing. A proposal, farreaching and to many minds revolutionary, was put forward by the Grand

Master of Oregon. He would have the Grand Lodge take over the care
and management of all funds of the constituent Lodges. Such proposal
is now presumably before the Brethren for consideration. But it is not
likely to gain acceptance.
These are the darker shades of a picture, that must be brushed in
to accurately portray the situation. There are, however, brighter colors
to be used in a truthful limning of the view. American Masonic Lodges
have not lost heart, nor are the Brothers ceasing intelligent efforts to deal
with troubled conditions. Indeed, it may be said that optimism grows,
based upon well-founded hope of coming betterments. As an example of
the spirit of the craft we quote from the annual address of the Grand
Master of North Dakota-a state in which unprecedented drouth and
crop failures were added to the general difficulties. He could still strike
a hopeful, even a triumphant note, as thus: "We owe much to Masonry,
and should recognize the fact that we cannot uphold the reputation of the
great order by encouraging increase of membership by any lowering of
fees and dues. It appears that we should not become panicky when confronted with financial difficulties, or to the making of concessions to be
regretted later."
·Everywhere clear-.sighted Brothers are finding cause for encouragement, placing reliance upon the solidity of the Masonic character and
having faith in the manhood of America to conquer all difficulties of the
time, and to find out the right even in the confusion of present-day conditions. The losses of membership, startling at first sight of the figures,
can be regarded as a blessing in disguise, in removing from the rosters
the names of many who were not fitted of mind and heart to be of value
to the craft · who could not appreciate the value of the Masonic relationship. The r;nks of true Masons are closing up, with a new determination,
an increased hope and a larger faith in themselves, their fellows and the
future.
Connected with this general subject of financial conditions, is the
matter of life membership, which has assumed importance and been generally discussed. In many of the·older Lodges such permanent exemptions
from dues-paying have been dealt out with lavish hand, for services .real
or imagined, or on account of length of connection, until now such Brothers represent a considerable proportion of the memberships, and the situation has become serious. Again, where the life memberships have been
purchased, too o.ften the amounts thus paid have not been kept separate,
with only the interest used, as was the intention in all cases. As a result
such payments have been spent, and the number of those exempted have
been increased, ·without the countervailing advantage. In the latter cases
the Brothers affected have not been to blame; they have acted in good
faith. The Lodges themselves are derelict; they must suffer for the carelessness of their officers and the culpable negligence of the entire membership. This situation has resulted in new legislation on the part of several
Grand Lodges, designed to correct abuses in the future. Some have

164

165

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

proposed to do away with all life memberships, except those actually
purchased at a rate which at current interest would bring in the actual
amount of dues.
A matter that has occasioned considerable debate has to do with the
consolidation of Lodges. One may say that the general expression of
authority is on the side of consolidations, where the bodies are too weak
to stand alone 'in a manner creditable to the fraternity and of worth to
the membershi~s. In the cities it has been found that Lodges were multiplied beyond need. Many of these are living precariously, and some in
sheer desperation have openly solicited candidates against all Masonic
rule, bringing themselves into disrepute and working injury to the good
name of the era ft.
The present ease of travel and the abundant means of transportation,
even in the rural districts, have been almost fatal influences upon the
small and isolated Lodges. Many of these exist only on sufferance of the
authorities, no longer having force or influence in their communities. It
would be to advantage of all concerned if such bodies can be induced to
consolidate at some central and accessi·ble point, with a membership sufficient for real self-support and able to make Masonry respected and
beneficial to the communities they represent.
It must be acknowledged, however, that there is a very real argument
presented by some of these small bodies, in that they have a long and
honorable history, in some cases extending from the earliest pioneer
period. The few members cling to the old name and number, which the
fathers made meaningful. This· natural pride must be taken into account
in any general plan for consolidation. But, as already proven in many
places, a happy adjustment of conflicting claims is possible if the particular
situation is approached with knowledge and sympathy.
One who could come to a survey of Masonry of the day, as nationally
manifested, not being aware of changes in sentiment and practice during
the past decade, would be amazed at the freedom of expression now
allowed on many subjects formerly held as entirely beyond the province
of craft consideration. In Lodges and even in Grand Lodges matters are
brought to the fore that are of the common life and only incidentally
related to Mason.ry. The Brothers refuse to·longer abide in a sterile land,
while the great world of which they and their institution are a part is
concerned with the fate of the nation, the safety of their homes and the
welfare of their children.
But the old conservatism dies hard. California showed the wise and
safe way of progress to many who were eager but doubtful when it openly
espoused the cause of the public schools, .and made its position manifest
by annual observance of Public Schools Week. The voices of those who at
the first were clamorous in protest against such action have strangely
quieted since. More and more vocal are those of other jurisdictions who
believe our course has been amply justified by experience. One other Grand
Lodge (Montana) has copied the California plan, while several others are

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

considering a similar course of action. The prophecies of inevitable discord
so confidently uttered a few years ago are no longer heard, and erstwhile
opponents are becoming convinced or have ceased their criticisms.
Such enlarged freedom of expression among Masons has found strong
exponents among the Grand Maste~s. Especially notable is the plain speaking as to the danger from subversive elements tha_t are disturbing the
placidity of those who had believed American institutions were safe
against all assaults. It has been proven that dangerous doctdnes, entirely
alien in form and intention, can make headway among the polyglot masses
of our population, and become a very real peril. There are many Masons
who might formerly have remained silent for fear of breaking the anci~nt
taboo supposed to embrace all practical matters, yet who now recognize
the growing peril, and are warning their Brothers in no uncertain term~.
This is certainly not "politics," within meaning of the time-honored prohibition of the craft; it is the expression of a patriotism that has never been
tacking in the fraternity; it represents the prompting of the instinct of
self-preservation, inherent to every true American, and called forth when
democratic principles are endangered.
In all that is thus said no attempt is made or anticipated that Masons
shall be pledged to any specific course of action, or be urged to join with
this, that or the other group or party to combat real or imagined foes. The
true function of Masonry is and will remain educative, in this as in other
matters. It is certainly within the province of Masonic authorities, competent for the task, to inform their Brethren of dangers threatening t~e
nation, setting forth clearly and dispassionately J:he nature of the pent;
the purposes of those who would subvert or destroy our democracy, and
pointing the duty that should actuate every true American. The Mason
worthy of the name will need no more ; being shown the right he will require no further prompting to do his utmost as 'a man and a patriot. The
fear that apparently lingers in conservative minds, that the craft will be
led from the path of fraternal rectitude into the morasses of partisan
politics, is entirely without foundati on in fact. Not even the most advanced
of Masonic Modernists has any such thought in mind. The same line of
argument holds for other themes that are of engrossing ·interest and even
vital to our institutions. Sooner or tater, in its own defense, Masonry must
come to consideration of matters that concern civic righteousness, moral
betterments and the exaltation of justice among the people.
A most ususual proposal, in this connection, comes from the Grand
Master of Oregon. In an edict recently issued he calls upon the Lodges of
his jurisdiction to purge themselves of any who hold to the tenets of
communism. These, according to the terms of the edict, are to be tried,
and if found guilty, expelled. We doubt the necessity or the wisdom of this
action. To conceive of a Mason who could honestly hold to the doctrines
of communism requires a considerable mental effort; the two things are
diametrically opposed ; wherever communism in any form is dominant,
Freemasonry is actively persecuted and proscribed. Then again, it is doubt-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ful whether the average member of a Lodge is ·prepared by knowledge of
the various cults and isms to decide upon the communist character or profession. Radicalism runs through a long range of opinion, from the harmless to the most virulent. It embraces profoundly philosophical theories,
Utopian day drealils, and so through easy gradations to purposes that are
most violently destructive.
At the risk of being accounted tedious in this unusual though altogether inadequate attempt to fill in the gap occasioned by absence of a real
Report on Correspondence, one subject more may be touched upon. Our
Brothers have heard vaguely, mostly from disconnected news dispatches or
interested statements, that Freemasonry is under attack in various countries. Such attacks come from the right of reactionism and the left of
radicalism. While these forces are opposed to each other, and do not in any
casi: act as allies, they find a common object of hatred where Masonry is
concerned. The regrettable conditions in Italy and Germany, where Masonry is proscribed and the Lodges dormant, has seemingly given fresh
impulse to those in other countries who would destroy whatever stands for
freedom of conscience. It is just now doubtful if the comparatively new
but vigorous Masonry of Austria can long survive, as a hostile ecclesiasticism sustaining a weak dictature is dominant in that hard-pressed land.
There is a greater surprise in finding the Grand Lodge "Alpina" of Switzerland preparing to fight for its life. There the referendum has been invoked, in effort to declare the fraternity inimical to the life of the nation
and therefore to be banned. Those having acquaintance with European
Masonry will agree that. the craft of the Swiss republic is high-minded
beyond the common, being foremost in good works, and standing as a model
for strict adherence to the tried principles of the institution.
Nor is the list as yet exhausted. In Greece the Orthodox Church has
lately violently attacked Masonry, using the ancient and long-exploded
argument that in the Lodges a religion is secretly practiced, not according
to the plan of salvation, as interpreted by the ecclesiastics. In Holland, also,
where the Grand Lodge of the Netherlands has long occupied a position of
recognized probity and gained respect of the people, the Synod of the
Evangelical Church launched attack. To this the Brethren wisely opposed
a campaign of education, designed to give information as to the history,
the methods and the purposes of the craft. Books dealing with the fraternity
were placed in the public libraries and the aid of the press invoked. For the
time being, at least, the enemies of Masonry seem to have failed.
In Spain, where the long period of Masonic persecution came to an
end with establishment of the republic, there has been of late a recrudeseence of monarchial and ecclesiastical strength and influence. Again
there are threats of a renewal of espionage and attacks upon the freedom
. of members of the Spanish Lodges, who have certainly not abused their
new-found literty. Similar threats are heard in Portugal.
It is evident that wherever the extreme of radicalism or that other of
fascism has force and reaches to authority, there Freemasonry is doomed.

The re is in this a warning that might be taken to heart even by Masons of
the English-speaking countries, where true freedom still exists, for in these
favored lands there are elements working for the downfall of democratic
government and destruction of all institutions that are for freedom of
thought and liberty under the law.
This brief writing may serve, should it see the light, to give the
Brethren some idea of the subjects of vital importance that are within the
range of Masonic discussion. In another and more prosperous time it is
to be hoped that the Grand Lodge of California will again provide for the
annual reports of this committee, which in years past have contributed to
its high standing among the jurisdictions of the continent.
Jos. E . MoRCOMBE, Chairman.

168 '

169

Received and ordered to be publis.lied with the Proceedings.

RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED
C. E. Mallachowitz, Caledonia Lodge No. 486, presented
three resolutions proposing to reduce expenses of Grand
Lodge and to eliminate the Homes fee for affiliates.
William 0 . King, S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574, presented a resolution to clarify section 161 of the Constitution.
Paul Nathan, Pacific Lodge No. 136, presented a resolution to amend section 121 of the Constitution, providing that
a Lodge may invite a Lodge of another jurisdiction to confer
a degree upon its own candidate in accordance with ·the
ritual of the visiting Lodge.
Wesley W. Kergan introduced a resolution proposing to
amehd section 90 of the Constitution relating to relief by
Lodges in emergency cases.
Harry R,. Curts, Service Lodge No. 594, presented a
resolution condemning atheism.
James L. Halley, Richmond Lodge No. 375, presented a
resolution to amend section 27 of the Constitution, providing that all standing committees of Grand Lodge shall consist of at least one Master and one Warden .
Thayer B. Thomas, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260, presented a resolution that the compensation of the Grand

\
170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Secretary from all sources shall not exceed $6,000.00 per
annum.

Jn ~ranb I.obge

Brother Thomas also introduced a resolution that the
compensation of the Assistant Grand Secretary from all
sources shall not exceed $3,61)).00 per annum .
Emil G. Wunner, Presidio Lodge No. 354, presented a
resolution that any appropriation for the Masonic Club
houses at the Universities of California at Berkeley and Los
. Angeles shall not exceed $11,000.00.
Chas. R. Cooper, Presidio Lodge No. 354, presented a
resolution to eliminate paragraph 13 from the petition for
degrees.
Brother Cooper also introduced a resolution to remove
the restriction of the use of light wines and beer at Masonic
gatherings.
All the above resolutions were referred to the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes.
At 5 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock
Wednesday morning.

171

MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 10, 1934.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of Tuesday's sessions were read and approved.

RESOLUTION
BOARD OF CONTROL
Whereas, at the last annual communication of Grand Lodge, upon
recommendation of the Grand Master, funds were appropriated for the
purpose of defraying the expenses of the chairman of the Board of Control to the biennial convention of the Masonic Relief ·Association of the
United States and Canada, and:
Whereas, in the opinion of the Board of Control, the presence of the
chairman of the board at this convention, not oilly promoted a better understanding by the other jurisdictions of· the United States and Canada, of the
relief problems of our grand jurisdiction, but also has resulted in saving
and conserving the funds of this Grand Lodge; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, that the Board of Control recommend to Grand Lodge that
the Finance Committee, in preparing their 1934-35 budget for Grand Lodge,
include therein $200.00 in the allowance for the Board of Control for the
purpose of defraying the expenses of the chairman of the board to the
1935 convention of the Masonic Relief Association of the United States
and Canada at Fort Worth, Texas.
FRANK M . WrsE,
ROBERT F. CALLENDER,

JAS. R. ERSKINE,
EUGENE ELKUS,

Board of Control.

Referred ·t o Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE MASONIC HOMES
ENDOWMENT BOARD
To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California :

Your board herewith presents its second annual report, being for the
year ending July 31, 1934.

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
The board is now constituted as follows :

T crm Expiring
October, J.934
W. P. Jeffries
Reynold E . Blight
David W. Schick
Harry F. White
Judge John F. Pullen

Term Expiring
October, 1935
Leon 0. Whitsell
Louis C. Drapeau
Arthur S. Crites
Eugene S. Elkus
James T. Fraser

Term Expiring
October, 1936
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Judge Frank M. Smith
Edmund A. Lockett
Robert B. Gaylord
Thomas Flint

Shortly after the closing of Grand Lodge in October, 1933, Brother
Gus Hutaff, P . G. M ., who was a member of the board, passed away, and
the Grand Master filled his place by the appointment of Brother Thomas
Flint, P. G. M.
The Grand Master having appointed Brother W. P. Jeffries as chairman, the following officers were then elected :
Robert B. Gaylord, vice-chairman.
Frank M. Smith, secretary.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, vice-chairman.
Wm. P. Filmer, treasurer.
The board held a meeting in San Francisco on January 27, 1934, the
following members being present: W. P. Jeffries, Reynold E. Blight,
Arthur S. Crites, Louis C. Drapeau, Eugene S. Elkus, James T. Fraser,
Robert B. Gaylord, Judge John F. Pullen, David W. Schick, Harry F.
·
White, Leon C. Whitsell.
The main topic for discussion was whether the board should ask the
Brethren throughout this jurisdiction; through the Lodges, for a voluntary contribution to the endowment fund. This was discussed by all of
the members of the board very freely, and the following resolution was
unanimously adopted :

"Resolved, that it is the conviction of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board that the wants of our needy aged Brethren and of
our children, in the Masonic Homes of California, are of sufficient
importance that a solicitation of the craft be made for some contribution toward the endpwment fund during the year 1934; all the
proceeds thereof to be devoted exclusively · to the permanent endowmen~ fund, and.
"Resoh•ed further, that this solicitation be made throughout the
jurisdiction of California during the month of May, 1934, and that
request be made of the Grand Master accordingly, and
"Resolved further, that it be impressed upon the· craft that any
contribution, however small, will be welcome; but that there should
be secured this year for this most worthy object, an average of a
minimum of $2.00 per member."
On February 2, 1934, the Grand Master was furnished a copy of the
minutes of the meeting held on January 27, 1934, and in a letter to your
board dated February 13, 1934, the Grand Master stated in part as follows:

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

173

"Considering the fact that your committee is in accord as to
the policy of such an undertaking this year, and being fully cog~izant
~f business conditions, you are hereby authorized to make such an
~peal for 'voluntary contributions'."
A~cordingly, an appeal was issued under date of March 22, 1934, and
mailed to all Masters, Secretaries, Inspectors and members of Lodge
Endowment Committees, and while the month of May was designated
as the month for the activity, collections continued on, even until after
the close of the Masonic year, and there have been some funds actually
received since the writing of this report, which will have to be credited
to the Lodges in next year's report.
Immediately after the issuance of the appeal, the State was divided
up into districts, and as far as possible, members of the board were
placed in charge of each district.
Joint meetings were held in the larger cities, to which were invited
Inspectors, Lodge officers, Endowment Committees and other interested
Brethren. The meetings were enthusiastic and well attended, and while
the proposition of the endowment fund was something new to the majority of the Brethren, they nevertheless took hold in a splendid manner.
Meetings were held, under the supervision of your board, in the
following cities: Eureka, Redding, Sacramento, San Francisco, Oakland,
Santa Rosa, Fresno, Merced, Woodlake, San Jose, San Luis Obispo, Taft,
Bakersfield, Santa Barbara, Riverside, Vallejo, Santa Ana, Pasadena,
San piego, Los Angeles, Long Beach, El Centro.
Brother W. P. Jeffries, .c hairman of the board, attended the majority
of the meetings held, and was ably assisted by the other members of the
board.
The Inspectors of the various districts greatly assisted in arranging
for and conducting the meetings, and your board most heartily thanks
them, as well as the officers and Endowment Committees of the various
Lodges.
Total amount of cash received from the Brethren,
transmitted through the Lodges ..................................$57,620.67
Received, direct from Brethren and through bequests,
some of whom were not affiliated in this gra.nd
jurisdiction ........................................................................ 1,945.10
Collections t·aken by various Masonic organizations
among their members, or contributed from their
treasuries ································································-·········· 1,325.28

Total amount of cash, from all sources, credited
this year to the endowment fund ............................$60,891.05
There have also been contributions of stocks with a total par value
of $1,370.00, most of which are redeemable on the death of the member,

\

174

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

by th~ organization issuing the stock ; also, an insurance policy in t e
amount of $500.00 was contributed.
Honor Roll Certificates
. In ~fay, 1?34, your ~ard sent to every Lodge in this jurisdicfon, a
notificat10n which stated m part as follows:
·
/
"Grand Master James B. Gist has sanctioned the issuance of an
Honor Roll Certificate to every Lodge in this grand jurisdiction, which
during the 1934 solicitation reaches its quota of 100 per cent or overthat is, an average minimum of $2.00 for each member of the Lodge.
"In arriving at a decision as to whether a Lodge has met its quota,
.credit will be given not only for cash contributions, but also gifts of
stocks, bonds or other property at its cash or fair value.
"The Honor Roll Certificate will be handsomely prepared and
framed so that it may be hung in the Lodge hall as testimony that the
members of that Lodge had met their quota."
Honor Roll Certificates were issued August 15 and were numbered
from 1 up, the Lodges reporting the highest percentage of its quota receiving No. 1, and so on in rotation, as fol)ows:
Percentage
No.
Lodge
Location
of Quota
1 Hammonton Lodge No. 433, Hammonton ............... ,............. .400
2 Kauai Lodge No. 589, Lihue, Kauai... .....................................248
3 Larchmont Lodge No. 614, Los Angeles ................................ 160
4 Maui Lodge No. 472, Kahului, Maui........................................142
5 San Dimas Lodge No. 428, San Dimas.................... :.......:.... .115
6 Nicolaus Lodge No. 129, Wheatland.!...................................... 108
7 Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569, Oakland.............................. 106
8 Consuelo Lodge No. 325, Escondido........................................106
9 Azusa Lodge No. 305, Azusa..................... ,................................ 103
10 Exeter Lodge No. 424, Exeter ................................................ 105.
11 Holtville Lodge No. 425, Holtville.......................................... 103
12 Franklin Lodge No. 143, Courtland........................................ 104
13 Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219, San Francisco .................. 101
14 Oriental Lodge No. 144, San Francisco ..................................100
15 Covina Lodge No. 334, Covina.................................................. 100
16 Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509, Los Angeles ..................100
17 Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535, Los Angeles ............. .100
18 McCloud Lodge No. 430, McCloud .......................................... 100
19 Bear Mountain Lodge No. 78, Angels Camp........................ 100
20 La Cumbre Lodge No. 642, Santa Barbara ............................ 100
21 Guadalupe Lodge No. 237, Guadalupe.................................... 100
22 Forbestown Lodge No. 50, Forbestown .................................. 100
23 Atascadero Lodge No. 493, Atascadero.................................. 100
24 Harmony Lodge No. 164, Sierra City................................... .100
25 Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18, Downieville ......................... .100

175

26 Chico Lodge No. 111, Chico....................................................... .100
27 Hermann Lodge No. 127, San Francisco ................................ 104
\ 28 Hiram Lodge No. 43, El Dorado....................·-·-·-··-·--·.100
e largest percentage was attained by Hammonton Lodge No. 433,
with membership of 65, which contributed $519.50, or practically $8.00
per
mber.
.
Th'-e largest check received from any Lodge whose name appears on
the Honor Roll was· from Oriental Lodge No. 144, which sent contributions
totaling $940.00, and reported 470 members.
The largest contribution by any one Lodge was received from Live
Oak Lodge No. 61 in Oakland, which sent in a check for $1,043.00 and reported a membership of 1005, being a little more than $1.00 per' member.
This Lodge also sent in the largest list of members who contributed,
amounting to 272 names, or 27 per cent of its membership.

~

Sixteen Thousand Contributors
The Secretary of each subordinate Lodge in the jurisdiction was furnished with a duplicate report sheet, one copy of which he was requested
to send to your board with names and addresses of contributors, so that
copy of this report could be mailed to each donor. We are pleased to say
that the great majority of the Lodges have sent in the reports as requested,
and the records show that more than 16,000 Brethren made voluntary
contributions to the endowment fund during the year 1934.
Brother W. C. Hutchison, Master of Temescal Lodge No. 314,
F. & A. M., recently wrote your board as follows: "Our Brother, William
Seymour Davis, passed away August 31, 1934, and in the place of the
usual flowers at the funeral we are sending you a check as a memorial.
This may seem an unusual bequest, but it seems to us that it might be a
fine thing if more of the Lodges would do this in the place of sending
flowers to wilt and be forgotten."
Your board has had many letters, from officers of Lodges as well as
from individual contributors, who feel that the efforts to increase the
endowment fund should not be allowed to lay dormant, and that there
should ·be at least an opportunity given annually, to the Brethren, to
make such contributions. Your board, therefore, offers the following resolution, and recommends its adoption:

"Resolved, that the Masonic Homes Endowment Board be authorized to issue an appeal for voluntary contributions from the membership in this jurisdiction during the month of March, 1935, and
"Be it further resolved, that the officers of the subordinate Lodges
be fraternally requested to mail to all of their members the literature
placed in their hands by the Endowment Board, and to co-operate in
every manner possible to increase the permanent endowment fund of
the Masonic Homes."

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

Bequests
During the year, your board requested the Secretaries to send n a
list of all attorneys, trust officers and others who customarily entrtain
intimate relations with those preparing wills and other documents r the
distribution of their estates. Practically every Lodge in the State sent in
such a list, which, when compiled, was found to represent apprqkimately
3,000 persons. A letter having been prepared by Brother Gaylorq; member
of your board, setting out the needs for an endowmeht, and a history of
the fund, it was mailed to all persons whose names were submitted.
A number of Brethren, members of the bar, have writtert in, stating
they had put bequests in wills, and in a number of cases, Masonic attorneys
had agreed to draw wills free of charge if a bequest was left to the
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund.
Brother .G. · F. · Conant; a member of Southern California Lodge
No. 278, recently wrote your board in part as follows: "It gives me quite
a little pleasure .to be able to inform you that in the making of the will
of Mrs. Mary Bowman in 1927, I prevailed upon her to leave $5,000.00
to the Masonic Homes, although she was not at all interested in Masonry.
Mrs. Bowman died July 7, 1934, and it will probably take a year to settle
the estate."
Your board desires to impress upoh the Brethren the splendid work
which can be accomplished if they will always keep in mind that the endowment fund can be greatly augmented by bequests in wills, and many times,
even a person who has no Masonic affiliations will leave a bequest where
they know it is going to such a worthy charity as the care of the aged
and the education of orphans.
Many bequests in wills often read "For Masonic Homes" or "For
Covina Home" or "For Decoto Home," without specifying that it go into
the endowment fund. So that Grand Lodge shall definitely establish a policy
of putting into the endowment fund all such bequests, we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

"Resolved, that all bequests and donations to the Masonic Homes
of California, or to either the Home at Decoto or the Home at Covina, other than for a specific purpose, shall be trans fer red to the
endowment fund."
Forms for Bequests
The following forms are suggested for use in making gifts to the
Masonic Homes:
Form of Absolute Gift in Will-I give and bequeath to the Masonic
Homes of California, a corporation, the sum of ............................................
dollars, to be applied for the purposes of its endowment fund.
Form of Gift of Real Property-I give and devise to the Masonic
Homes of California, a corporation, the following described real property:
(Here follows description.) I recommend that the Masonic llomes sell

I

\

\\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

177

\id property as soon as it may find it expedient, and add the proceeds to
its \endowment fund.
\•arm of Gif~ of Residue of Estate-All t~e rest and resid~e of. my
estatt; I give, devise and bequeath to the Masomc Homes of Cahforma, a
torpo~atiori, for the use and benefit of its endowment fund.
or
I direct that the rest and residue of my estate be divided lrtto............... .
equal parts, and I give and bequeath said parts as follows : One (or more)
parts to the Masonic Homes of California, a corporation, for the use and
benefit of its endowment fund.
"In our last long rest we can keep only that which we have given
away."
Give While You Live
In our recent appeal to the Brethren for voluntary contributions to
the endowment fund, we had a number of inquiries as to whether the
Masonic Homes issued annuity contracts. We found that some of the
Brethren regard annuity gifts as a form of deferred legacy. Many persons
desiring to give wbile they are yet alive, a fund which they wish to make
available at the time of their death, often choose the annuity method. Such
gifts, so long as the donor lives, fr ans fers from the donor to the donee, all
risks and liabilities connected with the safekeeping and investing of the
funds given, and in addition, requires the donee to make stated annual or
quarterly payments to the donor.
Annuity Contracts
More than one hundred non-profit educational, religious and charitable
institutions in the United States are issuing a~nuity contracts.
Several kinds of annuity contracts are in use by insurance companies,
but only two kinds are in common use by organizations writing annuities
for benevolent incomes. These are the Single Life Contract, and the Survivorship Life Contract with annuity payments during the natural life of
the per sov. or persons named in the contract.
Singlf Life Contract-This is the most common form of contract,
and the annuity is only payable to one person during his or her lifetime.
The <1nnuity begins at once and is payable to the annuitant at stated intervals as agreed upon when the contract is issued. The amount of annuity,
the time and place of payment of the annuity and who the annuity is payable to, are clearly designated in the contract.
Survivorship Life Contract-On this form of contract two or more
persons are mentioned as annuitants, and the same rate and time of payment of the annuity is payable by the organization as long as either person
mentioned in the contract shall live. Where there are two people whose
ages are nearly the same, and each one desires to protect. the other with
the annuity payments, this is a popular form of contract. It is usually not
advantageous to have more than two people mentioned in any contract.

178 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

Rates Paid by Non-Profit Institutions
Whereas, it is the policy of the Grand Lodge Free and Accepted ~a­
sons, of the jurisdiction of California, to create an endowment fury1 for
the Homes maintained by it, and
;
. . Whereas, it is be!ieved that there are many persons who wj>uld be
w1llmg to make donations to that fand in the form of payments/for life
annuities on the basis which has been successfully adopted by m¥y educational and religious institutions, your board offers the following resolution
and recommends its adoption :

"Resolved, by said Grand Lodge, that the Masonic Homes Endowment Board investigate the advisability of the issuance by the
Masonic Homes of California of such annuities, and if the plan be
approved by said board, that this Grand Lodge approve the issuance
of annuity contracts by the Masonic Homes of California, on such
table of rates and with such reserves as may be approved by the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California and th.e Finance Committee of this Grand Lodge; the solicitation of annuities to be conducted by the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, and the annuities
to be issued and the necessary reserve to be maintained in an independent fund by the Masonic Homes of California."
Need of an Endowment Fund
One thing quite noticeable this year throughout the Masonic world
has been the difficulty experienced in financing Masonic Homes. The loss
in revenue to Grand Lodges which has occurred because of a falling off
in membership and a lack of new applicants has seriously curtailed the
income for the upkeep of our Homes.
The Masonic Homes of California collected per capita tax from the
subordinate Lodges for the four years ending July 31, as follows:
1931...................................................
on 140,606 Members
1932............................................................ " 139,322
1933..............................,............................. " 135,111
1934.............:.............................................. ,, 127,576
A .......

A liberal estimate of the number of members on which the tax for
the Homes will be collected for the year ending July 31, 1935, would be
120,000, or a loss of 20,000 members in the last four years, which, at
$1.25, being the amount of the Homes tax, would represent a loss of
income for the sup1>0rt of the Homes of $25,000 annually from that
source alone.
The income from the $25.00 tax on applicants and affiliates as of
July 31 of the same years, was as follows:

1931..................................................................................$124,595
1932.................................................................................. 90,625
1933.............................................~.................................... 56,575
1934.................................................................................. 53,715

!'
I

\

\

\

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

\ A

179

liberal estimate for 1935 would be $50,000. Hence, you. can readily
see \hat there has been a decrease in income for the support of our Homes
from\ these two sources during the last four years of $100,000 per annum.
The ~cline in income from the $25.00 tax from 1929 alone amounts to
$130,000 per annum.
The\ only method which your board can suggest is the one for which ·
it was created. That is, to create an. endowment fund to insure the perpetuity of our Masonic Homes: If our endowment fund amounted to
$5,000,000, our membership could decline to one-half the present number
and new applications cease altogether, but our Masonic Homes would still
be assured of almost an everlasting existence.
In order to assist your board in mailing literature to all of the officers
of the Lodge, we offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption: ·
"Resolved, that the Grand Secretary be authorized, in compiling
future rosters, to include the names and addresses of Masters, Senior
and· Junior Wardens, Treasurers and Secretaries, as this would be
very helpful, without materially increasing the cost of said roster."
Appropriation
It will be noted from this report, that your Endowment Board expended, during the year ending July 31, 1934, the sum of $8,194.31. However, more than $2,500.00 of this amount had been contracted for and was
really expended prior to the opening of our campaign for voluntary contributions, so that the actual expenditures during the year, on the campaign,
were approximately $6,000.00. A considerable portion of this amount was
spent on educational work from which it is hoi>ed that many future bequests
will be· secured. The total cash addition to the endowment fund this year
was $60,891.05, so that if no future benefits accrued to the endowment
fund, the cost of raising the money secured this year was approximately
10 per cent.
The Constitution of Grand Lodge, under which your Board was
created, prohibits the use, for expenses, of any of the moneys which are
·contributed to the endowment fund. Therefore, if this work of materially
increasing the endowment fund is to go forward, a substantial appropriation should be made by Grand Lodge at this session.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
"Resolved, that the sum of $6,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated.
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be paid to the Masonic Homes
Endowment Board for their expenses for the year ending July 31,
1933."
Finance Committee
The rules and regulations of your board, adopted by the Grand Lodge
in 1933, provide that the chairman shall appoint three members of the
board as a Finance Committee to act conjointly with the Grand Master and
Grand Treasurer in making investments of endowment funds, in making

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

exchanges of securities, and in making sales of securities belonging to tl{e
endowment fund.
'
I
During the year, such a committee was appointed, consistin~· of
Brother Leon O. Whitsell as chairman, and Brothers Wm. Rhodes H~rvey
and Robert B. Gaylord, which committee will, in the future, in conj1.1hction
with the Grand ~aster and Grand Treasurer, make ' all invest~nts of
endowment funds and will have charge of the sale of all securities that
they think advisable to sell from said fund.
Total Receipts and Expenses of Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Since Its Organization in 1933
Appropriation at session of Grand Lodge in October, 1932..............$5,000.00
Expenses paid to July 31, 1933..:.......................................................,:.... 2,767.97
Balance as of August 1, 1933....................,..............................$2,232.03
Appropriation at session of Grand Lodge in October, 1933.............. 5,000.00
Additional allowance, authorized by Grand Master........................, ... 1,000.00
$8,232.03
Total bills paid from August 1, 1933, to July 31, 1934, as per
vouchers on. file in office of Grand Secretary.........:...........:.c...... 8,194.31
Balance on hand as of August 1, 1934....................................$

37.72

Detail of Expenses from August 1, i933, to July 31, 1934
Printing 30,000 booklets, "Homes That California Masons Built"..$1,800.00
Stenographic salary .................................................................................. 990.00
Postage ........,............................................................................................... 1,444.71
Traveling expenses, members of bqard.................................................. 337.26
Cuts, photographs, ell;.,................................................................................ 296.03
Expenses, San Francisco Executive Committee.................................. 631.85
Expenses, San Diego qieetiu,g....,.............................................................
84.76
Salary and traveling expenses, advertising man.................................. 279.60
Printing for ca~p.aign ................................:............................................. 2,057.72
Multigraphing letters, etc...............:,........................................................
99.74
Office printing, letterheads, envelopes, ~....,........................................ 172.44
Contributions

$8,194.31

Total Cash from Lodges

From August 1, 1933, to September 3, 1934................................$57,620.67
Cash from Other Masonic Bodies

Masonic .B oard of Relief, Sacramento........................$ 25.00
Masonic Cemetery Association, San Francisco.......... 100.00
Los Angeles Bodies, A. & A. S. R ............................... 117.50
St. Ben;iard .Com.mandery No. 23, K. T............,........ 25.00
Woodland Chapter No. 46, R. A. M .......................:... 50.00

Long Beach Consistory, A. & A. S. R......................... 81.00
San Francisco Bodies, A. & A. S. R........................... 447.00
California Bodies, A. & A. S. lL............................... 123.00
Peninsular Bodies, A. & A. S. R................................. 97.50
San Luis Chapter No. 62, R. A. M............................. 20.00
Los Angeles Commandery No. 9, K. T....................... 89.50
Al Malaikah Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., L.A.......... 69.00
Sutter Chapter No. 11, R. A. M .........:......................,.. 56.00
Masonic Club of Trana, California............................ 24.78

181

1,325.28

M iscella11eo14s Cash Contributions

3.00
A. B. Heilbrun, Signal Lodge No. 141, Kansas ....$
25.00
J . T. Fraser, Humboldt Lodge N o. 79:.................. .
5.00
Harry Cullyford ..........................................................
1.00
Lloyd Johnson ..............................................................
10.00
W. F. Prisk................................ :...................................
25.00
H. E. Wood.............................. :.....................................
2.00
Judge B. Rey Schauer..................................................
5.00
R. E. Kelly......................................................................
5.00
A. B. Brown..................................................................
Barrett C. and Lillian W . Kiesling, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.............................................. 500.00
George. M. Perine Bequest-Widows and Orphans Fund, Islam Temple, S. F ....................... 1,019.80
First and second dividend, L. M. Renaker, executor , estate of John Sinclair, deceasedReceiver's Certificate, First National Bank,
Monterey Park .................................................... 199.30
Bequest, J ohn McDonald, deceased-Al Malaikah
· Temple Certificate No. 4000.............................. 100.00
10.00
Donation from a friend ..............................................
25.00
Walter W. Huelat, Portland Lodge No. 55............
10.00
Thomas Mulcare, Heights Lodge No. 633, Ohio....

1,945.10
$60,891.05

Stock Contributions
Preferred stock, Al Malaikah Auditorium Co.:
1 share, No. 47, Horace Dunbar, Larchmont No. 614....................$100.00
1 share, No. 1226, Horace Dunbar, Larchmont No. 614................ 100.00
1 share, No. 852, Earl H . Marsh, Larchmont No. 614 .................... 100.00
1 share, No. 2372, E. T . Pettigrew, Pentalpha N o. 202................ 100.00
1 share, No. 2143, Herbert D. Ivey, Golden State No. 358..... ~ ...... 100.00
2 shares, No. 3697, Ben F. Thorpe, Covina No. 334...................... 200.00
1 share, James B. Gist, Pentalpha No. 202, ....................................... 100.00
1 share, Edmund A. Lockett, Carmelita No. 599............................ 100.00

182

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Scottish Rite Loan Certificate No. 2322, James C. .Thompson, Elmhurst No. 6ro..- .....~...........-:....•.:_......- ..······················-······················ 20.00
Beneficial Loan .Certificate No. 278, Masonic Temple Association
of Sacramento, Alvin E. Clark, Sacramento No. 40.................... 100.00
Beneficial Loan Certificates, Aahmes Temple S·hrine Association
of Oakland:
No. 5403, Ray Wall Fisher, Chateau Thierry No. 569.................. 100.00
No. 5404, George Hail, Chateau Thierry No. 569.......................... 100.00
No. 5405, R. M. Miller, Chateau Thierry No. 569..................•..... 100.00
Capital stock, Altadena Masonic Temple B. A. L.:
5 shares, Edmund A. Lockett, Carmelita No. "599........................ 50.00
New York Life Insurance Policy:
Clifford W. Richter, Las Palmas No. 366....- .............................:.... 500.00
It is again the hope of your board that the need for adequate endowment shall be heard by every Mason throughout our grand jurisdiction,
not only this year, but in all the years to come.
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
No.

Lodge

Location

Membership

% of

Cash
Quota
1 Califomia....- ..................San Francisco.................. 680 $544.00
40
2 Western Star___ .............Shasta .............................. 80
58.50 37
3 Tehama............................Sacramento .................... 446 553.93 62
5 Benicia.............................Benicia ............................ 158
54.00 17
8 Tuolumne.......................-Sonora ............................ 225 111.50 25
9 Corinthian.......................Marysville ...................... 319 250.00 39
10 San J ose...................._.....San Jose............................ 479 244.50 26
12 Yount............................... Napa ................................ 255
56.50 11
13 Nevada..........- ................Nevada City .................... 141
73.00 26
14 T emple......................_.....Sonoma ............................ 123
19.00
8
16 Eureka_····-····················· Auburn ............................ 203
30.00.
7
17 La Parfaite Union .........San Francisco.................. 167 152.75
46
18 Mountain Shade.............Dowriieville .......'............. 30
60.00 100
19 San Joaquin.:...................Stockton .......................... 622 227.00 18
20 W ashington....- ...............Sacramento .................... 528 637.50 60
21 Hawaiian..........- .............Honolulu .......................... 373 291.50 39
22 Occidental....- ................•San Francisco~ ..............,.. 880 117.50
7
23 Madison................- .........Grass Valley.................... 166 115.50 35
24 Mariposa........- ................Mariposa .......................... 154
88.50 29
30 Golden Gate.....................San Francisco.................. 757 220.50 15
32 Gold HilL.......................Lincoln ............................ 105
19.50
9
33 Ophir. ......................,........Murphys .......................... 43
18.00 21
35 San Diego........................San Diego .........:.............. 620 248.51 20
37 Howard............................Yreka·................................ 213
50.00 12
38 Santa Cruz......................Santa Cruz ...................... 336
32.45
s

No.

L odge

Location

Member·
ship

183
Cash

% pf
Quota

*40 Sacramento..·...................Sacramento .................... 519 194.00 28
41 Martinez..........................Martinez .......................... 216 215.50 50
42 Los Angeles..............- .... Los Angeles ...................... 828 334.00 20
43 . Hiram............................-El Dorado........................ 43
86.00 100
44 Mount Moriah................ San Francisco.................. 513 172.50 17
45 Crescent...........................Cresceilt City .................. 136 155.50 "57
SO Forbestown..................... Forbestown ...................... 54 108.00 100
55 Suisun...............................Suisun .............................. 147
24.50
8
57 Santa Rosa ......................Santa Rosa ...................... 389
4
29.00
58 Union ................................Sacramento ·······-··········· 544 413.00 38
60 Plumas...........................-Quincy .............................. 103
82.50 40
61 Live Oak..........................Oakland ..........................1005 1043.00 52
64 Natoma...................."......-Folsom City...................... 120
92.00 38
65 Amador............................Jackson ............................ 84
47.00 28
66 F orest...............................Alleghany ........................ 52
40.00 38
68 Morning Star................-Stockton .......................... 456 134.00 15
70 Enterprise......................•Yuba City ........................ 226 113.50 25
76 Bear Mowitain..............•Angels Camp .................. 79 158.00 100
78 Calaveras.........................San Andreas.................... 88
34.00 19
80 Ione..............·........,.........- Ione .................................. 74
50.00 34
81 Yolo................................-Yolo .................................. 66
14.50 10
84 Vesper..............................Red Bluff.......................... 179
9.50
3
87 NavaL.-........................•Vallejo ............................ 602 254.00 21
93 St. Helena....................... St. Helena........................ 97
2
4.00
95 Henry Clay.....................Sutter C reek.................... 54
54.00 50
99 Y osemite..........................Merced ............................ 231
22.00
5
101 C!ay............................- ....Dutch Flat........................ 65
99.00 76
103 Oroville........................... Oroville ............................ · 253 100.00 20
104 Lexington..................~ ....El Monte .......................... 169
69.00 20
106 Arcata..............................Arcata .............................. 218
60.00 14
110 Pajaro..............................Watsonville .................... 261
45.00
9
111 Chico................................Chico ····-··········-·············· 365 730.00 100
112 Summit............................Knight's Ferry................ 39
4.00
5
113 Eden.................................San Leandro .................... 214 109.00 27
117 Concord...........................Sacramento .................... 254 189.50 37
119 Clinton .............................lgo .................................... 41
20.00 24
120 Fidelity............................San Francisco.................. 647 111.00
9
122 Alamo..............................Walnut Creek.................. 137
45.00 16
123 Sotoyome.........................Healdsburg ...................... 178
9.00
3
124 Table Mountain..............Cherokee ................:......... 91
28.00 15
127 Hermann......................... San Francisco................- 249 520.35 104
129 Nicolaus...........................Wheatland ...................... 92 200.00 108.7
131 Woodbridge....................Woodbridge .................... 113
14.00
6
132 Sincerity..........................Greenville ........................ 104
67.75 33

No.

134
136
139
140
143

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

184
Lodge

Location

Membership

Vataville.-··-·--·---·---·------·-.Vaca ville -··-·---··-·-·-----··-·--- 161
Pacific-------·-·--·-----------------San Franci"sco.....---··-···-·-- 766
C rocketL---------·------·-------San Francisco·-··-·-··--------- 734
Curtis·-·-·-·--·-·---·--···-··-------Cloverdale ·-··--·--·-------·-·---- 74
Frartklin--·---··-·-----···--·----··Courtland --··--···---·--·-···---- 93
144 OrientaL_··-········-····-··----San Francisco...·--··---------- 470
14S Vitruvius.·-·--·-··-----··········Bloomfield ........................ 88
146 Abell.....-..-........................Ukiah ·-···-····-·-···········---····· 166
147 Eel River_··---····--·-··--·-···--Fortuna -··-·--·-·-···········-····· 17S
149 Lassen....·-·················-·--···Susanville -···--·-··-·--·········· 186
150 Molino..·---····--····--·····--·-···Tehama -········---····-··········· 130
164 Harmony_··-········--·: .... _.... Sierra City···-·················- 13
166 Excelsior·-···-·········-········-San Francisco...........-...... S74
167 Alameda.. _··-··-··················Centerville ················-···-- lSS
168 Redwood City.................Redwood City·······-·····-··-- 298
169 Mission.·-·--········----·········•San Francisco.....·-·······-·-- 799
174 Drytown.·-·--·····-·········-··--Plymouth --··--··-··············· 34
175 Antioch...............·-·--·······-Antioch -···············-······-···· 166
178 Phoenix..·-·················-·····San Bernardino .............. 4S6
179 Mendocino•.. -·-·············-···Mendocino -····-·-·············· 154
180 Petaluma...-..................... Petaluma ······-···--············-- 300
181 Russian RiveL ........... _..Windsor ··············-··········· 107
184 . Sierra Valley.................. Sierraville·-······················ 38
185 Claiborne....--·-·····-··-·······-Point Arena....·-···············- 57
188 Oakland...................... ___ .. Oakland ·····--······-··-··········· 869
190 Northern Light....·-··--·····Millvi!le -······--·-··············- 88
191 Marin·-·---·-·--·-··-···············San Rafael ······--············· 470
192 Santa Barbara..........·-·-··Santa Barbara·-·············· 286
193 Ferndale·-···--···············-···.Ferndale -·-·················--···· IS8
194 Mountain View............-.Mountain View ·············- 198
19S Buckeye....·-··-·--··--···------·-Winters -·······-·················-- !OS
198 Wilmington_..................._Wilmington ··········--········ 323
199 Hartley_____________···-·----·-·---Lakeport ····-······--············· !SS
*202 Pentalpha.·-·······--···········-Los Angeles ···---····-········· 662
203 Confidence_..-•..................Castroville ...................... 30
204 Salinas.·--··-·············-········Sa!inas ·-···-························ 271
20S Olivet.....-........................•Corning ··-·--···-··-···········--·- !OS
206 Stanislaus ...·--··················Modesto ······················-··- 334
207 Anaheim...... _..................•Anaheim ···-············-····-··-- 295
208 Rio Vista·-········---········---•Rio Vista_······-··--··-··········- 91
209 King David's.._········-·····-·San Luis Obispo.... ·-······-· 290
210 FriendshiP··-······-·-··-····----San Jmre·-···-······················ 534
211 San Benito..___..................Hollister .......................... 145
212 South San Francisco....-San Francisco.........·-······- 27S

Cash

12.00
74.SO
127.00
19.00
194.00
940.00
20.00
9.00
87.00
14.00
30.00
26.00
180.00
213.50
7S.OO
12S.50
10.00
S8.00
48.00
28.SO
77.50
IS.SO
1.00
21.50
270.75
111.00
66.00
18.00
S0.00
87.SO
S.00
137.02
20.00
757.00
12.SO
88.48
26.00
18.SO
2S.OO
80.00
374.00
102.50
100.00
132.00

% of
Quota

4
4
9

13
104
100

11
3
25
4
12

100
16
69
13
8
IS
14

5
9
11

7
1
19
16
63
7
3
16
22
2
21

6
72
21

16
12
3

4
44

64
10
34
24

No.

214
21S
216
217
218
219
221
222

Lodge

Location

Membership

San Buenaventura........ _Ventura ·-·-···········----·--····-· 271
Oak Grove .................. ____Alameda .........................- 612
Doric.·-·-------····---··········----San Francisco.·-········------- S98
Monterey_________________________Monterey -·-··-··--·--·----·----- 161
Mosaic ....·-·······---···-·--------Livermore ·····-··········-----·-- 129
Speranza I taliana ... _......-San Francisco....-----··-·----- 401
lnyo_______ ···---·-------·------------Independence ·--------------·-- 76
Roseville ........-----·----·--····-Roseville ·--·-··-··········--··--·· 268
Bakersfield...................... Bakersfield --··--·-·--·---------· 4S3
Brooklyn..........................Oakland ............................ 620
San 'Mateo....................... San Mateo..........______________ 2S2
Athens ________ .. _...................Davis ·---·········------------------· 126
Solano..-·-·-···---·--··----·........ Vallejo····----···-----------·····--- 431
J anesville................-·------.Janesville ····--····-·----·------- 61
Calistoga...-------·----·---··--···Calistoga --------------·-·--·--··-- 91
Hills FerrY-----·---··-----------Newman -··-·------···--·--··----· 89
Guadalupe...... _.................Guadalupe _....................... 58
Colusa. _____________________________.Colusa ..............._______________ 1S7

224
22S
226
228
229
232
233
236
237
240
241 Santa Ana ........................Santa Ana ....'-·--·-·-·-----·-·-- SOO
242 Magnolia..........................Santa Barbara ...........-.... 243
243 Eucalyptus................._.....Hayward .................. _....... 206
244 Alcatraz...........................Oakland , .........·----------------- 543
24S Laurel.. .....................-.......Willows ...............-............ 18S
246 Pomona............................Pomona .................... _....... 330
247 Fresno............................._Fresno .............................. S43
248 Alturas ............................ Alturas .................... _....... 122
2SO Adin..................................Adip. .................................. 62
253 Lan.dmark. ..............---·····Esparto ............................ 93
254 Reading........................-..Redding ··--······-----············· 197
2SS W elco1T1e..........................Lemoore .......................... 125
256 Lodi...................................Lodi .................................. 282
2S8 Penrhyn...........................Penrhyn .......................... 117
2S9 Evergreen....................,..Riverside .................... _..... 529
260 King Solomon's....--........San Francisco.................. 775
261 Tuscan..............,... _.........,.Williams .......................... 88
265 Orland..-·-·--·-····--····---·-·---·Orland ···--·······--··············-· 1lS
266 North East ......................F ort Bidwell... ........._....... S3
268 Durant..............................Berkeley ..................... ·-··· 676
269 Olive Brancb...................Tulare .............................. 204
272 P<1osadena..........................Pasadena .......................... S83
273 Anchor ... _...............__________Compton .............._........... 322
274 Arroy0 ....-............. _.. ________Arroyo Grande...._........... 84
27S Oakdale............................Oakdale .....-...................... llS
277 Scilma............................._. Selma ····-·····--···············--·-- 171

185
Cash

% of
Quot'!

8
46.00
8
98.SO
195.00 17
55.88 17 .
38.SO 15
810.81 101
45.00 30
8
44.00
169.00 19
179.00 14
88.00 17
so.so 20
2Sl.SO 29
12.00 10
35.00 19
S7.00 32
117.00 100
89.00 28
211.00 21
2
9.00
141.00 34
6
68.00
97.00 26
396.10 60
148.SO 14
65.00 27
20.00 16
8.SO
5
145.00 37
11.00
4
300.00 53
9.00
4
74.00
7
333.7S 22
31.00 18
134.00 58
75.00 70
135.00 10
12.00
3
242.SO 21
65.00 10
10.00
6
S2.00 23
78.50 23

No.

278
279
280
281
282
283
285
_286
287
289
290
291
292
293
295
296
297
299
300
301
302

303
304
305
306

307
308

309
310
312
313
314
315
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325

327
328
329

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF .THE

186
Lodge ·

Location

Membership

Southern California...... Los Angeles .................... 651
Hanford...........................Hanford .......................... 157
Madera.............................Madera ............................ 185
Mount Shasta.................Anderson .......................... 65
CallayomL..................... Middletown ···················- 56
South West................-...•National City···········-······ 164
San Miguel......................San Miguel...._................ 70
Paso Robles .....................Paso Robles...................... 111
Winnedumah.................. Bishop .............................. 127
Elsinore_.........................•Elsinore ............................ 95
East Gate......................._Los Angeles .................... 874
Santa Paula........- ...........Santa Paula...·--·············· 290
Los Gatos........................Los Gatos .......................... 210
Orange Grove................_Orange ............................ 205
Mt. Jackson.....................Guerneville ...................... 138
Silver Gate...............·--···-San Diego ·······················- 605
Dunsmuir.........·-···········-··Dunsmuir ........................ 219
Liberty............................•Santa Clara...................... 237
Redlands ..........................Redlands .......................... 395
Ontario...........................•Ontario ............................ 199
Santa Lucia....-................King City.......................... 111
Portervme......._...............Porterv.ille ...................... 274
Reedley......................._. ___Reedley ............................ 142
Azusa.........-.....................Azusa ................................ 167
Ashlar.........·-···············-·--Colton .............................. 160
Santa Monica.....-............Santa Monica .................. 332
Monrovia.........................Monrovia ........................ 263
Delano..............................Delano .............................. 173
Sisson...................·-···-·····-Mount Shasta.................. 59
Los Banos........................Los Banos ........................ 130
Tehachapi........................Tehachapi ........................ 165
Temescal................~.........Corona ............................ 150
Norwalk. ......................... Norwalk ··········-··············· 110
EmanueL..-......................Gibbs ................................ 76
Hollenbeck.................... _Los Angeles ....................1407
South Gate..............·-····--Los Angeles .................... 750
Alisal........................_.......Pleasanton ...................... 110
Alhambra........................Alhambra ........................ 429
Whittier.......................:...Whittier ............................ 504
Corona................-.............Pasadena .......................... 600
Consuelo..........................Escondido ........................ 150
Long Beach........- ...........Long Beach...................... 607
Redondo.........................._Redondo Beach .............. 266
Vallee De France...........Los Angeles .................... 139

Cash

% of
Quota

745.50 57
86.00 27
101.50 27
39.50 . 30
50.00 45
50.00 15
8.00
6
5.00
2
12.00
5
60.00 32
280.20 16
46.00
8
38.00
9
73.50 18
2
5.00
50.00
4
171.00 39
60.00 13
42.00
5
142.25 36
17.00
8
301.00 55
49.50 lZ
346.00 103
20.00
6
216.25 33
197.50 38
56.50 16
36.00 30
139.50 54
265.84 80
42.00 14
35.00 16
30.00 20
231.10
9
171.00 11
59.00 27
205.00 24
101.65 10
148.00 12
318.00 106
122.00 10
36.00
7
95.00 34

No.

Lodge

Location

Membership

330 Kilauea.....·-······.···············Hilo ·····'-·························· 219
331

Pacific Grove .....:............Pacific Grove ·················- 163

332 San Pedro........................San Pedro......................._ 557
333 Alta..............-....................Bridgeport ...................... 43
*334 Covina..............................Covina -····························· 240
335 West Gate................:.......Los Angeles···················- 835
336 Fruitvale..........................Oakland ............................ 791
337 Carquinez....-................... Crockett .......:.................- 153
339 Fuller~on....................-....Fullerton ·····-···················· 414
341 Oxnard...·-······················-·Oxnard ............................ 247
343 San Fernando.................San Fernando....·--·-······-·- 244
344 Starr King.......:...............San Francisco.................. 636
345 Brentwood.......................Brentwood ...................... 107
346 Palo Alto.......................:.Palo Alto...·--················-··· 492
347 McKinley.......·-············-···Richmond ........................ 330
348 San Bernardino.............. San Bernardino .............. 500
349 Sequoia.....·-·········-···········.Oakland ............................ 960
351 Palestine.......................... Los Angeles ···············-···· 607
352 Sunset.....·-·-·····················-Los Angeles ·-··············-·- 488
353 Pinole..............................-Hercules -A······················· 139
354 Presidio..-.........................San Franci~o.................. 623
355 Hollywood...................... Hollywood ...................... 1050
356 Mill Valley... _................ _Mill Valley ...................... 324
357 Buena Park.....·-·········-····Buena Park...................._. 141
*358 Golden State................-...Los Angeles .................... 907
360 San Francisco.................San Francisco .................. 393
361 Fort Bragg......................Fort Bragg...................... 97
362 CharitY-·······-·-···-··············Campbell .......................... 114
363 Berkeley.....·--·····-············.Berkeley .......................... 591
365 Willits.............................. Willits .............................. 141
*366 Las Palmas......................Fresno ·······················-······ 665
367 South Pasadena..............South Pasadena .............. 538
368 UnitY··'·······-··················---Glendale .......................... 440
369 Ocean Park....................-Ocean Park._................... 397
370 Amity........-...................... San Francisco.................. 500
371 Le Progres de
l'Oceanie...................... Honolulu .......................... 392
372 Gardena............................Gardena ............................ 149
373 Veteran..........:.................Gardena-W. L. A......... 204
374 Jewel...._....................... _..San Francisco.................. 173
375 Richmond ........................ San Francisco.................. 625
376 Francis Drake.................South San Francisco...... 189
377 Artesia...........,................. Buena Park...................... 99
378 l\1izpah.............................Los Angeles .................... 432

187
Cash

% of
Quota

343.50 79
22.00
7
120.02 11
38.00 40
280.00 100
315.00 19
158.00 10
39.50 13
184.50 22
178.50 36
277.50 57
81.50
6
40.00 19
214.50 22
4
29.50
4
39.50
347.50 18
41.00
3
112.00 11
42.00 15
239.06 19
6
128.00
196.00 30
30.00 11
555.50 36
177.50 23
18.50 10
23.00 10
174.00 15
12.00
4
8
118.00
101.85 56
86.00 10
307.50 39
7
71.00
381.50
110.00
117.00
30.00
422.00
109.00
18.25
108.20

49

37
29

9
34
29

9
13

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

188
No.

Lodge

379
380
381
3,32
383
384
385
387
388
389

Loe a tion

Membership

Fillmore_._........................Fillmore ............................ 168
Huntington Beach.........Runtington Beach ......:... 273
Oceanside.........................Oceanside ........................ 134
Highland Park............... Los Angeles ..........:......... 512
OrosL...............................Orosi ................................ 95
El Centro......................... El Centro.......................... 243
Dinuba..............................Dinuba .............................. 180
Coal.inga...........................Coalinga ................:......... 285
Parnassus.........................San Francisco.................. 670
Palos V erdes...................Long Beach...................... 496
390 Imperial. .......................... Imperial............................ 63
391 East Belt..........................Tuolumne ........................ 65
392 West Lake.........:............Los Angeles .................... 1086
393 Balder...............................San Francisco.................. 548
394 University..~ .....................Los Angeles .................... 575
395 'turlock. ...........................Turlock ............................ 175
396 Apollo...............................Alameda .......................... 392
397 Rising Light... .................Huhtington Park............ 509
399 Fraternity........................San Jose............................ 397
400 Burlingame......................Burlingame ...................... 402
401 Bay View.........................Oakland ............................ 352
402 Brawley............................Brawley ............................ 134
403 Yerba Buena...................Oakland ............................ 419
404 Glendora.......................... Glendora .......................... 109
405 'Moneta...........................:.Los Angeles .................... 7'26
406 Burbank...........................Burbank .......................... 240
408 Sierra Madre..................Sierra Madre.................. 94
409 Honolulu.........................Bonolulu .......................... 260
410 Charter Rock. .................Berkeley .......................... 485
411 Perris............................... Perris ................................ 78
412 Calexico...........................Calexico .......................... 165
413 Waucoba..........................Big Pine............................ 43
414 Arlington.........................Los Angeles .................... 338
415 Silver Trowel................. LOs Angeles .................... 356
416 Lindsay............................ Lindsay ............................ 158
417 Clovis............................... Clovis ................................ 225
418 Elysian............................. Los Angeles .................... 509
419 Upland.............................. Upland .......................- ..... 156
421 Inglewood........................Inglewood ........................ 316
422 Eagle Rock. .....................Los Angeles .................... 293
423 York................................. Los Angeles .................... 169
424 Exeter.............................. Exeter .............................. 157'
425 Holtville...........................Holtville .......................... 97
426 Midway...........................Taft .................................. 380
1

Cash

% of

Quota

24.50
7
34.50
6
68.55 26
254.50 25
69.00 36
118.00 24
117.50 33
175.00 30
186.00 14
183.50 18
17.00 13
22.00 15
648.99 30
182.50 17
158.50 14
63.20 18
129.00 16
35.00
3
129.00 16
188.00 23
108.50 15
18.00
7
146.00 17
23.00 10
223.00 15
81.SO 17
18.00 10
321.50 62
372.00 38
24.50 16
55.00 17
55.00 64
187.38 28
189.00 27
29.50
9
27.00
6
543.00 53
49.50 16
111.00 18
202.50 35
47.00 14
331.00 105
200.00 103
350.50 46

i'1o.

..
Lodge

.

Location

.

Membership

427 Chino Valley...:..............Chino ................................ 63
428 . San :t>imas.......................Sari. Dimas........................ 117
429 Pittsburg....:....................Pittsburg .......................... 138
430 McCloud..........................McCloud .....................:.... 113
431 Alpha...............................Richmond ........................ 440
433 Hammonton....................Hamrnonton .................... 65
434 Maticopa.........................Marieopa .......................... 190
435 Fairmount.......................San Francisco.................. 542
436 Claremont.......................Claremorrt ........................ 107
437 Lancaster........................Lancaster ........................ 129
4J8 Aeacia..............................Los Angeles .............-..... 104
439 Tyrian............................. Manteea ............................ 117
440 Stahdard......................... Oakland ............................ 329
441 Ccrortado.........................Coronado .......................... 176
442 Blackmer.........................San Diego ........................ 520
443 Schofield..........................Schofield B'r'cks, T. H. 216
44-<f Carpmteria.....................:Carpinteria ...................... 68
445 Wiishire..........................L-os Angeles .................... 544
446 La Puente....................... Puente .............................. 73
447 Torrance.........................Torr'ance ...................,...... 198
448 Mount Dfablo.................Concord ............................ 164
449 Par'k..............:..................San Francisco.................. 493
450 Van Nuys........................Van Nuys ........................ 265
451 Montebello.....................:Montebello ..........'............ 239
452 San t>asqual... ................. Pasadena .......................... 386
453 I:!ethlehem.......................San Francisco.................. 362
454 Crocker...........................Daly City .......................... 259
455 Golden W est...................San Francisco.................. 532
457 Ramona............................Monterey Park................ 211
458 Henry S. Ortne..............Los Angeles .................... 590
459 Rivetbank. ......................Riverbank ........................ 76
460 Mount Oso......................Tracy ................................ 169
461 ArgClnaut... ......................San Francisco.................. 376
462 Paul Revere .................... San Francisco.................. 554
463 Morgan Hill..................Mdrgan Hill.................... 95
464 Alta Vista.......................San Francisco.................. 300
465 Center..............................Fresno .............................. 340
466 Lihertas...........................Bakersfield ...................... 250
467 Culver City......................Culver City...................... 226
468 Rockridge........................Oakland ............................ 378
469 Yor·ba Lirlda....................Yorba Linda .................... 118
470 Llncolrt.............................San Francisco.................. 300
471 Delta.................................Stockton .......................... 307
472 Maui.................................Kahului, Maui ................ 121

189
Cash

6.00
269.00
26.00
226.00
58.50
519.50
40.00
156.00
126.00
29.00
29.00
132.00
55.00
136.00
112.60
95.00
38.50
260.00
40.50
76.50
140.00
103.00
92.00
13.50
39.00
86.00
40.50
64.00
17.50
168.00
12.00
98.00
139.00
284.60
35.00
346.75
144.50
272.00
15.00
25.50
42.00
127.00
30.00
343.00

% of

Quota

5
115
9
100
7
400
11
14
59
11
13
56
8
39
11
22
28
24
28

19
42
10
17
3

5
12
8
6
4
14
8
26

18
26

18
58
21
54
3
3

18
21

5
142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

190
No. V!-odge

474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482
483
484
485
486
487
488

489
490

491
492
493
494
495
496
497
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516
517
518

Location

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Membership

1ctory...._.......... _...........San Francisco.................. 222
America...........................Los Angeles .................... 382
Coachella .........................Coachella .......................... 93
Temblor ............... :_ .........Fellows ····-······················ 134
Thousand Oaks .............. Berkeley .......................... 350
Golden Rule ....................San Jose ... ·-···'·················· 335
Fellowship.......................Oakland ............................ 219
Mt. Davidson ..................San Francisco..........- ...... 329
Clarence F. Smith ..........Los Angeles .................... 282
BelL................................. Bell .:.................................. 192
Albert Pike..................... Los Angeles .................... 188
Chowchilla...................... Chowchilla ...................... 55
Caledonia....- ...................Bakersfield ...................... 151
Vallejo ............................. Vallejo ......- ....~................. 245
Patterson ......................... Patterson .......... :............. 72
East Bay.......................... Berkeley .......................... 273
Corcoran ..........................Corcoran ..........:............... 77
Woodstock. ..................... Alameda .......................... 171
Garvanza........................•Los Angeles .................... 175
Atascadero ...................... Atascadero ...................... SO
Acorn ............................... Oakland ···············-·········- 304
Lebanon........................... San Francisco.................. 309
Riverdale ......................... Riverdale ........................ 62
Fremont ...........................Oakland ··········-:·······-····'· 270
Capital City..................... Sacramento ...................... 154
Roosevelt .........................San Francisco.................. 152
Westwood ......................•Westwood ........................ 176
Harbor... ..........................Richmond ........................ 146
Point .................................Richmond ........................ 105
Seaside.............................Long Beacil.............,........ 290
Silver Cord..................... Santa A.na........................ 231
Mount Olive ....................Los Angeles .................... 364
El Segundo......................El Segundo...................... 176
Joppa ................................ San Joaquin...................... 50
Benjamin Franklin ........Los Angeles .................... 222
Cupertino........................ .Cupertirio ........................ 82
Sunnyvale...·-··········-····..Sunnyvale ······················- 112
Palms ..............................•Los Angeles~--················· 190
Cahuenga .........................Los Angeles .................... 305
Argonne ...........................San Francisco .................. 347
Vermont Square.............Los Angeles .................... 346
Taft............................ - ....Ta ft .................................. 190
Mount Vernon................San Francisco.................. 219
La Jotla ............................La Jolla ............................ 133

Cash

% of
Quota

47.50 11
100.00 13
60.00 32
60.00 22
27.00
4
126.50 19
4.00
1
8
51.50
128.00 23
8
30.00
75.00 20
42.00 38
96.60 32
85.50 17
22.00 15
89.50 16
82.00 53
21.00
6
49.00 14
100.00 100
128.00 21
2
13.00
17.00 14
61.00 11
33.00 11
93.50 31
11.00
3
21.75
7
70.70 34
90.00 16
4
19.50
365.80 50
100.00 28
6.00
6
444.00 100
19.00 12
35.00 16
67.00 18
7
44.00
129.50 19
94.00 14
8
32.00
151.00 34
74.50 28

No.

Lodge

Location

Member·
ship

519 Euclid...............................Los Angeles .................... 276
520 Ionic..............................._Los Angeles .................... 308
521 Piedmont......................... Piedmont .......................... 207
522 Sunrise.. ~..........................Los Angeles .................... 180
523 Betlflower ........................Bellflower ........................ 173
524 Catalina Island..............•Avalon .............................. 111
525 George Washington.......San Francisco.................. 301
526 Bay City.......................... San Francisco.................. 208
527 Covenant... .......................Los Angeles ··················- 273
528 Beverly Hills ..................Beverly Hills .................. 215
529 Loyalty... ~ .........................Los Angeles .................... 210
530 Sun Garden .....................Fresno .............................. 331
531 Alexandria...................... San Francisco.................. 129
532 Smyrna .......................... -Ceres ................................ 55
534 Forest Hill...................... San Francisco.................. 104
535 Alexander Hamilton .....Los Angeles .................... 130
536 Seal Rock .........................San Francisco .................. 117
537 Utopi'a.............................. Los Angeles .................... 446
538 Ascot... .........................:... Los Angeles .................... 228
539 Belvedere.........................Los Angeles .................... 209
541 Henry Morse Stephens.. Berkeley .......................... 269
542 Lankershim ..................... North Hollywood .......... 228
543 Signal ...............................Long Beach...................... 279
544 Glendale...........................Glendale .......................... 305
545 Jonathan ...................... - ..San Francisco.................. 177
546 San Gabriel.....................San Gabriel...................... 157
547 Arcadia............................ Arcadia ............................ 92
548 Triangle..........................•Venice .............................. 113
549 Justice............................-San Francisco.................. 165
550 Seaport... .........................,San Francisco......~ ........... 172
551 Lakeshore........................Oakland ............................ 211
552 Semper Virens ...............Eureka .............................. 119
553 Golden City.................,... San Francisco.................. 74
555 White Pine...................... Weed ................................ 90
556 Fairfax .......................... _Fairfax ............................ 104
557 Hermosa..........................Hermosa Beach .............. 157
558 Point Firmin ................... San Pedro ........................ 263
559 Craftsmen.......................Los Angeles .................... 194
560 Plymouth .........................Oakland ............................ 182
561 East San Diego ...............San Diego ........................ 216
563 South Park. .....................Los Angeles .................... 317
564 Foothill............................ Oakland ............................ 206
566 James A. Garfield.......... Los Angeles .................... 139
567 Searchlight ......................Long Beach...................... 335

191
Cash

% of
Quota

120.00 22
77.00 13
l
5.50
39.00 11
8
26.00
160.00 72
3
20.00
149.00 36
69.50 13
4
19.00
4
17.00
158.00 24
37.00 14
7
8.00
40.00 19
261.00 100
85.00 36
196.75 22
132.00 29
79.50 19
7
38.75
6
25.50
165.00 30
2
12.00
140.00 40
125.00 40
9
17.00
80.50 36
32.00 10
50.00 15
5
23.00
41.50 17
8
12.00
69.00 38
9.00
66.00

49.00
82.00
17.00
41.50
134.50
119.50
100.50
95.50

4

21
9
21

5
10
21
29
36
14

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

192
L9<1ge

Location

Member·
ship

568
*569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595

P4r\c Boulevard..............Oakland ..,...........:.......,.,... 200
Chateau Thierry.............Oakland ............................ 161
Military Service.............San Friuwisco.................. 253
Francis K. Shattuck.......Berkeley ····--··········--·-·--·.. 174
James Mad\son...............Los Angeles .................... 159
HillcresL........................Berkeley ···------······-·········· 57
S. W. Hackett.................San Diego ........................ 200
Fort Crook.......................Fall River Mills.............. 71
El Cajon Valley..............El Cajon............................ 69
S4npyside........................ Lo~ Angeles .................... 257
Progressive.....................Los Angeles .................... 249
Warren G. Harding.......North Sacramento.......... 137
Santa Maria....................Ramona ···························· 47
S·ecurity............................Bakersfield ················--···· 172
Rialto...............................Ri4lt6 ................................ 88
W111ico...............................Wasco ··················-----·-····· 104
Har-ding...........................I,os Angeles .................... 160
Manchester......................I,os Angeles .........,,.,.,._,., 252
G;trden Grove................. Orange ............................ 104
Vlllley Forg~...................Los Angeles .................... 206
El s,reno.........................I,os Angeles .................... l34
~uaL ............................Lihue, Kauai.. .................. 90
Comp~ss ...........................Pomona ···························· 130
ESC!ilon............................ Escalcm ............................ 65
T qjq11ga ............................T uj unga .........................,.• 81
All States....,....................I,ong BC4ch.........,.. ,...,...., 382
Service............................,l,ong Beach........,........,.... 303
Alexander Graham
BelJ...............................I.,os Angeles .................... 149
596 Guardian...................:.....South G4te.............,........,. 226
597 Trqth.................................Los Angeles .................... 95
598 Pearl Harbor..................Honolulu --·······-················ 148
599 Cjlrmelita.........................Pasadena .......................... 161
600 Lyqwood..........................Lynwoog .......................... 116
94
601 Gr\~zly............................. Portql~
602 Mo\ro~e............................:(.,o!i Angeles .................... 143
603 DifllOJ'ld........................... -~kland ............................ 186
604 Jubil~.............................. Santa Ana.........,,,,:..,.....,. 147
605 Glassell Park...................I.,.os Angeles .................... 235
607 Sojourner........................Monrovia ········--·············· 103
608 Gr<1,naqa. ____________ ...............Alhambra ........................ 261
609 Provident. ........................Sacramepto ...........,......,... 123
*610 ElmhursL........................Oakland ............................ 135
611 Cijnoga............................. Canog~ PaFlc......,.....,....,., 126
·········· ·····-~·········-~

Cash

% of
Quota

170.50 4J
41.00 106
64.00 13
9
31.00
40.00 13
16.50 14
83.50 21
128.00 90
11.00
8
29.00
6
36.00
7
14.45
5
12.00 13
50.00 15
8.00
5
92.50 44
6
19.00
7
33.00
66.00 32
19.00
5
20.00
8
445.50 248
69.50 27
53.00 41
17.50 11
305.53 40
205.00 34
77.00
21.00
116.00
129.00
100.00
122.00
64.92
13.00
28.00
23.00
56.00
49.00
138.50
172.00
23.50
88.00

26
5
61

44
31
53
35
!I
8
8
12
24

27
70
16
3S

No.

Lodge

Location

Membership

612
613
*614
615
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626

Temple City....................Temple City...................... 84
Three Pilla.rs................. -Saeramento_..................... 122
LarchmonL....................Los Angeles .................... 184
FlemeL.............................Hemet ·······················-······ 78
Southland........................Los Angeles .......,............ 194
N eptune...........................Long Beach...................... 123
Point Loma.................... _San Diego ........................ 77
The Gardens.. ..................Los Angeles .................... 167
Atwater............................Los Angeles .................... 155
·Menorah...........................Los Angeles .................... 233
Fortitude..........................Oakland ............................ 112
Angeles Mesa.................Los Angeles .................... 294
Chula Vista......................Chula Vista...................... 126
627 Lamanda Park................Pasadena .......................... 115
628 Beacon of the WesL....Los Angeles .................... 113
629 Fairview...........................Inglewood ·····--·-----·····..···· 83
630 lngleside...........................San Francisc;:o.................. 100
631 Benevolence....................Los Angeles .................... 157
632 Normal Heights............. San Diego ........................ 191
633 Poinsettia.........................Ventura ···························· 182
634 Victorville....................... Victorville ........................ 160
635 Riverside..........................Riverside
123
636 John MarshalL..............West Hollywood ............ 102
637 Palisades..........................Santa Monica .................. 180
638 Indian Rock..................,Berkeley .......................... 93
639 Composite........................Los Angeles .................... 111
640 Veritas .............................San Francisco .................. 73
642 La Cumbre......................Santa Barbara ................ 67
643 Alta Loma.......................Long Beach...................... 248
644 Lomita..............................Gardena ............................ 104
645 A.F.E. Irwin.................San Pedro ........................ 130
646 Metropblitan................... Los Angeles .................... 93
648 Damascus.........................San Bernardino .............. 169
649 Florence...........................Los Angeles .................... 178
651 Menlo Park....................Menlo Park...................... 69
652 Crescenta Valley............Montrose .......................... 102
653 F ontana............................F ontana ............................ 80
654 Jordan.............................. Los Angeles .................... 142
655 Monte Vista.....................Long Beach...................... 211
656 CitroL ............................. Brea ................................... 157
657 John D. Spreckels.......... San Diego ........................ 265
658 Livingston........................Livingston ........................ 62
659 La Habra.........................La Habra.......................... 118
660 Bald win Park................. Bald win Park.................. 70
--~--- ·· ············· ·· ···

193
Cash

% of
Quota

12.50
7
78.50 32
288.50 160
9.00
6
50.00 13
101.00 41
83.00 54
35.00 10
26.00
8
224.00 ~
80.50 36
7
38.50
15.00
6
18.00
8
71.00 31
112.00 67
13.00
7
9.00
3
71.50 19
10.00
3
47.50 15
23.00
9
46.00 23
187.60 52
34.00 18
125.00 56
36.00 25
134.00 100
94.00 19
38.70 19
122.00 47
57.00 30
24.00
7
53.00 15
69.00 50
26.00 13
15.85 10
50.00 17
150.50 36
58.50 19
9
50.00
48.50 39
2
5.00
35.00 24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

194
No.

Lodge

Location

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Membership

Cash

% of

Quota

Malta............................ _.Los Angeles .................... 102
16.00
8
Henry Knox ...................Los Angeles .................... 124
87.50 35
15.50 11
Oasis..·-······-····················El Centro.......................... 73
45.00 48
Kaweab ............................Woodlake ........................ 47
Reseda ..............................Reseda .............................. 67
10.50
8
Meridian .......................... Glendale ............................ 172 101.00 29
San Gorgonio............. _ _Banning ............................ 68
90.00 66
669 John P. Janrian .............. San Jose ..............·-·----·· 87
20.00 11
670 Greenleaf ......... ,...............Whittier .......................... 137
38.00 14
14.00 19
6~1 San Clemente .................. San Clemente .................. 36
672 Laguna Beach .................Laguna Beach.......... _______ 53
14.00 13
673 Far West.........................San Francisco.................. 98
22.00 11
674 Los Cerritos .................... Long Beach...................... 77
56.50 37
675 Modesto ............................Modesto ............................ 102
79.00 39
676 Willow Glen... ·-··············Willow Glen.................... 65
19.00 14
678 Altadena..........................Altadena .......................... 143
64.00 22
Lodges that failed to contribute are omitted from the above list.
The membership as shown, is as reported by Lodges, or, if they failed
to report their membership, as shown in the 1934 Roster.
*These Lodges also sent in contributions of stock, which amounts
were included in figuring percentages, but are not included in the amount
of cash. List of stocks will be found elsewhere in this report.
W. P. JEFFRIES, Chairman.

661
662
664
665
666
667
668

Report adopted, except request for appropriation, which
was referred to the Committee on Finance; and except that
portion referring to annuities, which was referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Organ solo, "Asa's Death," from Peer Gynt Suite, Grand Organist.
"I wiil lift up mine eyes uri.to the hills, from whence cometh my
help.
My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth.
The Lord is thy keeper : the Lord is thy shade upon thy right
hand.
The sun shall not smite thee. by day, nor the moon by night.
The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil : he shall preserve
thy soul.
The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from
this time forth, and even for evermore."
0

195

Once again we pause in our deliberations to pay tri'bute to the memory
of those members of the Grand Lodge who have completed their duties
on earth and have .experienced the great adventure.
One hundred sixty-three members of Grand Lodge answered the call
of the Supreme Ruler since the last report of your committee and are
now numbered with that ever increasing majority in the supreme Grand
Lodge which no time can close.
Many of these departed Brethren were leaders in Masonry and in the
communities in which they lived. Time will not ·permit even a brief statement of the manifold services performed• by many of them to California ·
Masonry and to the public at large.
Our sympathies and words of encouragement go out to the members
of Pomona Lodge No. 246 and to Garvanza Lodge No. 492, these Lodges
having suffered the loss of their respective Masters.. We know of no
greater hardship a Lodge can endure than to have its program disrupted
by the loss of its Master.
Your committee would feel that it had not performed its duty, however, if some mention were not made of a few of the departed who have
performed long and faithful services for the Grand Lodge.
Two of our Past Grand Masters have been taken from our midst,
George F. Rodden and Gustav A. Hutaff, and also our greatly beloved
Grand Lecturer, Thomas J. Baker. The Grand Master has appointed lifelong friends of these Brethren to give us a detailed report of their
services, which will be heard later on this program.
Grand Lodge and the Hawaiian Islands experienced a great loss in
the passing of John T. Moir, Past Master of Kilauea ·Lodge No. 330.
His life history is one of fraternal and community service. We regret
that we are unable to give it in full. We will, however, give a sketch of
his Masonic career. He was raised to the sublime degree of Master
Mason in Montrose Kilwining Lodge No. 15 of 6cotland in June, 1880,
demitting to St. Johns Lodge No. 15' of Stonehaven, Scotland, shortly
thereafter. In 1896, after residing in the Hawaiian Islands for eight
years, he again demitted and became a charter member of Kilauea Lodge
No. 330, being installed Master of his Lodge December 23, 1901, and
served Grand Lodge as Grand Sword Bearer in 1931. In addition to his
symbolic Masonry he received all of the Scottish Rite degrees, both
honorary and otherwise, and was Almoner at the time he passed to his
reward.
Corona Lodge No. 324 reports the passing of Brother Lemuel L.
Test. Brother Test was Master of his Lodge in 1907, and later served
Grand Lodge as Inspector for eighteen years, resigning in 1926. His
place will be hard to fill in Pasadena Masonry.
The list of our departed Brethren is as follows:

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

California Lodge No. 1
Robert Henry Borland, died October 23, 1933.
Ernest Herbert Hills, died January 20, 1934.
Benicia Lodge No. 5
Fredric Gerald Fitzgerald, died April 5, 1934.
San Jose Lodge No. 10
Ernest Woodbury Conant, died January 4, 1934.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19
Fred Albert Pollard, died March 31, 1934.
Washington Lodge No. 20
Harold Douglas Hill, died April 16, 1934.
Herman Theodore Silvius, died March 17, 1934.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
Benjamin Hornblower Clarke, died March 11, 1934.
Mariposa Lodge No. 24
Samuel Joseph Johns, died December 25, 1933.
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30
·
Samuel Andrews Oarke, died March 15, 1934.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32
Walter Jansen, died August 19, 1932.
Howard Lodge No. 37
Robert Rankin, died February 7, 1934.
Harvey J. Sarter, died June 25, 1934.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42
Joseph Oscar Downing, died January 5, 1934.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57
Ross Clarence Moodey, died February 20, 1934.
Union Lodge No. 58
Thomas John Baker, died December 27, 1933.
Gravel Range Lodge No. 59
Benjamin LeRoy Hames, died December 26, 1933.
Plumas Lodge No. 60
Jesse Green Walker, died November 29, 1933.
Amador Lodge No. 65
William K. McFarland died September 8 1933.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68
George Francis Hudson, died November 29, 1933.
Humboldt Lodge No. 79
William Frank Clyborne, died April 5, 1934.
Vesper Lodge No. 84
Roy Smith Godbolt, died October 22, 1933.
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89
Allan Givens Wheaton, died April 27, 1934.
Yosemite Lodge No. 99
Edward Stephen O'Brien, died June 1, 1934.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chico Lodge No. 111
Charles Henry Camper, died May 25, 1934.
Clinton Lodge No. 119
Louis Albert Davison, died May 1, 1934.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 ·
Matthias Raabe, died April 7, 1934.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131
Thomas Robeson Burkett, died June 11, 1934.
Pacific Lodge No. 136
Robert W. Madden, died October 10, 1933.
George M. Perine, P. G. M., died October 6, 1933.
Franklin Lodge No. 123
John Krull, died January 12, 1934.
Orientai Lodge No. 144
John Tonningsen, died November 28, 1933.
James Lawrence Hawks, died May 27, 1934.
Abell Lodge No. 146
· John Henry Barker, died October 19, 1933.
Woodland Lodge No. 156
James Isom McConnell, died June 11, 1934.
Keystone Lodge No. 161
William Samuel Dennis, died August 15, 1933.
Mission Lodge No. 169
Axel Hagbarth Pettersen, died August 14, 1933.
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173
Jesse Lee Reith, died April 2, 1934.
John Francis Stephenson, died May 27, 1934.
Mendocino Lodge No. 179
Fred W. Dartt, died January 7, 1934.
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182
George Conrad Meckfessel, died February 10, 1934.
Clear Lake Lodge N 9. 183
James D. Brenard, died December 30, 1933.
Marin Lodge No. 191
Albert N. floyen, died December 4, 1933.
John Clute, died July 6, 1934.
George F. Rodden, P . G. M., died March 8, 1934.
Mountain View Lodge No. 194
Ernest LeRoy Berry, died April, 1934.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198
Washington I. Travis, died November 25, 1933.
Andrew Young, died May 10, 1934.
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
Julius Herbert Martin, died March 10, 1934.

197

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Salinas Lodge No. 204
Elba Elsworth Hitchcock, died April 7, 1934.
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206
Loren William Fulkerth, died July 17, 1934.
Friendship Lodge No. 210
Robert Alexander Lee, died August 15, 1933.
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212 .
George Winfield Harlow, died December 29, 1933.
Louis George Kramer, died February 2, 1934.
William McDonald, died February 12, 1934.
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214
Frank Carlton Doty, died July .11, 1934.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215
Chester Larned Robinson, died December 22, 1933.
Monterey Lodge No. 217
William H. Faringhy, died January 7, 1934.
Thomas Lee, died February 12, 1934.
Henry A. Olmsted, died September 30, 1933.
Roseville Lodge No. 222
Jeremiah Edward Stine, died November 16, 1933.
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225
Henry Franklin Goff, died June 7, .1934.
Athens Lodge No. 228
Edward Walter Bates, died February 2, 1934.
Joseph James Gallegher, died January 11, 1934.
North Butte Lodge No. 230
Edward Earnest Biggs, died June 4, 1934.
Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236
H. V. Armistead," died September 12, 1933.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237
John H . Franklin, died April 23, 1934.
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244
James Garland Kane, died December 21, 1933.
Laurel Lodge No. 245
Eustace Howard Rhodes, died ·May 9, 1934.
Pomona Lodge No. 246
Nelson Jacob King, died May 13, 1934.
Tuscan Lodge No. 261
George A·bner Ware, died May 12, 1934.
Durant LOdge No. 268
Marshall Pickney Wilder Albee, died March 22, 1934.
Edward Charles Bridgman, died July 25, 1934.
Madera Lodge No. 280
Samuel Gassiway Owens, died August 26, 1933.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281
Harvey Lincoln Bishop, died June 29, 1934.
South West Lodge No. 283
Jesse Elwood :Stanley, died December 19, 1933.
East Gate Lodge No. 290
·
Jacob Ferdinand Haller, died October 2, 1933.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293
Clarence Douglas Bay, died March 5, 1934.
Lucien Calvin Flippen, died June 17, 1934.
Arthur Child Newell, died April 14, 1934.
Mount Jackson Lodge No. 295 ·
Charles Baker McBride, died December 13, 1933.
William McFadden Shinn, died March 19, 1934.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
George Ernest Powell, died November 20, 1933.
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297
. Gustav Albert Hutaff, P. G. M., died October 17, 1933.
Liberty Lodge No. 299
.
Max Kohner, died October 25, 1933.
Redlands Lodge No. 300
Halsey W. Allen, died March 31, 1934.
James F. Drake, died September 1, 1933.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308
Samuel Emerson Salisbury, died May 19, 1934.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313
Philip Marx, died August 3, 1933.
George Henry Pippitt, died December 31, 1933.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315
James Hay, died May 8, 1934.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319
Charles Lucian Batcheller, died January 16, 1934.
William Albert Engle, died July 24, 1934.
South Gate Lodge No. 320
George Edwin Cota, died July 10, 1934.
John William Musselman, died November 29, 1933.
Kearney Lee Wilcox, died March 3, 1934.
Alisa! Lodge No. 321
Jerome Harris Arendt, died June 16, 1934.
Hugh Arnold Sinclair, died May 12, 1934.
Corona Lodge No. 324
Lemuel L. Test, died November 4, 1933.
Kilauea Lodge No. 330
John Troup Moir, died November 17, 1933.
Patific Grove Lodge No. 331
William Charles Cook, died April 27, 1934.

199

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Covina Lodge No. 334
Thomas Francis Griswold, died July 28, 1934.
West Gate Lodge No. 335
Otto Rumage, died September 29, 1933.
Carquinez Lodge No. 337
John Joseph Nalond, died November 25, 1933.
Charles Phillip Thomas, died July 26, 1934.
Brentwood Lodge No. 345
.Paul F. Bucholtz, died June 2, 1934.
Lawrence Reynolds, died January 30, 1934.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
Emit Florenz Weisshaar, died July 24, 1934.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349
James Cairns Cole, died August 14, 1933.
Charles Husband, died January 7, 1934.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355
Theodore Heinig, died April 2, 1934.
Golden State Lodge No. 358
Jay Walter Hanby, died December 18, 1933.
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361
H. R. Baum, died September 12, 1933.
H. A. Doidge, died June 17, 1934.
M. L .. Lynch, died February 7, 1934.
Willits Lodge No. 365
Allan Davidson, died July 24, 1934.
Amity Lodge No, 370
Neil -Budd Pierson, died October 4, 1933.
Paul Frederick Schaffner, died May 29, 1934.
Gardena Lodge No. 372
Edward Odell Weed, died March 10, 1934.
Francis Drake Lodge No. 376
Ephriam Nixon Brown, died February 3, 1934.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379
John Powell Hinckley, died August 29, 1933.
El Centro Lodge No. 384
William Joseph Reid, died August 10, 1933.
Dinuba Lodge No. 385
James Henry McCracken, died August 9, 1933.
Fred Fellie Robinson, died November 7, 1933.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389
Steadman Forest James, died March 10, 1934.
West Lake Lodge No. 392
Harry Gordon Manville, died July 4, 1934.
Balder Lodge No. 393
George Maurice Rudebeck, died October 15, 1933.

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fraternity Lodge No. 399
Alvin Thomas Drew, died September 19, 1933.
Walter Frederick Lillick, died April 29, 1934.
Bay View Lodge No. 401
Harry Elmer Long, died June 4, 1934.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408
Harold Ernest Allen.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410
Albert Upp Brandt, died April 21, 1934.
Frank Oscar Lee, died July 2, 1934.
Perris Lodge No. 411
Joseph Fred Hook, died March 17, 1934.
Valentine Edgar Reynolds, died May 11, 1934.
Acacia Lodge No. 438
Franz Wallenstein, died June 22, 1934.
Hermann Franz, died June 22, 1934.
Wilshire Lodge No. 445
Elmer LeRoy Biggs, died May 5, 1934.
Montebello Lodge No. 451
John Randolph Hamlin, died May 19, 1934.
Riverbank Lodge No. 459
Robert Lee Thompson, died March 22, 1934.
John Brockington Pressley, died June 22, 1934.
Delta Lodge No. 471
John Alexander Rogers, died March 17, 1934.
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478
J oseph Charles Clayworth, died September 29, 1933.
Fellowship Lodge No. 480
Florentine William Schubkegel, died May 23, 1934.
Garvanza Lodge No. 492
Ralph Glover, died June 1, 1934.
Acorn Lodge No. 494
John Thomas Stewart, died January 5, 1934.
Riverdale Lodge No. 496
Zeno Lewis Cornwell, died September 9, 1933.
Roosevelt Lodge No. 500
·
Louis Ferrari, died December 30, 1933.
Argonne Lodge No. 514
Prentice Oscar Courtemanche, died October 25, 1933.
Catalina Island Lodge No. 524
Raymond Sylvester Alexander, died November 6, 1933.
Covenant Lodge No. 527
Claudius Harold Young, died February 15, 1934.
·
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535
Daniel Philip Sink, Jr., died December 11, 1933.

201

202

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536
Milo Bohall, died October 4, 1933.
Golden City Lodge No. 553
Howard Johnson Van Kirk, died April 16, 1934.
Craftsmen Lodge No. 559
Frank Ryan Bray, died May 10, 1934.
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569
William Christopher Heim, died January 9, 1934.
Military Service Lodge No. 570
Eugene Nichols, died December 31, 1933.
Manchester Lodge No. 585
William John Forbes, died July 24, 1934.
Dimond Lodge No. 603 .
Carlton Walter Seely, died March 2, 1934.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647
Oscar Francis Munson, died June 1, 1934.
Henry Knox Lodge No. 662
Howard Beasley Worne, Jr., died October 13, 1933.
Meridian Lodge No. 667
Rush Palmer Wheat, died December 1, 1933.
William Warren Worley, died July 18, 1934.

It is eminently proper and appropriate that we pause and pay our
respects to those Brethren who have laid down the working tools of the
craft and answered the final summons. They have finished the work that
was given them to do. No 1>9wer of friendship or fraternal affection can
bring them back.
.
It is difficult to comfort ourselves when we realize that we will not
again take these Brethren by the hand or listen to their friendly words of
greeting; But the memory of our association with them remains-this, at
least, can not be taken from us. ·And so, in the same spirit in which we
delighted to recognize their virtues while they were with us, let us honor
them in death, and
Weep not that their toils are over;
Weep not that their race is run;
God grant that we may rest as calmly
When our work, like theirs, is done.

WM. H. PARCELS,

J. KARL LoBDELL,
EzRA DECOTO,

Committee.
Vocal solo, "How Long Will Thou Forget Me, 0 Lord," Benjamin
Liederman.

20l

In Memoriam George Frederick Rodden
Grand Master 1920:21
By Kent J . C. Sey1I1-0ur, Inspector, Fifty-first D istrict
A dearly beloved member of ·o ur order passed to eternal rest March 8,
1934. His cheery smile, toss of head so characteristic, friendly handclasp
and hearty greeting are missed 'sadly today.
·
Brother Rodden, our fifty-fourth Grand Master, was a native of California, born at Montezuma, Tuolumne county, December 24, 1867. His
father, George Rodden, a native of Vermont, came to California during
the gold rush of 1851 and in 1864 married Caroline Thornton of Cincinnati, Ohio. Four children were born of this union, of whom George Frederick was the second.
Acquiring the rudiments of his education in his native town, Brother
Rodden later attended high school in the city of San Francisco. Entering
the University of California, from which institution he had the distinction
of being the youngest graduate in its history, he finished his course of
studies · in the year 1887, too young to receive his degree,. that of Doctor
of Dental Surgery, which degree was conferred after he had attained his
majority. He entered upon the practice of his chosen profes~ion in San
Francisco, in 1888, which remained continuous there until rhis death. His
home was in the city of San Rafael.
He was married in 1910 to Amy Elizabeth Jackson of Chicago. They
were blessed with two children, Amy Carolyn and George Frederick, Junior.
Thus was engendered a home of love, culture and refinement.
To the family so sadly stricken by the passing of the husband and
father, we extend our tender love and sympathy. A natural leader, Brother
Rodden gave much of his time and energy to the civic, social and cultural
life of his community. lri 1915 he was elected to the City Council of San
Rafael, and in 1919 he was chosen mayor of the municipality, serving
always with dignity and with full realization of the responsibility of public
trust. A lover and student of music, he had for years an important part
in the musical development of the community. He was one of the leaders
in establishing the Marin Junior College at Kentfield. Elected a member
of the first Board of Trustees, he served continuously as vice-president
until his death. Serving with steadfast purpose, he lived to see this institution develop into what is recognized as an important unit of our State
public schools system
It seems natural that Freemasonry should attract him and have his
earnest and enthusiastic support.
He was initiated in Marin Lodge No. 191 on the 8th day of October,
1898, passed to the degree of Fellowcraft on the 12th day of October, 1898,
and raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason on the 19th day of
October, 1898, a period of eleven days.

•

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

He was elected Master of his Lodge in 1902, making his first appearance in Grand Lodge in 1903, at which time Grand Master Nutting appointed him to serve as Gr-and Marshal. He was again appointed in 1904.
In 1904 he was appointed Inspector of the district comprising Marin
county and the southern half of Sonoma county, which position he held
until his election as Junior Grand Warden in 1917. His service as Inspector was one of his important contributions to our beloved institution.
His interpretation of our esoteric work was of such nature as to express
its beauty in graceful, impressive and intelligent manner. During his incumbency as Inspector he originated the scheme of a general participation
of all the Brethren of the jurisdiction in the effort to raise a million dollars
for the endowment fund of our Masonic Homes, which will eventually be
accomplished.
His first committee assignment in Grand Lodge was in 1905 as a
member of the Committee on Returns. In 1914 he was appointed chairman
of the very important Committee on Finance, which position he ably filled
until 1917. He was a member of the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes from 1917 to 1934.
He was a member and the first High Priest of Marin Chapter No. 102,
R. A. M., and a member of California Commandery No. 1, Knights
Templar. He was an active participant in the forming of the Marin Mutual
Benefit Association of Masons, serving as president from its inception until
his death.
A kindly, gracious Grand Master, withal a forceful one, his achievements are written deeply in the hearts of the thousands of loyal Masons
of the jurisdiction of California, that came first to know him and then
to love him.
One quite unusual association resulted from his visit as Grand Master
to Washington Lodge No. 20, on which occasion he acted as Master during
the rendering of the third degree by the Past Masters of that Lodge.
Thereafter each year up to and including the year 1933, the custom was
maintained, the event being termed Rodden Night.
His address to Grand Lodge in 1921, of graceful and expressive diction, was comprehensive; so much so that it will remain an important contribution to Grand Lodge annals.
Though serving loyally in the ranks for some thirteen years thereafter, his year as Grand Master was the culmination of that love for, as
well as devotion to our beloved institution, that had been evidenced from
the time of his first step in Masonry. Masonry is the richer by reason of
his service. The writer would feel remiss, indeed, were he not to express
the obligations he owes to this friend, by reason of almost daily contact
with him for more than thirty years, during which time they were closely
associated in civic and fraternal affairs.
As Masons we profess a profound belief in an all-wise, just and
living God. May we not, therefore, look upon that which we term Death

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

205

as the ~thway to Immortal Life, and thus, with full confidence, feel that
this dev('1:ed son, loving husband and father, just and loyal friend and
Brother, has safely traversed it and is at home in his Father's House.
String quartette: Waldemar 0. E. Lind, first violin; Max Amsterdam, second violin; Nathan Firestone, viola; Anton Tobias, cello.
In Memoriam Gustav Albert Hutaff
October 5, 1879-0ctober 17, 1933
By Will H. Fischer, Past Grand Master
The Most Worshipful Gustav Albert Hutaff, Past Grand Master of
Masons in California, passed from this life on October 17, 1933, four days
after the close of our last annual communication. As had been his custom
for many years, Brother Hutaff attended Grand Lodge. He was evidently
a very sick man. At parting, we spoke words of encouragement to him
and bade him be of good cheer ; but even as we did so our hearts were
heavy, for we knew we were saying farewell.
When he surrendered the gavel of o.ffice to his successor in October,
1929, Grand Master Hutaff appeared to be in excellent health and destined
for a long life. In the following year, however, his wife, to whom he had
given his adoration from early youth, passed to the Great Beyond, and
his grief came to him with a shock from which he seemed unable to rally.
In course illness came to him in the form of an internal malady requiring
extensive surgical procedure. Thereafter, although he went his way among
men and attended to his various duties with the scrupulous care so characteristic of him, excruciating pain harassed him constantly. Gradually his
fine physique yielded to the inevitable forces of physical decline. The end
came as a desired and welcome release.
Gustav Albert Hutaff was born at Santa Rosa, California, on October 5, 1879, the son of Henry Hutaff, a native of Alsace-Lorraine, and
Maria Rebecca Atover Hutaff, a native of Hanover, Germany. Henry
Hutaff first came to California in 1860. Subsequently he went to Germany,
married, and with his bride returned to make his home here permanently.
To this pioneer couple four children were given, two daughters and two
sons. John Harry Hutaff, now residing in Alameda, is the sole survivor.
When Gustav Albert, or "Gus" as we always knew him, was a lad of
about six summers, the family moved from Santa Rosa to San Francisco.
The growing boy attended Horace Mann and John Everett grammar
schools. One of his classmates, as he passed through the grades, was Alberta Moller, daughter of another German family which had come, before
her birth, from Hamburg to make their home in San Francisco. An
imperishable love budded in these two youthful hearts, as sweet, as trusting, and as pure as ever existed between lad and maid. The romance continued, and years later, in 1904, the young couple exchanged the vows of
holy matrimony. The issue of the union was a daughter, Helen, whom

/

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

they worshipped and in whom were united the fine attributes
both
parents. Helen now resides in Berkeley.
By the' time Gus Hutaff was ready to enter high school th of his
parents had died, leaving him as his heritage his character, his industry
and his ambition. Determining to complete his education he found employment in a drug store conducted by D. H. Wulzen. He lived with the
Wulzen family, attended high school by night and worked in the store by
day. Still working his way, he entered the College of Pharmacy, University of California. Shortly before completing the course, the SpanishAmerican War having broken out, he decided that he owed his services to
his country. On May 21, 1898, he enlisted as a hospital steward in the
Eighth Army Corps and went to the Philippine Islands. He was honorably discharged June 21, 1899, after having been decorated three times
for meritorious action. He returned from the Islands, resumed his studies
and was graduated with honors, the youngest member of his class, receiving the degree of Ph. G. in 1900.
After graduation he procured a position in. a dr.ug store at Dunsmuir.
He worked hard, practiced thrift and subsequently purchased the store,
which he sold in 1919, He also engaged in the jewelr:ir business for several
years. Meanwhile, in 1910 he had been elected a director of the State .
Bank of Dunsmuir. In 1913 he was advanced to a vice-presidency and in
1916 was elected president, in which position he remained until 1927, when
the bank was sold to the United Security Bank and Trust Company, which
later became a branch of the Bank of America. Remaining with the institution, Brother Hutaff was chairman of the local board of directors, and
vice-president, until he resigned in 1931.
Brother Hutaff was initiated an Entered Apprentice Mason on September 26, 1901 ; passed to the degree of Fellowcraft October 17, 1901,
and raised to the sublime degree October 24, 1901, in Dunsmuir Lodge
No. 297. He served his Lodge as Marshal, Deacon, Secretary, Treasurer,
Warden and Master. For sixteen years he was an Inspector, serving the
Siskiyou mountain Lodges. Among them his memory will live as a tradition. He was a constant attendant upon Grand Lodge, serving as chairman
of the Pay of Members Committee. He was later a member of the Finance
Committee.
He was elected Junior Grand Warden in October, 1925; Senior Grand
Warden in 1926, Deputy Grand Master in 1927 and Grand Master in 1928.
To each of these offices, and especially to that of Grand Master he gave
to the limit of his ample abilities.
·
In addition to ,these Masonic affiliations and ·distinctions Brother
Hutaff was a member of Cyrus Chapter No. 15, R. A. M. ; Mount Shasta
Commandery No. 32, Knights Templar; Sacramento Consistory, Scottish
Rite, 32°, K. C. C.H.; Ben Ali Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., Sacramento.
He was also a Past Patron of the Eastern Star and a member of the
Sciots.

\

\

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

207

\

ln '{msiness Brother Hutaff was energetic, courteous, painstaking and
honest. ~ his family life he was a husband and father who gave always
a loyal an'IJ abundant love. In Masonry he was the unfailing friend, counselor and ~rvant of the craft. No distance was too gre~t to be traversed,
no storm coUJd dismay, no excuse could stay him when the call to service
came from his Brethren of the little Lodges of the Siskiyous. As a Grand
Master he upheld the high traditions of his exalted office. He walked
humbly in the way of honor, with duty as his guide.
Apart frcm these concerns his greatest joy was in the out-of-doors:
. He rejoiced to commune with nature and found delight in all her elements
and moods. His spirit responded to the challenge of the sea and sky. He
was moved by the miracle of the return of seasons. He found pleasure in
the sight of growing crops, or herds browsing in a meadow. He knew the
wild creatures of the hills and was their friend. He knew where trout
lurked in the sparkling streams. And always he turned for inspiration to
the beautiful mountains of the Northland. We who loved him well believe
they imparted to his spirit a measure of their might and majesty.
Vocal solo, "Crossing the Bar" (Tennyson), by Benjamin Liederman.

In Memoriam Thomas J. Baker
By Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master
Thomas John Baker, for more than a quarter of a century our efficient
and beloved Grand Lecturer, laid aside his earthly working tools on the
27th day of December, 1933, and has taken his seat among the immortals
in the Celestial Lodge above. While we bow in humble submission to the
w~!l of the Supreme Grand Master, we pause for a time to pay loving
tribute to the memory of this good man and Mason, whose life was
devoted to the service of the fraternity and whose work has indelibly
stamped its imprint upon the pages of the history of this Grand Lodge,
as well as upon the tablets of our memory.
Brother Tom was the best-known and best-loved Mason in the State
of .California. In every city and town in the State where a Lodge existed
he was at home among friends. To his schools flocked the Masons of th~
jurisdiction to receive from him those necessary instructions in order to
pass them on to others, and thus to preserve and perpetuate the landmarks
of our institution. While he labored diligently in his chosen field the work
was his greatest pleasu;e. No distance was too great or any ~ommunity
too small to command his attendance and.kindly advi_ce and assistance.
Due to his wide acquaintance and his intimate knowledge of the many
local problems arising from time to time, he was an invaluable aid to the
several Grand Masters with whom he served. By them his courtesy and
unfailing loyalty will not be forgotten.

I
208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

/

His untiring zeal and devotion merited and received the aprobation
of his Brethren, and our faith justifies us in the belief that he }fas found
favor at the hands of the Almighty Father, the aflluence of 'fhose love
/
embraces all of His children.
Thomas John Baker was born on the 10th day of O)"°ber, 1864, in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He was married to Jessie Florence Schepp on
October 10, 1904, at Sacramento, California.
He was initiated in Union Lodge No. 58, at Sacramento, on January 13, 1897, passed January 27, 1897, and raised April 14, 1897; served
as Senior Deacon of his Lodge in 1898; elected Junior Warden December 5, 1898, and Master December 4, 1899. He served as Inspector of the
Eighteenth District in 1902 and 1903. He was Secretary of his Lodge from
1902 to 1907.
In Grand Lodge he served as Junior Grand Steward in 1901, and as
Senior Grand Deacon in 1905 and 1906. He was elected Grand Lecturer
October 11, 1907, and retained the office until his death.
This brief resume of dates and offices represents but a brief sketch
of a life filled with action and accomplishment, and devotion. The complete story of these is safely recorded in every Mason's heart, and the
lapse of time will not erase them from our memories.
Tom, we shall miss you as the years pass by: May our Heavenly
Father grant that when our time shall come to enter that sanctuary, it
shall be our privilege to meet and greet you as in the days of yore I
Brass quartette: Leland Barton, first trumpet; Victor C. Kress, Jr.,
second trumpet; Paul Roth, French horn; Roger F. Schoemaker, trombone.
Benediction, Grand Chaplain.
"Taps," sung by Brother Liederman, with trumpet obbligato.

At 12 :15 Grand Lodge was called off until 2 o'clock.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

3Jn ~ranb JLobgt
AFTERNOON SESSION
Wednesday, October 10, 1934.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

PROPOSED REVISION OF RITUAL
Denman S. Wagstaff presented a resolution proposing
to restore the ritual and the funeral service as they were
prior to the changes made in 1924. Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND
LECTURER'S REPORT
To the 111:.

w:.

Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on .the Report of the Grand Lecturer submits the
following:
We fully approve the commendation set forth therein of Past Grand
Lecturer Thomas J. Baker. It is true he enjoyed a great circle of friends
among our membership, and we all keenly miss him. His memory we will
fondly cherish.
Since May 1, 1934, the ritual has been taught under what is known
as the new plan of the Grand Master. We heartily commend Grand Lecturer Foster G. Dyer and his Deputies, Sidney K. Lehman, Chester H.
Warlow and Leslie E. Wood, and Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller for
their careful and detailed review and rechecking of our ritual. Beneficial
results are bound to come from the combined effort of such conscientious
endeavor. We congratulate the Grand Lecturer on the co-operation he has
secured from the Inspectors in administering the new plan. Progress and
development can only come through trial and experimentation. We feel
the present arrangement is entitled to a fair trial.
We join in the strong indorsement of District Officers' Associations
made by the Grand Lecturer. As he stated, "In sections where these meetings have been held regularly, the officers and Inspectors have shown a
sincere interest in Masonry, and real progress is being made in the development and the training of the Brethren in the administrative as well as the
ritualistic work of the Lodges. The Inspectors are to be highly commended
for their efforts in behalf of these group meetings, the object of which is

210

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the development of more proficient officers and better Lodges.'.'
strongly indorse the thought of setting forth practical Lodge oblems,
as well as those concerning Masonic law, in th,e examination q stions of
the officers.
There is no question but what the ritual is the keystonf to the Masonic structure; therein is set forth the very principles of our fraternity.
Its perfection must be maintained. We concur in the thought of all questions of ritual and Masonic law being handled through the Inspectors.
As to the condition of Lodges, and their more active participation in
present-day social and economic questions, may we urge a more active
contact between the Grand Lodge officers and their executive districts for
the proper guidance in these activities. Their experiences and wider contacts will be of real benefit to the Brethren of constituent Lodges. They,
too, are in a position to keep the Brethren informed of Grand Lodge activities, its problems and of all subjects vital to the craft.
Under the present administration a considerable saving in money has
been effected, and all are to be commended for this accomplishment.
In the hands of this cabinet of the Ritual Committee, the Grand Lecturer and the Deputy Grand Lecturers, we feel our ritual can be safely
entrusted during the coming year.
ARTHUR E. OVERTON,
WESLEY

w. KERGAN,

0. K. MORTON,
Chairman.

Adopted as read.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON EDUCATION
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
During the past year the subject of Masonic education has again
been under review. The resolution of Grand Lodge at its last communication, adopted pursuant to the report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, directed a consideration of "the means and methods of
supplementing the ritualistic instruction now given the candidate," considering "only such methods as may be adopted voluntarily by the Lodge and
the candidate, attempting to arrive at some standard practi,ce which can
be used by all Lodges desiring to adopt the plan.''
Inasmuch as the formulation of such a plan as above referred to is a
difficult undertaking, it is felt that .before such work is initiated, that
Grand Lodge should definitely determine whether or not a plan for Masonic
education should be adopted. That if the decision on such question be in
the affirmative, it would then be in order for steps to be taken toward the
presentaticn of a plan.
In order that such questions may properly come before this communication, it is recommended :

\

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

211

1. Tpat Gr.and Lodge adopt a plan for Masonic education, which plan
shall con111rise the means and methOcls of supplementing the ritualistic
instruction ~ow given the candidate and attempt to arrive at some standard
practice whkh can be used by all Lodges voluntarily desiring to adopt
such plan.
2. That if recommendation No. 1 above set forth .be adopted by this
communication of Grand Lodge, that the Grand Master be authorized and
directed to appoint a committee for the purpose of formulating such plan,
said committee to report to the next annual communication and present
such plan for consideration at such time.
3. That the sum of $500.00 be appropriated for the use of such committee under the direction of the Grand Master.
Respectfully submitted,
IRVING MAGNES, Chairman.

Referred to the Committees on Finance, and Policy and
General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING
BUILDING PROJECTS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
During the year ending September 30, 1934, fourteen Lodges, or
temple associations, have conducted correspondence with your committee,
but the majority of these were of minor importance.
The committee has reviewed the following projects:
Pittsburg Lodge NfJ. 429, F. & A. M., situated at Pittsburg: On Febniary 22, 1934, this Lodge was given permission to proceed with the erection · of a building, the cost of which was not to exceed $12,000, and on
which they had a contract price for a building of $11,925.
Their financial set-up was as follows :
Cash in bank (including loan of $5,000.00 from
American Trust Co. at 6%) .......................... $ 9,500.00
Due from pledges, payable at rate of $300 per
month .................................................................. 2,500.00
Total available ..........................................$12,000.00
They also had $3,185.00 in the Pacific States Building and Loan Association, which was not immediately available. They reported an assured
income from rentals from six Lodges of $170.00, and operating expenses,
including interest and principal on loan, etc., of $158.70.
Visalia Masonic Bi~ilding Association, situated at Visalia: Visalia
Lodge No. 128, F. & A. M., in connection with Visalia Chapter, No. 44,
R. A. M.; Visalia Commandery No. 26, and Martha Washington Chapter
No. 13, 0. E. S., formed a corporation known as Visalia Masonic Building

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Association, with a capital stock of $50,000.00.. All of the stock w,as purchased by the Lodge and the other bodies above named, with no individual
stockholders.
I
The association owned a lot 132xl32 feet, situated at tlr{ corner of
Locust Street and West Mineral King Avenue in the city of Visalia. The
size of the building proposed was approximately 60xl 12 feet.
·
Your committee was requested to give permission for them to build
a building to cost approximately $50,000.00, which permission was given.
On inquiry as to how they were progressing, we received the following
letter dated August 13, 1934:
"t will state that the contract for the building has been let for
$44,566.50, and is approximately two-thirds completed at the present
time. We have in cash and pledges by the members of the Visalia
Masonic Lodges approximately $40,000.00. The stock is to be all owned
by the different Masonic bodies which meet in Visalia, except one
share each which is held by the directors and endorsed so that it will
go to their successors, and when completed the building will be owned
entirely by the Masonic bodies and not by any individual, and no
repayment of any moneys paid by members for the construction of
the building is to be made, but is given entirely as a donation. We hope
to have the building entirely paid for when completed, but in my
opinion we will not owe more than $5,000.00 under any circumstances."
Mt. Shasta Lodge No. 281, F. & A. M., situated at Anderson: This
Lodge was given permission to borrow $2,000.00 for a period of ten years,
same to be paid off at the rate of $200.00 per year, for the purpose of .
remodeling their building.
Alta Loma Lodge No. 643, F. & A. M., situated at Signal Hill: On
March 6, 1934, this Lodge was given permission to enter into a lease with
the Brayton Brothers for a period of five years, at a monthly rental of
$75.00, or a total of $4,500.00, for the entire upper floor, and a room on
the street floor to be used fc.r social purposes, of a building to be erected
by them in Signal Hill.
Brother Goldman, member of your committee, inspected the building
and the lease, which we considered satisfactory.
Fillmore Lodge No. 3i9, F. & A. M., situated at Fillmore: On
June 1, 1934, this Lodge was given permission to purchase $2,000.00 of
stock in the Fillmore Masonic Temple Association, with the understanding
that after the purchase they have on hand sufficient funds to pay Grand
Lodge dues.
Laurel Lodge No. 245, F. & A. M., situated at Willows : On July 23,
1934, this Lodge was given permission to purchase ten shares of stock, of
a par value of $100.00, in the Willows Masonic Temple Association.
Their statement showed that they had on hand $1,705.00, and that the
dividend on the stock. already owned would bring their balance. up to

$2,000.00 as of August 10; also, that their Grand Lodge dues would not be
more than $300.00. The temple association had outstanding 50 shares of
common stock and 300 shares of preferred stock, of which Laurel Lodge
No. 245 owned all of the outstanding common stock and 158 shares of
preferred stock.

212

213

Anah1im. Lodge No. 207, F. & A. M., situated at Anaheim: On
March 26, 1934, th is Lodge was given permission to purchase two shares
of stock of the Anaheim Masonic Temple Association, a t $100.00 per
share, which is par, from a member of the Lodge.
It was reported that the stock had paid 6% dividend during the past
eight years, that the total number of shares issued was 470, and that the
Lodge was the owner of 284 shares.
Masonic Temple Association of Fruitvale, situated at Fruitvale: On
October 27, 1933, this association was given permission to increase the
authorized capital of the association from $25,000.00, represented by 5000
shares of common stock at $5.00 per share, to $100,000.00, represented by
15,000 shares of class "A" common stock at $5.00 per share; thereafter,
to exchange present common stock of the association for new class "B"
common stock, share for share, and to sell the class "A" stock to net the
association $5.00 per share, with the provision that the proceeds would be
used only to reduce the mortgage debt, or to retire benefit certificates.
Your committee felt that, by following this method, they would transfer from a fixed, interest-bearing debt on their notes and an obligation to
pay certificates on the death of the holder, to stock which would pay dividends only if, as and when earned. .
Montebello Lodge No. 451, F. & A . M., situated at Montebello: On
February 27, 1934, permission was given to this. Lodge to purchase all of
the furniture, furnishings and equipment owned by the Montebello Masonic
Temple Association and to pay for the same by assuming the notes held
by members and others, in the total sum of $3,925.00.
Correspondence was also had with the following Lodges: Searchlight
Lodge No. 567, F. & A. M., situated at Long Beach; Lancaster Lodge
No. 437, F. & A. M., situated at Lancaster; Azure Lodge No. 533,
F. & A. M., situated at Fullerton; Bellflower Lodge No. 523, F . & A. M.,
situated at Bellflower; Bakersfield Masonic Temple Association, situated
at Bakersfield. However, no permission was granted for the expenditure
of any funds
Your committee has received full co-operation from all the officers of
the Lodges, in their effort to comply with both the spirit and letter of
the Constitution governiiig the investment of funds and building of Masonic temples.
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES, Chairman;
W ILLIAM P. FILMER,
HERBERT C. GOLDMAN,

A.dopted.

Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

214

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS'
The depression is still with us, as evidenced by the net loss of membership for the year of 4363, which is 421 more than last year. But we
do not think the loss of Masons has been as great as the loss of membership. These trying times have given the Lodges a chance to weed out many
who have been members only. The total of membership is 132,331, which
shows a loss for the year of 4363. Yet there are some elements of consolation, as the following figures will show:

1933

1934

Initiations ................................1810
2098-A gain of 288
Passed ...................................... 1897
1991-A gain of 94
Raised ......................- .............. 1997
1898-A loss of 99
Restored .................................. 302
477-A gain of 175
The number of withdrawals has been fewer. ·There have been more
suspended for non-payment of dues, but against that we have the necessity
of remitting the dues of 536 Jess than last year. But the number of members who have had their dues remitted has reached the large total of 7368.
It is to be hoped that the Lodges will be very careful in their selection
of material for membership, neither their eagerness for work nor. their
need of funds influencing them · in selecting anything but the best.
Herewith follows a list of the Lodges and amounts due from each:
Grand Lodge Returns, August 1, 1933-July 31, 1934
Name of Lodge

General
Fund

1 California ....................., $330.00
2 Western Star ................ 43.50
3 Tehama .......................... 221.00
5 Benicia ............................ 81.50
8 Tuolumne ........................ 108.50
9 Corinthian ...................... 159.00
10 San Jose.......................... 226.50
12 Yount .............................. 125.SO
13 Nevada ............................ 68.SO
14 Temple ............................ 55.00
16 Eureka ............................ 106.00
17 La Parfaite Union........ 83.50
18 Mt. Shade ...................... 14.SO
19 ·San Joaquin .................. 315.SO
20 Washington .................... 268.50
21 Hawaiian ........................ 173.50
22 Occidental ...................... 439.50
23 Nevada ............................ 101.SO
24 Mariposa ........................ 81.50
2S Georgetown .................... 29.SO

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

$480.00
59.25
319.50
116.25
156.75
232.50
317.25
182.25
99.7S
79.SO
147.00
120.75
21.75
449.2S
380.25
260.25
609.75
120.75
lOS.75
35.25

$320.00
39.50
213.00
77.50
104.50
lSS.00
211.SO
121.50
66.SO
53.00
98.00
80.SO
14.SO
299.50
253.50
173.50
406.50
80.50
70.50
23.SO

$125.00
25.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
25,00
150.00
2S.OO

75.00
50.00
lS0.00
12S.OO
S0.00
275.00
250.00
125.00
7S.OO

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

26 El Dorado ...................:.. 93.SO
27 Trinity ............................ . 52.50
30 Golden Gate .................... 370.50
32 Gold Hill ........................ SS.SO
33 Ophir ..............................
19.SO
35 San Diego ...................... 300.00
37 Howard ....................- .... 116.00
38 Santa Cruz .................... 146.50
40 Sacramento __ ............... .. 269.SO
41 Martinez ........................ 120.SO
42 Los Angeles .................. 361.50
43 Hiram .............................. 21.50
44 Mt. Moriah .................... 235.50
4S Crescent .......................... 66.50
46 Texas .............................. 27.00
50 Forbestown .......,............ 30.50
51 Illinoistown .................... 46.00
55 Suisun ............................ .. 79.00
56 Volcano ............................
17.50
S7 Santa Rosa ..................... 184.50
S8 Union .............................. 268.50
59 Gravel Range ................ · 16.SO
60 Plumas ............................ 49.SO
61 Live Oak ........................ 441.00
64 Natoma ............................ 65.00
6S Amador .......................... 37.00
66 Forest .............................. 33.00
68 Morning Star ................ 199.SO
70 Enterprise ...................... 113.00
76 Bear Mountain .............. 43.50
78 Calaveras ........................ 45.50
'79 Humboldt ........................ 192.00
80 Ione .................................. 34.00
81 Yolo ................................ 36.00
84 Vesper ............................ 94.50
87 Naval .............................. 309.50
89 Rose's Bar ..................... .. 23.00
91 North Star .................... 29.00
93 St. Helena ...................... 48.00
95 Henry Clay .................... 27.00
98 Hornitos .......................... 70.50
99 Yosemite ........................ 129.00
101 Clay ................................ 29.50
103 Oroville .......................... 129.50

134.2S
62.25
539.25
77.2S
29.2S
430.50
147.00
209.25
395.25
159.75
501.75
32.25
. 348.75
98.25
36.00
36.75
SS.SO
108.00
21.75
266.25
387.7S
21.7S
72.75
643.50
85.50
55.50
39.00
288.7S
160.SO
54.75
62.25
274.SO
Sl.00
46.50
129.7S
435.75
30.00
34.SO
63.00
40.50
57.75
16S.OO
44.25
180.7S

89.SO
41.SO
359.50
51.50
19.50
287.00
98.00
139.50
263.50
106.50
334.SO
21.50
232.50
65.50
24.00
24.SO
37.00
72.00
14.50
177.50
258.50
14.50
48.50
429.00
S7.00
37.00
26.00
192.SO
107.00
36.50
41.50
183.00
34.00
31.00
86.SO
290.50
20.00
23.00
42.00
27.00
38.SO
110.00
29.SO
120.SO

50.00
125.00
75.00
50.00

Name or Lodge

To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

Total

$1,255.00
167.2S
803.SO
325.25
394.75
571.50
905.25
4S4.25
234.7S
187.50
426.0Q
334.75
S0.75
l,214.2S
1,027.25
657.25
1,730.75
552.75
382.75
163.2S

215

200.00
150.00
75.00
100.00
125.00
325.00
25.00
S0.00
7S.OO
50.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
125.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
100.00
75.00
S0.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
S0.00
100.00
250.00
25.00
S0.00
S0.00
300.00
175.00
100.00

Total

367.2S
281.25
1,344.25
234.2S
68.25
1,217.50
Sll.00
S70.25
1,028.25
51 l.7S
l,522.7S
75.25
841.75
230.25
137.00
166.75
188.50
309.00
78.75
678.25
1,039.75
77.75
19S.75
1,613.50
307.50
129.SO
173.00
730.75
430.50
209.75
199.25
724.SO
119.00
163.SO
410.75
1,285.75
98.00
136.SO
203.00
94.SO
466.7S
579.00
103.25
S30.75

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

104 Lexington ---------············· 87.00
106 Arcata .............................. 100.SO
110 Pajaro ---------------------------- 146.SO
111 Chico •• ••••••••••we•••••••••••••••• 19S.SO
112 Summit .. :......................... 19.00
113 Eden ·----------------------------·-- 113.00
'117 Concord ·----------------------·-- 130.SO
119 Clinton
19.00
120 Fidelity ............................ 300.00
122 Alamo .............................. 6S.OO
123 Sotoyome ............ ,........... 91.SO
124 Table Mountain ............ 44.00
126 LaFayette ·······--------------- 93.SO
127 Hermann ------------------------ 119.SO
128 Visalia ····-··-·· ···-····------···· 166.SO
129 Nicolaus .......................... so.so
131 Woodbridge .................. S9.SO
'132 Sincerity ··-·········------·-···· 4S.SO
134 Vacaville ························ 89.00
13S Valley .............................. 36.SO
136 Pacific .............................. 342.SO
139 Crockett ·························· 3S3.00
140 Curtis ·----·-······················· 39.SO
141 Grafton ·······-·················· 34.00
143 Franklin .......................... so.so
144 Oriental ···········-·-····-------- 239.SO
14S Vitruvius ·-·-···-·--····-········ 4S.SO
146 Abell ·······-·-······················ 89.50
147 Eel River ........................ 9S.SO
149 Lassen .............................. 101.50
lSO Molino ··-···-···········-········- 6S.OO
'1S6 Woodland ·······-·············· 129.00
161 Keystone ........................ lS.SO
164 Harmony ························ 14.SO
166 Excelsior ........................ 288.SO
167 Alameda .......................... 70.SO
168 Redwood City ................ 148.00
169 Mission ················--········ 397.SO
173 Elk Grove ...................... S2.00
174 Drytown ···········-············ 12.SO
17S Antioch ·················--·-····· 8S.SO
178 Antioch ···-··················--·· 231.00
179 Mendocino ······-··············· 73.SO
180 Petaluma ··-····················· 1S4.00
••••we••••••••••••••••••••••

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

114.00
146.2S
180.7S
263.2S
28.SO
160.SO
186.7S
28.SO
442.SO
91.50
123.7S
66.00
131.2S
179.2S
221.2S
6S.2S
83.2S
68.2S
120.00
Sl.7S
S10.7S
S08.SO
S0.2S
42.00
66.7S
336.7S
63.7S
120.7S
131.2S
131.2S
96.00
174.00
23.2S
ll.2S
398.2S
98.ZS
199.SO
SS4.2S
78.00
18.7S
110.2S
32S.SO
110.2S
216.00

76.00
97.SO
120.SO
17S.SO
19.00
107.00
124.SO
19.00
29S.OO .
61.00
82.SO
44.00
87.SO
119.SO
147.SO
43.SO
SS.SO
4S.SO
80.00
34.SO
340.SO
339.00
33.SO
28.00
44.SO
224.SO
42.SO
80.SO
87.SO
87.SO
64.00
116.00
lS.SO
7.SO
26S.SO
6S.SO
133.00
369.SO
S2.00
12.SO
73.SO
217.00
73.SO
144.00

$25.00
Home Tax

100.00
2S.OO
300.00
lS0.00
S0.00
S0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
22S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
S0.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
lS0.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
22S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
2SO.OO

100.00
12S.OO
7S.OO

217

Total

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

377.00
369.2S
747.7S
784.2S
66.SO
430.SO
491.7S
66.SO
1,062.SO
267.SO
372.7S
1S4.00
387.2S
443.2S
760.2S
234.2S
223.2S
184.2S
364.00
147.7S
1,243.7S
1,32S.SO
173.2S
179.00
211.7S
9S0.7S
176.7S
41S.7S
414.2S
470.2S
22S.OO
494.00
S4.2S
108.2S
l,177.2S
284.2S
60S.SO
1,S71.2S
182.00
43.7S
369.2S
898.SO
2S7.2S
S89.00

181 Russian River ................
182 Arbuckle ........................
183 Clear Lake ··················-184 Sierra Valley ................
18S · Claiborne ························
186 Evening Star ..................
187 Keith ................................
188 Oakland ·························190 Northern Light ............
191 Marin ··--························-192 Santa Barbara ..............
193 Ferndale ..........................
194 Mountain View ··········-19S Buckeye ··············----········
196 San Simeon ....................
198 Wilmington ····-----·-··-······
199 Hartley ............................
200 Truckee ··········-···--·-········
201 Silveyville ......................
202 Pentalpha ........................
203 Confidence ......................
204 Salinas ............................
20S Olivet ······························
206 Stanislaus ······················
207 Anaheim ..........................
208 Rio Vista ........................
209 King David's ..................
210 Friendship ······················
211 San Benito ----·-·····-········
212 South San Francisco ....
214 San Buenaventura..........
21S Oak Grove ......................
216 Doric ................................
217 Monterey ........................
218 Mosaic ·········-·················219 Speranza Italiana ..........
220 Downey ............................
221 Inyo ..................................
222 Roseville ·············-··········
224 Bakersfield ......................
22S Brooklyn ····--------····-·······
226 San Mateo ......................
228 Athens ............................
229 Solano ..............................

SS.SO
40.SO
20.SO
22.SO
27.SO
33.SO
77.SO
438.SO
43 so
234.SO
142.SO
77.00
103.SO
S2.SO
6S.SO
160.SO
81.SO
63.SO
73.00
329.00
14.00
140.00
S8.SO
1S4.SO
147.00
4S.OO
162.SO
28S.OO
74.SO
139.SO
128.SO
282.SO
267.00
94.00
73.SO
212.SO
108.SO
38.00
147.00
224.00
309.SO
121.50
63.00
210.SO

80.2S
S9.7S
30.7S
29.2S
41.2S
3S.2S
107.2S
63S.2S
S7.7S
332.2S
194.2S
.109.SO
141.7S
74.2S
7S.7S
221.2S
114.7S
80.2S
99.00
4S3.00
21.00
196.SO
74.2S
230.2S
190.SO
63.00
206.2S
390.00
102.7S
198.7S
16S.7S
413.2S
384.00
112.SO
96.7S
287.ZS
137.2S
4S.OO
187.SO
310.SO
449.2S
177.7S
90.00
302.2S

S3.SO
39.SO
20.SO
19.SO
27.SO
23.SO
71.50
423.SO
38.SO
221.50
129.SO
73.00
94.SO
49.SO

S0.00
2S .OO

so.so

147.SO
76.SO
S3.SO
66.00
302.00
14.00
131.00
49.50
1S3.SO
127.00
42.00
137.SO
260.00
68.SO
132.SO
110.SO
27S.SO
256.00
7S.00
64.SO
191.SO
91.50
30.00
12S.OO
207.00
299.SO
118.SO
60.00
201.50

2S.OO
100.00
S0.00
12S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
7S.OO
S0.00
100.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
17S.OO
100.00
100.00
7S.OO
27S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
S0.00
200.00
2S.OO
2SO.OO
200.00
2S.OO
S0.00
200.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
17S.OO
7S.OO
200.00
17S.OO
S0.00
200.00
200.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
100.00

Total

239.2S
164.2S
71.7S
96.2S
96.2S
192.2S
306.2S
1,622.2S
189.7S
913.2S
S41.2S
309.SO
439.7S
201.2S
316.7S
704.2S
372.7S
297.2S
313.00
l,3S9.00
49.00
S42.SO
282.2S
S88.2S
664.SO
17S.OO
7S6.2S
l,13S.OO
270.7S
S20.7S
604.7S
1,046.2S
982.00
456.SO
309.7S
891.2S
S12.2S
163.00
6S9.SO
941.SO
1,208.ZS
442.7S
263.00
814.ZS

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

218
Name or Lodge

230
'231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282

General
Fund

North Butte -----·---· .. ·----- 55.50
Covelo ............................ 20.50
Janesville ··············-····--··· 41.50
Calistoga ........................ 42.50
Hope ................................ 44.50
Surprise Valley --·-······-- 34.00
Hills Ferry .................... 53.00
Guadalupe ...................... 29.00
Colusa .............................. 86.50
Santa Ana ....................... 245.00
Magnolia -----·············------ 128.00
Eucalyptus ...................... 108.00
Alcatraz ·········-················ 277.00
Laurel .............................. 86.00
Pomona ---------··········------- 170.50
Fresno ···························· 296.50
Alturas ............................ 94.50
Adin ................................ 30.50
Landmark ·-------·--··········· 45.00
Reading ················-········· 99.50
Welcome ........................ 54.00
Lodi ························-------- 143.00
Penrhyn ........................... 54.00
Evergreen ··········------------ 276.50
King Solomon's ------------ 375.00
Tuscan ............................ 48.00
Lompoc .......................... 68.50
Hesperian ------·-·············· 123.50
Orland ............................ 59.00
North East .................... 28.50
Galt .................................. 36.00
Durant ............................ 314.50
Olive Branch .................. 107.00
Snow Mountain ............ 18.50
Pasadena ........................ 273.50
Anchor ·······-············-······· 159.50
Arroyo ······----·················· 47.50
Oakdale ·····················-···· 62.00
Selma ···········-·················· 83.00
Southern California ...... 309.00
Hanford ·--·--·······-·-····-·-· 78.00
Madera ............................ 95.50
Mt. Shasta ···--·--········-··· 29.50
Callayomi ····-················· 27.50

219

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25. 00
Home Tax

75.75
30.75
47.25
63.75
54.75
51.00
67.50
43.50
116.25
339.00
171.00
151.50
396.00
120.00
239.25
393.75
96.75
45.75
67.50
131.25
81.00
205.50
81.00
362.25
546.00
66.00
98.25
165.75
78.00
39.75
51.00
465.75
138.00
23.25
401.25
231.75
65.25
84.00
124.50
439.50
105.00
131.25
41.25
41.25

50.50
20.50
31.50
42.50
36.50
34.00
45.00
29.00
77.50
226.00
114.00
101.00
264.00
80.00
159.50
262.50
64.50
30.50
45.00
87.50
54.00
137.00
54.00
241.50
364.00
44.00
65.50
110.50
52.00
26.50
34.00
310.50
92.00
15.50
267.50
154.50
43.50
56.00
83.00
293.00
70.00
87.50
27.50
27.50

25.00
75.00
100.00
50.00
75.00
150.00
150.00
25.00
125.00
50.00
125.00
350.00
300.00

100.00
50.00
275.00
100.00
25.00
25.00
75.00
75.00

50.00
175.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
25.00
125.00
50.00
50.00
25.00

Total

206.75
71.75
195.25
148.75
235.75
119.00
215.50
101.50
355.25
960.00
563.00
385.50
1,062.00
336.00
694.25
1,302.75
555.75
106.75
157.50
418.25
189.00
535.50
189.00
1,155.25
1,385.00
183.00
257.25
474.75
264.00
94.75
121.00
1,140.75
512.00
82.25
1,042.25
570.75
206.25
277.00
315.50
1,166.50
303.00
364.25
123.25
96.25

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25 .00
Home Tax

283 South West .................... 76.50
285 San Miguel .................... 37.00
286 Paso Robles -·-······--------- 58.00
287 Winnedumah .................. 53.50
288 Maxwell .......................... 30.00
289 Elsinore ··················-------- 53.50
290 East Gate ........................ 454.00
291 Santa Paula .................. 159.50
292 Los Gatos ........................ 105.00
293 Orange Grove ................ 95.00
294 T:raver ............................ 54.50
295 Mt. Jackson ········-·····-··· 73.50
296 Silver Gate ···················· 303.50
297 Dunsmuir ······················ 116.00
299 Liberty ............................ 121.00
300 Redlands ........................ 179.50
301 Ontario. ............................ 103.00
302 Santa Lucia .................... 56.00
303 Porterville ...................... 160.00
304 Reedley .........:.................. 77.50
305 Azusa ··················---------··· 87.00
306 Ashlar .............................. 81.00
307 Santa Monica ................ 144.00
308 Monrovia ........................ 133.50
309 Delano ............................ 89.00
310 Sisson ....................... :...... 42.50
312 Los Banos ...................... 61.50
313 Tehachapi ...................... 91.00
314 Temescal ·-······················ 72.50
315 Norwalk .......................... 56.50
316 Sanger ················------······ 87.00
317 Fallbrook ........................ 31.00
318 Emmanuel ...................... 35.00
319 Hollenbeck .................... 690.50
320 South Gate .................... 334.50
321 Alisa! .............................. 58.00
322 Alhambra ........................ 196.50
323 Whittier .......................... 250.50
324 Corona ............................ 270.00
325 Consuelo .......................... 71.00
326 Needles ............................ 107.50
327 Long Beach ............. ,...... 284.50
328 Redondo ·························· 107.50
329 Vallee de France............ 65.00

105.75
52.50
82.50
77.25
45.00
60.75
619.50
213.75
153.00
138.00
75.75
101.25
413.25
160.50
163.50
240.75
148.50
78.00
208.50
107.25
126.00
112.50
208.50
177.75
123.00
45.75
92.25
114.00
104.25
81.75
115.50
42.00
52.50
930.75
482.25
78.00
287.25
356.25
375.00
106.50
149.25
426.75
155.25
97.50

70.50
35.00
55.00
51.50
30.00
40.50
413.00
142.50
102.00
92.00

75.00

Name or Lodge

so.so

67.50
275.50
107.00
109.00
160.50
99.00
52.00
139.00
. 71.50
84.00
75.00
139.00
118.50
82.00
30.50
61.50
76.00
69.50
54.50
77.00
28.00
35.00
620.50
321.50
52.00
191.50
237.50
250.00
71.00
99.50
284.50
103.50
65.00

25.00
50.00
75.00
425.00
125.00
25.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
250.00
75.00
100.00
175.00
50.00
25.00
175.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
150.00
75.00
100.00
150.00
50.00
75.00
25.00
650.00
200.00
50.00
50.00
125.00
200.00
75.00
50.00

Total

327.75
124.50
220.50
232.25
105.00
229.75
1,911.50
640.75
385.00
375.00
230.75
267.25
1,242.25
458.50
493.50
755.75
400.50
211.00
682.50
331.25
347.00
318.50
516.50
579.75
369.00
218.75
215.25
431.00
296.25
192.75
354.50
126.00
122.50
2,891.75
1,338.25
238.00
725.25
969.25
1,095.00
248.50
431.25
995.75
416.25
227.50

Name or Lodge

330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

220

Kilauea ............................
P acific Grove ·····---------San Pedro ......................
Alta ..................................
Covina ···········-------·-··-·····
West Gate ......................
Fruitvale ---·······--·----------Carquinez ........................
San Jacinto ....................
Fullerton ........................
Oxnard ............................
·San Fernando ................
Starr King ··············-----Brentwood ......................
Palo Alto ........................
McKinley ........................
San Bernardino ---------···
Sequoia ............................
Palestine ---·····················
Sunset ..............................
Pinole ..............................
Presidio ..........................
Hollywood ......................
Mill Valley ....................
Buena Park ....................
Golden State ..................
Loyalton ························
San Francisco ................
Fort Bragg ····-·····---·····-·
Charity ............................
Berkeley ..........................
Willits ............................
Las Palmas ....................
South Pasadena ............
Unity ................................
Ocean Park ....................
Amity ·················-···-········
Le Progres de l'Oceanie
Gardena ..........................
Veteran
Jewel ................................
Richmond ........................
Francis Drake ..............
Artesia ··················0&••••••••
•••o•o•OHOoOooOOoooooo• O •

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25 .00
Home Tax

108.50
73.00
260.50
25.00
l 15.00
408.50
376.50
77.50
42.50
195.00
118.00
115.00
312.50
44.50
237.00
162.50
255.SO
470.50
308.00
231.00
65.00
300.00
517.00
157.00
65.50
446.00
42.50
179.00
58.00
52.50
283.50
66.50
331.00
272.00
183.00
170.50
254.50
208.00
74.50
101.50
78.50
327.50
94.00
52.00

153.75
109.50
381.75
34.50
162.00
540.75
539.25
108.75
59.25
288.00
172.50
166.50
440.25
62.25
325.50
225.75
351.75
677.25
427.50
325.50
93.00
414.00
742.50
229.50
95.25
646.50
48.75
262.50
69.00
78.75
405.75
99.75
466.50
376.50
265.50
236.25
363.75
261.00
102.75
140.25
116.25
447.75
126.00
75.00

102.50
73.00
254.50
23.00
108.00
360.50
359.50
72.50
39.50
192.00
115.00
111.00
293.50
41.50
217.00
150.50
234.50
451.50
285.00
217.00
62.00
276.00
495.00
153.00
63.50
431.00
32.50
175.00
46.00
52.50
270.50
66.50
311.00
251.00
177.00
157.50
242.50
174.00
68.50
93.50
77.50
298.50
84.00
50.00

75.00
25.00
50.00
500.00
125.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
150.00
25.00
225.00
125.00
150.00
150.00
225.00
125.00
25.00
225.00
275.00
25.00
25.00
150.00
100.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
150.00
150.00
250.00
100.00
100.00
75.00
300.00
50.00
75.00
25.00
250.00
50.00
25.00

Total

439.75
255.50
921.75
82.50
435.00
1,809.75
1,400.25
308.75
166.25
725.00
430.50
442.50
1,196.25
173.25
1,004.50
663.75
991.75
1,749.25
1,245.50
898.50
245.00
1,215.00
2,029.50
564.50
249.25
1,673.50
223.75
691.50
273.00
208.75
1,109.75
232.75
1,258.50
1,149.50
725.50
664.25
935.75
943.00
295.75
410.25
297.25
1,323.75
354.00
202.00

221

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25. 00
Home Tax

378 Mizpah ............................
379 Fillmore ······-·····-------------380 Huntington Beach ........
381 Oceanside ........................
382 Highland Park ..............
383 Orosi ..................................
384 El Centro ........................
385 Dinuba ................................
387 Coalinga ..........................
388 Parnassus
389 Palos Verdes ········-·······
390 Imperial ..............................
391 East Belt ........................
392 West Lake ......................
393 ' Balder ..............................
394 University ......................
395 Turlock ............................
396 Apollo ...................,..........
397 Rising Light ..................
399 Fraternity ......................
400 Burlingame ····················
401 Bay View ........................
402 Brawley ............................
403 Y erba Buena ..................
404 Glendora ..........................
405 Mon eta ............................
406 Burbank
407 La Mesa ..........................
408 Sierra Madre .................
409 Honolulu ······-·····-···········
410 Charter Rock ................
411 Perris ..............................
412 Calexico ..........................
413 Waucoba ..........................
414 Arlington ........................
415 Silver Trowel ................
416 Lindsay ............................
417 Clovis ..............................
418 Elysian
419 Upland . ...........................
'420 Kerman ··························
421 Inglewood ......................
422 Eagle Rock ....................
423 York .................... .-...........

220.00
88.00
128.50
72.00
278.50
53.50
127.50
98.50
131.50
339.00
232.50
37.50
31.50
571.50
273.00
307.00
93.50
192.50
247.50
202.00
206.50
178.50
69.50
207.00
55.00
338.50
119.50 .
71.00
42.50
126.00
211.50
37.00
82.00
40.50
158.00
171.00
81.00
121.00
239.00
73.50
26.50
159.00
128.00
103.50

303.00
118.50
186.75
96.00
368.25
68.25
171.75
125.25
186.75
460.50
332.25
47.25
47.25
747.75
384.00
421.50
120.75
273.75
348.75
292.50
293.25
252.75
93.75
288.00
78.00
480.75
164.25
85.50
59.25
180.00
314.25
51.00
109.50
33.75
223.50
241.50
115.50
175.50
327.00
107.25
39.75
222.00
187.50
126.75

202.00
79.00
124.50
64.00
245.50
45.50
114.50
83.50
124.50
307.00
221.50
31.50
31.50
498.50
256.00
281.00
80.50
182.50
232.50
195.00
195.50
168.50
62.50
192.00
52.00
320.50
109.50
57.00
39.50
120.00
209.50
34.00
73.00
22.50
149.00
161.00
77.00
117.00
218.00
71.50
26.50
148.00
125.00
84.50

125.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
325.00
75.00
125.00
125.00
50.00
325.00
175.00
25.00

...... . .

.... .

. . . . . . #9 .

O OH••••Oo oo00 • 0 • • • 0000 0•0

••O••••••• •••H • •• • •O • • ••• •o

675.00
150.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
225.00
75.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
150'.00
25.00
175.00
150.00
100.00
25'.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
75.00
150.00
75.00
125.00
50.00
50.00
200.00

100.00,
25.00
150.00

Total

850.00
360.50
514.75
307.00
1,217.25
242.25
538.75
432.25
492.75
1,431.50
961.25
141.25
1io.25
2,492.75
1,063.00
1,209.50
444.75
748.75
1,053.75
764.50
795.25
724.75
275.75
837.00
210.00
1,314.75
543.25
313.50
166.25
476.00
760.25
147.00
339.50
246.75
605.50
698.50
323.50
463.50
984.00
252.25
92.75
629.00
465.50
464.75

222
Name or Lodge

424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
General
Fund

Exeter ............................ 82.50
Holtville .......................... 53.00
Midway ........................... 181.00
Chino Valley .................. 29.50
San Dimas ···············"'····· 59.50
Pittsburg ······--------·-········ 8000
Mc Cloud ··----···-········-····· 5?-50
Alpha ········-·······--············ 219.00
Hammonton ···············-·· 32.50
Maricopa ······················-- 88.50
Fairmount ...................... 259.00
Claremont ...................... 53.50
Lancaster -·········--············ 61.00
Acacia ·······-···········-······-· 46.50
Tyrian ·····-······················ 53.50
Standard .......................... 122.00
Coronado ........................ 98.00
Blackmer ........................ 247.00
Schofield .......................... 129.00
Carpinteria .................... 33.50
Wilshire ········-·······-·--······ 226.00
La Puente ··········-·······---- 32.50
Torrance .................•...... 100.00
Mt. Diablo ···················--· 86.50
Park ·············-··-·····-········· 245.50
Van Nuys ...................... 131.00
Montebelio ...................... 114.00
San Pasqual
201.50
Bethlehem ............. .......... 187.00
Crocker ····-··················--- 119.50
Golden West .................. 256.00
Ramona ·························· 110.00
Henry S. Orme.............. 293.00
Riverbank ······················ 39.50
Mt. Oso ................,......... 95.50
Argonaut ..................•..... 176.50
Paul Revere .................... 276.50
Morgan Hill .................. 54.00
Alta Vista ···-···-·-··········-· 146.50
Center ·······-·············-········ 184.50
Libertas ·························· 143.50
Culver City ····--···········-·· 118.50
Rockridge ...................... 190.50
Yorba Linda .................. 55.50
• • • o o o o o HOO o o o o o o

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

117.75
70.50
235.50
44.25
81.75
99.00
78.75
319.50
48.75
132.75
388.50
75.75
88.50
66.75
78.75
175.50
130.50
342.00
148.50
45.75
313.50
48.75
132.00
111.75
347.25
175.50
154.50
266.25
267.00
174.75
364.50
144.00
385.50
54.75
134.25
243.75
392.25
70.50
209.25
242.25
185.25
165.75
263.25
83.25

78.50
47.00
157.00
29.50
54.50
66.00
52.50
213.00
32.50
88.50
259.00
50.50
59.00
44.50
52.50
117.00
87.00
228.00
99.00
30.50
209.00
32.50
88.00
74.50
231.50
117.00
103.00
177.50
178.00
116.50
243.00
96.00
257.00
36.50
89.50
162.50
261.50
47.00
139.50
161.50
123.50
110.50
175.50
55.50

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

50.00
75.00
300.00

328.75
245.50
873.50
103.25
270.75
395.00
263.75
801.50
113.75
309.75
906.50
204.75
208.50
157.75
209.75
464.50
440.50
992.00
676.50
134.75
973.50
113.75
445.00
397.75
999.25
548.50
446.50
920.25
707.00
435.75
938.50
400.00
1,260.50
155.75
394.25
707.75
1,030.25
221.50
620.25
83825
652.25
444.75
779.25
194.25

75.oo
150.00
75.00
50.00

25.00

25.00
50.00
125.00
175.00
300.00
25.00
225.00
125.00
125:00
175.00
125.00
75.00
275.00
75.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
325.00
25.00
75.00
125.00
100.00
50.00
125.00
250.00
200.00
50.00
150.00

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

470 Lincoln ............................
471 Delta .....................:..........
472 Maui ·······-···············--------·
473 Blythe ..............................
474 Victory ............................
475 'America ..........................
476 Coachella ........................
477 Temblor ..........................
478 Thousand Oaks ..............
479 Golden Rule
480 Fellowship ·····-·········-······
481 Mt. Davidson ................
482 C. F. Smith......................
483 Bell ...................................
484 Albert Pike ··············-·-···
485 Chowchilla ......................
486 Caledonia .........................
487 Vallejo
488 Patterson ··-··--·················
489 East Bay ........................
490 Corcoran ........................
491 Woodstock ......................
492 Garvanza ························
493 Atascadero ......................
494 Acorn ..............................
495 Lebanon ··························
496 Riverdale ··-·-·············-····
497 Fremo~t ............................
498 Stockton ..........................
499 Capital City ....................
500 Roosevelt
501 Westwood .......................
502 Harbor .............................
503 Point ................................
504 Seaside ............................
505 Silver Cord ·······-···········
506 Mt. Olive .......... .............
507 El Segundo ..............:.....
508 Joppa ----······--····-····..·······
509 Benjamin Franklin ......
510 Cupertino ······--··-········-··511 Sunnyvale ···············-······
512 Palms ••••-••••••••• • • ••• n -••••••
513 Cahuenga ..........................

144.50
147.00
72.00
17.50
118.00
196.50
55.00
63.50
151.00
194.00
115.00
172.00
121.50
92.00
125.00
34.00
74.00
135.50
36.00
144.00
39.50
102.50
103.00
32.50
165.50
154.00
28.50
150.00
72.00
89.00
67.50
107.00
75.50
52.00
139.00
108.50
224.00
87.00
30.50
119.00
47.00
73.50
107.50
138.50

216.75
214.50
90.00
26.25
166.50
237.75
61.50
93.75
219.00
249.00
154.50
231.00
168.75
123.00
141.00
39.00
105.00
180.75
52.50
195.00
59.25
123.75
132.00
36.75
215.25
217.50
36.75
195.00
90.00
114.00
99.75
133.50
101.25
75.00
199.50
158.25
265.50
127.50
38.25
141.00
61.50
86.25
140.25
173.25

144.50
143.00
60.00
17.50
111.00
158.50
41.00
62.50
146.00
166.00
103.00
154.00
112.50
82.00
94.00
26.00
70.00
120.50
35.00 .
130.00
39.50
82.50
88.00
24.50
143.50
145.00
24.50
130.00
60.00
76.00
66.50
89.00
67.50
50.00
133.00
105.50
177.00
85.00
25.50
94.00
41.00
57.50
93.50
115.50

• • •••h o••••••••••

OoooOO o ooo&&ooooooOOO • • Uo O

, . _ , - . o u . oou

o o o o o . ._

223
$25.00

Home Tax

25.00
100.00
75.00
400.00
200.00
25.00
25.00
250.00
100.00
150.00
75.00
50.00
275.00
50.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
150.00
125.00
50.00
225.00
50.00
25.00
200.00
100.00
150.00
25.00
200.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
525.00
50.00
50.00
250.00
50.00
150.00
150.00
200.00

Total

505.75
529.50
322.00
61.25
470.50
992.75
357.50
244.75
541.00
859.00
472.50
707.00
477.75
347.00
635.00
149.00
324.00
536.75
148.50
569.00
138.25
458.75
448.00
143.75
749.25
566.50
114.75
675.00
322.00
429.00
258.75
529.50
344.25
177.00
521.50
397.25
1,191.50
349.50
144.25
604.00
199.50
367.25
49125
627.25

Name or Lodge

S14
SlS
S16
S17
S18
Sl9
S20
521
522
523
524
S2S
S26
S27
S28
S29
S30
531
S32
S33
S34
S3S
S36
S37
S38
S39
S40
S41
542
S43
S44
54S
S46
547
S48
S49

sso

SSl
SS2
SS3
SS4
. SSS
SS6
SS7

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

224

Argonne ..........................
Vermont Square ............
Taft
Mount Vernon ·····-········
La Jolla ..........................
Euclid ..............................
Ionic -------·········-···------......
Piedmont ........................
Sunrise ............................
Bellflower ......................
Catalina Island ..............
George Washington ......
Bay City ..........................
Covenant
Beverly Hills ----·······----Loyalty ............................
Sun Garden ....................
Alexandria ····-·············-·
Smyrna ............................
Azure ................................
Forest Hill --·········-········
Alexander Hamilton......
Seal Rock --·-····--·-··-·······
Utopia ..............................
Ascot ................................
Belvedere ........................
Queen Beach ..................
H. M. Stephens..............
Lankershim -·-·················
Signal
Glendale --·-···············-······
Jonathan ..........................
San Gabriel ....................
Arcadia ............................
Triangle ..........................
Justice ---·······-----·-·····-·····
Seaport ............................
Lakeshore ············-··--·····
Semper Virens ..............
Golden City ....................
Educator ····--·-······-·-·······
White Pine ....................
Fairfax ............................
Hermosa ........................
OooHOOOO•• OOO o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o o o o o 0 0 0 0

H o o o o o o o o O O O• ••OOOooOoO

•OOo•• • • ••OOooO••••OOoOO• • ••WP

General
Fund

Maintenance

167.SO
191.SO
81.00
109.SO
93.00
123.00
180.00
lOS.SO
96.00
86.00
S4.50
160.00
114.SO
142.00
9S.SO
HS.SO
183.SO
6S.SO
34.00
94.SO
S4.00
64.SO
77.00
206.SO
122.SO
106.SO
S4.SO
13S.SO
136.00
149.50
164.00
76.00
83.SO
42.SO
S7.SO
80.00
92.SO
88.SO
SS.SO
38.00
84.SO
Sl.00
63.SO
74.SO

240.7S
237.7S
112.SO
1SS.2S
103.SO
160.SO
222.00
149.2S
118.SO
114.00
77.2S
19S.OO
149.2S
202.SO
137.2S
141.7S
2Sl.2S
93.7S
37.SO
90.7S
73.SO
92.25
90.00
291.7S
164.2S
137.25
7S.7S
19S.7S
168.00
191.2S
231.00
108.00
99.7S
63.7S
7S.7S
111.00
129.7S
132)S
77.2S
51.00
114.7S
63.00
74.25
102.7S

Home

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

160.SO
1S8.SO
7S.OO
103.SO
69.00
107.00
148.00
99.50
79.00
76.00
SI.SO
130.00
99.SO
13S.OO
91.SO
94.SO
167.SO
62.SO
2S.OO
60.SO
49.00
61.SO
60.00
194.SO
109.SO
91.SO

S0.00
27S.00
S0.00
7S.OO
275.00
12S.OO
225.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
2S.OO
32S.OO
12S.OO
7S.OO
S0.00
32S.OO
lS0.00
25.00
100.00
300.00
S0.00
2S.OO
17S.OO
200.00
12S.OO
150.00
2S.OO
S0.00
2SO.OO
17S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
l S0.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
S0.00
S0.00

so.so

130.SO
112.00
127.SO
1S4.00
72.00
(i6.SO
42.SO

so.so

74.00
86.SO
88.SO
SI.SO
34.00
76.SO
42.00
49.50
68.SO

2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
7S.OO

Total

618.7S
862.7S
318.SO
443.2S
540.SO
SlS.SO
775.00
4S425
368.50
3Sl.OO
208.2S
810.00
488.2S
SS4.SO
374.2S
679.7S
7S2.2S
246.7S
196.SO
S4S.7S
226.SO
243.2S
402.00
892.7S
S212S
48S.2S
20S.7S
Sll.7S
666.00
643.2S
624.00
281.00
399.7S
173.7S
2S8.7S
315.00
3S8.7S
309.7S
209.25
148.00
3S0.7S
2S6.00
312.2S
320.7S

22S

Name of Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

SS8 Point Firmin ..................
SS9 Craftsmen ··············-···--·S60 Plymouth ........................
S6l East. San Diego..............
S62 Pyramid ..........................
S63 South Park ....................
564 Foothill ...........,................
S65 West Adams ..................
566 James A. Garfield..........
567 Sean:hlight ············-------S68 Park Boulevard ............
S69 Chateau Thierry ..........
S70 Military Service ............
S71 F. K. Shattucli:................
S72 James Madison ..............
S73 Hillcrest ..........................
S74 S. W. Hackett................
S7S Fort Crook ....................
576 El Cajon Valley............
S77 Sunnyside ······················
578 Progressive ·············-······
579 Warren G. H ard1°ng ......
S80 Santa Maria ..................
581 Security -···-···········-·········
S82 Rialto ········-·······-··-··········
S83 Wasco ..............................
S84 Harding ··························
SSS Manchester ············-······S86 Garden Grove ................
S87 Valley Forge ..................
S88 El Sereno ........................
S89 Kauai ..............................
S90 Compass
S91 Escalon ............................
S92 Tujunga
S93 All States ······-·······-·----··
S94 Service ··-··················-··-···
S9S Alexander G. Bell..........
S96 Guardian ------·-····-···········
597 Truth ···········---····-···········
S98 Pearl Harbor ................
S99 Carmelita ........................
600 Lynwood ··----········-···..····
601 Grizzly .....----·-········--······

1S3.SO
101.50
92.00
131.SO
78.00
177.00
132.00
110.50
85.50
181.00
119.SO
83.00
lS0.00
88.00
89.00
28.00
100.00
43.SO
32.00
123.50
141.00
74.SO
22.SO
SS.00
42.00
S6.00
72.00
130.SO
42.SO
108.SO
88.SO
S8.00
71.SO
34.SO
4S.SO
137.00
146.SO
73.00
129.00
39.SO
89.00
90.SO
S7.00
47.50

189.7S
140.2S
129.00
1S2.2S
117.00
219.00
159.00
141.7S
99.7S
244.SO
147.7S
117.00
184.SO
124.SO
115.50
42.00
138.00
Sl.7S
48.00
182.2S
180.00
101:2S
29.2S
126.00
S8.SO
7S.OO
100.SO
162.7S
63.7S
141.7S
93.7S
67.SO
102.7S
47.2S
S4.7S
196.SO
210.7S
97.SO
lSI.50
S7.7S
111.00
114.7S
73.SO
62.2S

126.SO
93.SO
86.00
101.50
78.00
146.00
106.00
94.SO
(i6,SO
163.00
98.SO
78.00
123.00
83.00
77.00
28.00
92.00
34.50
32.00
121.SO
120.00
67.SO
19.SO
84.00
39.00
S0.00
67.00
108.SO
42.SO
94.SO
62.SO
4S.OO
68.SO
31.SO
36.SO
131.00
140.SO
6S.OO
101.00
38.SO
74.00
76.SO
49.00
41.SO

2SO.OO
100.00
S0.00
22S.OO

·· ·- ·· ··· ·~··· ···· · ·· · · ·--

o o o o o o o • o O U • o • ooo • • • • 0000

2SO.OO
27S.00
150.00
200.00
200.00
lS0.00
S0.00
2S0.00
S0.00
100.00
7S.OO
7S.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
22S.OO
7S.OO

2S.OO
S0.00
S0.00
150.00
100.00
2SO.OO
12S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
22S.OO
S0.00
17S.OO
12S.OO
7S.00
S0.00

Total

719.7S
43S.2S
3S7.00
610.2S
273.00
792.00
672.00
496.75
4Sl.75
788.SO
S1S.7S
328.00
707.SO
34S.SO
381.50
98.00
40S.OO
204.7S
137.00
4S2.2S
6()6.00

318.2S
71.2S
29S.OO
164.SO
231.00
289.SO
SS1.7S
148.7S
444.7S
494.7S
29S.SO
267.7S
138.2S
211.7S
S39.SO
S72.7S
33S.SO
606.SO
18S.75
449.00
406.7S
2S4.SO
201.2S

226
Name of Lodge

602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Melrose ·-----·-------··---------Dimond ............................
Jubilee ------·-·-············-·-···
Glasseli Park
Sojourner
Granada ·------------------------Provident ........................
Elmhurst ······-------·--·------Canoga ----···--------·--------····
Temple City ---··----·------·Three Pillars ..................
Larchmont ······················
Hemet ····-·······------··--·-····
Seal Beach ·-···················
Big Bear ··-··-········-·--······
Southland ........................
Neptune ·······-··----·····-···--·
Point Loma ....................
The Gardens -~---·-···········
Atwater ----·--·-····-·-········-·
Menorah ........................
Fortitude ············--·-········
Angeles Mesa ...... .-........
Chula Vista ....................
Lamanda Park ..............
Beacon of the West ......
Fairview
Ingleside ..........................
Benevolence ....................
Normal Heights ..........
Poinsettia ........................
Victorville ········---···-·---···
Riverside ···-····················
John Marshall ····-·········
Palisades ·········-··············
Irdian Rock ..................
Composite ·················-····
Veritas ............................
James A. Foshay............
La Cumbre ................ ...
Alta Loma ......................
Lomita ··················-·········
A. F. E. Irwin................
Metropolitan ················-•OOOHoooooooooo

oooooooooooooooooooHo

H••O••••••HO••OO••••O•

~

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

71.50
106.00
93.00
127.50
43.00
154.00
70.50
71.00
58.00
49.00
65.00
95.50
42.50
21.00
21.00
107.50
67.00
46.50
100.00
81.00
152.00
62.00
166.00
64.00
53.00
58.50
41.00
65.50
87.50
92.50
100.00
57.00
62.50
51.00
86.50
57.50
91.00
41.00
48.00
41.50
137.00
52.50
64.00
59.50

90.75
130.50
114.00
167.25
58.50
186.00
86.25
91.50
82.50
61.50
84.00
125.25
53.25
31.50
21.00
131.25
87.00
54.75
115.50
108.00
168.00
82.50
219.00
88.50
70.50
72.75
55.50
71.25
111.75
126.75
129.00
69.00
89.25
69.00
120.75
71.25
84.00
54.00
46.50
48.75
178.50
74.25
88.50
66.75

60.50
87.00
76.00
111.50
39.00
124.00
57.50
61.00
55.00
41.00
56.00
83.50
35.50
21.00
14.00
87.50
58.00
36.50
77.00
72.00
112.00
55.00
146.00
59.00
47.00
48.50
37.00
47.50
74.50
84.50
86.00
46.00
59.50
46.00
80.50
47.50
56.00
36.00
31.00
32.50
119.00
49.50
59.00
44.50

125.00
225.00
150.00
125.00
25.00
225.00
100.00
100.00
25.00
150.00
100.00
100.00
50.00
75.00
225.00
75.00
75.00
150.00
75.00
325.00
75.00
125.00
50.00
100.00
100.00
50.00
175.00
125.00
75.00
225.00
175.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
350.00
75.00
200.00
75.00
175.00
25.00
50.00
125.00

Total

347.75
548.50
433.00
531.25
165.50
689.00
314.25
323.50
220.50
301.50
305.00
404.25
181.25
73.50
131.00
551.25
287.00
212.75
442.50
336.00
757.00
274.50
656.00
261.50
270.50
279.75
183.50
359.25
398.75
378.75
540.00
347.00
236.25
191.00
387.75
301.25
581.00
206.00
325.50
197.75
609.50
201.25
261.50
295.75

Name or Lodge

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

227
$25.00
Home Tax

Total

26.50
- 92.75
39.75
Hawthorne ----------·--------- 26.50
126.00
404.00
84.00
100.00
Damascus ...................... 94.00
86.00
637.00
129.00
300.00
Florence ·····-··········---------- 122.00
120.75
50.00
337.75
80.50
La Brea .......................... 86.50
178.50
35.00
50.00
52.50
Menlo Park .................... 41.00
227.25
74.25
49.50
50.00
Crescenta Valley .......... 53.50
222.75
60.75
40.50
75.00
Fontana ··-·············------.. -- 46.50
200.00
460.00
102.00
68.00
Jordan .............................. 90.00
250.00
646.50
103.00
154.50
Monte Vista .................. 139.00
271.50
25.00
103.50
69.00
Citro! ············---········-······ 74.00
534.50
J. D. Spreckels................ 132.00 181.50 121.00 100.00
125.00
249.75
32.50
48.75
Livingston ············---······· 43.50
323.50
100.00
61.00
91.50
La Habra ........................ 71.00
50.00
180.25
35.50
53.25
Baldwin Park ................ 41.50
243.25
50.00
53.50
80.25
Malta ··················-·--········ 59.50
707.25
425.00
71.50
107.25
Henry Knox .................. 103.50
101.25
25.00
21.50
32.25
22.50
Ojai-···'·····························
125.00
264.50
52.50
35.00
Oasis ................................ 52.00
189.50
23.00
100.00
34.50
Kaweah ............................ 32.00
216.50
100.00
31.00
46.50
Reseda ............................. 39.00
453.25
175.00
75.50
113.25
Meridian ········-----·-·····--·- 89.50
309.25
175.00
33.50
50.25
50.50
San Gorgonio ····-··········
241.50
75.00
45.00
67.50
J. P. Jarman.................... 54.00
288.00
66.00
50.00
99.00
Greenleaf ........................ 73.00
57.75
24.75
16.50
16.50
671 San Clemente ................
119.00
25.00
26.00
39.00
672 Laguna Beach ................ 29.00
581.25
350.00
83.25
55.50
673 Far West .....•.................. 92.50
298.00
150.00
38.00
57.00
674 Los Cerritos .............,.... 53.00
323.50
125.00
53.00
79.50
675 Modesto •......................... 66.00
178.50
50.00
35.00
52.50
676 Willow Glen .................. 41.00
112.00
32.00
48.00
32.00
...................
677 Liberal Arts
485.75
225.00
70.50
105.75
678 Altadena ·-·········•H•o••o•••·· 84.50
Total Annual Returns Due..$68,468.50 $93,722.25 $62,481.50 $57,575.00 $282,247.25
R. E. ALLAN, Chairman.
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
664
665
666
667
668
669
670

Report adopted.

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, U. C. BERKELEY
CLUB HOUSE
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of
California, Inc. submits herewith the audit of the books o{ the organizatkm
for the past Masonic year, together with the proposed budget for the
year 1934-35.
Little of importance out of the ordinary has occurred during the past
year of sufficient interest to take up the time of this Grand Lodge. The
club has continued to function in harmony and with efficiency. The financial condition of many of the young people has improved, but for many
others the year at the University would have been distressful and discouraging had it not been for the advantages of fellowship and association
offered by the club.
Mrs. J. H. Quinn, the hostess at the institution, has been a steadying
and helpful influence to the large number of our young people who use
the facilities of the club. The officers of the university continue to speak
in the highest terms of commendation of the work of the institution.
The Board of Trustees offer one suggestion to our Masonic Brethren
throughout the State, and that is this: It would be most helpful if advance
information, so far as possible, <:ould be given to the Masonic Club prior
to the date of registration in August for the new term at the university.
Although every effort is made by the student committees having in charge·
the matter of seeking out students of Masonic affiliation, numbers of them
are not contacted. Some of the students appear diffident about making
themselves known, although every facility is offered for that purpose. Consequently, if our Masonic Brethren could inform the club in advance of
the arrival of members of their families, it would be of much assistarn:e
in making every possible contact, particularly with the new students.
The proposed budget for the ensuing year, substantially the same as
the past year, has been submitted to the Finance Committee for its approval.
WILLIAM H. WASTE, President.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON HISTORY
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report:
During the past year your committee 11as continued its research work
and has obtained much additi onal data and information necessary and
essential to a complete History of Masonry in California.
We have visited numerous constituent Lodges, checking and verifying
facts contained in Lodge committee reports, and have discovered and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

229

preserved much interesting source material not heretofore contained· in
our files. We have investigated 'the personal and Masonic activities of many
pioneer Masons whose history had escaped the scrutiny of local committees
and of our investigators, and we feel that the immense amount of illuminating material obtained has fully justified the efforts and time expended
in this branch of our work.
We have recently obtained from the Grand Lodge of Iowa a comprehensive history of one Masonic Brother who played a most conspicuous
part in Masonry, not only in California but also 1n the state of Oregon.
We refer to Brother Berryman Jennings. The additional history of this
distinguished Brother thus obtained will enable your committee to more
correctly ·i nterpret his personal and Masonic activities, some of which
have heret,o fore placed him in a rather unfavorable light.
We have also obtained much long-sought-for information with respect
to Brother John Bidwell which we think will fully clear up some doubtful
points and shed much light upon this colorful Masonic character. We have
fully co11;1pleted our studies of the activities of the eight distinguished
Brothers who played so important a part in the formation of the California
Constitution in 1849. We are at present pursuing our research into the lives
of all Brethren of the craft who were members of the Constitutional Convention of 1879. These studies when finally completed should enable us to
tell the full story of the part Masons played in the establishment of constitutional government in this State.
The members of your committee have, during the past year, visited
numerous Lodges, assisting local History Committees in completing their
reports and directing them in additional investigations.
Your committee has, during the past year, interviewed a number of
fifty-year Masons and obtained from them many interesting details of
their Masonic experiences and numerous historical incidents connected
with their eventful lives. There still remains a large number of fifty-year
Masons whose life's story has not been prepared, and we earnestly request
the officers of constituent Lodges to undertake the task of immediately
interviewing all of their older members and to send to the committee their
stories and experiences.
We also desire to respedfully urge all Lodge History Committees
which have not forwarded to us their reports, to redouble their efforts and
send in the information at once. This is imperative if they desire the. data
included in the forthcoming historical publication.
At the 1931 annual communication, Grand Lodge ii1structed your committee to gather the historical facts and prepare a Masonic play having
for its purpose the portrayal of the lives and activities of Masons who
played a leading part in the pioneer history and development of northern
California. The committee accordingly collected the necessary data and
information and procured the services of Brother Jesse M. Whited, who
wrote the play. It was the intent of the committee to present this play at

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the following session of Grand Lodge. Just prior to the meeting of Grand
Lodge in 1932, the distinguished Brother of the craft who°had undertaken
the presentation of the play was suddenly stricken ill and died. In the very
limited time left, it was not deemed advisable to present the play at that
communication. This play has since been revamped, greatly improved and
will be presented to the members of Grand Lodge and their ladies at the
Scottish Rite Temple on Wednesday evening, October 10, 1934. The play
bears the .title, "The Never-Sweats of Rooptown." You will see and hear
Brothers in the cast representing Peter Lassen, Isaac Roop, Rough Elliott
and Captain Hill, all Masons, and that friend of the white man, Chief
Winnemucca. It is a ·purely historical presentation of the actual events in
which these pioneer Masons took part. It is a true interpretation of the
interesting phases of the lives of these characters in what is now known
as Susanville. These men lived their Masonry. It was a very important
factor in the stirring events of the Honey Lake valley. These Masons
were preeminent in the civilization of that interesting part of our State.
Your committee feels that there is much work yet to be done in piecing
together the full story of Masonry in California and that a continuation of
the committee during the coming year is fully justified and advisable.
We therefore recommend that the History Committee be continued
during the ensuing Masonic year.
LEON WHITSELL,
MARK SAWRIE,
DAVID TULLOCK,
RoscoE S. CLARK,
ALBERT F. Ross,
CHAS. E. HAAS,
Committee.

consulted the Grand Master and members of the Policy and General Purposes and Finance Committees, and the consensus of opinion seems to
indicate the propriety of immediate publication. Your committee accordingly entered into negotiations with the H. S. Crocker Company, Inc. to
publish this history.
In a letter to the chairman of this committee, the Grand Master
authorized the committee to proceed with the publication along the line
outlined in our numerous letters and conferences.
The Grand Master prior to his trip to the Islands appointed a committee composed of Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, Deputy
Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting and Senior Grand Warden Earl
Warren, to finally pass upon and approve the contract to be executed
between your History Committee and the H. S. Crocker Company.
This committee was also authorized and instructed to place the final
seal of approval upon all material incorporated in the pub1ication.
In the appointment of this committee the Grand Master e~hibited that
good judgment and wisdom of action which has so abundantly characterized his official conduct during the past year. Your History Committee
greatly appreciates this appointment, and we desire to further express our
appreciation to this committee for the fine spirit of co-operation and helpfulness which has been so manifest throughout the many conferences we
have had with them in furtherance of their authority and of your committee's objective.
The ap'pointment of this committee to pass upon the contract to be
entered into with the Crocker Company is a guarantee that the· interests
of this Grand Lodge have been fully protected, and also, it is, we think,
proof positive that the material used in" our publication will scrupulously
conform to the plain, unvarnished historical facts.
·
Pursuant to the authorization of the Grand Master and with the approval of his special committee, we entered into a contract with the H. S.
Crocker Company, Inc. to publish the History of Masonry in California
on the following terms :
"That the Crocker Company undertake this publication without any
expense to Grand Lodge, provided a sufficient guarantee for meeting the •
expense could be obtained through subscriptions for the completed work.
"In no event shall the Grand Lodge or the author be or become liable
in any way, shape or form to the publisher, or to any person firm or corporation with whom the publisher may deal; and that whatever may be
done by the said Grand Lodge, or by any officer or committee thereof, or
by the author, shall be deemed to have been done for the benefit of the
publisher and to assist the publisher in the publication of the material
coml?iled by t_he said ~rand Lodge through its Committee on History; and
nothing herem contamed shall be construed as requiring of or from the
said. Gra!ld Lodge, or the author, anything further than the sole and exclusive nght to the use of the material first hereinabove referred to for
publication in accordance with the terms hereof.
"The publication shall be known as 'History of Masonry in California'
and shall be published under that name in three volumes of octavo size

230

This report was adopted and the committee continued.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION
OF HISTORY

w:.

To the M.".
Grniid Lodge of C/JJifornia:
Your committee appointed with instructions to investigate the most
feasible and economic plan for the preparation and publication of the
History of Masonry in this State, begs leave to submit the following
report:
Since the last annual communication of Grand Lodge your committee
has fully investigated every phase of the subject of preparation and publication of California Masonic History. We have held numerous conferences with individuals and firms engaged in the printing and publishing
industry. After fully canvassing the entire situation, several months ago
we reached the conclusion that the time had arrived when the History
of California Masonry could be published at possibly the lowest unit cost
which would obtain for several years. Pursuant to this conclusion, we .

231

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

consisting of approximately five hundred pages each and approximately
twenty-four pages of half-tone illustrations in each volume.
"That no matter shall be included in the said publication that shall
not be approved by author and by any committee appointed by the said
Grand Lodge, or by the Grand Master of Masons in the jurisdiction of
California; and no circulars or prospectus or printed matter of any sort
or kind shall be sent to any Lodge, or to any individual, or otherwise
distributed, unless first approved by such committee.
"The said publication and any revision or reissue thereof are to be
copyrighted under the laws of the United States in the name of the publisher, and author agrees fully to co-operate with publisher in the procuring
of said copyright so as to protect publisher in the exclusive publication of
said 'History of Masonry in California.' In the event publisher fails to
make the publication as herein required, or in the event publisher at any
time abandons the sale or further publication of the work, then publisher
agrees upon demand of author to assign to author or such person or persons as author may designate the said coyright in the manner and in form
so as to comply with the laws of the United States applying to assignment
of copyrights.
"The price at which said publication shall be sold may be fixed hy the
publisher, but in no event shall it be less than that charged on pre-publication subscriptions, except that pubTisher may allow to libraries, collectors
· and book dealers a discount in accordance with usual trade practices. On
pre-publication subscriptions the price to Masonic Lodges and members
thereof shall .be $12.00 for the set of three volumes.
"The pre-publication subscription price shall be payable as follows:
Three dollars cash upon subscription and three dollars thereafter on delivery of each volume included in said publication.
"Publisher shall not be obliged to start production on said publication
unless prior to the 1st day of October, 1934, there shall have been delivered
to it from Masonic Lodges or members thereof, bona fide responsible subscriptions for at least 2000 sets of said publication acc-0mpanied by payment
to publisher on deposit for each subscription of $3.00 and unless prior to
said time there shall have been delivered to publisher the material required
for said publication in proper form for the setting up of the same. In the
event that for lack of the necessary number of subscriptions or for any
other reason the production of the first volume of publication shall not have
been started before the 31st day of December, 1934, such amounts of money
as shall have been received by publisher on the subscriptions referred to
shall immediately be refunded and returned to the subscribers.
"On the receipt of subscriptions for at least two thousand (2000) sets
of said publication, and provided that the necessary material shall have
been delivered by author, the publisher will immediately proceed with the
work of publication-printing as many sets as may be necessary for delivery on said subscriptions so received and for such additional number as
may be in the judgment of publisher salable.
"It is specifically understood and agreed by and between the parties
hereto that nothing herein contained shall be construed as requiring author,
or the Grand L-Odge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, to guarantee, or to enforce or compel the payment of, any subscription received by the publisher; and that not only will the publication be
at the sole charge and expense of the publisher, but also at its risk with
respect to any and every contingency."

ter, and other matter fully outlining the project. These broadsides together
with subscription blanks were sent to the Masters and Secretaries of the
constituent Lodges and also to each Inspector.
Shortly after the advertising matter was sent out your committee
addressed letters to a .Jarge number of the L-Odges, requesting them to
enclose with their July, August or September bulletin a small copy of the
publicity. and order blank which the Crocker Company would furnish. A
vast majority of the Lodges thus contacted indicated their willingness to
comply with the request, and they have placed in the hands of their mem·bership many thousands of these subscription blanks. Some of the Lodges
in their monthly bulletin have called attention to the efforts of the committee to obtain the necessary subscriptions.
We are sorry to rep-0rt that this effort has not met with the anticipated
response, and up to date we have only received approximately three hundred subscriptions accompanied by the required $3.00 advance payment.
However, your c-0mmittee is not discouraged, for we fully appreciate that
many of the Brethren have inadvertently neglected to send in their subscriptioos. We feel that probably by the first of the year we may be able
to obtain a sufficient number to warrant the publication. We also appreciate
the present financial condition of a large number of the craft and their
inability to purchase the publ\cation even at the extremely low price.
The principal reason the committee made the effort to publish the
history at .this .time was because of the certainty that under code conditions the price of printing material and labor would be very materially
increased, thereby ·making it impossible to deliver the completed history
at anything like the present obtainable low price.
Your committee has been assured by the Crocker Company of their
willingness to extend the final date for receipt of subscriptions to ] anuary 1, 1935, and we feel that if the Masons of California desire this
history, we should be able to successfully ccmplete the pre-publication
campaign by that date; and we most respectfully urge the Brothers of the
craft to exert every reasonable effort to assist in obtaining the necessary
subscriptions to warrant publication.
While we are somewhat reluctant to urge Grand Lodge to continue
this committee, we do, however, feel that the committee should be continued until such time as the publication is made or the impossibility of
obtaining sufficient support for the immediate publicatio.n has been demonstrated.
We therefore recommend that the Committee on P reparation and
Publication be continued during the ensuing Masonic year.

232

Pursuant to the terms of the contract the Crocker Company immediately published several hundred broadsides containing the letter of
authorization by the Grand Master, a letter from the Deputy Grand Mas-

233

LEON 0 . WHITSELL,
DAVID

J. REESE,

MARK

A. SA WRIE,

Committee.

Report adopted and committee continued.

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK ON FIFTEENTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
To the M:. w:. Gra11d Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The story of the Fifteenth Annual' Observance of Public Schools
·Week ca1)not be told in a report of this character. Only the reports
from the Lodges and the newspaper clippings would convey anything
l'ike an adequate idea of the extent and scope of our latest observance,
and of what was accomplished.
In referring to the local observance in a city in which Public
Schools Week has been for several years an outstanding success, one
of the newspapers characterized it as "reaching a new ·peak" and
"transcending all previous observances in the number and elaborateness of the programs." And this was true of the observance generally
throughout the state.
This year's unprecedented success is easily accounted for. In the
first place, the reports from the Lodges indicate that this year there
was a more general compliance than ever before by the local committees in charge of the arrangements with the suggestions emanating
from our committee, and which are of course based on past experience; and particularly with respect to the advisability of making
evident in every way possible the fact that the observance of Public
Schools Week is not a Masonic event, but a community affair. And
there were innumerable instances in which it would appear that every
civic organization in the community had joined in the observance.
This, however, was only one of the reasons for the success
achieved. And perhaps more than any other was the nation-wide
situation with respect to public education and the publicity which has
been given it.
Our schools have been receiving during the last few years more
attention than was ever before given them by the public at large.
This awakened interest began with the problem of increased taxes and
declining values; and there was .developed what seemed to be a
hostile attitude in certain quarters toward a continuance of the opportunities being offered by the modern school. Under the plea of the ne'\
cessity for a retrenchment in public expenditures, an effort was made
to so materially reduce the appropriation for the support of the schools
as would seriously cripple them. And there was implanted in the minds
of even friends of public education a doubt as to whether or. not the
criticism· which was being directed against the schools was justified.
The people wanted information with respect to their schools; and the
observance of Public Schools Week furnished a good opportunity to
obtain it. .The situation was admirably expressed in an editorial in a
newspaper which has always given enthusiastic support to our observance, and from which we quote the following:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

235

"The depression with its accompanying realization that the
tax burden has grown too rapidly and that it has reached dangerous proportions has caused the people to believe that public
education has now reached a 'stock taking time'- a time when
the tendency toward expansion, experiment and innovation that
has been evident in recent years will be discontinued while our
educational system is carefully examined to determine what of the
new is valuable and what is non-essential. ...
"Public Schools Week can well serve to acquaint the public
with what their schools are doing so that they can then more
properly judge how much value they receive-from the tax dollars
they invest."
With a knowledge of the existing condition, the school people
were especially active this year in providing the opportunity Public
Schools Week is expected to furnish; and there were teachers who
never before had taken the interest in the observance which it would
be assumed they should, but who were this year indefatigable in
their efforts to bring home to the people a knowledg~ of what was
being actually done in the schools.
In this connection we quote from a report received from a County
Superintendent of Schools who has from the first sensed the value of
our observance, and has materially contributed to its success:
"Probably never in the history of our schools until this
Spring did the teachers sense so deep a need for and give
expression to so real an interest in the program of that week.
The educational crisis of 1933 at Sacramento awakened the classroom teacher to a more direct responsibility toward bringing the
home and the school into a closer relationship. From all reports
the next session in 1935 will mark an intense fight for the maintenance of school needs, so the teachers are endeavoring to
inform the public of conditions as they exist today and to point
otit the needs for tomorrow. I credit that state of ' teacher mind'
as being one of the reasons for the interest taken in Public
Schools Week in our county. Then, too, the parents have been
aroused by speakers and the press to seek to know their schools
better, and last but not least the observance year after year has
grown to such proportions that the thought originally behind the
program is now being realized. . . .
"In summing up our program, I might say that we emphasized more than ever t he personal contact between parent and
teacher to the end that the child might be better understood by
both the home and the school. In certain districts, every teacher
made a 'home call,' during that week. We took our boys and girls
to many of the service clubs during the luncheon hour to enter-

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tain and at the same time instruct the members. Of course we had
Open House, exhibits, and afternoon and evening programs. One
new idea was the Science Fair ....
"No doubt in every county in California teachers, children
and parents were brought together under similar conditions so
our week was in many respects like all others. However, it is ~ith
a deep feeling in my own heart of appreciation that I recall . all
that was accomplished in the cities and in the rural schools and I
look forward to next year when we shall be able to do even more
than we have in the past.... "
Not only was there this year a greater public interest than ever
before in the local programs, but the observance itself attracted
more attention not only here in California, but elsewhere. Numerous
inquiries were received by our committee from people who apparently
had theretofore had no knowledge of the movement and whose
curiosity had been probably awakened by what they had read in the
~ewspapers and had heard over the radio; and from other jurisdict10ns came q:quests for details with respect to the manner in which
our observance is handled and for whatever literature was available.
In connection with the foregoing it is exceedingly gratifying to be
able to report that because of what has been accomplished here in
Calif~rnia a Public Schools Week was this year observed by the
Masons of Montana. M." · w:. Ernest L. Marvin, Grand Master, issued a proclamation along the lines of that with which our Public
Schools Week was originated; and in a letter received from him he
said that he intended recommending that it be made a permanent
activity of his Grand Lodge. His proclamation was not only enthusiastically received by his Lodges, but attracted favorable newspaper
comment. In an editorial on "School Problems" one of the newspapers
said:
·
"'.Fhe problems of the public schools come close to the lives
and homes of the American rank and file for the schools are the
common property of all. The Masons of Montana are calling
attention to that fact this week by observing 'Public Schools
Week in the Masonic Lodges.' ... The movement will impart to
the younger generation a more vital interest in the public schools
and will help parents to direct more intelligently the welfare of
their children. After all the home is the bulwark of the public;
and fireside discussions of today determine the nation's thought
of tomorrow. Education now needs all its friends. Montana
Masons are to be congratulated upon their efforts to gain for
themselves, their wives and children, a clearer and broader conception of today's school problems."
As evidence of the widespread interest this year, it is to be noted
that it appears from the reports and from our newspaper clippings

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

237

that in many communities, particularly in the larger cities, there were
events held in observance of the week which had not been scheduled
by the committee in charge of the local observance. In some instances
it was on the initiative of the school people and in the schools; but
there were also luncheon meetings and other gatherings arranged by
organizations which have no direct connection with the schools, and
at which there were addresses delivered by outstanding educators and
well informed laymen interested in public education. Notable among
these were the luncheon meeting of the Commonwealth Club of
California and that held during the annual Convocation of the Royal
Arch Masons of California.
In connection with our reference to the public interest aroused by
the radio talks, it may be here stated that this year for the first time
our committee was able to arrange for a definite comprehensive
state-wide radio program in addition to our newspaper publicity.
Local committees everywhere have always received the hearty
cooperation of the broadcasting stations in their vicinity, which have
been exceedingly generous in their allotment of time. This year, in
addition to that service, there was a coordinated program of broadcasts with subjects suggested by our committee. This was made
possible through the splendid cooperation received from Mr. Arthur
S. Garbett, Director of Education of the National Broadcasting Company, and from the various organizations which have allotments of
time over that system for educational broadcasts. The program was
started on the Saturday preceding the beginning of our observance
and was continued throughout the week with from two to fo\lr broadcasts each day. Every address made included a reference to Public
Schools Week and dealt with some phase of public education with
respect to which it was believed the public desired information.
The newspaper publicity has been especially valuable this year
because of the increased amount carrying information not only with
respect to the crisis confronting public education, but also concerning ·
specific questions now being asked by parents and taxpayers. And it
would seem as though there were not a single newspaper in the state
which had not urged upon its readers the advisability, if not the
necessity, of availing themselves of the opportunity offered by Public
Schools Week to obtain first hand and authoritative information as to
what the schools were actually doing and whether the criticism to
which they were being subjected was, or was not, warranted.
The newspapers, radio talks and the addresses at the public
meetings were not the only media through which facts with respect
to the schools and educational policies were presented to the public.
There was this year an increased number of instances in which
printed or multigraphed matter was distributed to those in attendance
at meetings or visiting schools. Some of these were in the form of
question and answer and were especially valuable where there were

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

involved figures which could not be well remembered but should be
pr.e served for reference and study. At least one of these (and there
were many others) is worthy of especial mention, because of the
nattfre of the questions, all of which, with one exception, referred to
that particular community. There were nine questions, all of which
were answered at length with data obtained from the office of the
County Clerk, State Department of Education and the National Education Association, and were as follows:

number of those who availed themselves of the opportunity. We
should like to make mention of all the reports evidencing the increase
in interest in the observance by the number in attendance at the
meetings and visiting the schools, but must content" ourselves with a
reference to only one, and that for obvious reasons.

238

"1. How much relief was given the taxpayers of . .. County
by the repeal of the old county school tax law?
"2. Were ... school taxes also lowered last year?
"3. What is the total decrease in school tax burden of the
people of ... ?
"4. How does the cost of educating children in ... compare
with similar schools elsewhere in California?
"5. How does the present cost" per pupil compare with that
of previous years?
"6. Has this reduction in cost been obtained by allowing
buildings to depreciate or by similar false economies?
"7. Will this construction increase the present tax rate or
necessitate a bond issue?
"8. Is new const·ruction needed at present?
"9. Is too much money spent on education in general in the
United States?"
This is the type of questions taxpayers are everywhere asking;
and they are entitled to, and should have, the answers.
Valuable, however, as are these means of obtaining information,
what the schools ·are actually doing can best be learned by personal
visits and through the programs furnished by the pupils, with exhibits
of school work. And it was undoubtedly in recognition of this fact that
increased opportunities for these visits were this year provided.
"Open House''. in the schools was the rule, rather than the exception,
even in the larger cities; and .there was a notable increase in the
number of counties in which every rural school participated in ~he
observance. In one county the Superintendent of Schools, through his
Rural Supervisor and with the cooperation of the local Lodge, arranged
daily excursions of visitors from the county seat to the remote rural
schools. A trip. was made each day with the "caravan" starting about
9 :30 in the ·morning and returning about 4:30 in the afternoon.
Twenty-two rural schools were visited and ~he Rural Superv·isor.
reports, "It really was a red letter day to these little country schools
to see our cars roll up and all of us troop in."
Not only were increased opportunities for visits by parents and
taxpayers provided this year, but there was a notable increase in the

239

In a school system in which the total enrollment is only 3300
there were 4524 visitors; and the comment with respect to this from
the committee is as follows: "Never before in the history of our
schools have we ever had such an out-pouring of visitors during
Public Schools Week. Your committee feels that the people of this
community have a better unde£standing of our school system now
and know more about the educational and financial problems of the
district than they did before Public Schools Week was held."

.(\.s evidence of the willingness of the local committees to avail
themselves of the experience of other communities where extraordinarily successful observances have been held, we believe reference
should be made to the .fact that "A Downtown School" was a feature
of several observances this year. These "downtown schools," it will
be remembered, are located for the week in the business and shopping
districts with the pupils working in classes just as they wou.I.d be in
their regular schools. As was pointed out last year, this is not only
very effective publicity for the week's observance and for such public
meetings as are held, but, what is more important, people who cannot
find time to visit a regular school are thus afforded an opportunity to
acquire the information with respect to the actual work of the schools
which cannot be otherwise obtained.
In the community which originated this feature of the observance,
the idea was this year further developed. To emphasize the progress
of public education there was in one corner of the building in which
the downtown school was held a representation of "A School of 1834."
Not only were the teacher and the children in the costumes of the
period, but there was a faithful reproduction of the furniture and
"furnishings,'' including the· "dunce stool" and the pail of water with
the dipper out of which all the children drank with apparently no fear
of microbes and bacilli. The routine of the school of that day, with
the syllabic spelling of Con-stan-ti-no-ple and Miss-iss-ipp-i, was a
reminder of days gone by, and was particularly enjoyed by those who
even at a much later date had attended a school not altogether
unlike it.
The programs this year as a whole more than ever before carried
out the purpose of the observance in that they were evidently
arranged with. the idea of providing for the public information with
respect to the schools rather than mere. entertainment. One of the
novel features was the School Science Fair referred to in the report
from the County Superintendent, from which we · have quoted. This

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Science Fair was arranged to afford the people of the community an
opportunity to observe the varied and interesting character of the
programs offered to students in the fields of science and nature study
and to see for themselves the high class of work the pupils of the
public schools are doing along these lines. There were drawings,
models and collections of material illustrative of earth and sky studies,
and of plant and animal life and of the conservation of natural
resources. Among the several divisions was one of physical and
applied science, in which were exhibited electrical and mechanical
toys, engines, aeroplane models and boats-all the work of the pupils
of the public schools.

auditorium, the parents visited the classrooms, where they saw their
children engaged in their usual work.

240

Akin to the School Science Fair, one of the features of an observance in a rural community was an agricultural fair, which was a
combination of fruit, poultry and flower shows, with exhibits by the
pupils of the public schools and a display from the agriculture, biology
and .g eneral science classes of the high school.
Critics of the schools who believe that the "fundamentals" are
being neglected, and particularly those who insist that the children
are not being taught to spell correctly, would have found especial
interest iµ one of the programs presented during Public Schools.
Week. A feature of that program was a spelling match between
pupils of the junior high school and a team of six "champion spellers"
from the Lions Club. The result is set forth in the following excerpt
from a newspaper account of the event: "That not only are local
schools carrying their educational program into advanced fields of
political and exact sciences, as was demonstrated by the surprising
performances of the junior college debaters and engineers, but that
they are also holding their place with respect to grounding and fundamentals, was shown last night when a team of junior high school
spellers put to rout' the best spellers of the ... Lions Club .... The
score was two errors for the children and fourteen for the Lions.
Five of the six youngsters on the school team went through the match
without an error." In that community there will be less ·heard of the
good old days when children were t'aught to spell. And, by the way, a
"spelling bee" was a feature of many programs reported.
We are always loath to refer to any special observance because
there are so many worthy of mention. There was one, however, this
year, unusual in the fact that the week's program included_ a community meeting held in the afternoon, as well as one in the 'evening;
and especially significant was 't he fact that while the afternoon meeting was being held all the stores were closed.

In a school in which most of the pupils are of foreign parentage,
the entire program, including the menu of the dinner served in the
school cafeteria, was in Spanish, as was also a fine address delivered
by a prominent' citizen. After dinner, and before assembling in the

241

There has been a rather curious development in connection with
the observance of Public Schools Week of what might be termed a
"by-product," to which reference has been made in more than one
report received by our committee during recent years. Adjacent communities in the rural districts among which there is not that general
cooperation which would result to their mutual advantage, are always
ready '.to join in the observance of Public Schools Week. And this
comment is prompted by what' appears in a newspaper clipping
attached to one of the reports this year, and from which we quote the
following (omitting, of course, all names, in accordance with our
practice): "Focusing proper attention on the school work of the
various communities is not, however, the only ·benefit that ... has
derived from Public Schools Week. Each year it has been the basis
for bringing together all communities of the valley in one effort. Each
year ... and ... (and four other named communities) join together in
one single effort and each year with marked success." There would
seem to be little doubt that such cooperation in the observance of
Public Schools Week might well pave the way for a coordinated
effort for other purposes.
A few words should be said with respect to the reports received
from our Lodges. Although our committee maintains ~ontact with
City and County School .Superintendents, and with the parent bodies
of those organizations which cooperate in the observance of Public
Schools Week, it is through these reports from the Lodges that our
knowledge is obtained of the details of the local observances and of
the results thereof; and it is with the knowledge thus acquired that
our committee is enabled to make suggestions for future observances.
While probably the majority of these reports are confined to filling
in the blanks in the questionnaire sent out by our committee immediately prior to the close of the observance, there are many which are
supplemented with reports in narrative form, giving not only details
of the observance, but as well of the way in which it was handled;
and the number of these is continually increasing. And we are availing
ourselves of this opportunity to express our appreciation of the care
and detail with which such reports are prepared. Incidentally, it may
be mentioned that every Lodge has its own file in which its reports are
preserved; and not infrequently through reference to that file we are
enabled to be of assistance in some situation which has developed.
Earlier in this report we referred to the leaflets and circulars
distributed at public meetings and which set' forth facts with respect
to our schools. We conclude this report by quoting the last paragraph
of one of these which contains an admonition every friend of the
public school should ever have in mind:

242

PROCEEDlNGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"We urge that every citizen interested in the future of our
children and in the destiny of our nation assume personal responsibility to keep in constant contact with the educational situation
in his community and with the officers charged with keeping the
schools open and effective. In this crisis we must depend upon
an aroused public opinion · to insure to the children of the country
educational advantages as adequate as those made available in
past years to present-day adults. We must not for a moment
forget that education is the bulwark of our democratic society
and our surest guarantee !or the future."
All of whic_h is fraternally submitted,
ROBERT A. ODELL,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

JOHN B. BEMAN,

WALTER L .- BACHRODT,

MELVIN BOWMAN,

Roy W. CwuD,

FREDERIC JOSEF BRUDI,

WILL CROCKET,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,
L. E. CHENOWETH,

ELIAS E. ELLISON,

w. E . GIVENS,

A. R. CLIFTON'

JOSEPH M. GWINN,

DR. WALTER

C. BURNHAM HERYFORD,

v. GOODFELLOW,

F. A. ·HENDERSON,

0 . S. HUBBARD,

J. L. HOUSE,

GEORGE C. } ENSEN,

FREDERICK ·F. MARTIN,

WESLEY

]AMES T. MONTANO,

WILLIAM G. PADEN,

CHARLES E. TEACH,
CHARLES R. TUPPER,

LEWIS

w. KERGAN,

w. SMITH,

VAUGHAN MAcCAuGHEY.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LIBRARY
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California :
Having been honored with appointn:ent en the Library Committee of
the Grand Lodge, it is meet and proper that my committee make some brief
report for presentation to the Grand Lodge, to indicate, at least, that the
honor was accepted with the intention of rendering service if circumstances seriously' required attention to library matters.
The chairman of the library committee felt, however, that its functions
need not necessarily be active unless warranted by occasional circumstances
arising, whereby ·it might have ·been called upon in an advisory capacity.
· Shortly' after receiving his appoin~ ment this writer consulted with the
Gran·d Secretary, and under Brother Whicher's guidance made a survey
of ·the library quarters, .its stock of bo~ k3, etc., and decided that under the
p~esent stringency of funds we were not justified in adv:ising any new
purchases. At-the same time. it was felt that if urgent need or desirability
for any particular work had arisen, the Grand Secretary's office would
promptly have· notified your committee.

243

It is believed, therefore, that service was rendered in this particular
and trying period by our inactivity, and it is hoped this view will be taken
in passing upon this report.
]OHN R . RucKSTELL, Chairman.

Adopted.

REPORT OF DiRECTORS, U. C. LOS ANGELES
CLUB HOUSE
To the M." . W.'. Grand Lodge. of California:
Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University of
California at Los Angeles, fraternally submit their report for the year
ending September 30, 1934.
.
The financial condition is reflected by the report of Brother Reynold E.
Blight, certified publlc accountant, which is annexed h.eret~ and made a
part hereof. We, hbwever, direct attention to the following 1~ems:
.
• First: Last year we reported a building fund balance in the Umted
States National Bank of $8,473.49, which was a part of the funds there
deposited . at the time that institution was closed; two divid~nds, one. of
25 per cent and one 10 per cent having subsequently been rece~ved. Dur~ng
this past year another dividend of 25 per cent has been r~c~1.ved, mak~ng
a 60 per cent recovery. The reports concerning the poss1~1h.ty of being
repaid all of the remaining 40 per cent are somewhat conflicting, and the
prospects may best be described as problematical.
Second : It has been necessary to repair and reupholster some of the
furniture during the year, and as time 'goes on there will be mor~ and
more of this to do. Building upkeep will naturally increase, and the wisdom
of providing reasonable means to meet these items i.s obvious.
We experienced our first fire when a drapery in front of the stage
bec·ame ignited and was more scorched than burned. The loss was fully
covered by insurance.
.
.
Strict economy is the watchword of our operations, but there 1s a
point beyond which we cannot go with safety.
.
.
.
.
The University of California at Los Angeles 1s entering upon ~ts sixth
vear in its present location at Westwood. Inasmuch as the Masomc Club,
U. C. L. A., began operations coincident with the university, you~ c~ub
house is likewise entering on its sixth year, and each year of its functioning
it has performed a greater service. In these days of continued ~ncertainty
it is of the utmost value that we minister in every way possible to the
mental hunger of the~e young people who are groping for sol~d eart~ up~n
which to ground their feet. We are conyinced that Masonry in Cahforma
is making a contribution which will long endure through the club houses
here and at Berkeley. That your generosity is appreciated is evidenced ~Y
0ur young people on every hand. The attendance of students from Masonic
families has increased from year to year, and the new semester has opened
with augmented interest being shown by them.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The following extract from an editorial contained in the club house
publication at the opening of this semester is proof of this fact:
"The Masonic Club and the organizations within the club keep up
a round of social activities and provide the social life which college
students of today have deemed necessary to college life. And in the
midst of our pleasure, we have not forgotten those individuals less fortunate than we. Philanthropic work is carried on with the activities
of Areme, a women's philanthropic organization.
"Surely no other campus organization offers the diversity of interests which the Masonic Club offers, and no other group of students is
more fortunate than Masonic affiliates in having the opportunity to
enjoy its privileges. We who know the joys of the Masonic Club can
best voice our thanks by perpetuating Masonic ideals and living our
thanks to those farsighted and generous men who have made the
Masonic Affiliate Club possible."

Los Angeles, namely, Hiram No. 45, Caballeros de Oriente, and Minerva
Lodges, were withdrawn in 1932 after an unsuccessful attempt to attain
recognition from our Grand Lodge. We find, however, that in July, 1933,
a new Lodge was chartered under the name of Nirvana No. 8 by the
Grand Lodge Benito Juarez of the State of Coahuila, Torreon, Mexico,
under the mastership of one Victor Behar. In December, 1933, one Emilio
Espinosa was elected Master and one Estanislao Llera elected Secretary.
Espinosa had formerly been the Deputy Grand Master in Southern California. This Lodge met at Korbell Hall on East First Street in the city
of Los Angeles.
We are informed that the Grand Lodge Benito Juarez again withdrew
the charter of this Nirvana Lodge in the spring of 1934, and it is not now
operating. The Grand Lodge Benito Juarez still entertains the hope that
it will attain recognition from the Grand Lodge of California and that
that group of men who were allegedly made Masons in the three or four
Lodges that existed in southern California will some day be accepted in
the subordinate Lodges of our grand jurisdiction.
As to Negro Masonry: The Most Worshipful Sovereign Grand Lodge
of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, also known as the Prince Hall
Masons, is still very active with some forty-two subordinate bodies working. It has held an annual communication last year.
The other group of Negro Masons known as the Most Worshipful
Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons has
declined markedly in both numbers and activity. There are probably about
nine subordinate Lodges in this rite, and they are not active to any extent.
A recent factional quarrel within their bodies as to where the last annual
communication was to be held, came to the attention of the courts of Los
Angeles county. One faction claimed that the annual communication was
to be held in Oakland, and the other claimed it should be held in Los Angeles. The Oakland group won. The Grand Master is William H. Robinson, residing at 1522 West 36th Street, Los Angeles, and the office of
Grand Lodge is at a place called Masonic Hall, 4414Y, Central Avenue,
Los Angeles.
The co-Masonic bodies have also suffered severely. The pseudo Hollywood Lodge, which formerly met in a regular hall at Hollywood Boulevard and Serrano Streets, city of Los Angeles, has moved to a small
room in the premises of an independent Catholic church in Hollywood.
The other co-Masonic Lodge is called "Helios" and meets irregularly in
an Odd Fellows Temple at Washington and Oak Streets. There is another
Lodge meeting in Ojai at the Theosophical Camp there. None of these
Lodges are very active or prosperous.
We do not wish to be understood as stating that clandestine Masonry
is dead in California. There is still considerable life left in it, and with the
return of normal economic conditions, we may expect a revival of some
of it.

244

This club publication has recently appeared in enlarged form \lnder
the editorship of Miss Dorothy Thompson, and under her able direction
will, we believe, give the students a fuller and deeeper knowledge Of the
real reason for our club house, as well as the objective lessons of Masonry.
BEN G. WRIGHT, Vice-Chairman.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To th~ M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows:
While the e.conomic and financial depression has been a dire tragedy in
many activities of life, it has not been an unmixed evil in all relations. In
the matter of clandestine Masonic Lodges, it has undoubtedly resulted in
the subsidance of much activity. The various members of our committee
have found that the irregular Lodges have to a considerable extent become
dormant, while a few have continued their existence for mere social purposes.
We have previously reported that in the main there were five separate
irregular Masonic groups of Lodges. Of these, the Rito Nacional Mexicano
is for the most part dormant. A few of the Lodges, one in San Bernardino,
sev~ral in Los Angeles, and one in San Diego, are continuing some social
activities but little or no alleged Masonic work. It may be said that this
rite is practically a thing of the past and will probably not be revived to
any formidable extent in the near future.
As to the Grand Lodge Benito Juarez : Your committee have previously reported that the charters of the three Lodges working in and about

245

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

However, our investigations have been so extensive as to have brought
home to many clandestine members the irregular character of their organizations and so have caused them t-0 1-0se interest, and then to abandon them.
This intensive activity should not be abandoned, and we therefore recommend the continuance of a Committee on Clandestine Masonry and the
active prosecution of its work.
WILLIAM A. SCHRIEDER,

conditions in the Lodge, and that following the report. of a special committee appointed to investigate the situation in the Lodge, the action of
the Grand Master was approved by the Grand Ledge, which also adopted
the recommendations of the committee that the charter be continued under
arrest until this communication, unless sooner restored by the Grand Master; that the inccming Grand Master appoint a committee of three to
continue investigation of conditions in the Lodge; that the Grand Master
be authorized to restore the charter upon such terms and conditions as he
mighf deem necessary to impose, and that if the charter was not restored,
the Grand Master should direct that charges be preferred against the
Lodge.
As the committee appointed by the Grand Master to investigate the
conditions in Fairmount Lodge and to make recommendations concerning
the restoration of its charter, we renewed our consideration of the important problem submitted to us, and we quickly concluded that if the
effort to restore harmony was to be successful and the Lodge be permitted
to functio~. a complete change in the officers for the year then ensuing
must be made. A meeting of the members of the Lodge was then had,
which was largely attended, and they were informed of the plan of the
committee, viz., to recommend to the Grand Master that the · charter be
restored upon the understanding that at the annual election to be held in
December, the officers elected should be members of the Lodge satisfactory
to the Grand Master, and the officers appointed by the Master-elect should
be likewise satisfactory, and that no member then holding office either by
virtue of election or appointment be included among the officers to be
elected and appointed. There was no dissent ex{>ressed t-0 this plan, either
by the officers or other members present, and receiving the recommendations of the committee, the Grand Master did on November 15, 1933, order
the charter restored on the condition, in addition to that as to the election
and appointment of officers, that there be no recurrence of the condition
reported by Grand Master Mixter as the reason for the arrest by him of
the charter, under penalty of the further arrest of the charter "which is
hereby only conditionally and provisionally rest-0red."

]OHN ALPERS,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M.". W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, Inc. for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1934:
Receipts
October 1, 1933, balance on hand (cash and securities) ................$ 70,226.89
From rentals ·-----···----············'··-··------······-----·-··---·--·-··········$45,671.00
From interest, savings banks ..........................................
440.52
From interest on bonds.................................................... 2,463.18
From refund on taxes......................................................
198.93
From premium sale of bonds..........................................
379.70
From checks issued and cancelled ....- ............................
101.75
49,255.08

$119,481.97
Disbursements
Taxes ····-······--···--····-····-----------------·---···-········------·'------·-····$ 7,308.00
Expense ····················-·······-·-·--·············--·················-······----· 5,385.39
Repairs and improvements.............................................. 5,818.85
Repairs and improvements, tenants account................ 1,700.00
Salaries ··············-·--······--·-··········-···········--··········-·-·--·········· 11,049.17
Insurance ···'········-············-···-··-·--····-·--··--·---··--····-····-····---···
335.71
Dividends .......................................................................... 4,663.43
Notes payable ....................................................................
250.00

247

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

The Lodge then renewed its activities, and at the meeting in December,
new officers were elected who were satisfactory both to the committee
and the Grand Master, as were those appointed. In a most commendable
manner, the old officers stepped aside, surrendering their own ambitions
without hesitancy or evident dissent. Their successors took up the performances of their duties with enthusiasm, looking not backward but
forward only, striving earnestly to restore the peace and harmony which
should prevail in a Lodge of Masons, and it began to look as though their
efforts were not in vain.

It will be recalled that previous to the last annual communication of
Grand Lodge, the charter of Fairmount Lodge No. 435 had been arrested
by Grand Master Frank W. Mixter, because of the existence of intolerable

One of the lamentable conditions, however, referred to as a reason for
the arresting of the charter, was the seeming abuse of the ballot. When
the first two and only petitions since the charter was restored were pre-

36,510.55

Balance on hand September 30, 1934 (cash and securities) ..........$ 82;971.52
WILLIAM P. FILMER, President.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FAIRMOUNT LODGE

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sented to the Lodge, though, as far as can be determined by us, the applicants were worthy ones, yet the result in each case was rejection. In
view of the previous use of the black-ball in this Lodge, it would seem
that this latest black-balling was but a continuation of the old practice
and that the committee should therefore recommend arrest of the charter
and the preferment of charges against the Lodge. Realizing, however, the
difficulty of determining the motive for the use of the black-ball, we do
not believe that these two rejections would justify throwing the Lodge
back into the confusion which follows an arrest of charter, particularly
in view of the satisfactory progress which has been made along other
lines under the new regime.
The rejections a.re, however, disturbing, and combined with the belief
that sufficient time has not yet elapsed to conscientiously permit us to say
that peace and harmony have been restored to the Lodge, they justify us,
we believe, in recommending that the charter of Fairmount Lodge be continued as only conditionally and provisionally restored and upon the understanding that if there is a recurrence of the conditions which warranted
the arrest of the charter by Grand Master Mixter, the charter will be
·again arrested and charges for the forfeiture thereof will be presented
to Grand .Lodge.·
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
GEORGE L. ]ONES,

Committee.

Adopted.
At 5 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock
Thursday morning.

249

3ln ~ranb 1Lobge
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 11, 1934.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterdiJ.y's sessions ~vere read and approve.cl.
CHECKING UP VISITORS
Howard S. Mcintire, U nion Lodge No. 58, presented the
following resolution:
To the M.". w: . Grand Lodge of California:
To avoid the possibility of the continued admittance of a visitor to a
Lodge who is not in standing in his L odge, the following amendment to
the Constitution is proposed :
To section 125, at the conclusion thereof as it now reads, add the following:
"At least once each year, preferably during the month of Ma.rch,
each visitor shall be required to produce written evidence, under the
seal of his Lodge, that he is in good standing therein."

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and on adverse report of the committee, the resolution
failed of adoption.
THANkS TO SQUARE AND COMPASS PLAYERS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, "The Square and Compass Players"· (an organization composed of Master Masons and others with Masonic affiliations ) has since its
organization in 1913 presented before the Grand Lodge of California a
number of dramas of an historical and Masonic educationa l value; and
Whereas, on the evening of October 10, 1934, "The Square and Compass Players" produced for the members of the Grand Lodge and their
ladies another original Masonic drama, entitled "The Never-Sweats of
Rooptown," with an executive staff of characters composed of the following : Jesse M. Whited, Louis S. Goldstein, Harry G. Selig, W. Stanley
Davis, Bertram M. Hirsch, Thomas F. Guest, Norman Fleming, George L.
Halek, Byrum G. Byrd, 0. F .Hansen, Alfred Bernhard, Nathan B. Cooper,
Irving A. Berliner, Arthur M. Warren, Julius Gabriel, Edwin Menekin,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alfred C. Honey, Herbert G. Rollins, A. C. Gundred, Carl Zachrisson,
Milton Burgkart, Dr. A. H. White, W. T. Atkins, Walter Jones, W. J.
Terry, Don Mimum, G. B. Pechtel, A. H. Miller, G. H. Gorman, Eclw.
Crane, James Williams, Chas. A. Hagman;
Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Grand L~dge of California
hereby compliments, and extends its thanks to "The Square and Compass
Players" for the efficient and enjoyable production of the drama in
LEON 0. WHITSELL.
question.

As a part of its duties it has included the passing upon and recommendation to Grand Lodge Finance Committee of reimbursement to Lodges
and Boards of Relief for moneys expended for relief during the year.
It has devolved upon the Board of Control to render assistance to the
Lodges and Boards in securing these reimbursements from the Lodges in
other jurisdictions for whose members these bodies have rendered relief.
And thus, after the foremost work of standardizing and making uniform
their procedure had been accomplished, it has developed that one of the
principal duties of the Board of Control has been to secure these reimbursements and thus to conserve the funds of Grand Lodge.
Comparisons may not always be advisable and yet we .believe that the
successful work of the Board in this matter of reimbursement cannot be
too often repeated to Grand Lodge, as a means of justification of this
Board.
The reimbursements of each year made by Grand Lodge through the
recommendation of the Finance Committee are here given :

250

Unanimously adopted.
TO SHORTEN ROLL CALL
Roy H. Parkinson presented the following:
Whereas, it is desirable that Grand Lodge be provided with a method
of rapidly taking a recorded vote whenever there appears to be an indecisive division by viva voce of the will of Grand Lodge ; therefore, be it
Resolved, that the Grand Master be empowered and directed to cause
to be placed into effect such a system for subsequent communications of
Grand Lodge.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Pur-·
poses, which committee later reported, disapproving of the
resolution.
The report of the Committee was adopted.
REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Control now comes to Grand Lodge with a resume and
report of its activities during the Masonic year;" a resume and report which
we believe will be most satisfactory and'pleasing to Grand Lodge; a resume
and report which in our opinion reflects the co-operation and s~pport; the
uniformity and harmony and intelligent action of the respective Boards of
Relief, and which justifies the procedure of the Board of Control during
the seven years of its existence.
The men whose observations of the procedure and conduct of Boards
of Relief and the general procedure of Grand Lodge in matters of charity
and relief prompted them to propose the organization of the Board of
Control bui)ded better than they knew.
•
Their proposals that the work of the Boards of Relief and Employment Service should be supervised; that it should be standardized, and made
uniform; that there should be more efficiency in operation with less overhead expense; that there should be a better understanding and co-ordination
between the respective Boards of Relief, between the Boards and Grand
Lodge, have all been realized.

251

Reimbursements-Recommended by Grand Lodge

1924...........................•.................................................. $14,854.64
1925............................................................................... 16,568.12
1926:............................................................................. 10,494.26* B.B.C.
1927.............................................................................. 10,366.93
1

1928.................... - ............... ,........................................ 10,214.29
1929..................................................................... ,.......: 7,551.54
1930.............................................................................. 6,881.67t A.B.C.
1931 .............................................................................. 6,486.72
1932.............................................................................. 4,428.68
1933.............................................................................. 2,091.67
1934.............................................................................. 1,796.01
*B.B.C. means before Board of Control was organized.
t A.B.C. means after the organization of Board of Control.
There may be a question that this . reduction in reimbursement to
Lodges has been the result of a niggardly policy on the part of the Boards
of Relief to reduce their charity and relief expenditnres, but this is not
the case. If we may use comparisons, again we refer to the fact that in
the year just closed the sum of $83,175.00 was expended by Boards of
Relief for relief only, whereas in 1932-33 the total sum of $98,154.00 was
expended. The following table shows the expenditures for r~ef in the
years named.
1927 .....,.......................... :._ .........................................$ 94,671.47
1928 ............................................................................ 90,904.47
1929.......... ;........................................... (Record not available)
1930 ............................................................................ 102,713.09
1931 ............................................................... :............ 100,244.88

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

252

PROCEEDINGS · OF THE

1932 ············································································ 106,552.69 .
1933 ......................:..................................................... 98,154.95
1934 ······································································-~---- 83,175.42
During the year just closed the Board of Control has been enabled
to reduce the amount of reimbursements by our Grand Lodge to the lowest
figure in the history of Grand Lodge, namely, $1,796.01. This great reduction has been brought about just by the splendid co-operation and intelligent
acti on of the Secretaries of Boards of Relief; and secondly, by reason of
the fine contacts and understandings established between our own jurisdiction and other jurisdictions of this country, by the representative o~ the
Board of Control delegated by Grand Master Mixter in 1933 to attend
the convention of the Masonic Relief Association of the United States
and Canada.
As a result of those contacts and the friendships and better relationships, as well · as the better understandings of the conditions that exist in
California, the Board of Control has been enabled this year to clean up
and settle all claims against the jurisdictions of New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Nebraska, Michigan and others, and it has received prompt and
complete settlement of such claims as follows, viz. :
Washington Lodge, New York. .................................$200.00
Rural Amith, Pennsylvania.......................................... 117.50
Suncook, New Hampshire ............................................ 420.00
Seredatha, Kansas ........................................................ 25.00
Modestia, New York. .....................................:............. 21.00
Lake City, Michigan...................................................... 27.00
Connellsville, Pennsylvania ........................................ 425.00
and many others, totaling over $2,000.00.
Because of the splendid work of the respective boards during the year
the work of the Board of Control has been reduced in an amazing degree.
Whereas there were 131 cases of relief and reimbursement involving
volumes of correspondence and negotiations before the board last year,
there has been a total of but 14 cases before the board this year. Excepting a number of cases involving considerable sums left over from last year,
the cases and claims presented thi°s year have been very small, indeed. To
their credit it must be said that the Secretaries of Boards of Relief havr
secured authorization and therefore reimbursement this year.
Meetings
Your Board of Control has held four meetings during the year. These
meetings h<We been called by the chairman to dispose of accumulated business, and were necessary: There was one less meeting than last year, and
with the simplifying of our procedure and with the lessening of the amount
of work, there will probably be few er meetings during the coming year.
The year's ll)eetings have been held at Ventura in February, at Long
Beach in June, in San Francisco in August and in San Francisco during
this session of Grand Lodge.

253

Refusal to Sign Compacts
Section 37 of our Constitution provides that the Board of Control
shall with the consent and by the direction of the Grand Master, have
pow~r to compel any Lodge within this grand jurisdiction_ to becom~ a
member of the Board of Relief nearest its place of meetmg. N otwithstanding this provision and regardless of the fact that at least two Grand
Masters have ruled that Lodges must sign compacts and become membe rs
of Boards of Relief, the Board of Control continues each year to have
trouble with Lodges which fail to correctly interpret this or the orders
of the Grand Master.
Requests for Reimbursement
Your Board of Control has considered the requests for reimbursement
presented by the respective Lodges and Board_s of Relief and h~s rec~m­
mended to the Finance Committee the grantmg of the followmg re1m,
.
bnrsements :
5.50
Fresno ........................................•.............;..•................$
Los Angeles ................................................................ 659.10
East Bay ...................................................................... 442.50
60.85
Sa-cramento ..................................................................
San Francisco .............................................................. 465.00
63.72
Illinoistown Lodge ................................................... .
21.00
P alo Alto Lodge.- .......................................................
78.34
Rising Light Lodge-·······-·········································
T otal ··························-·········································-$1,796.01
Reimbursement Denied
In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution that any denial
of recommendations for reimbursement must be presented to the Finance
Committee with reasons there for, the Board of Control has submitted the
following communication to the Finance C9mmittee:

-·

T o the Ho11orable Fmance Committee,
Grand Lodge, F. & A . M., of California:
Tbe Board 'of Control, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of U!.lifornia, has
received requests for reimbursement from the following Boards of Relief
and has denied recommendation for reimbursement for the reasons stated:
Case No. 96-1932- 1933.
Case-Orville Webster.
Lodge-York N o. 423, Watts, California.
Amount-$35.00.
Br-other Webster seems to have been a member of York Lodge
No. 423, California jurisdiction. So far as the record shows, there is absolutely no evidence that he is a member of tha't Lodge, nor is there any
correspondence in the file with the officers of Yark Lodge in this relief
case. All the correspondence filed with the Board of Control is between

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Oakland board and Mr. Dan Webster, a brother of Orville Webster.
A letter to Dan Webster reveals the fact that sometime after relief was
granted, the Oakland board discovered the fact that Orville Webster had
been suspended. We believe that this is too Aagrant a violation of the
rules of the Board of Control, and we do not recommend reimbursement.
A telegram to York Lodge would have revealed the situation.

Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters, Senior and
Junior Wardens of four Lodges and meets quarterly. Per capita assessment
during year, 35 cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives $25.00 per
month. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each.
Ten funerals were conducted by Lodges, auspices board. Advances for
funerals during year, $198.70. Total refunded. Total cost of funeral, $97.30,
which includes plot grave in Masonic plot.
'
Balance on hand last report........................................................................$ 36.33
Receipts D1'ring the Year
Grand Lodge of California........................................................$100.00
California Lodges ····¥··········-...............................................________ 484.70
Other Lodges in the United States.......................................... 15.00 599.70

254

Sacramento Board of Relief: Three requests for reimbursement-

$5.00 each on account of Walter Albert Anderson, Parkway Lodge
No. 1008, Chicago; Elmo Kerr, Twin Falls Lodge No. 45, Idaho ; -Loran
Rodgers, Hendricks Lodge No. 404, Oklahoma.
In each of these cases the secretary of the Board of Relief did not
write to and/or make any effort to collect from the Brother's home Lodge.
We believe that the Board of Relief, even in emergency cases, should make
some effort to secure authorization and should communicate with the
Brother's Lodge after relief is granted. An attempt should be made to
secure reimbursement from the Lodge before reimbursement is asked by
our Grand Lodge.
Furthermore, we believe that the Board of Relief will secure reimbursement if the secretary will take the trouble to write to the respective
Lodges.
Reports of Boards
The following statistical review of the respective Boards of Relief is
based upon the reports submitted to the Board of Control:
Alameda: Board of Relief is composed of Masters of the three Lo!iges
and meets monthly. No salaries are paid. No per capita assessment during
the year. Seven funerals were conducted by L-odges under the auspices of
the Board. Funds advanced for funerals during year, $47.86. Refunded,
$45.36. .Uses personal automobile.
Balance on hand last report .....................;........:..................~ ....:.................$ 76.19
Receipts During the Year
Other Lodges in the United States..................$225.00
Funeral reimbursements ............................................ 45.36
Individual donations ··························-······················ 25.00
295.36
Total receipts and balance.........................= =·············-······$371.55
Disbursements
For relief:
Other Lodges in the United States................$225.00
Funerals ................................................................ 47.86
Individuals-Donations .................................... 28.50 $301.36
Miscellaneous
6.% 308.32
Total disbursements ...................................... ~·········-·········;........$308.32
Balance July 31, 1934.................................:.............................._.............:....$ 63.23

255

Total receipts and balance..........................................................$636.03
Disbursemen ts
For relief:
California Lodges ··································-·········-$134.70
Other Lodges in the United States.................. 119.00 $2S3.70
Salaries ········································-············-·················-$325.00
Miscellaneous .............................................................. 17.72
Total disbursements ..........................- ........................ 342.72 5%.42
Balance July 31, 1934....................................:.......- ..................,...................$ 39.61
Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
Lodges and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during year, 50 cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives $150.00 per month.* The secretary is bonded in sum of $1,000.00. Compensation insurance is also carried.
Twelve funerals were conducted by the Lodges, Advances f~r funerals
during year, $50.00. Total refunded. Total cost of funeral to board, $125.00.
Balance on hand last report .......·-······················-····-······························$ 426.56
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California.....: ..............................$ 10.00
California Lodges ··········-········································ 21.66
Other Lodges in the United States...................... 451.39
Funeral reimbursements ........................................ 50.00
Individual reimbursements .................................... 43.94 $576.99
Blue Lodges ················-············································ 938.00
Contributing Bodies ··········-···································· 10.00

948.00

Total receipts and balance.........................•..........:................... 1,524.99
•Addendum : One-half Secretary's time is engaged by affiliated
bodies of Fresno to look after their needs and give aid to their
distressed, for which he also receives $900.00.

$1,951.55

256

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements
For relief :
California JAdges ............................................$ 33.70
Other Lodges in the United States.............. 460.29
Repayment to Grand Lodge of California.. 3.00
Funerals ._...............................................~......... 50.00 $546.99
Salaries ...:.................................................................. 900.00
Miscellaneous ·················-~·-······································· 32.02

932.02

Total disbursements .................................................................. 1,479.01
Balance July 31, 1934..................................................................................$- 472.54
Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of members of four Lodges
and meets monthly. No per capita assessment during year.
There are no paid employees. The treasurer's bond is in the sum of
$500.00.
Two funerals were conducted by the Lodges. No funds advanced for
funerals, although under auspices of board.
Balance on hand last report (in bank) ..................................................$1,610.87
2 Pacific Gas & Electric bonds 1960-4Ws (as valued by Lodge) .... 1,949.80 ·
Receipts Di1ring the Year
California Lodges ........................,...........................$469.90
Other Lodges in the United States...................... 35.00
Interest on notes, bonds........................................... 90.00
594.90
Total receipts and ba.lance..........._.................- ........................$4,l55.57
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ....., ......................................$417.24
Other Lodges in the United States.............. 24.00 $441.24
Miscellaneous ............................................................ 31.80

There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives $150.00 per
month. The secretary and treasurer aTe bonded in the sum of $500.00
each. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is
used.
T wo funerals were conducted by the board, fi fty-one by the Funeral
Committee. Average cost to board per funeral, $1.00. Actual cost of funeral,
$150.00.
Balance on hand last report......................................................................$1,214.00
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ............................................$ 103.20
Other Lodges in the United States.................. 1,752.50
Interest ................................................................
10.00
$4,819.68
Funeral reimburse~ents ····'······························ 417.90
Supporting Lodges ............................................ 2,536.08
Total receipts and "ba1ance ....:...................................................$6,03~.68
Disb11rsements
For relief:
California Lodges ......................................$ 174.20
Other Lodges in the United States ........ 1,734.50
Funerals .............................................................. 405.00 $2,313.7 0
Salaries ................................................................ 1,900.00
Rent ..................................................................... . 180.00
77.83
Telephone and telegraph.................................:..
Printing and stationery......................................
45.02
60.00
Auto expense ......................................................
94.65
Miscellaneous and audit....................................

2,357.50

Total disbursements .................................................................. 4,671.20
Balance July 31, 1934................................................................................$1,362.48

31.80

Total disbursements ..................................................................

257

473.04

Balance July 31, 1934............................................................._..,....._ ...... $3~4.53
Bank account ............................$1,732.73
2 PG&E 4y.('s valued at.......... 1,949.80
Long Beach: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens
of each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment du£ing year,
6 cents.

Los Angeles: Board of Relief is composed of thr ee members fropi
each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the yea:r,
46 cents.
There are four paid employees : a secretary at a salary of $250.00 per
month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100.00 per month, and a field man
at a salary of $175.00 per month. The secretary and the treasurer are
bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity, compensation and auto insurance are carried. ·One automobile is used.
Nineteen funerals were conducted by Lodges, auspices board, 181 by
Funeral Committee. Funds advanced for funerals, $2,303.99. No refunds.
Average cost per funeral to bo~rd, $11.52. Total cost, $111.52.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Balance on hand last report....... ~.·-···-···········-······················-·····-·····$ 6,499.72
Other receipts, per capita assessments, etc....·-········:····-·-·'········-·"'··· 13,247.84
Receipts D11ring the Year
Grand Lodge oi California........................$ 414.34
California Lodges ···-·······-···························· 8,910.22
Other Lodges in the United States............ 23,404.90
Foreign Lodges ............................................ 2,692.20
35,421.66

Balance on hand last report--------------------··--··----------··-·····~---···············-$ 9,751.06
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California........................$ 410.00
California Lodges ·--····---··-··-························ 8,528.49
Other Lodges in United States.................. 7,605.26
Foreign Lodges ·····-······-·-····-···-····················
660.25
Funeral reimbursements ............................
976.50
Individual reimbursements ........................ 1,006.96
Grand Lodge advances refunded..............
19.00
Local Lodges' per capita............................ 5,289.17
222.07
Interest ··············-·······························-···········
Miscellaneous ··-······-············-··············-··········
126.18
Trans. employment service....... ·-···-····~·-···
900.00
25,743.88

258

Total receipts and balance..............................~.......................$55,169.22
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ................................$ 8,772.89
Other Lodges in United States..:....... 21,995.09
Foreign Lodges .................................... 2,869.59
Funerals Committee services...:.......... 2,303.99
Individual (board work)....................
81.38 $36,022.94
Salaries ····-··················:·-····--························ 7,452.62
872.50
Rent -····································-··························
Telephone, telegraph ..................................
552.55
Postage ..........................................................
314.84
Printing and stationery.............:........:.~ .....
274.76
Auto expense ................................................
534.85
100.00
Audit ·--····-·-··················-·-···-··--·-·····················
584.46
Miscellaneous ······-·····--··-···-·--·······-················
251.67
Clearing House reports .......:..·-·-···········-····-·

10,938.25

Total disbursements ··-···················-········································· 46,961.19
Balance July 31, 1934...................·-··········-···························-·-····-·······.$ 8,208.03
Oakland and Berkeley: Board of Relief is composed of members
from each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the
year, 48 cents.
There are three paid employees: a secretary at $2,052.89, assistant
secretary, $960.00; a typist or clerk, $()()0.00; and a field man (occasional),
$33.38 per annum. The treasurer is bonded in the sum Qf $2,000.00. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Five funerals were conducted by local Lodges, auspices board, and
fifty-six by Funeral Committee. Total number, 61. Funds advanced for
funerals, $1,076.50. Amount refunded, $976.50. Cost of funerals to board
for services, $503.00. Average cost to board per funeral, $8.25. Total cost
of funeral, $100.00.

259

T otal receipts and balance.....................:·······························-$35,494.94
Disbursemen ts
For relief:
California Lodges ................................$ 7,954.99
Other Lodges in United States.......... 7,299.84
702.05
Foreign Lodges ....................................
Funerals .........:...................................... 1,076.50
Contributed to employment service..
503.00 $17,536.38
Salaries ·-········-····:·····-···-····--························- 3,646.27
Rent .................................................................
300.00
Telephone, telegraph, postage....................
363.60
50.22
Printing and stationery................................
275.54
Auto expense ·······································-·····-Transfer to employment.............................. 1,000.00
259.70
Miscellaneous ········-······································-

5,895.33

Total disbursements ................................................................ 23,431.71
Balance J uly 31, 1934.................................,...............................................$12,063.2'
Pasadena: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and meetings are held as cafled. Per capita assessment during the year,
30 cents.
·
There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives a salary of
$75.00. The secretary is bonded in the sum of $500.00. Auto insurance is
carried. One automobile is used.
Three funerals were conducted by local Lodges, auspices board, and
seventeen by Funeral Committee. Total number of funerals, 20. Funds
advanced for funerals, $100.00. T otal refunded. Average cost to board
for services, $5.00. Total cost of funeraL $125.00.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORN I A

Balance on hand last reJ.)O.d .,_ ..,._ ....,.....................................---·-··-····$ 678.15
Receipt·s During the Year
Grand Lodge of California..................................$240,00
Other California Lod~---································ 115.51
Other United States L0dJles................................ 885.00 $1,240.51
Per capita contributioa........................................ . 925.75
Miscellaneous ........................................................ 10.00
935.70 2,176.21
Total receipts and balance........................................................$2,&54.36
Disbursemen ts
For relief:
Grand Lodge of California..........................$ 60.00
Other California Lodges............ .,................ 295.51
Other United States Lodges. ..................... ~ 855.00
Funerals .......................................................... 95.00 $1,305.51
Salaries .................................................................... 900.00
Miscellaneous ........................................................ 49.04

949.04

Total disbursements .................................................................. 2,254.55
Balance July 31, 1-934...·--····-········--·-·- ·-..··-····-- ···..--·~-----~-.$- 599.81
Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge
and meets at call of president. Per capita assessment during the year,
5 cents.
There are no paid employees.
Ten funerals were conducted by local Lodges, auspices board. No
funds advanced for funerals.
Balance on hand last rev(l)f't.:.................................................._•..•....._...........$SQ.31
Receipts During th_e Year
Individual reimbursements ............................................................$15.50 15.50

261

Nineteen funerals were conducted by the Funeral Committee. Funds
advanced for funerals, $547.91. Amount refunded, $395.91. Cost of funerals
to board for services, $152.00. Average cost to boa rd per funeral, $8.00.
Total cost of funeral, $100.00.
Balance on hand last report... ...................................................................$2,996.58
R eceipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California..................................$275.00
California Lodges, including per capita............ 335.93
Other Lodges in United States............................ 317.27
Foreign Lodges ...................................................... 70.40
Funeral reimbursements ...................................... 395.92
Individual reimbursements ........,......................... 300.38
Miscellaneous ····································-·················· 2.01
1,751.70
Interest ····················-··················--···············-········· 54.79
Total receipts and balance....................................·-- ·-·······-$4,748.28
Disbursem ents
For relief:
California Lodges ........................................$442.38
Other Lodges in United States~ ................. 544.09
Foreign Lodges ·········- ··································· 93.70
F unerals .......................................................... 395.91
Funerals Committee services...................... 152.00 $1 ,628.08
Salaries ....................................................................$590.00
Telephone-telegraph ............................................ 53.20
Miscellaneous ........................................................ 178.73

821.93

Total disbursements .................................................................. 2,450.01
Balance July 31, 1934.................. :...............................................................$2,298.27

Total receipts and balance....- ........................................................$65.81
Disburscme11.ts
Individuals-Donations .................................................................. 18.50
Miscellaneous ·················································'··- ······························ 1.12
Total disbursements ...................................................................... 19.62
Balance July 31, 1934......................................................................................$46.19
Sacramento: Board of Relief is composed of three members from
each Lodge. Per capita assessment during the year, for three months,
3 cents per month. Withheld last nine months.
There is one paid employ~e, a secretary, who receives a salary of
$590.00 per annum. The secretary is bonded in the sum of $500.00.

San Bernardino: Board of Relief is composed of members of each
Lodge and meets monthly. No per capita assessment dur ing the year ..
There are no pa.id employees.
N o funer!lls were conducted during the year. All were conducted by
individual Lodges.
Balance on hand last report... .......................................................................$ 6.77
R eceipts During the Yrar
. Receipts from S. B. Co. Savings Bank.................................................... 32.54
Total receipts and balance....................................................: ..... :...$39.31

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disb11rsemen ts

San Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative of each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during year,
25 cents.
There are two paid employees, a secretary who receives a salary of
$250 a month and a typist or clerk who receives $40.00. The secretary and
treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000.00 each. Fidelity and compensation insurance are carried. One automobile.
Eighty-three funerals were conducted by local Lodges, auspices board.
Average cost to board per funeral, $100.00. Total cost of funeral, $100.00.
Balance on hand last report. ...................................................................$ 6,308.25
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California.......................... $ 942.00
California Lodges .......................................... 8,175.55
Other Lodges in United States .................... 6,266.99
Foreign Lodges .............................................. 187.00
Assessments from Lodges, interest.. .......... 6,110.87
21,682.41

For relief:
California Lodges ......... ,..............................................$6.00
Other Lodges in United States .................,............... 4.00 $10.00
.77

Miscellaneous ......................................................... __ __________

Total disbursements ........................................................................ 10.77
Balance July 31, 1934......................................................................................$28.54
San Diego: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and meets monthly. Per Capita assessment during the year, 62 cents.
There are two paid employees, a secretary who receives a salary of
$131.25 per month, and assistant who receives $125.00 .per month. The
secretary and the treasurer are each bonded in the sum of $1,000.00. One
automobile is used.
Forty-five funerals were conducted by Lodges, auspices board, twentythree by Funeral Committee. Total funerals, 68. Funds advanced for funerals, $826.37. Amount refunded, $961.50.
Balance on hand last report... ...................................................................$ 819.44
R eceipts During the Y ear
California Lodge and supporting Lodges.:....$2,203.55
Other Lodges in United States........................ 3,399.11
Funeral reimbursements .................................. 961.50
6,693.04
Individual reimbursements .............................. 128.88
Total receipts and balance ........................................................$7,512.48
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges .................................:....$ 207.67
Other Lodges in United States ................ 3,360.35
Funerals ...................................................... 826.67
Individuals-<lonations ..............................
97.34 $4,492.03
Salaries ................................................................$1,700.00
Auto expense ...................................................... 120.00
Rent, travel, audit and miscellaneous............ 236.78

2,056.78

263

Total receipts and balance................................................ :.....$27,990.66 .
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ...................... ,...........$8,585.04
Other Lodges in United States ............ 5,340.24
Foreign Lodges ...................................... 180.61
Contributed to Employment Ser ......... 1,000.00 $15,105.89
Salaries ......................................................... ,..$3,480.00
Rent .................................................................. 360.00
Telephone-telegraph ...................................... 227.04
Postage ............................................................
47.00
Auto expense .................................................. 600.00
Audit and miscellaneous................................ 160.18

4,874.22

Total disbursements .................,..............................................$19,980.11
Balance July 31, 1934...................................................._. .........................$ 8,010.55
San Jose: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of
five Lodges and meets quarterly. Per capita assessment during year,
27 cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary-, who receives a salary of
$50.00 per month. The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the amount of
$500.00 each. Auto insurance is carried. One automobile is used.
Twelve funerals were conducted by local Lodges, auspices board.
Funds advanced for funerals, $200.00. Total refunded. Total cost of funeral, $100.00.
0

Total disbursements .....................................................

0 .... .... ..

6,548.81

Balanc; July 31, 1934............................ :.....................................................$ 963.67

264

PROCEEBI NGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Balance on hand last l'eJl$ltt: ..... _., ......................................................,..... .$ 858.45
Receipts During the Y ear
Grand Lodge of California ..................................$ 40.00
California Lodges ................................................ 347.74
Other Lodges in United States ............................ 781.00
Funeral rermbursements ...................................... 200.00
2,029.97
Per capita and other assessment-s ...................... 661.23
Total receipts and balance........................................................$2,888.42
For relief:
Disbursements
California Lcxlges ··-····································$437.74
Other Lodges in United States.................. 746.00
Foreign Lodges ............................................ 5.00
Funerals ... ."...................................................... 200.00 $1 ,388.74
Salaries ....................................................................$600.00
Miscellaneous ........................................................ 76.98
Total disbursements .....................................

676.98

-::=:=......................... 2,065.72

Balance July 31, 1934..................................................................................$ 822.70
Stockton: Board of Relief is composed of three members of each
Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year, 1311.i
cents.
There is one paid employee, a secretary who receives a salary, including expenses, of $110.00 per annum. One automobile is used.
Twelve funerals were conducted by local Lodges under the auspices
of the board. No funds advanced for funerals. Cost of funerals to board
for services, $14.75.
Balance on hand last reP,od.: ..................................................................$
5.75
Receipts During the Y ear
California Lodges ..................................................$600.00
Other Lodges in United Sta~ .......................... 509.50
1,109.50
Total receipts and balance ......................................................$1,115.25
Disb1irsements
For relief:
California Lcxlges ........................................$360.00
Other Lodges in United States .................... 618.50
Funerals .......................................................... 14.75
$993.25
Secretary's salary, telephone, telegraph, rent,
auto supplies, incidentals, and miscellaneous ............................................ :...................$110.00
110.00
Total disbursements .................................................................. 1,103.25
Balance July 31, 1934................................................................................$

12.00

265

Santa Barbara : Board of Relief is composed of members from each
Lodge and meets monthly. No per capita assessment during the year.
There are no paid employees.
Eight funerals were i:onducted by the local Lodges under the auspices
of the board. Funds advanced for funerals, $125.00. Total refunded.
Balance on hand last repert... ................................ ,....................................$113.22
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ···-··--······c···································$ 45.00
Other Lodges in United States: ................................. 139.84
Funeral reimbursements .: .......................................... 125.00
309.84
Total receipts and balance ............................................................$423.06
Disb1irsemm ts
For relief:
California Lodges ................................................$ 40.00
Other Lodges in United States ........................ 173.00
Funerals ................................................................ 125.00
Individuals-donations ...................................... 6.50 $344.50
Miscellaneous

.36

Total .disbursements .................................................................... 344.86
Balance July 31, 1934.................. ~ .........................................,........................$ 78.20
Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of three members from
each Lodge and holds one meeting per month. Per capita assessment during
the year, 25 cents.
There are two paid employees, a secretary who receives $15.00 per
month and a field man who receives $10.00 per month. The secretary and
treasurer are bonded in the amount of $500.00 each.
Fifty-four funerals were conducted by the Funeral Committee. Funds
advanced for funerals during year-refunded-$40.12. Amount refunded,
$1,207.48.
Balance on hand last report-... :..............................................................$ 187.07
R eceipts D14ring the Y ear
Grand Lodge of California .................................. $300.00
California Lodges .................................................. 376.10
Other Lodges in United States,......................... 791.48 ·
Foreign Lcxlges .................................................... 399.00
Funeral reimbursements ................... .".................. 88.63 ·
Individual reimbursements .................................. 10.00
Charity Ball .......................................................... 646.50
2,611.71
Total receipts and balance........................................................ $2,798.78

i--

tv ~

~

p)

I'..,)

P>

n

PJ

...,

"'f Q

...,

..

~

88c;c;8:;
• • • Ii;
8 8 8 8 8 ~

0000~~'".J:>.::!

w.-Nc

~ ~

§

rh

2.~ ~

("')!»'"""

..... ,., "'
g~ Q
::;::re:

o::r"o.

O.n

~ ~

1--6~(.,,.)~t\ol ""-. (,,.JP>
"'
"'
""
~ CJ1

o(h

'° 0'"'a
P>
::s 0.. ::s
~ 8 ~ °'g ~ "' .. o. " o. g
000
o~
,....<,....
· · · · · ~
::r <> r'
8 8 8 8 8
"t;dlodaq
o g_
::u 0 . "

. . . . F:~o

e:

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ l3 '-::: 5l 'O1»3'! ...
Q ~
oooogoog~
o o
o o
- --. .., n :;· ;::J
~ Q §" E. aq ..,

....

3

(D

~ 3

P>

•

']'

::r
~

~
3
;::;.·
;:;O.

"'

Q
,....

""

(b

..,-

n
P>

C-.

::::-.

PJ

&
"
~

e.

.....

;
;::"'"'o::t.ri§..
;
o"''O,...o'O'<
·
'O o"'O o ::S o
~ ~ :?. ~ ~ ..., r;l ::l.

~-::G""PJ

0

O\WOoOOOo0,~-5· 03

i
;
1·

i:

;

!
:

;

e: en ~

[~!:le
""[
-(b<::l)-~
-<"' ;:;· ;::;; 'ti ..... Q
§.
"~ ...,
0 'ti 0 ..,
::s ""
rJJ
...,
1-+"1 ~
aq ~ 0
3 .g .... e
$)..)
!!.. "" 'E.. :l. ~ ;

n

g:..ggs_

2_<1>-<o"
"' o. 3 .......
"'o

-<"'

n

(b

:

•

l:

....

o.,

::s

:

:

;

:

•~

g~

'< i::i..?6

~riri

~

'.S'.

c.~:7

b§...,

_o .., ;;;·

::r
ri :'J~'O
Orn::s
Nn>

rng"°'o(h~\O

.

°'Oo....

tn
<.>

L
-

s· P > n :!
P>cn
~ ;; " g, -~ "
i
~
~~ n s·
!!
?;"~n~_wo ....

o· o ::s ::ti ~
Ul
~ ..... OqooPJ('D
o
::r e -· < ..,
::; ::r " ri
i:i :'.!.

(,,.) 0.. r+

n
1"'+<:;.y)(b

- ........ - ·

"

~gno~~~~f

s. i

"1

n>

fl)

a:- a

8
" ~ " 8 -· 3
::s'"'30;;?.,,:l'O
::::n
< ,.. ..+
~ ~ 3 ~ ~ ri .Q

o

,.o.o~"''"'o.-:
~
<:::-..... ,g;
..., :
3 ~ ... "n
$)..)
o ~
~ Ea
i
::S ri - ·
0q Pl n
n
!
0.'0 3 &<> ~(Yj g i

a
a
~::s::r"C:tv~r+"CS:

a ::

'"CllcrO~~~&
~
~
rJ E; e. 0.:
._..
o.i:i~~2.~"'
'°
•.,
·P>n
3 'g (I) ~ o-l ~ e:
;~
Q
'< '8 "" ::r - ~
;
n s· .., Cll (D c6
-· aq ;;:- r:r .... e 3 l':J ;
a PJ en ~ r+ g i

(I)

~ ~ 0 ::s ""'" a-: -· ~

:l

(I)

"e
.......

"" ~ 0 ~

:l

o.. ""1 "1 - · --. ~ ..... o ::S
3"'!"Q,..'<::ro.,,"'
n
:l ::r :!!. "' "' "'
~
P>O
,...,..('DCll
<tD

3 ~. 3 >
3 §.. ~ :l
P>

n aq o
0

o-l

PJ

s· n
.., s· aq : ;;;·

-· ..., o

'J

~
\o

N

0

"'"
3
a"'
"'

0
::l

;

;_~·

.....
00
'°
&

~8~~8~

......... :

.-('V'J'J8
\0000-"'"

i1

"' :

~

0,

" "~ .::!"

""

(I)

= :~:r t!.

::s

'N

-

""

-· ::s
"'
"'
~~Er

3 "

0.

~ ::s

0. ..,

..,e

o"

0.

;;;·

§:

~_g0qn>:"'

>"Il'"l:i'"l:i~Ul

o.. ~
~ ::s ii>
::t.' 0.. ..... $)..) ..... "1

e

b:1

""
iii"

~~~
.
> ~ £ 3. o-l

s· ~ ~
"1

·~

II

""

Ul ;
..... :
(;" ::

0. ·:

;:;::
ro :

e:l ~

°&'.'.'..8.
:l aq

~ 8. i;;·
o.~ r<

""'1

....
<.> 00
'°-"'-000-"'"

('I>

<....

i::f

~

~

0

i-

N

0

oo O

00 ;_ 0 \o 0

tn0\0-"'"t..N
~

gen

~
-·

I
g::s

~

-·

ga ~ ~ ::s ~ ~ ·:

::;' "I1 "I1 "I1 0 ("') ri
o.oeo ...... su_

s

~

;...

~

t::l

'd

tzj

>-l

::i:

""

0

CJ)

C'l

z

....

ti

(")
tzj
tzj

0

::c

N

°'°'

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

tincludes $900.00 transferred to Board or Relier and $575.00 ror DeSoto .~utomoblle.
Ulncludes $1,200.00 for San Pedro Omce.
II San Pedro omce expense.

•Includes $500.00 transferred to Board or Relier.

............

sl8'4.07

tincludes $554. 70 ror Bulletins and Publicity.
§Includes $487.97 for Bulletins and Publicity.
• $298.24 of this Is In a closed Bank. Actual Cash on Hand, $1158. 79.

s

Receipts
San Francisco
East Bay
Los Angeles
San Diego
Lona Beach
Santa Monica
Sacramento
From
1933
1934
1934
1933
1933
1933
1934
1933
1934
1934
1933
1934
1933
1934
Grand Lodge ........•.•... $2000.00 $2,000.00 $1600.00 $1600.00 $ 2,800.00
$2,800.00 $1000.00 $ 800.00 $2000.00 $1800.00 $ 300.00 $ 300. 00 $ 600.00 $ 600.00
Local Lodges... . . • • • • • . • • •
2735.48 2,644.70
1548.31
984.91
210.00
130.00
Other Masonic Bodies .••••.• 1035.00
975.00
350.00
120.00
425.00
155.00
600.00
50.00
635.55
222.50
466.00
Board or Reller. •.•••••.•.. 1200.00
1000.00
1000.00
79.36
Endowments •.•.••.•.•••.•
8,900.00
8,900.00
Interest ..•.••.•.•.••••••
25.07
21.34
43.75
10.14
12.00
6.00
Miscellaneous
13.03
30.76
100.00
Total Reeelpts .•••.•.... $4235.00 $3975.00 $4960.55 $5629.07 $11,863. 75 $11 , 780. 76 $1857.55 $1361.00 $2165.14 $1800.CIO $ 379.36 $ 300.00 ~·~14.31 $1907.41
Disbursements
Salaries .••••••••••.•...• $3545.00 $3180.00 $3600.00 $2788. 70 U$8,223.19 U$7,865.10 $1950.00 $1325.00 $1859.50 $1,365.00 $ 275.00 $ 146.00 $1545.00 $1260.00
180.00
Rent .. ... ............... 180.00
180.00
180.00
300.00
300.00
960.00
960.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..••
200.00
250.00
1,037.97
32.88
228.35
198.83
1,339.18
23.00
34.00
60.80
40.31
68.30
42.05
300.00
Automobile Service ..••••••. 300.00
165.45
145.71
11210.50
100.00
11160.55
15.00
Printing and Postage .•..•..
111.53
26.48
199.24
302.63
57.25
12.60
t863.44
442.61
5.00
51.55
2.70
13.60
42.22
omce Supplies .••.••••••••
24.84
12.30
8.50
8.80
5.00
22.75
27.87
32.20
50.00
25.00
12.50
28.50
Audit ...................
50.00
25.00
15.00
Travel .. • •.•.••..••.•..•
16.50
85.00
35.00
35.00
50.00
104.15
37.50
Miscellaneous . . • . • • • • • • • • .
. 82
39.52 •662.82 t1625.97
300.21
§753.67
.. 42
39.95
9.40
28.32
1.13
.96
Total Disbursements ...•.••. $4350.95 $4018.22 $5220. 71 $5466.20 $11, 705.31 $11 ,682.46 $2020.72 $1457.45 $2147.83 $1689.12 $ 379.36 $ 148.20 $1760.53 $1378.26
$ 812.02 $ 649.77
256.48
273.rn - - - - - - $ 74.10 $ 927.88
Cash Bal. Beginning or Period $ 633.95 $ 518.00 $ 422.39 $ 162.23 $
25.63
Cash Balance End or Period . • 518.00
474. 78
162.23
325.10
184.07
553.32
273. 79
384.67
$ 152.80
282.37
649. 75
927.88 • 1457.03
1293
Applications Received.. .... . 2348
2130
2497
13,045
5,881
348
224
874
341
278
326
59
1463
Positions Secured .. . • •• .•.•
Permanent • . • ..• ••• • •• • 1106
1061
413
757
450
1,268
173
374
1
16
59
99
1,701
Temporary ••.•••••...•.
578
1526
216
934
3,025
. 2,339
60
610
514
24
70
163
167
4,293
Total ••..•.•.••.•••. 1684 2587 973 1384
4:040 233 ----is6 1o23 ---gag- --25- .--86- 222 266
Cost per Unit .•.....•.•.•.
2.58
1.55
4.85
2.87
2.10
1.90
16.17
1.72
7.92
2.90
8.67
10.70
2. 72
5.18
Percentage or Expense
34.0 .
Borne by Grand Lodge .•.•.
45.9
49.7
40.9
54.9
79.1
100
24.8
23.9
49.5
93.l
100
43.5
33.9
Average Cost per Unit or All Positions Secured-1932, $3.48; 1933, $3.20; 1934, $2.67.

For Fiscal Years Ending July 31st, 1933 and 1934

..,61
:r ~ ~ aq·
~ ~ ~ n·
0 .......

FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT OF EMPLOYMENT SERVICE BUREAU

§
8

iS

8

iS
\o
8

.

o

!
::

""

:.

0

ao~~~'<~
~- ::r
~
~-

(ba::V.l(b(JCIPJP>

""""
t:i> 'I1
3
..... -· ::s b:1 ..,

..,

~ ,.....
~ l1Q
g ~ £
~
,.....

e:

Ul Ul r' Ul r' tY1 Ul

3 O' ~
'E...,g

§.

Er

ri ~ s·

ggtrJ

N

°'
'J

z
....
>

0

...
""
::c

>
t'"

(")

""

0

tzj

C'l

t'"
0
ti

ti

C'l

::c
>
z

~
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

268

\

269

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\_
such cost 0\ transportation as the sum due to the officers or representatives
.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has had before it resolutions of the
various Lodges providing · for changes in their By-Laws. These changes
are substantially as follows:
Nmnber of Resolutions
Decreasing initiation fees to $30.00.................. 1
to $50.00.................. 28
37
above $50.00.................. 8
Excepting holidays from stated meetings.................... 15
Changing time of stated meetings.................................... 14
Changing place of meetings..........................:................... 7
Decreasing dues .................................................................. 7
Eliminating affiliation fees.................................................. 6
Reducing affiliation fees ........................................ :............. 5
Increasing dues .................................................................... 2
Increasing affiliation fees.................................................... 1
Total resolutions ------------------------····---------·-·······-------------94
All of the resolutions have been found in order and heretofore approved by the Grand Master, and we therefore recommend their approval
by Grand Lodge.
Since 1932 each successive Grand Master has viewed with alarm the
reduction of fees for the degrees upon the ground that the reduction of
fees tends to cheapen our fraternity. Notwithstanding the admonitions of
Grand Masters, the Lodges acting under the discretion vested in them,
have seen fit to decrease their dues and initiation fees. We are pleased to
note, however, that during the past year less than one-third of the number
of Lodges have reduced fees in comparison with the reductions of previous years. We repeat the hope expressed by us last year that no ill
effects will be felt by reason of the decreases, and that we will maintain
the high standard of membership which has been ours through the years.
ARTHUR JOEL,

JULIUS GABRIEL,

w ARREN E. LIBBY,
IRA D. WHEELER,

Committee

Adopted.
PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.'. W.'. GraiuJ Lodge of California:
Your committee cha rged with the duty of ascertaining cost of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the jurisdiction to the place of meeting of Grand Lodge and return, and of reporting

in attendance from each Lodge, as well as grand officers, Past Grand
Mast~r~, chairfii__en and mei:ibers of standing committees, and Inspectors,
for their necessary expenditures to and from Grand Lodge, report that
they have carefult~ discharged this duty. It may be noted that the allowance for transporta\ion is somewha.t less than in previous years. This is
due to the lowered railroad and pullman rates which went into effect subsequent to the last Annual Communication. Transportation allowance is
fixed by the Constitution at twice the single first-class one-way fare, plus
sleeper charges where necessary.
Notwithstanding that it is a legal holiday, it has been arranged to
have the necessary cash and tellers available to cash transportation checks
on Friday immediately following the election of the Junior Grand Warden.
This committee desires to express its appreciation for this exceptional
courtesy on the part of the Anglo-California Bank, extended through
Brother Louis Sutter, Past Master of Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, in making
this arrangement possible.
We herewith submit the following statement:
1933
1934
$ 293.16
Grand Lodge Officers....................$ 553.00
356.64
Past Grand Masters......................
300.72
564.32
Committees ......................................
607.54
2,350.44
Inspectors ........................................ 1,806.30
15,950.14
Lodges .............................................. 13,357.22
Totals ........................................$16,624.78
$19,514.70
W.W. McKEE,
FRED SNIDECOR,

Jos. BLOCK,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
JOHN McGEHEE,

Committee.

Adopted.
REPORT OF ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities respectfully report
that we .Provided the following entertainments for members of Grand
Lodge and their ladies this week :
Monday, October 8, with the co-operation of the East Bay Masters
and Wardens Association, a trip to the Masonic Home at Decoto.
October 9, in the Palm court of the Palace hotel, the annual gettogether dinner, attended by nearly one thousand representatives of Lodges.
October 10, automobile tour of the city, attended by 193 ladies. Tea
was served at the Palace hotel.

/

/

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
/

/

/

I

I

I

On the evening of the 10th the Square and Compass playcfs presented
a Masonic drama, "The N eversweats of Rooptown." The episod~s depicted were. actual historic events in . the early histoi;/ of California
Masonry. Fifteen hundred members of Grand Lodge ~re in attendance.
The net cost of all the activities of the comnfotee amounted to
$1,716.25.

Referred to the Committee on Financ'e.

ILLNESS OF PAST GRAND MASTER MURPHEY
Word having reached Grand Lodge that Past Grand
Master John D. Murphey was seriously ill in a hospital at
Oakland, the Grand Secretary was directed to telegraph to
him the ·regrets of his Brethren and their sincere hopes for
his speedy recovery. He replied as follows:
"Thank you, John, and the Grand Lodge for yo~r thoughtful consideration. I know how you all feel, but it is nice to have you say it. This
is my first absence in thirty years. It is my hope to serve you further."

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
In the matter of the petition for restoration of J. H . S., expelled
March 19, 1923, by Fremont Lodge No. 497, we recommend that the petition be granted and that he be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.

Adopted.
In the matter of trial record No. 821, from Los Banos Lodge No. 312,
wherein the accused .was found guilty and sentenced to expulsion, we
recommend that the judgment of the trial Lodge be reversed and the case
remanded for a new trial.

The report was adopted; subsequently Grand Lodge reconsidered its action, disapproving the report of the committee, and ordering that the judgment of the Lodge in
expelling the accused be affirmed.
Your committee, to which had been referred the petition of S. N. 0.,
who at the time of his expulsion on October 6, 1925, was an Entered
Apprentice of Loyalty Lodge No. 529, recommend that the pl!tition for
restoration to the rights of an Entered Apprentice Mason be granted.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 809, reports as follows: Charges were preferred against accu.sed,
who was then the Master of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657, by five
Master Masons. The Grand Master appointed three disinterested Past

~\·
GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

Ma
a commission to hear the controversy. The commission found
t.he
~uilty on the second specification and was sentenced to deprivation of offust;. From this judgment the accused appealed. Your committee is convi1~d that accused was not worthy of holding the honorable
position of Mast¥ of his Lodge, and therefore recommends that the
appeal of the accus~ be denied and that the action of the trial commission
be affirmed.
\

Adopted.

\

·

In the matter of the petition for restoration of G. J. B., formerly a
member of Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535, who was expelled July 1,
1929, your Committee on Grievances recommends that the petition be
granted and that he be, and is, restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances has carefully considered trial record
No. 837, a member of Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, who was suspended
August 2, 1934, and is of the opinion that the judgment of the trial commission in finding the accused guilty of unmasonic conduct be approved,
but that the penalty be raised from suspension to expulsion.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances has carefully considered the petition
for restoration of H . A. S. (trial record No. 257), a former member of
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, tried and expelled by Mission Lodge No. 169 in
1919, and recommend that the petition be granted' and that H. A. S. be,
and is, restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry.

· Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 818, ·from Madera Lodge No. 280, report as follows: The accused
was charged with the offense of murder. He was convicted, but the entire
evidence concerning his guilt consists of the testimony taken at the coroner's inquest. His conviction was then made to depend on hearsay testimony, not within the purview of Section 202 of the Constitution. We,
therefore, offer the following resolution: Resolved, that the finding of
guilty of the accused, in the above trial record, and the fixing of the
penalty of expulsion be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and the trial
commission instructed to subpoena the witnesses, hear their evidence and
pass thereon.

Adopted.
In the case of trial record No. 808, from East Bay Lodge No. 489,
who was acquitted by the trial commission, and from which judgment of
acquittal the accuser appealed, we are of the opinion that this is a case
which should have been brought, if at all, in the civil courts and not ·before
a Masonic tribunal. We therefore recommend that the finding of the trial
commission, in acquitting the accused, be affirmed.

Adopted.

I

I

/

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

272

/

I

Your Committee on Grievances has carefully considered tp(al record
No. 804, relating· tu a member of Sola.no Lodge No. 229, who ~as expelled
Se~tember 11: 1933; by proceedings pursua~t of .section=9 ~f the Constitution. In this case the accused was convicted m the S enor Court for
the commission of a felony but was not imprisoned pur uant to such conviction, Instead; the court suspended sentence for a .z\eriod of years and
admitted the accused to probation. Under the very ,Pfain terms of Section
192, automatic expulsion can only be had in cases of conviction of a crime
classified as a felony when the accused had beer¥ imprisoned pursuant to
such. conviction, There being no imprisonment in this case we recommend·
that the expulsion of H. L. S. be set aside and that Solano Lodge No. 229
be instructed· to cause proper charges. to be preferred against the accused
and that the trial thereof be had in the manner prescribed by our Masonic
law.

Adopred-.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 810, begs leave to report- as follows:
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct as alleged in two
specifications, the first of which sets forth a violation of the narcotic act.
The second specification sets up that accused was convicted of the offense
in the Federal Court. As we have observed on many occasions, a specification merely charging a court conviction does not state a Masonic offense.
The evidence introduced before the trial commission on behalf of the
accuser consisted of the record of the Federal Court showing that the
accused had been found guilty of two counts of an indictment charging.
accused with violation of the Harrison Narcotic Act and with conspiracy
to violate the act. He was sentenced to three years in the penitentiary and
fined $5,000. The prison term was later set aside by a modified judgment
.rhd the fine has been paid.
The evidence on behalf of the accused consisted of his testimony
alone in explanation of the offense. From his lips we learn.that he owned
and operated a drug store ; that he was assisted therein by his co-defendant
in the Federal case,. who also was a Mason, and who has been expelled by
Grand Lodge £.or his part in this offense. This assistant was approached
by a woman who desired to purchase an ounce of cocaine. The assistant
told accused he was considering making the sale and in reply the accused
states that he told his assistant that making such a sale was a dangerous
thing to do. Thereafter the sale was made and the assistant took the
ninety dollars he received therefor and handed it to accused who took and
retained the money. One 0£ the trial commission asked accused this question: "Why did you take this money from him?" To which accused
replied: "I can't explain it. It is impossible."
In addition the accused virtually admits that he committed perjury
before the Federal Court but attempts to justify his conduct in this respect
as being inspired by a desire to shield and protect his assistant.

/

\

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

273

In tltt!. face of this record, the trial commission found the accused not
guilty-a co'l:)clusion with which your committee unanimously and unqualifiedly disagrees,
We therefore offer the· following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, tha~the finding 0£ the trial commission of not guilty be and
the same is hereby \et aside and the matter remanded for retrial ; that the
accuser be directed ~ amend the charges by incorporating a charge of
perjury therein.

Adopted.
In the matter of trial record No. 812, relating to one N. A. W., a
member of Security Lodge No. 581, who was tried by Libertas Lodge
No. 466 and expelled Decemoor 5, 1933, your committee is in entire accord
with the penalty of expulsion which was inflicted in this case, but recom-·
mend that the action of the trial commission in finding the accused guilty
on the fourth and fifth Sl1ftCifications be set aside and the accused found
not guilty thereof; we further recommend that the action of the trial
commission in finding the accused guilty of the first specification and not
guilty of · the second and third specification, be affirmed ; and that th~
action of the trial commission in finding the accused guilty of unmasonic
conduct and fixing the penalty at expulsion be affirmed.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 820, relating to one C. R. G., a member of Coalinga
Lodge No. 387, who was tried by V isalia Lodge No. 128, and acquitted
January 11, 1934, was given careful consideration by your committee on
the appeal by the accuser. Your committee is of the opinion that the
charges were without foundation. We desire to remove the last vestige of
any imputation against this young officer of a Masonic Lodge, whose fine
moral character is attested in the evidence by. a large number of his
brethren. We therefore recommend that the findingl of the trial commission of not guilty be affirmed.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 824 is that of a member of South San Francisco
Lodge No. 212, who was acquitted· April 5, 1934. The reco rd in this case
discloses so many errors in procedure and so many flagrant errors on the
part of the Master w11o presided, that we are unhesitatingly of the opinion
that the record should be remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the separate
petitions for restoration of F. A. G. and F. A. J., former members of
Palos Verdes Lodge No 389, who were tried by Southern California Lodge
No. 278, and expelled by Grand Lodge in 1930, recommend that the petition of F. A. G. for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry
be granted; and that the petition for restoration of F. A. J. be denied
without prejudice.

Adopted.

274

I

PRO CEEDINGS OF . THE

Omnibus Report
~
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the ereinafter
mentioned trial records, hereby reports as follows :
That after examining said records, in each of whictVno appeal was
taken, we find no serious errors committed at the trial/ of the accused,
and that substantial justice has been done in each insta,fce, and we therefore recommend the approval of the same, to-witi: '
No. 805-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 62
No. 806-A member of Hollywood Lodge No.
.
N o. 807-A member of Carmelita Lodge No.
.
No. 811-A member of South Gate Lodge No. 320.
No. 813-A member of Cahuenga Lodge No. 513.
No. 814-A member of El Sereno Lodge No. 588.
No. 815-A member of Martinez Lodge No. 41.
No. 816-A member of Alameda Lodge N o. 167.
No. 817-A member of Granada Lodge No. 608.
No. 819-A member of Olivet Lodge No. 205.
No. 822-A member of Orange Grove Lodge No. 293.
N o. 823-A Fellow Craft member of Veteran Lodge N o. 373.
No. 825-A member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30.
No. 826-A member of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224.
No. 828-A member of Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
No.·829-A member of Richmond Lodge No. 375.
No. 830-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
No. 831-A member of Alisa! Lodge No. 321.
No..832-A member of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131.
No. 833-A member of San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
No. 834-A member of Henry Knox Ledge No. 662.
No. 835--A member of Calexico Lodge No. 412.
No. 836-A member af Acorn Lodge No. 494.
No. 83S-A member of South Pas?rfen• Ln-l,,.e 1'l' 'l. 367.
No. 840-A member of Long Beach Lode-e No. 327.
No. 841-A member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
··No. 842-A member of Los Ani;!'eles Lodge No. 42.
No. 843-A member of Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458.
No. 846-A member of Visalia LodP-e No.-128.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption :
.
Resolved, that in each of the above enumerated cases the action of the
trial commissioners be and the same is hereby approved and the respective
judgments therein be and the same are hereby .affirmed.
WALTER F. HAAS,

hA

A RTHUR
BROU ILLET,
FRANK BELCHER,

OLJN BERRY,

w.

Adopted.

F. THOMPSON,
Committee.

At 12:15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called ' off until
2 o'clock.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

.\

275

Jn ~ranb JLobge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October 11, 1934.

Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE O N P O L ICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
D ecisions of Grand Master
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
decisions of the Grand Master, which were referred jointly to the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and respectfully reports its approval of the decisions on the
following matters as numbered in the message of the Grand Master :
No. 2-Relative to donations of Lodge fund and expense of conducting Public Schools Week celebration.
No. 3-Relative to presenting trowel to candidate.
No. 4-Relative to acceptance pf shares in a temple association as
pay of fees on dues.
No. 5-Relative to · how often charities can be dispensed to same
recipient in a month.
No. 9-Relative to physical insufficiency.
No. IO-Relative to withdrawal of petition.
No. 13-Relative to family of deceased brother in influence of threeyear period.
The Grand Master has sufficiently indicated the reasons for his decisions in each case and it is ·not necessary for this committee to add to
his logical conclusions and therefore recommend the adoption of this
report approving said decisions.

Adopted.
Fees for Degrees
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
observations made by the Grand Master in his annual message wher.ein he
expresses his opinion · that the individual Lodge is the final authority in
the matter of the policy with respect to the fees for ~egrees, provided
such fees amount to or exceed the minimum fees prescribed by this Grand
Lodge; also his expression of regret that many Lodges desire to reduce
their dues and his opinion that the Lodge is the best judge of the amount
of dues necessary for the support and well being of the Lodge, provided

I
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

276

the annual dues equal or exceed the minimum requirement fifed by this
Grand Lodge; and also the suggestion of the Grand Masy'r relative to
the collection of delinquent dues.
~
. These .opinions expressed by the Grand Master ar concurred in by
this committee, and while no regulation or change of law is involved it
recommends their approval.
'

Adopted.
Survey of Masonic Homes
That part of the Grand Master's message referred jointly to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the .Committee on Finance
relative to Masonic Homes survey by outside agencies has received the
consideration of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
It appears that the survey ordered directed to be made of the Covina
H ome for orphans has been made by a qualified organization.
The result of the survey did not disclose practical means .for mate- .
rially reducing the expenses of the Covina Home, which was the primary
object for having the work done.
Your committee concurs in the opinion of the Grand Master that,
under the circumstances, it is inadvisable to proceed with a survey of the
Decoto Home and therefore recommend's that a survey of the Decoto
Home be not made at this time.

Adopted.
Emergency Relief
Brother Wesley W. Kergan, Inspector of District No. 35, proposes
that Section 90 of the Constiution be amended by adding the following
sentence to the end of said section :
"Where reimbursement is expected, no relief should be extended beyond the amount authorized by the Lodge or the jurisdiction to which the applicant belongs, except where an emergency
exists, and in emergency cases complete and immediate notice of
the emergency, together with an estimate of the amount necessary
to relieve, should be sent such Lodge or jurisdiction for its information or approval."
. . The consideration of your committee has been given to this proposal,
which has, for its purpose, the limitation of the broad terms of Section 90
in such manner that a Lodge would be protected in the expenditure of
relief funds for the assistance of a Brother belonging to another Lodge or
in another grand jurisd'iction. Your committee is in sympathy with the
purpose of the proposal, but instead of approving the same at this time
desires that the matter be postponed for action until the next communication of this Grand Lodge. The reason for seeking such a postponement
is that the obligations of relief and the conditions of its administration
are scattered through portions of the ritual, sections of the Constitution
regulations, decisions, approved reports of committees and rules, and con~

277

stitute a patchwork in which there are overlappings, contradictions and
uncertainties. Your committee believes that there should be a statement
or restatement of the obligations of Masons, Lodges, the Grand Lodge
and its instrumentalities on the important subject of relief and relief
administration. During the interval between this and the next annual
communication, your committee will endeavor to formulate for submission
to Grand Lodge such a restatement, and in formulating the same due
consideration will be given to the proposal of Brother Kergan.
Your committee, therefore, recommends that further consideration of
the proposed amendment by Grand Lodge be postponed until the next
annual communication.

Adopted.
M asters and Wardens on Committees
Your committee has considered the proposal that Section 27 of the
Constitution be amended by providing that all standing committees of
Grand Lodge shall be increased by two members and shall include at least
one Master and one Warden of a constituent Lodge. This amendment, if
adopted, would require the Grand .Master to appoint at least one Junior
Warden and one Senior Warden on each standing committee, for the
reason that the appointments are made in October of each year, and in
the ordinary course a brother holding the position of Master would become
a Past Master within ninety days. In no event could the Grand Master be
assured that a W arden would be re-elected or would advance to higher
station.
The proposal would be objectionable for the further reason that the
Grand Master is the executive head of Grand Lodge and, as such, should
be entitled to use his best judgment and discretion in the appointment of
the members of the standing committees which are a part of the administration of the affairs of the craft during his incumbency of his high
office. If a Grand Master cannot be trusted to make proper appointments
of committeemen and others, then he has not the confidence of Grand
Lodge and should not be elected Grand Master.
The provision for the appointment of two additional members of each
of the standing committees in our judgment would serve no useful purpose. Under present provisions of our law an adequate personnel is
required on each of the committees.
While the foregoing reasons are sufficient to constrain us to reject the
proposal, yet we are in sympathy with the underlying reasons for its
presentation. We believe that the Grand Master in his wise discretion
should, from time to time, seek to call into the service of Grand Lodge in
its committee work, Masons of attainments and zeal to the end that the
committee would always be in close touch with active work of the Lodges,
and that experience may be gained by those who, as the years go on,
Grand Lodge will turn more and more to rely upon for guidance and
direction. We believe that an inspection of the personnel of committee

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

278

279

-PROCEED1NGS OF THE

membership not only at the present time, but over a period of many years,
will demonstrate that Grand Masters have been actuated by an inclination
and desire to call into Grand Lodge committees the type of men · who the
proposer of said amendment has in his thought.
· We therefore recommend that the proposed amendments to the Constitution be not adopted.

The report failed of adoption. Whereupon Brother Halley
presented a substitute resolution to amend section 27 by
adding two more members to each standing committee,
which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, and
by that committee reported back that the proposed ' amendment was in form. The substitute resolution was then
adopted and section 27 of the Constitution was amended by
a five-sixths vote. It now reads as follows:
Sec. 27; The following standing committees shall be appointed by the
Grand Master at each annual communication just before the close, viz.:
On Finance, on Accounts, on Grievances, on Correspondence, on Returns,
on Pay of Members, on Credentials, on Library, on By-Laws, on Charters,"
on Grand Lodge Week Activities, to consist of seven members each ; on
Necrology, to consist of five members; on Policy and General Purposes,
and on Jurisprudence, to consist of nine members each; the dutie~ of
which committees shall continue during the year thereafter, and shall
cease at the close of the next succeeding annual communication. Provided,
that at least one Master and one Warden shall be appointed on each of
said committees.
Patriotic Resolution
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered a
patriotic resolution presented by M. C. Hepler, Secretary of Service
Lodge No. 594, and because the same contains matter of a controversial
nature and by implication refers to a local and temporary political condition, your committee, while recognizing that much of the resolution refers
to great principles which are firmly imbedded in the tenets and practices
of our institution and are well known to all Masons, yet your committee
believes that such resolution should not be adopted, and so recommends.

Adopted.
Recognition of the Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Your Committee ~n Policy and General Purposes has before it the
request of the Grand Lodge of the Amazon and Acre, which has exclusive
jurisdiction in the states of Amazonas and the Acre Territory in the Republic of the United States of Brazil.
It appears that this Grand Lodge conforms to the standard for recognition adopted by the Grand Lodge of California, that it requires a belief

in God, is secret, follows the symbolism of craft Masonry, confers the
three symbolic degrees, bases its ritual on the temple legend, prohibits
political and religious controversies, exhibits the three great lights of
Masonry, having the open Book of the Law on its altars, and that it has
twenty-two subordinate Lodges of its obedience, some of which are more
than fifty years old.
This Grand Lodge at one time recognized the Grand Orient of Brazil,
but in 1931 withdrew such recognitiori in order to make it consistent for
this Grand Lodge to recognize the Grand Lodges of the states of the
Republic of Brazil, which Grand Lodges had been set up in conformity
to the standards set by the English and American Grand Lodges. The
Grand Lodges of six of such states have heretofore been recognized by
this Grand Lodge, and the application now before us for recognition was
postponed until this annual communication because of lack of sufficient
information upon which to base our final action.
This committee is now satisfied that the Grand Lodge of the Amazon
and Acre should be recognized, and it is so recommended.

Adopted.
Lodges to Be Advised in Advance of Proposed Legislation
Your Committee .on Policy and General Purposes has had referred to
it the following resolution, presented by Brother George M. Donovan of
South Gate Lodge No. 320 :
Believing that each and every representative to this and subsequent
communications of Grand Lodge and the members of their respective
Lodges should be fully informed, as far as it is possible, as to what is
to be the recommendations of the Most Worshipful Grand Master in
his message and report to Grand Lodge, and further that the representatives and the Lodges they represent should be advised of the
subject matter of any resolution presented to the Grand Secretary for
action by the Grand Lodge; and said synopsis should be furnished
each constituent Lodge at least sixty days prior to the annual communication of Grand Lodge, the following resolution is respectfully
submitted for your consideration and adoption:
Resolved, that it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that, if practical, a synopsis of the Most Worshipful Grand Master's message and
his recommendation prepared in concise but fully informative form,
and copies of such message and report, together with the subject matter of any resolutions presented for future action of Grand Lodge be
sent to every constituent Lodge of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of California in ample time to enable the constituent Lodges to discuss
said proposed synopsis, and if they so desire, instruct their representatives. And that in accordance with this resolution the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes be instructed to prepare and present at
this annual communication of the Grand Lodge some practical and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

280

workable plan whereby the intent conveyed in this resolution may be
consummated.
We are of the opinion that the adoption of this resolution would not
accomplish satisfactory results. Similar legislation was proposed last year
(Proceedings -1933, pp. 529, 730). This committee then said that "while
the ends sought to be attained command our sympathetic interest, we believe the working conditions of Grand Lodge and the offices of Grand
Master and Grand Secretary are such as to detract from the practicability
of the measure. The Grand Master, busy with the discharge of his manifold duties, as well as with his numerous fraternal visitations, does not
ordinarily review his work and prepare his recommendations until the
latter days of his term. They are, however, printed in his annual address,
which is distributed on the opening day of Grand Lodge." However, "Some
Brethren feel that they do not haye sufficient opportunity to prepare themselves for the exercise of settled judgment respecting those measures
which may be complicated or controversial." Accordingly, the chairman of
your committee did engage in a study along those lines in concert with
the Grand Master and Grand Secretary and chairmen of other committees, in the hope that some helpful suggestions might be forthcoming. Your chairman found that the Grand Master would not be
able to formulate his decisions and recommendations sixty or rarely.
within thirty days prior to the annual communication of Grand Lodge,
and the Grand Secretary does not generally receive resolutions to be
presented until a few days prior to the annual communication. And, in
fact, most propositions are not submitted until the day they are
actually read in Grand Lodge.
·
We are therefore constrained to report adversely and recommend
that the resolution be not adopted.

Grand Lodge did not concur in the report, and the resolution was adopted, with one change: that the words, "at
this annual communication," be made to read "at the next
annual communication."
P roposed Amendments
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it three propdsals for amendment to the Constitution, submitted by
Brother C. E. Mallachowitz, Past Master of Caledonia Lodge No. 486.
The fir:st relates to salary of th.e Grand Secretary.
The second relates to the Masonic Homes fee now charged to affiliates.
The third relates to payments to members of Grand Lodge.
Your committee recommends that these matters be referred to the
Finance Committee for its .consideration.

Adopted.

Light Wines and Beer
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration the resolution presented by Brother Chas. R. Cooper, Senior
Warden of Presidio Lodge No. 354, which resolution seeks removal of
the present restrictions of Grand Lodge against the use of light wine and
beer at Masonic gatherings.
Your committee feels that this subject having heretofore had full consideration of this Grand Lodge, and . the policy thereof being defini.tely
established, it would be unwise to change the existing provision at this time.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.
T ransfer of A ffiliation With Continuous Membership
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration the resolution offered by Brother Don D. Donahue, Past Master
and Secretary of Hackett Lodge No. 574 of San Diego, at the request of
the Officers' Association of San Diego County, proposing an amendment
to section 161 of our Constitution for the stated purpose of clarifying the
same.
Section 161 provides the method by which a transfer of affiliation with
continuous membership may be accomplished. Reasons for the proposed
amendments as stated in a copy of a letter to the Grand Master, under
date of July 28, 1934, are that a "strict compliance of the provision.s of
section 161 has a tendency to discourage affiliation, to subject the applicant
to the payment of duplicate dues, and that the proposed resolu~ion wo~ld
take away the incentive for an evasion of the law in order to avotd working
a hardship on the candidate by either disregarding the law entirely or by
the fictitious date of his membership after election."
· Your committee, after careful consideration of the subject matter, is
of the opinion that no useful purpose could be accomplished by ~he .ado~
tion of the proposed amendment, which has been in our Conshtut10n m
its present form for seven years. It was quite -0bviol!sly. the thought .of
Grand Lodge when this section was adopted that the applicant for a~ha­
tion could complete his transfer within three months, and your committee
feels that this would be done, except in very rare instances, if the Masters
and Secretaries used reasonable diligence in handling the details connected
with the transfer.
Your committee agrees that in some cases a small duplication of payment of dues might result under the present plan, but it does not feel
that the proposed change or, in fact, any other similar proposal, would
remedy this situation and at the same time secure for the Brother the
protection for the continuity of membership as now afforded under the
section in its present form.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.

283

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Expense Accounts of Board of Control and Endowment Board
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration the proposal introduced by the Committee on Accounts, the
purpose of which is to cause expense accounts for members of the Board
of Control and the Endowment Board to be presented to the Committee
on Accounts for approval.
Sections 37e and 37k of the Constitution now place upon the Grand ·
Master the responsibility for approval of such expense accounts.
Your committee believes that the approval of expense accounts is, and
should be, an executive responsibility and that sections 37e and 37k should
stand without amendment.
We therefore recommend that the proposed amendments be not
adopted.

by its laws, and humbly to thank God that he is privileged to live
and serve beneath its glorious, undishonored flag.
We direct that a copy of this resolution be sent to each Lodge of
our jurisdiction, to be read at the next ensuing stated meeting.

282

Report adopted.
Questio.n 13 of Petition for Degrees
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration the resolution presented by Brother Chas. R. Cooper, Senior
Warden of Presidio Lodge No. 354, for the purpose of repealing the six
months' limitation after receiving the degree of Master Mason to petition
for, or receive, any degree in any body, order or organization, the pre- ..
requisite of membership wherein is that the person be a Master Mason.
Your committee is of the opinion that this limitation has stood the
test of time and amply justifies its inclusion in our law as a policy of
this Grand Lodge and that no useful and constructive purpose could be
accomplished by this repeal.
We therefore recommend that the resolution be· not adopted.

Report adopted.
Reaffirming Allegiance to Our Government
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes presents the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the Grand Lodge of California, acting for itself,
its constituent Lodges and all Masons of its obedience, hereby reaffirms the allegiance of Masonry within this grand jurisdiction to the
Constitution of the United States of America and the fundamental
principles symbolized by .the flag of our country. We hold that under
the inspiration of our Constitution the citizens of our beloved Republic
have enjoyed and do now enjoy rights, privileges, opportunities and
benefits unmatched under any other system of government thus far
devised by mankind. We oppose all men and movements proposing to
subvert the foundations of our government and the institutions of
progress it has nurtured. We call upon every Mason within our jurisdiction to labor unceasingly for the defense and preservation of the
priceless heritage of liberty and progress created for us through the
blood and sacrifice of our fathers: to honor his government; to abide

Adopted by unanimous vote.
Exemplification of Degrees by Lodges of Other Jurisdictions
Brother Paul Nathan has proposed that section 121 of the Constitution, relative to the authorized ritual, be amended, permitting a Lodge of
this jurisdiction to invite a Lodge of a foreign grand jurisdiction to confer
a degree of Masonry upon its own candidate in accordance with the ritual
of its grand jurisdiction in a Lodge of this grand jurisdiction. The ~vident
intent of such a change in our law is to facilitate fraternal courtesies between Lodges located on opposite sides of the boundary line of the state.
In order to promote fraternal courtesies and visitations, it is proposed that
the long settled policies of this Grand Lodge be modified to permit the
exemplification of ritualistic work different from that authorized by this
Grand Lodge in a Lodge of this jurisdiction by the officers of a foreign
Lodge. While the purposes to ·be accomplished by such change are laudatory, the means proposed therefor do not meet with the approval of this
committee. We have established by law the policy and procedure for the
conferring by courtesy of the degrees of Masonry upon a California candidate in a foreign jurisdiction, in accordance with the ritual of such
jurisdiction," and for the conferring by courtesy of the degree of a can?idate of a foreign jurisdiction in a California Lodge, in accordance with
the California ritual. As a matter of policy, we do not think it advisable
to proceed further by providing for the conferring of a degree by the
officers of a subordinate Lodge of a foreign Grand Lodge, in accordance
with the ritual of such foreign Grand Lodge, upon a candidate of such
subordinate Lodge in a California Lodge, nor, conversely, that the California Lodge may depart from this grand jurisdiction with its candidate
to confer a degree in the Lodge of a sister grand jurisdiction.
For the foregoing reasons, your committee recommends that said proposal to amend the Constitution be not approved.

The report was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, with instructions to rewrite the proposed amendment. That committee reported back recommending that
section 121 be amended by adding the following:
"Provided, further, that a Lodge in this jurisdiction, conferring a
degree .upon a candidate elected to receive such degree in another jurisdiction, may for such purpose, with the consent of the Grand Master of
this jurisdiction, use the ritual of such other jurisdiction."

Grand Lodge concurred, and section 121 was thereupon
amended by unanimous vote.

284

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Annuity Contracts by Masonic Homes
That part of the report of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board
recommending that this Grand · Lodge, under certain specified conditions,
approve the issuance of annuity contracts by the Masonic Homes of California, has been considered by your committee.
This subject is new to Grand Lodge and is of such importance that
a thorough investigation of its merits and practicability should be made.
Such a study will require considerable time and effort. For this reason
we respectfully recommend that the said recommendation of the Endowment Board, with respect to the adoption of an annuity plan, be postponed
for consideration to the next annual communication. As the matter now
appears to your committee, it is a practicable plan for adoption and will
result in appreciable additions to the endowment fund at small, if any, risk
of loss. We are convinced that such plan will afford a means of giving by
benevolently disposed persons who cannot at this time forego all income
from a fund which eventually will become a part of the endowment fund
of the Homes.

Report adopted.

Uses of Endowment Fund
We, your Committee on Jurisprudence, in response to a suggestion
from the Finance Committee that an existing ambiguity with respect to the
uses of the endowment fund for the Masonic H omes of California, be
removed, respectfully recommend that section 37j of the Constitution be
amended to read as follows :
·
"Sec. 37j-No part of the principal of the endowment fund herein
provided for shall ever be expended for any purpose, and the income
therefrom shall be used only for the maintenance and operation of the
Masonic Homes of California."

Adopted, and section 37j amended by unanimous vote.
Dispensations
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the records of issuance o.f dispensations granted by the Grand Master during the past year
and finds them in accordance with law.
We therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master be
approved.

Adopted.

Masonic Education
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred to
it the report of the Committee on Education. At the last annual commu-··
nication that committee was requested to submit this . year a plan for
consideration by our committee. We do not feel that we should adopt any
plan until it is submitted in concrete form, and therefore recommend that
the resolutions of the Committee on Education be not adopted, and tha t
the committee be continued and requested to submit at the next annual
communication some definite plan of Masonic education.

Adopted.
WILIAM RHODES HERVEY,
WILL H . FISCHER,
WILLIAM H. WASTE,
FRANK W. MIXTER,

Committee.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Decisions of Grand Master
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred that portion
of the M.". w:. Grand Master's message, referring to decisions rendered,
have had the same under consideration, and beg leave to report as follows:
The decisions as set forth as Nos. 1 to 14, inclusive, we find them each
and all to be in accord with our Masonic law, and recommend their
approval.

Adopted.

285

Life Memberships
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the resolutions for
life membership adopted by various Lodges and· approved by the Grand
Master during the past year and finds the same to be in accordance with
law .
. In connection with the resolution adopted by Speranza I taliana Lodge
No. 219, however, we call attention to the fact that the resolution purports
to authorize investment in securities not permitted by section 129 of the
Constitution. Restrictions upon investment stipulated in section 129 are
not a subject for action by the Lodge, with the exception of the authority
of the Lodge to still further restrict the securities in which life membership
funds may be invested.
We recommend that the action of the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.
Issuance of Duplicate Charter
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends the approval of the
issuance by the Grand Master of a duplicate charter to Mt. D iablo Lodge
No. 448, to replace a charter concerning which there is no authentic information or apparent production at installation, or otherwise, during a
period of at least twelve years. We concur in the action of the Grand
Master in censuring this Lodge and its officers for failure to properly care
for its charter and for the disregard of the obligation of each Master to
safely transmit it to his successor in office.
GEORGE L. }ONES,
DANA R. WELLER,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
BENJ. F. BLEDSOE,
Adopted.
Committee.
BRADFORD WEBSTER,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

Humboldt Lodge No. 79......................................... :$ 649.50
Concord Lodge No. 117 ........................................... . 441.75
Downey Lodge No. 220 ............................................ 337.25
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224........................................ 500.00
Arroyo Lodge No. 274............................................. . 181.25
Sanger Lodge No. 3l6...........................................,.. 100.00
York Lodge No. 423.................................................. 239.75
Joppa Lodge No. 508 (paid October 15, 1934) .. ..
94.25
West Adams Lodge No. 565 .....................c.............. 271.75

286

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee ~n Finance begs leave to submit the following report:
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
1. Your Committee on Finance has received and examined the report
of the Board of Control referring to reimbursements of Boards of Relief
as follows:
Fresno Board of Relief ..............................................$
5.50
Los Angeles. Board of Relief ................................. . 659.10
East Bay Board of Relief .......... :.....•.....................
442.50
Sacramento Board of Relief ..........:........................ .
60.85
465.00
San Francisco Board of Relief ....... ~---···················
63.72
Illinois town Lodge No. 51...·-·················-~·-··········
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346........................................
21.00
Rising Light Lodge No. 397 ................................. .
78.34
Total ·······························'····················:...............$1,796.01
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $1,796.01 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Boards of Relief in·
the amounts as above set out.

Adopted.
Masonic Employment Service
2. Your committee,
the recommendation of the Board of Control,
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $9,600.00 be and. is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided into the following
donations, to assist in maintaining employment bureaus:
San Francisco, Employment Service ...................... $2,400.00
East Bay, Employment Service.............................. 1,600.00
Los Angeles, Employment Service........................ 3,000.00
San Diego, Employment SerVice............................ 800.00
Long Beach, Employment Service.......................... 1,800.00

on

Total ....................................................................$9,600.00

Adopted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
3. The Grand Secretary reports that the Grand Lodge dues of nine
subordinate Lodges, amounting to $2,815.50, which became due August 1,
1934, and for various reasons remain unpaid as of this date, October 11,
1934, are as follows:

287

Total ....................,.................................................$2,815.50
In many cases the amount set out represents only a portion of the
Grand Lodge dues, partial payments having already been made on account.
Many of these Lodges are still suffering from the fact that they had funds
tied up in banks which have been closed. The representatives of many of
these Lodges have assured your committee that they would be able to pay
within the next few months. We therefore offer the following resolution
and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that each of the subordinate Lodges whose names are
set out above, with the exception of Downey Lodge No. 220, execute
notes in favor of the Grand Lodge for the amount due by each of the
said Lodges in payment of said Grand Lodge dues ; said notes to become due on or before six months from this date, with interest at
4% per annum.

Adopted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues for the Year 1932-1933
4. At the session of Grand Lodge held in October, 1933, thirty-six subordinate Lodges were reported as delinquent in their Grand Lodge dues
due August 1, 1933, in the amount of $13,843.55. At that time it was also
reported that six Lodges were delinquent on the notes taken from the
1932 dues in the amount of $1,587.20, making a total of $15,430.75. As of
this date, all of this money has been repaid, with the exception of $958.38,
which is owing by five Lodges, all of which Lodges have paid their 1934
Grand Lodge dues. We therefore recommend that these Lodges be given
additional time in which to pay the notes heretofore taken for the $958.38.

Adopted.
Remission of Grand Lodge Dues
5. At the 1933 session of Grand Lodge an exhaustive report was filed
by a special committee, which committee had been appointed by Past Grand
Master Mixter to investigate the damages to Masonic temples caused by
the earthquake of March 10, 1933, and on the recommendation of that
committee the dues of five Lodges in the earthquake area, because of
damage to their buildings, were remitted. On investigation we now find,
and the committee so agrees, that they omitted from this list of Lodges

288

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the name of Downey Lodge No. 220, which Lodge suffered damage to its
temple in the amount of approximately $1,600.00. Downey Lodge has, by
written request, asked that its Grand Lodge dues of $337.25 for the year
ending July 31, 1934, be remitted. In view of the fact that the name of
Downey Lodge should have been included in last year's list of Lodges,
your committee offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the dues to this Grand Lodge for the year ending
July 31, 1934, of Downey Lodge No. 220, in the amount of $337.25, be
remitted.

Adopted.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397, Huntington Park
6. At the 1933 session of Grand Lodge, the dues of Rising Light
Lodge No. 397, in the amount of $1,037.55, were remitted. This Lodge, as
you will recall, was in the earthquake area and had a very serious damage
to its temple. Seventy-five dollars of this amount was due the Masonic
Homes on the $25.00 tax, which it has subsequently paid.
Rising Light Lodge during the past year has exerted every effort to
rehabilitate and strengthen its financial situation. Its efforts have been
successful. Although not incumbent on it to do so, it expresses its desire
to repay what it terms a moral obligation and has tendered its check in the ··
amount of $962.55 in full settlement of the dues remitted in 1933.
We feel that Rising Light Lodge is to be commended and congratulated. We herewith present the check.

Adopted.
Purchase of Masonic Temple Stock
7. Magnolia Lodge No. 242, located in Santa Barbara, is the owner
of ten shares of stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California,
of .the value of $10.00 per share. This Lodge, because of its very heavy
burden on its own temple, now finds itself greatly in need of funds to
meet its obligation and has requested the Grand Lodge to purchase this
stock. Your committee is fully cognizant of the needs of this Lodge, and
as the amount in question is small, we recommend that the Grand Lodge
purchase the said ten shares of stock. We therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that there be appropriated from the funds of this Grand
Lodge the amount of $100.00 to purchase from the Magnolia Lodge
No. 242 ten shares of stock in the Masonic Temple Association of San
Francisco.

Adopted.
Adin Lodge No. 250
8. In 1924 this Grand Lodge loaned Adin Lodge No. 250 the sum of
$1,000.00 for the purpose of completing its building and took its note for

289

the same. Adin Lodge has been unable to make any payment on this note,
and it recently suggested to your Finance Committee that, as it was the
owner of twenty shares of stock in the Masonic Temple Association of
San Francisco, it would be willing to surrender the stock, if the Grand
Lodge would surrender the note and mark it "paid." After consultation
with all of the members of your Finance Committee, as well as the Grand
Master, it was decided that this would probably be the best way in which
to close the transaction. Accordingly, Adin Lodge surrendered its twenty
shares of stock in the Masonic Temple Association of San Francisco,
which have been turned over to the Grand Lodge, and the note for $1,000.00
has been marked "paid" by the Grand Master and forwarded to Adin
Lodge.
Your committee offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
R esolved, that the actions of the Finance Committee and the Grand
Master in accepting twenty shares of stock in the Masonic Temple
Association of San . Francisco in full payment of the note of Adin
Lodge No. 250 for $1,000.00 be approved.

Adopted.
Masonic Club Houses of the University of . California at Berkeley
and Los Angeles
9. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the reports of the
trustees of these club houses and their request for fun ds for maintenance
during the fiscal year 1934-1935. You will recall that at the last session of
the Grand Lodge no special tax was levied for the maintenance of these
clubs. It therefore becomes necessary for the committee this year to make
appropriation out of the general funds of the Grand Lodge. We feel that
these clubs are being very conservatively managed and that they have done
everything possible in the curtailment of their expenses, the taxes on the
club house at Berkeley alone having been reduced from $2,500.00 three
years ago to $1 ,600.00 at the present time. We feel that each of these
club houses can be run in the coming year for the sum of $6,000.00 each.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
R esolved, that the sum of $12,000.00 be appropriated from the
funds of this Grand Lodge for the support of the Masonic Club
Houses, $6,000.00 to be paid to the Masonic Club at Berkeley and
$6,000.00 to the Masonic Club ·House at Los Angeles.

Adopted.
Audit of Accounts
10. Your committee employed Ruckstell & Land, certified public accountants, to examine the books and records of the Grand Secretary and
Grand Treasurer, as well as those of the Masonic H omes of California
and endowment fund. These accountants have certified that all books and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

accounts are correct. This audit certifies that the net worth of the· property
of Grand Lodge of California as of July 31, 1934, was $766,212.87, being
a reduction of approximately $1,000.00 from the report issued one year
ago. These assets are made up as follows :
Cash on hand and in ba~ ...................... ;..............................$ 11,573.07
Bonds with a book value of $160,089.80 (actual market
value $163,373.75) .......................................................... 160,089.80
Preferred stock in Pacific Gas and Electric Company.... 5,000.00
58,955 shares stock Masonic Temple Association ............ 589,550.00

is authorized to pay th~ same, and that when the portrait has been painted
it be hung in the gallery of our Past Masters.

290

Total .....................·~ ............................................................$766,212.87

Adopted.
Expenses, Chairman Board of Control
11. The Board of Control has requested that your committee give
consideration to its request for $200.00 to pay the traveling expenses of
the chairman of said board, to the biennial convention of the Masonic
Relief Association of the United States and Canada to be held at Fort
Worth, Texas, in 1935.
Your board is fully aware that the Board of Control has been able
to collect from other jurisdictions a great deal of money, which has heretofore been charged off, and we feel that by allowing the chairman of this
board to attend the biennial convention of this assoociation, that it would
be very beneficial.
We therefore recommend that the chairman of said board be allowed
to .attend the biennial convention of said association in 1935, and we offer
the following resolution and recommend its adoption : .
Resol< 1ed, that the sum of $200.00 be and the same is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge for traveling expenses
of the chairman of the Board of Control in attending the convention
of the Masonic Relief Association to be held in Fort Worth, Texas,
in 1935 . .

Adopted.
Traveling Expenses, Grand Master
12. Your committee has had under consideration an appropriation for
the traveling expenses of the Grand Master during the year 1934-1935. We
therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resol·ued, that the sum of $3,500.00 be arid the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to pay the traveling
expenses of the Grand Master during the ccming year.

Adopted.
Portrait of Grand Master
13. Your Committee on Finance reccmmends that the retiring Grand
Master, Brother James Black Gist, have his portrait painted, and present
the bill to the Grand Secretary in an amount not to exceed $150.00, who

291

Adopted.
Salaries
14. Your committee has given extended consideration to the various
resolutions which were presented to the Grand Lodge and referred to our
committee, said resolutions pertaining to the salaries to be paid various
officers of Grand Lodge. Your committee met for more than two hours
with the various Brethren presenting these resolutions, and believe that
we have all arrived at a satisfactory solution, and we recommend the
salaries for the ccming year be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ..- ....................................................$7,200.00
Grand Lecturer .......................................................... 600.00
Assistant Grand Secretary........................................ 3,300.00
Grand Tiler .................................................................. 200.00
Grand Organist .......................................................... 100.00
We recommend that the salary. of Grand Secretary and Assistant
Grand Secretary be for their services not only to Grand Lodge but also to
the Masonic Homes, and that the Masonic Homes reimburse Grand Lodge
in the amount of $1,800.00 per annum on account of the services of the
Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary.
We also recommend that the Grand Secretary ·be requested to expend
not more than $2,000.00 a year for clerical help, except as it may be
necessary to call in additional help for an emergency.
We also recommend that traveling expenses incurred by the Grand
Lecturer and four Assistant Grand Lecturers in performing their official
duties within the State of California, and also the expenses incurred by
Grand Lodge officers or members of Grand Lodge, who may be traveling
by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore after the same
have been audited by the Committee on Accounts.

Adopted.
Pay of Members
15. The Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report, indicating that it will require $16,472.32 to pay the traveling expenses of the
officers and members attending this session. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, that the sum of $16,472.32 be and it is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of paying
the traveling expenses of officers and members attending the session.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Activities Committee
16. Your Committee on Finance is of the opinion, after thoroughly
reviewing this subject, that the limit of this appropriation should not exceed
$2,000.00, which was the approximate amount expended for 1934.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

292

We therefore offer the following · resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resofoed, that the sum of $2.000.00 be and the same is hereby
appropriated out of the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray the expenses of the committee having in charge Grand Lodge Activities
Week for the annual communication to be held in 1935.

Adopted.
Masonic Homes and Endowment Board
17. The Masonic Homes Endowment Board, the report of which has
already been presented to this Grand Lodge, shows that they collected
cash during the last year of approximately $60,000.00, and the expense of
collecting said amount was approximately $6,000.00, or 10 per cent. Your
board is of the opinion that this work should be continued and that the
Grand Lodge should appropriate as liberal an amount as the funds will
permit. Your committee, having all these matters in mind, has recommended
that an appropriation of $6,000.00 be made from the funds of this Grand
Lodge for the use of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board during the
year 1934-193S.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $6,000.00 be and it is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge t o be paid to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Board for its expenses for the year ending July 31,
193S.
The Endowment Board also rec~mmends that in order to assist them
in mailing literature to all of the officers of the Lodges that, in preparing
the R oster, the Grand Secretary be authorized to include not only the
names and addresses of the Master and Secretary as at present, but also
the names and addresses of the Senior and Junior Wardens and the
Treasurer. Your Committee on Investigation is of the opinion that this will
add only slightly to the cost of the Roster and will add considerably to
its usefulness as a reference book.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resoh •ed, .that the Grand Secretary be authorized, in compiling
future Rosters, to include the names and addresses of Masters, Senior
and Junior Wardens, .Treasurers and Secretaries.

Adopted.
Payment of Public Accountant
18. Your committee has had referred to it the following resolution
which we recommend should be adopted :

W hereas, in 1933 the Grand Master, Brother Mixter , appointed
a Committee of Inspectors '·o investigate the condition of one of the
subordinate Lodges, and in the course of the work of said committee

GRAND LOJJliE OF CALIFORNIA

293

it employed a public accountant to make an audit of the books of said
Lodge, and
W hereas, the compensation of said accountant, Brother Wm.
W heeling, for said work has not been paid, and it has been agree.d
that the bill therefore be reduced to the sum of $200.00; therefore be 1t
Resolved, that the Grand Lodge pay to Brother Wm. Wheeling
the sum of $200.00 in full settlement for his services in the matter of
auditing said books by direction of said committee appointed by the
Grand Master.

Adopted.
Printing Manual for Masonic Trials
19. Your committee has considered the resolution which has been referred to it concerning the printing of a manual for guidance in Masonic
trials, and we hereby approve the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
R esolved, that Walter F . Haas, chairman of the Committee on
Grievances, be and he is hereby requested to revise the manual for
Masonic trials, bringing it up to date, and when so revised, that the
Grand Secretary be and he is hereby authorized and directed to have
as many copies thereof printed for distribution to the Lodges in this
jurisdiction, from time to time, as required.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Tax
20. The Constitution of the Grand Lodge provides for tax for the
general fund of SO cents. It also provides for tax on the Masonic H omes
Building Fund of SO cents.
Your committee offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved, that a per capita tax of 7S cents per member be levied,
and when paid in shall be paid by the Grand Secretary to the trustees
of the H omes for the operation and maintenance expenses of the
H omes.
This is the same amount as Grand Lodge tax levied a year ago,
namely, $1.7S, and your committee has been able to provide funds out of
the general fund for the maintenance of the Masonic Club H ouses a t
Berkeley and Los Angeles without this year levying an extra tax.

Report adopted.
Budget
21. At the 1933 session of Grand Lod~~ your committee prepared a
budget estimating receipts and expenditures for the year ending July 31,
1934. We find that our estimate of expenses has been closely adhered to,
so that when the books were closed on July 31, 1934, our estimate was
within less than $1,000.00 of the actual results. The report of the Grand
Secretary shows receipts from other sources than ~hose which we arc

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

294

taking into account. These are of such character that in many instances it
is difficult to estimate the amount that may be received. We, however, feel
that these items which are not included in th is report will ha ve little bearing on the final result. The figures submitted for this year are as follows :
Receipts, Y ear E11ding July 31 , 1935
Cash on hand (July 31, 1934) ................... ·-·-··········-·-··········$11,500.00
Dues from Lodges.................................................................... 68,000.00
Interest and dividends ........... :.................................................. 11,000.00
Total ..................................................................................$90,500.00
Estirnated Disbursements, Year Ending July 31, 1935
Salaries ············-···-············································-.$11,600.00
Printing and binding.......................................... 5,000.00
Traveling expenses, Grand Lecturer and
800.00
Assistants ....................................................
Office rent ........................................................... . 3,900.00
600.00
Postage ................................................................
Auditing ..............................................................
150.00
250.00
Telephones and telegrams ............................... .
Grand Lodge relief ............................................ 5,000.00
700.00
Expenses, Board of Control............................
750.00
Public Schools Week ..... ·-·····················-············
Grand Lodge Activities Week .......................... 2,000.00
400.00
Fifty-year buttons ............................................. .
Traveling expenses, Grand Lodge officers... .
500.00
Miscellaneous items ......................................... . 3,000.00
Total ................... ;..............................................................$34,650.00
Appropriations at This Session
Pay of members ..................................................$16,500.00
Reimbursement, Boards of Relief.................. 1,800.00
Employment bureaus ........................................ 9,600.00
Traveling expenses, Grand Master................ 3,500.00
Masonic Club Houses ........................•............... 12,000.00
Masonic Endowment Board.............................. 6,000.00
Total .................................................................................. 49,400.00
Total estimated disbursements ................................$84,050.00
Estimated income ................................................:...................$90,500.00
Estimated expense .................................................................. 84,050.00
Leaving estimated surplus, July 31, 1935............................$ 6.450.00

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

295

Masonic Homes
22. The report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes has had the
careful consideration of your committee. The report is complete in every
detail and fully sets forth not only the income and expenses, but, in rather
minute detail, every activity of the Homes. We wish to commend the
trustees for the thoroughness of the report.
Due to the fact that this activity is making the greatest call upon the
funds of Grand Lodge, a most thorough study of the report has been
made, and particularly every item of expense has been scanned. It is pleasing to note that there has been a reduction in the cost of the maintenance
of the Homes. While it is not great, it is in the right direction. While the
Trustees probably do not need to be reminded of the necessity of the
strictest economy in the operaticn of our Homes, yet this committee cannot
refrain from again making mention of this necessity.
It is also to be noted that the receipts for the Homes have not only been
sufficient to meet their needs, but also to effect a $25,000.00 reduction in
their debt. This is also a move in the right direction and equally gratifying.
There is one item in the report which has given this committee the
most concern, and that is the item of outside relief, which is still mounting,
this year approximating $48,000.00, or an increase of $3,000.00 over the
previous year. It is also to be noted that the outside relief expended by
the Grand Master has mounted .this past year and is not included in that
administered by the Trustees. In digesting this expense, your committee
notes that the amount paid per person in the northern part of the State
is considerably greater than the amount paid per person for the southern
part. It is also to be noted that in the southern portion the Trustees have an
outside worker who checks up, not only on the H ome admissions, but also
on this expenditure. Your committee is sure that the employment of someone to do work of this kind is money well expended. This committee, therefore, suggests to the Trustees that the outside relief in the northern part
of the State be given the same scrutiny as that administered in the south.
It is also to be noted that neither of the Homes are operated to the
"full capacity. It would seem to your committee that the Homes could be
operated to full capacity with practically no increase of operating expenses
over that of actual food and clothing required. It would therefore seem
that no outside relief should be administered either to the old folks or
to children where recipient could be admitted to the Home, until after
the Homes are filled to capacity. We commend this thought to the
Trustees.
The report further discloses that the Homes are holding many items
of real estate scattered throughout the entire jurisdiction. It is the opinion
of this committee that a continued effort should be made to dispose of this
real estate. Most of it is unproductive of income and, of course, all subject
to taxes. We would therefore suggest that some program be adopted by
the Trustees towards placing sale prices on all of this real estate and then

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

296

efforts made to dispose of the same. It might be done by furnishing the
Inspectors and Lodges with list and prices of such real estate as may be
within their respective jurisdictions, or by listing it with real estate
agents. While this may not be considered a fortuitous time for sales, yet
~he possibilities for improvement are so uncertain that your committee
feels certain that some plan should be adopted and a sustained effort be
made for the disposal of this real estate.
While Grand Lodge has established a quota for the admission of
residents to the Home for Adults at Decato, no such quota has ever been
established for admission to the Covina Home. We can see no good reason
why a quota should not be established for the latter; Such quota would
result in a more equitable distribution of the benefits to the several Lodges.
We commend this thought, also, to the Trustees.
For the guidance of future .committees, a statement of estimated income of the Homes for the coming year is included. It is as follows :
Maintenance ........ ,...................................................$ 90,000.00
Building fund .......................................................... 60,000.00
$25.00 tax ................................................................ 54,000.00
Rule 16 ...................................................................;.. 15,000.00
Interest, endowment fund...................................... 25,000.00
State aid .................................................................. 4,000.00
$248,000.00
It would seem to your committee that this should be sufficient income
for the maintenance of the Homes. No attempt is made to budget expenses,
due to exigencies which cannot be foreseen.
In addition to the 50 cents provided for in the Constitution for the
funds of the Homes, it will be necessary to provide for a special tax. It
had been the hope of this committee that less tax than last year for this
purpose could be recommended. After assembling all figures, however, it
does not seem possible to reduce the amount. Therefore, under resolution
providing for the total levy on Grand Lodge, a resolution is being presented
providing for the same amount as last year, that is, 75 cents per member
in addition to the 50 cents provided by the Constitution.

Adopted.
WM. P. JEFFRIES,
ARTHUR

297

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

s. CRITES,

FRANK C. RUPPEL,
CLAUDE MORRISON,
WALTER L.. BERGER,

Committee.

REP ORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the M.'. w:. Grand L odge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials has the honor to report that 1504
members of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled
to participate in its deliberations.
CHESTER H. WARLOW,
CHAS. E. S ONES,
MARTIN L. GRIFFITH,
ANDREW B U RKE,

Committee
Mileage Allowed
Representatives
California.......................-... No. 1.... Harold W. Cookson, Master
Raymond E. Young, Sr. Warden
George F. Wells, Jr. Warden
Harvey A. Marvin, Past Master
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Lee Crawford, Past Master
J. M. Cody, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Past Master
Western Star................- ... No. 2.... William M. Heffelfinger, Master......$19.60
Tehama..........................- ... No. 3....James Calvert, Master........................ 5.40
Andrew Sorensen, Sr. Warden
Chas. L. Pratt, Past Master
Benicia................................. No. 5....Ray F. Beauchamp, Master................ 2.00
Tuolumne.......................-... No. 8.... Ray L. Trabucco, Master.................. 11.60
Corinthian ......................-... No. 9....James W. Robinson, Master.............. 7.50
William Menchinella, Sr. Warden
George W. Williams, Jr. Warden
San Jose ........................._.No. 10.... Christopher H. Smith, Master.......... 2.90
Jos. S. Greenley, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 2.90
Jno. H. McGehee, Past Master and
Committee ........................................ 5.40
Yount... ...........................-.No.12.... Sidney Hust, Master............................ 2.50
Frank W. Ferrari, Sr. Warden
George J. Gerlach, Jr. Warden
Percival S. King, Past Master and
Grand Standard Bearer.................. 2.50
Chas. E. Trower, Past Master
Temple...........................-.. No. 14....David A. Pfeiffer, Master.................. 3.00
Robert C. Bancroft, Past Master
Ralph 0. Hotz, Past Master
Eureka............................... No. 16.... Louis G. Roberts, Master.................... 7.60
Preston W. Smith, Past Master
S. W. Bancroft, Past Master

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Parfaite Union.......-.No. 17....James F. Smith, Master
Paul Gros, Sr. Warden
Leopold Detoy, Jr. Warden
H. Mottet, Past Master
C. H. Artru, Past Master
A. Huguenin, Past Master
A. P . Girerd, Past Master
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
H. Dragon, Past Master and
Inspector
A. L. Auradou, Past Master
Mountain Shade...........-.No. 18.... Raymond D. Mcintosh, Representative . ...................................................... 23.50
San Joaquin................... _No. 19....John J . Mcintosh, Master.................. 5.10
Bruce Hislop, Past Master
Washington................... _.No. 20....Frederick P. Archer, Master............ 5.40
Herman T. Silvius, Jr., Sr. Warden
David H. Pinsler, Jr. Warden
John J. Haken, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 5.40
Frank N. Killam, Past Master
Hawaiian .......................... No. 21....William J. Dickson, Sr. Warden......250.00
Walter C; Shields, Past Master and
Grand Sword Bearer........................250.00
. OccidentaL...................-.No. 22_.. Leland A. Barber, Master
Herbert Chas. Engle, Sr. Warden
Roderick B. Cassidy, Jr. Warden
R. Mohr, Jr. Past Master and Inspector
Ralph K. Marshall, Past Master
Wm. P . Humphreys, Past Master
Madison............................No. 23.... Chas. R. lngramm, Master................ 14.76
Francis W. Bennallack, Sr. Warden
T . M. Harris, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 14.76
George L. Jones, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 15.02
Mariposa...........................No. 24.... Harvey · B. Laycock, Sr. Warden.... 23.22
James P. McElligot, Past Master
Fred C. Alexander, Past Master
Georgetown......................No. 25....John Wood Lessley, Master.............. 13.80
El Dorado......................... No. 26....Elwin L. Veerkamp, Master.............. 9.80
Max L. Davey, Sr. Warden
IIenry Panning, Jr. Warden
Trinity ...................:...•....-.No. 27.... C. A. Paulsen, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 30.60

Golden Gate.................. _.No. 30....Milton C. Iverson, Master
H enry H. Schulz, Sr. W arden
F. S. N obmann, Past Master
James H. Humphreys, Past Master
P aul R. Bjick, Past Master
Edw. C. C. Wellesley, Past Master
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Gold Hill......................_.. No. 32....H. P. Jansen, Past Master, Representative and Inspector.................... 7.10
Ophir...............·-··-- ··- -·No. 33....Francis B. Orth, Master .................... 15.80
San Diego........·-······-··-- ·No. 35....W illiam F. Bishop, Master................ 42.98
I sador Mallen, Sr. Warden
Earl Jos. Verdeckberg, Jr. Warden
R. W. Belding, P ast Master
James B. McLees, Past Master and
Inspector ·····-·····································- 42.98
Claude . H. Morrison, Past Master
and Committee .................................. 42.98
l:Ioward ..........................-.No. 37....George M. Irvine, Sr. W arden.......... 27.52
Santa Cruz..............:......•. No. 38....Fred B. Montell, Jr. Warden............ 7.10
Val C. Waterman, P ast Master
Sacramento...·-··············-· No. 4-0.... Alvin E. Clark, Master...................... 5.40
James B. Giffen, Past Master
Martinez........................... No. 41....Leslie H. Sharp, Master.................... 2.10
Chester R. Arthur, Sr. Warden
Edwin B. Blakemore, Jr. Warden
Louis Mittelman, Past Master and
Inspector............................................. 3.50
Los P. ngeles..................._.No. 42....H arry S. Cohen, Master.................... 34.40
Max G. Samuels, Sr. Warden
Jos. Wm. Lewis, Jr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master,
Inspector and Sr. Grand Deacon.. 34.40
Chas. V. Ecclestone, Past Master
Hiram............................,_.No. 43....Robert C. Nelson, Master.................. 9.30
Mt. Moriah....................... No. 44.... G. T. Murray, Master
Rene A. Vayssie, Sr. Warden
D. B. Richards, Past Master
Crescent........................- .. No. 45 .... Arthur F. Van Deventer, Past Master, and Representative.................... 42.00
Texas................................. No. 46....T homas F lint, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 5.50
David F. Wright, Past Master
F orbestown....................•.No. 50.... Chas. W. Fernandez, Jr. Warden .... 15.00
J. A. Vaughn, Past Master
J. D. Vance, P ast Master
lllinoistown ...................•.. No. SL.Henry R. Weber, Master.................... 9.10

299

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Suisun............................-No. 55 .... Homer L. Burrell, Master.................. 3.00
Harry Nelson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.00
J . H. Murry, Past Master
Volcano............- ............... No. 56.... Paul B. Procter, Jr. Warden............ 13.26
Santa Rosa ....................... No: 57....Karl F. Stolting, Master.................... 3.30
George H. Lindemenn, Sr. Warden
James T. Mailer, Past Master
Union Lodge..................•.No. 58. ... Howard S. Mcintire, Master............ 5.40
Leland H. Carlton, Sr. Warden
George A. Uhl, Past Master
Gravel Range ...................No. 59.... Frederick Jos. Joubert, Master........ 17.50
Plumas.............................. No. 60.... Charles S. Myers, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 21.52
Live Oak........................... No. 61.. .. Clarence .A. Severin, Master
Rulo E. Minard, Sr. Warden
James I. Gilbert, Jr. Warden
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
W. J. Garibaldi, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
atoma...........................•. No. 64....David M. Belfield, Master.................. 6.80
B. H. Barsberry, Past Master
Amador............................. No. 65....Geo~ge Johnson, Master.................... 9.68
Forest................................ No. 66.... Martin W. Trewhella, Master.......... 23.24
Morning Star................... No. 68....Henry Walter Hawley, Master........ 5.10
Harry W. Bessac, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 5.40
Orrin S. Henderson, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 1.90
Enterprise...........;.............No. 70....Robert Verne McPherrin, Master.... 7.30
Robert Cline Hall, Sr. Warden
Oscar L. Harris, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 7.30
Bear Mountain..............•. No. 76.... George C. Thompson, Master............ 10.18
August P. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Calaveras..........................No. 78....Vincent C. Tiscornia, Master............ 9.60
Humboldt......................... No. 79.... Howard B. Melendy, Sr. Warden.... 23.24
James T. Fraser, Past Master, and
Committee .......................................... 23.24
Tone.................................... No. 80....Carl Margrave, Master...................... 7.60
Vesper............................-.No. 84.... Chauncey T. Burgess, Jr., Master.... 16.00
Naval..............................-.No. 87....Joseph Anderson, Master...........:...... 2.00
David Jeffers, Sr. Warden
David L. Potter, Past Master
B. C. Whiteley, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
Mark F. Andrews, Past Master

301

Rose's Bar......').,............. _.N o. 89.... Richard R. Beatty, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 10.50
North Star.........·-\-·····--No. 91....Edward Goodwin, Jr. Warden.......... 30.52
St. Helena................-, ...... No. 93....John A. Mitchell, Jr. Warden.......... 4.00
Theo. Simonsen, Past Master
Henry Clay....................-No. 95....Charles Wm. Geller, Master............ 9.76
Hornitos........................... No. 98....Harrison B. Oatman, Master............ 17.98
Yosemite.......................... No. 99....George A. Jordan, Master.................. 8.40
True W. Fowler, Past Master
Clay......................:.......... No. 101....H. W. Haberkorn, Past Mast~r........ 10.00
B. H. Wilcoxon, Representative
Oroville...........................No. 103....Alroy J. Gault, Sr. Warden.............. 9.00
Lexington....................... No.104.... Harvey B. Henry, Master.................. 35.30
R. G. Wolstoncroft, Past Master
Arcata........................,.....No. 106....James Nelson Palmer, Master.......... 23.74
Pajaro............................. No. 110....Stewart W. Brinkworth, Master...... 5.90
Alfred Burnell, Sr. Warden
Chico................................No. 111....Errol W. Crawford, Sr. Warden .... 10.20
Frank M. Moore, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 10.20
Summit............................No. 112....George Henry Groh!, Master............ 7.10
Eden.................................No. 113....David G. MacNeill, Master................ .90
Concord............................N o. 117.... 0aus F. Linfeldt, Master.................. 5.40
Harold W. Moon, Jr. Warden
James F. Lyon, Past Master
Clinton.............................No. 119.... Byron D. Bigler, Sr. Warden............ 21.60
Fidelity............................N o. 120....J esse Rosenwald, Master
Albert Franklin Neumann,
Sr. Warden
Milton D. Sapiro, Jr. Warden
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Phillip Jacobovics, Past Master
Leon M. Loewenthal, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Benjamin Armer, Past Master
Victor Aaron, Past Master
Alamo............:.................No. 122....Frank Elias Butt, Master.................. 3.20
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Master
Sotoyome.......................•No. 123.... Howard T. Pohley, Master................ 4.10
Table Mountain..............No. 124....Adolph N. Caspare, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 9.00
La Fayette.......................No. 126.... Charles H. King, Master.................... 3.70
James G. M. Thomson, Sr. Warden
Ernest A. Feaks, Past Master and
Inspector............................................ 3.70
Asa L. Hutton, Past Master

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Herman"---------············-·No. 127....John Behrens, Master
/
Hans Emil -Warncke, Sr. Warden
Paul R. Schubert, Pas~ Master
Emil A. N eumarkel, 1 Past Master
Paul H. Posch, Past Master
Louis Muller, Past Master and Inspector
George A. Creon, Past Master
Otto C. von Borstell, Past Master
Visalia.............................No.128....John Gibson Motley, Master.............. 18.40
Robert B. McNutt, Sr. Warden
Nicolaus.......................... No. 129.... Milton J. Frey, Sr. Warden.............. 7.50
Woodbridge...................No. 131....James Anderson Hammond, Master 5.60
Elmore S. Clancy, Sr. Warden
Sincerity.........................No. 132.... Charles E. Blackman, Master............ 21.14
Vacaville................_. _____No. 134....Francis E. Thompson, Master.......... 4.00
E. W. Stoddard, Past Master
Valley..........................- ..No. 135....Lester R. Pope, Master...................... 6.10
Pacific..............................No. 136.... Albert A. Axelrod, Master
William J. Dawson, Sr. Warden
William C. Drinnen, Jr. Warden
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Eugene S. Elkus, Past Master
Harold R. Jacobs, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Crockett.......................... No. 139.... Milo J. North, Master
George Wm. Davis, Sr. Warden
Wilbert H . Mason, Jr. Warden
W . A. Fleischer, Past Master
H. J. Gaevert, Past Master
I. R. Dains, Past Master
Curtis ..........................._.No. 140....Henry Wiedersheim, Master............ 5.20
Franklin...................... _..No°. 143.... Mi!o Ernest Dye, Master.................. 6.40
Clarence E. Holmes, Sr. Warden
Oriental...........................No. 144.... Edward Francis Wall, Master
Charles R. Brown, Sr. Warden
Delbert L. Berry, Jr. Warden
Walter Leonard, Past Master and
Inspector
Graham B. Pearson, Past Master
Wm. E. Conner, Past Master
Volney Stomps, Past Master
Laurence P. Hansen, Past Master
Wm. S. Wells, Past Master
Burnside Cromwell, Past Master
. George B. Lake, Past Master
Chas. T. Clark, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master

Vitru~ius.~···
· ~:~;:.1~5°.~::lli:: ~~:::s:::~

........
Master.......... :::
·
.
Theodore J. Friis, Sr. Warden
Abell... ................... ........ No. 146.... Ronald Marion Luce, Sr. W arden.... 6.90
Norman G. Buhn, Jr. W arden
Eel River................... \ ..No. 147.... W. G. Orman, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 19.74
A. S. Fulmor, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 23.74
Lassen............................_No. 149....John F. Wood, Master........................ 25.26
Ivo r B. Clark, Past Master and
lnspector ............................................ 25.26
F. L. Holmes, Past Master
Molino............................ No. 150.... Leo Thomas Clark, Sr. W arden...... 15.30
Woodland......................•No. 156.... Phil O'Hanneson, Master.................. 5.20
George A. Zane, Sr. Warden
Keystone......................-.No. 161....A. L. Graves, Representative............ 6.90
Harmony....... _...............No. 164....Emil M. Allison, Jr. Warden............ 30.40
Earnest M. Innes, Past Master
Excelsior.........................No. 166.... Ray~ond T . Higgins, Master
Walter J. Pybon, Sr. Warden
Elwood R. Olsen, Jr. Warden
Samuel H. Perkins, Past Master
Arnold T. Brown, Past Master
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
James W. Crosby, Past Master
Ralph G. Curtis, Past Master
Alameda..........................No. 167....Frank A. Katzer, Master.................... 2.00
Herbert F. Harrold, Sr. W arden
F. B. Hartman, Past Master
Redwood City .................No. 168.... Raymond K. Maynard, Jr., Sr.
Warden .............................................. 1.60
L. A. Heiner, Past Master
Mission ...........................No. 169....John D. Marshall, Master
Richard L. Plath, Sr. Warden
Harry F. Husted, Jr. Warden
Robert E. Allen, Past Master
Wm. R. Arnold, Past Master
George A. Hartman, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
Elk Grove....................... No. 173.... Godfrey F. Mix, Jr., Master.............. 6.50
George M. Taverner, Past Master
Thomas L. Conrad, Past Master
Drytown..........................No. 174....J ohn J. Myer, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 9.26
Atltioch........................... No. 175.... Pa~l Wm. Ayers, Jr. Warden.......... 3.30

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I

Phoenix...........................No. 178....William E. Young, Master.1.•........ .... 37.90
Roy Beery Cole, Sr. War,den
Mendocino......................No. 179....Kelly B. McGuire, Sr. Warden........ 21.12
Petaluma.........................No. 180.... Arthur E. Owen, ;ta Master and
Representative................................. 2.40
Arbuckle........................•No. 182....F. Wendell Smith, r. Warden........ 6.90
Clear Lake................- ....No. 183.... Clarence E. Corum, Master.............. 13.00
Sierra Valley..............-.No. 184.... Arthur E. Strang, Master.................. 28.40
Claiborne.........................No. 185....D. W. Dunbar, Past Master
William H. Smith, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 20.12
Evening Star..................No. 186.... Alex Parker, Past Master and Representative ........................................ 30.30
Keith................................No. 187....George H. Smith, Master................_ 4.70
George E. Skillicorn, Sr. Past
Master
.
P. R. Colson, Past Master
Oakland...........................No. 188.... Herbert J. Thornbury, Master
Milton Hendrickson, Sr. Warden
Melvin L. Graves, Jr. Warden
Sophus Nelson, Past Master and
· Inspector
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Thomas I. Miller, Past Master
W. S. MacMurtry, Past Master
Fred L. Arbogast, Past Master
Northern Light..............No. 190....Wallace A. Thatcher, Sr. Warden.. 20.10
Marin......................- .......No. 191....Albert D. Turner, Sr. Warden........ 1.74
Henning S. Vandel, Jr. Warden
A. B. Dewing, Past Master
Jos. Block, Past Master
Harry F. Meilink, Past Master
A. L. Borkheim, Past Master
H. K. Wolton, Past Master
Chas. F. Smith, Past Master
Santa Barbara ................No. 192.... Alfred Wm. Kincaid, Master............ 27.10
Ferndale..........................N o. 193.... Chas. E. Mathesen, Master:............... 24.92
Mountain View..............No. 194....Joseph Eastwood, Jr., Master............ 2.20
Hans V. Lund, Sr. Warden
Leon H. Watson, Jr. Warden
Buckeye...........................No. 195.... Leland L. Stith, Sr. Wa~den............ 5.00
A. H. Manyan, Past Master
San Simeon.....................No. 196.... Ben Tognazzini, Master...................... 24.00
Wilmington....................No. 198.... Bernard Hansen, Sr. Warden............ 35.60
Hartley............................No. 199....Roy Bucknell, Sr. Warden................ 11.10
Truckee...........................No. 200....Wm. F. Wilkie, Jr., Master.............. 18.30
Silveyville.......................No. 201....Earl G. Duke, Master.......................... 4.10

Pentalpha..

>...... .

305

..No. 202....Robei:t M. Woodworth, Master........ 34.40
Lawrence C. Kelly, Past Master and
.
\
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
James B. Gist, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 34.40
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master
and Past Grand Master .................. 34.40
Theo. T. Spurgeon, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Deacon...................... 34.40
Confidence......................No. 203 .... Walter Chas. Buttle, Jr. Warden.... 5.66
Christopher Dudley, Past Master
Salinas .............................No. 204....Frederick A. Peck, Master................ 6.90
Darrel M. Hitchcock, Sr. Warden
J . A. Anderson, Past Master
Olivet... ............................No. 205....Chas. W. Butler, Sr. Warden............ 10.80 ·
Stanislaus.......:................No. 206... _Judson N. Stone, Sr. Warden.......... 6.20
Anaheim..........................No. 207....A. Bird Cross, Master...........~---········· 36.00
Rio Vista........................No. 208....Donald Buchanan, Jr. Warden.......... 4.40
King David's...........,...... No. 209.... Lyle F. Carpenter, Master.................. 19.00
Howard B. Kirtland, Sr. Warden
John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary
Walter D. Adriance, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Steward.................... 20.00
Friendship.......................No. 210.... Carl Helmer Nelson, Master............ 2.90
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Past Master
·
William W. Paull
C. C. Clark
John F. Knight
San Benito...................... No. 211....Frank H. Wood, Master.................... 5.50
Max D. Ley, Sr. Warden
M. C. Arthur, Jr. Warden
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master and
-Inspector ····-····-································ 5.50
South San Francisco.....No. 212.... Andrew D. Zanetti, Master
Charles H. Kispert, Sr. Warden
C. F. Hensel, Past Master
W. G. Green, Past Master
C. H. Kramer, Past Master
H. A. Kruger, Past Master
S. M. McDonald, Past Master
San Buenaventura........ No. 214.... William Jos. Hewston, -Master........ 29.80
Homer Wheeler, Sr. Warden
M. ·L. Brazil, Past Master and In·spector ................................................ 29.80
David J. Reese, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 29.80
C. R. Strong, Past Master
Jos. M. Argabrite, Past Master
·····\

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oak Grove·-----------··:·······No.

21L.Clai-~nce ]. Nobmann, Mt_

Mansfield White Garrat, Sr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Pas
aster
M. C. Godfrey, Pa Master
T. Howen, Past Master
Doric................................No. 216.... Paul R. Morrison, Master
Jacob Wilbur Ehrlich
Samuel Hamburg, Jr. Warden
Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Monterey........................No. 217....Thomas H. Douglas, Master............ 7.40
Mathew Stahl, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. Watson, Past Master
Mosaic.............................No. 218.... George F. Adams, Master.................. 2.90
M. J. Oark, Past Master and Inspector ···········-········-············-··-··-·····-· 2.90
Speranza Italiana.......... No. 219....Joe Camino, Jr., Sr. Warden
J. M. Icardo, Past Master and Inspector
G. D. Ambrosio, Past Master
John Isola, Past Master
Antonio Cog!iandro, Past Master
John G. Alioto, Past Master
Downey...........................No. 220.... Ira Ellis Triggs, Sr. Warden............ 35.10
lnyo.................................No. 221.... Wal!ace V. Campbell, Master............ 45.30
A. C. Krater, Past Master and Inspector ··-···················--··-····-····--·········· 45.30
Roseville .........................No. 222.... Charles W. Lauppe, Master.............. 6.50
Bakersfield......................No. 224....Francis K. Hamlin, Master................ 23.20
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 23.20
J. R. Gist, Past Master
Brooklyti.........................No. 225 .... William Keay, Jr. Warden
Howell P. Capell, Past Master
Francis J. Rennie, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo.......................No. 226....Thomas Chester Gunn, Master........ 1.10
Hjalmar Johnson, Sr. Warden
Hugh Willard Allen, Jr. Warden
Athens.............................No. 228....Dawson F. Winter, Sr. Warden...... 4.60
Solano.........................._.No. 229.... Donald H. MacLean, Master............ 2.04
Harry Wm. Brown, Sr. Warden
Alvord B. Cushing, Past Master
Frank A. Hensley, Past Master
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Henry A. Frahn, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

307

North Butte....~ ...........No. 230....Richard W ..Campbell, Sr. Warden.. 6.90
Covelo..................-'·-····-No. 231....Earl R. Caldwell, Master.................... 17.74
J anesville............... \ ....•N o. 232....Otis Clark, Master··········-·················- 29.26
Calistoga....................-1\..No. 233 ....John Emory Williams, Master.......... 4.50
Hope.....................·-···---J'lo. 234....Koust P. Nicolos, Jr. Warden.......... 24.92
HilJs Ferry..................... NQ. 236....Raymond E. Foreman, Sr. Warden.. 6.60
W. S. Thompson, Past Master and
_
Inspector ··-····--········--······-·-··---···-·-····· 6.60
Guadalupe....................... No. 237....Dario Ferini, Sr. Warden .................. 20.40
Colusa.___________________________ No. 240....Robert A. Caldwell, Master______________ 8.10
E. L. Hicok, Past Master and Inspector ·---··----·-·---·---------·-··---·--·--------··- 8.10
Santa Ana....-----·····-----~No.241.. .. Augustus H. Allen, Master................ 36.40
Sidney J. Babcock, Sr. Warden
Magnol_ia.......---·····-·····-No. 242....John Robert Watson, Master___________ 27.10
·
Orange Ralph McNa!l, Sr. Warden
Eucalyptus.......·----·······..No. 243-...Alfred B. Morris, Master.................. 1.30
Robert P. Leibe, Jr. Warden
W. E. Rowlands, Past Master
Alcatraz.........................~No. 244.... Herbert H. Harry, Sr. Warden
John M. Ward, Jr. Warden
George K. Harry, Past Master
C. C. Eien, Past Master
Lewis T. Corwin, Past Master
E. A. Clothier, Past Master
LaureL--·-·······-··-----········No. 245.... Walter J. Matthias, Sr. Warden...... 9.10
Pomona........................... No. 246.... Ernest R. Geddes, Sr. Warden........ 36.50
George A. Ritter, Jr. Warden
Fresno.......:......................No. 247.... Harry Wm. Hedburg, Sr. Warden.. 15.70
C. H. Warlow, Past Master, and
Committee·······················-·······---········ 15.70
H. F. White, Past Master, and
Committee·····························--···--·-···· 15.70
Alturas............................No. 248....Arthur H. Burmister, Master............ 35.36
C. S. Baldwin, Past Master and Inspector --····-····-····--···-···············-·········· 35.36
Landmark....................... No. 253....Welland Naismith, Master................ 6.10
Reading ........................... No. 254.... Arthur 0. Petterson, Master............ 18.10
G. C . De Forest, Past Master and
Inspector········-·············-·············-······· 18.10
G. P. Rodgers, Past Master
Welcome......................... No. 255....Walter N. Hubbard, Jr. Warden ...... 18.30
Lodi..................................No. 256.... Eldred E. Brown, Sr. Warden.......... 5.40
Robert S. Fuller, Jr. Warden
T. G. Wright, Past Master and Inspector ·················--··-·-··-·····-··-·········--- 5.40

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Penrhyn.......................... No. 258.... George C. Henry, Master/................. 7.10
Evergreen .......................No. 259 ....Willard G. Babcock, M;ister .............. 37.90
Wilbert R. Graham, Sr. Warden
J. H. Jordan, Past Master
James MacDougall, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master and
Inspector.............................................. 37.90
A. Heber Winder, Past Master
King Solomon's .............No. 260.... Forrester ]. Millar, Master
Chas. H. Teubert, Sr. Warden
David Kerr, Jr. Warden
W. K. Cullen, Past Master
R. V. Whiting, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master
T. B. Thomas, Past Master
Wm. P. Filmer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Tuscan .............................No. 261....James L. Spriggs, Master.................. 7.60
Lompoc ............................No. 262....Harry A. Betague, Sr. Warden ........ 23.80
Hesperian .................c......No. 264....Theodore A. Twitchell, Sr. Warden 21.22
Orland ............................. No. 265 .... Stanley E. Coffey, Sr. Warden........ 10.00
Herman Thode, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 10.00
Galt.................................. No. 267....Joseph L. Orvis, Past Master............ 5.40
. Durant... ..........................No. 268....Donald D. Graves, Sr. Warden
John]. Hink, Jr. Warden
N. 0. Millar, Past Master and Inspector
Walter W. Bradley, Past Master
William H. Waste, Past Master
Olive Branch.................. No. 269 ....0scar C. Wilson, Master.................... 18.40
Snow Mountain............. No. 271.. .. Charles Alexander, Representative.. 14.10
Pasadena .........................No. 272.... Kenneth H. Munroe, Master............ 35.20
Torrance C. Welch, Sr. Warden
Ralph T . Merriam, Past Master and
Sr. Grand Steward .......................... 35.20
Anchor .............................No. 273 .... Cecil M. Prior, Sr. Warden.............. 35.10
Arroyo ............................ .No. 274.... William M. Houser, Sr. Warden ...... 19.74
A. H. Severson, Past Master
OaJ<dale........................... No. 275 .... B. F. Hoisholt, Past Master.............. 7.10
Selma ...........,...................No. 277 .... Benton Belew, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 16.70
Southern California......No. 278.... Titus Elliott Berry, Master.............. 34.40
Wm. P. Jeffries, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 34.40
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 34.40
E. B. Spencer, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

309

Hanford .......................... No. 279.... Chas. E. Furby, Jr., Sr. Warden ...... 17.80
Madera.........................,..No. 280.... Frank Davis, Master.......................... 14.50
Arthur L. Peime, Sr. Warden
Mount Shasta ................No. 281.. .. William Chas. Gover, Master ............ 17.40
Edwin L. Story, Past Master
Callayomi... ....................No. 282.... Chas. Glaysher, Master...................... 9.00
South West.....,...............No. 283 ....Carl S. Owen, Master........................ 42.98
Ferdinand T. Hutcheson, Sr. Warden
E. G. Spofford, Past Master and
Inspector ..............·.............................. 42.98
San Miguel..................... No. 285 .... Leander M. Weir, Master.................. 12.20
Paso Robles ....................No. 286.... 0tto M. Kuehl, Sr. Warden.............. 12.80
Winnedumah................_No. 287....Birtsell E. Johnson, Master.............. 46.72
Chas. G. Leichman, Past Master
Maxwell... .......................No. 288....Alfred Leroy McGuffin, Jr. Warden 8.10
Elsinore...........................No. 289 .... 0aude L. Callison, Sr. Warden ........ 40.22
Arthur Emil Gustafson, Jr. Warden
East Gate .........................No. 290 .... Ralph Ellis Smith, Master ................ 34.40
Edward H. Martin, Sr. Warden
F. M. Smith, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 34.40
Santa Paula ....................No. 291.. .. Robert Lee Jackson, Sr. Warden ...... 30.80
Los Gatos ........................No. 292.... Carl S. Balch, Master.......................... 3.10
F. M. Widby, Past Master and Inspector '................................................ 2.90
Orange Grove ................ No. 293 .... George M. Lee, Sr. Warden.............. 36.40
John D. Campbell, Jr. Warden
.
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Master
Traver .............................No. 294 .... 0aude F. Browning, Sr. Warden.... 17.00
Mt. Jackson....................No. 295 .... Walter G. Fonda, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 4.50
Silver Gate ......................No. 296.... Frederick S. Weed, Sr. Warden...... 42.98
Hans P. L. Beck, Jr. Warden
Francis Mitchell, Past Master
R. P. Wakeman, Past Master
Dunsmuir ........................No. 297....Albert D. Lininger, Master ................ 22.90
Liberty .............................N o. 299....Robert G. Trogden, Master................ 2.70
Charles A. English, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 2.90
Redlands......................... No. 300 .... Lewis Barber, Sr. Warden................ 38.50
A. P. Crim, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 38.40
Harry Horne, Past Master and
Grand Bible Bearer .......................... 38.40
Ontario............................No. 301....Henry C. Billings, Master.................. 36.80
Santa Lucia...................•No. 302....William R. Luckett, Sr. Warden...... 9.60
Charles Epps, Jr. Warden

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Porterville...................... No. 303 .... Walter J. Herbage, Sr. Warden ........ 19.90
Chas. J. Cummings, Jr. Warden
E. S. Lawson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 19.90
Reedley ............................No. 304... .Jens Sorensen, Sr. Warden ................ 17.20
Azusa...............................No. 305 .... Phyllis C. Bradshaw, Sr. Warden .... 35.90
Ashlar.....................:......-No. 306.... Albert J. Erichsen, Sr. Warden ........ 37.90
Santa Monica................. No. 307.... Wallace F. Hasbrouck, Sr. Warden 35.70
Frank M. Wise, Past Master and
\Inspector ............................................ 35.70
Monrovia......................-No. 308.... Wilbur A. Treadwell, Jr., Master.... 35.50
Harry Wm. Sharpe, Sr. Warden
Leslie M. Renaker, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 35.50
Delano ............................•No. 309.... Chas. James Dunn, Master................ 21.30
A. Sheppard, Past Master
Sisson........................... _..No. 310....Chas. P. Graham, Sr. Warden.......... 23.80
Los Banos....................... No. 312 .... J. E. Place, Past Master and Rep. resentative ........................................ 7.80
Tehachapi... .................... No. 313.... William R. Slagle, Master................ 25.10
Temescal... ...................... No. 314.... William C. Hutchison, Master.......... 38.80 ·
Avery A. Briggs, Jr. Warden
F. E. Snedicor, P.ast Master, and
Committee ........................................ 38.80
Norwalk..........................No. 315 .... Herman D. Sheets, Sr. Warden........ 35.40
Sanger....•..................•.....No. 316.... William F. Betzold, Master................ 16.60
·
John J. Linenbach, Jr . .Warden
Fallbrook........................ No. 317....John C. Baxter, Master...................... 42.02
Emmanuel.......................No. 318....J. A. Foster, Representative.............. 8.80
Hollenbeck. .................... .No. 319.... W. Denny Johnston, Master.............. 34.40
Alexander H. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Leo V. Youngworth, Past Master
South Gate ..................... .No. 320.... William B. Gage, Master.................. 34.40
Frederick E. Ussher, Sr. Warden
John R. Neelands, Jr. Warden
M. L. Griffith, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 34.40
George M. Donovan, Past Master
Charles Ruble, Past Master
Alisal... ............................ No. 321....Samuel D. Glassey, Master................ 2.50
Stanley C. Smallwood, Sr. Warden
Walter T. Nilson, Jr. Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra ........................No. 322.... Francis M. Freeborn, Master ............ 34.90
Ora H. Portner, Sr. Warden

Whittier.......................... No. 323 .... Perry W. Schuyler, Master.............. 35.60
Claud Lamb, Sr. Warden
Roy I. LeFever, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 35.60
Corona............................ No. 324.... David Link Warden, Master .............. 35.20
John A. Wormell, Sr. Warden
Consuelo..........................No. 325.~.. Leslie K. Wharton, Master ................ 42.48
Needles............................No. 326.... C. C. Mikesell, Representative.......... 46.02
Long Beach ............ ~ ....... No. 327.... Hugh R. Etzell, Master...................... 35.70
Herbert G. Polhill, Sr. Warden
William Jay Burgin, Jr. Warden
E. T. Date, Past Master
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master and
Inspector .............................................. 35.70
C. A. Weihl, Past Master
Redondo .......................... No. 328 .... William F. Seifert, Master................ 35.70
Ernest Wm. Thorne, Sr. Warden
Claude Brooks, Past Master
Vallee de France............No. 329 .... Arthur Fallandy, Master.................... 34.40
Auguste E. Blanchard, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 34.40
Kilauea ............................No. 330.... Horace Wm. J. Joyce, Sr. Warden..283.00
Pacific Grove..................No. 331....William R. LaPorte, Master............ 7.50
John C. Greenwald, Sr. Warden
George H. Schuyler, JI'. Warden
Chas. K. Tuttle, Past Master and
Inspector.............................................. 7.50
San Pedro ......................•No. 332 .... Frank E. Kemp, Master ...................... 35.70
James F. Smith, Sr. Warden
Covina..............................No. 334... .]ohn F. Brackett, Sr. Warden .......... 35.92
West Gate ...............•.......No. 335 .... Edward L. Kozberg, Master.............. 34.40
· Abe Blumenthal, Sr. Warden
Fruitvale......................... No. 336 .... Rudolph Jenny, Master
Earl L. Howatt, Sr. Warden
James C. Holland, Jr. Warden
Fritz Schuler, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Carquinez ........................No. 337....J. E. Hughes, Past Master and
Inspector
James Smith, Past Master
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
James King, Past Master
Ben F. Scribner, Past Master
San Jacinto .....................No. 338.... Sherman E. Lewis, Master ................ 41.94
Fullerton......................... No. 339.... William C. Stanford, Master ............ 35.90
Joseph H. Giltz, Sr. Warden
H. C. McMaster, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 35.90

310

311

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
312

313

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oxnard............................No.341....Robert M. Wright, Jr., Sr. Warden 30.4-0
San Fernando....- ..........No. 343....Herson Ben Clampitt, Master .......... 33.20
C. L. Christensen, Past Master
Starr King.................,....No. 344.... Harry H. Baier, Master
Fred C. Reitler, Sr. Warden
Hal Curtis, Jr. Warden
Solomon Deutsch, Past Master
H. L . Wayne, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
C. C. Hinshaw, Past Master
L. S. Bright, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
M. N. Howe, Past Master
Alfred T. Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector
Charles 0 . Munson, Past Master
A. C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Brentwood......................No. 345.... Shirley S. Summers, Jr. Warden...... 3.80
Palo Alto........................No. 346....Robert L. Cody, Master.................... 1.90
Carroll L. Blacker, Jr. Warden
·
A. N. Umphreys, Past Master
N. W. Glaeser, Past Master
McKinley..................._...No. 347.... 0scar E . Erickson, Master................ 1.00
Leon Michel, Jr. Warden
San Bernardino.............No. 348.... Victor N. Hodge, Master.................. 37.90
Mark M. Sinsabaugh, Jr. Warden
George Feetham, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 37.90
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 34.4-0
Sequoia........................_.No. 349....Arthur G. Smith, Master
Cyril W. McC!ean, Sr. Warden
Fred B. Zimmerman, Jr. Warden
W . W . Kergan, Past Master and Inspector
R. D. Langbrey, Past Master
A. D. Beuttel, Past Master
Earl Warren, Past Master and
Senior Grand Warden
Jesse F. Mote, Past Master
Palestine..........................No. 351....Jack Stockton, Master........................ 34.4-0
Walter F. Haas, Past Master, and
Committee .......................... :............... 34.4-0
Sunset..........- ..................No. 352....Charles S. Thomas, Master................ 34.40
· L. C. Campbell, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.4-0
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 34.4-0
R. W. Miller, Past Master and
Junior Grand Warden.................... 34.40

Pinole..............................No. 353 ....Compton Gault, Jr., Master................ 1.4-0
F. E. Smith, Jr., Sr. Warden
Stephen Johnston, Past Master
George W. Pfeiffer, Past Master
Presidio..... .................... No. 354.... Max Wassman, Jr., Master
·
Chas. Ross Cooper, Sr. Warden
E. R. Johnson, Past Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler ·
E. G. Wunner, Past Master
E. H. Wilkens, Past Master
Gaston Pope, Past Master
Louis E . Boivin, Past Master
:follywood................,....No. 355 .... Stephen E. Wilson, Master................ 34.4-0
Ward J. Henry, Sr. Warden
W; B. Ogden, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 34.40
D. F. Black, Past Master
Mill Valley..................... No. 356....Carl F. Fennema, Master.................. .80
Arthur F. Thomas, Sr. Warden
Herbert A. Klyce, Jr. Warden
K. J. C. Seymour, Past Master and
Inspector
F. A. Penn, Past Master
Harvey A. Klyce, Past Master
Buena Park.....................No. 357.... Fred E. Winters, Jr. Warden............ 35.70
Golden State...................No. 358....Thomas H. Eewers, Master.............. 34.40
Frederick G. Robb, Sr. Warden
A. B. Dittman, Past Master
Benjamin G. Wright, Past Master,
. and Committee .................................. 34.4-0
Loya)ton ......................-No. 359....Hjalmar Mortensen, Master.............. 25.4-0
San Francisco................ No. 360.... Kenneth F. Saysette, Master
Earle Freeman, Sr. Warden
William F. Jebe, Jr. Warden
H. L . Bush, Past Master
H. D. Oliphant, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
S. I. Simmons, Past Master
Henry Lewis Alves, Past Master
George Weinhold, Past Master
Ernest R. Byers, Past Master
John Arthur Walden, Past Master
Fort Bragg..................... No. 361....Franklyn Oliver Albertson, Sr.
Warden .............................................. 18.82
Norman Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 18.82

Ji4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Charity............................ No. J62 .... Conrad E. York, Master.................... J.10
Mark S. Stocker, Jr. Warden
Berkeley.........................:No. J6J .... Earl DeWitt Smith, Master
Clarke W. Cr~cker, Sr. Warden
Frank A. Fielitz, Jr. Warden
R. P. Arnold, Past Master
Willits ......_. ......................No. 36S .... Carl 0. Anderson, Sr. Warden........ 12.40
A. B. Guslander, Past Master and
Inspector ··········································- 12.40
Las Palmas ..................... No. J66 ....Harold H. Gehrke, Sr. Warden ........ IS.70
A. W. Horn, Past Master
J. R. Erskine, Past Master
South Pasadena ............. No. J67 .... Clinton M. Sampson, Master............ JS.00
George W. Roche, Sr. Warden
H. E. Vedder, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ JS.00
G. D. Bragonier, Past Master
Frank Holbrook Bush, Past Master
John W . Shenk, Past Master
Unity................~ .............. No. J68 .... Elmer L. Fairchild, Jr., Sr. Warden J4.00
D. W. Stephenson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ J4.40
Ocean Park. ................... No. J69 ....Thomas D. West, Master.................. JS.70
Hamilcar Smith, Sr. Warden
Amity.... ,......................... No. J70 .... Nathaniel Oliver Slate, Master
Henry 0 . Hammerich, Sr. Warden
R. I. Wisler, Past Master
R. M. Henry, Past Master
Richard Cain, Past Master
le Progres
de l'Oceanie...............• No. J71....Alexander D. Potts, Master ..............2SO.OO
Gardena..........................No. J72....Arthur C. Brown, Sr. Warden .......... JS.20
Manuel D. Nelson, Jr. Warden
Veteran ...........................No. J7J ....Orrin H. Tryon, Master.................... JS.40
Theron E. Coe, Sr. Warden
Jewel ........- .................. _..No. J74 .... Louis P. Mayer, Master
Edgar M. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Chas. E. Manouk, Jr. Warden
Chas. Crawford, Past Master
Chas. E. Anderson, Past Master and
Grand Organist
Leo Bruck, Past Master
J. H . Adams, Past Master
J . P. Rundell, Past Master
C. J. Shipaugh, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master

Richmond .......................No. J7S ....Roy T. Bauer, Master
Harry P. Robinet, Sr. Warden
Ross L. Perkins, Jr. Warden
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
J. H . Conner, Past Master
]. L. Halley, Past Master
W. C. Johnson, Past Master
R. T. Haas, Past Master
Francis Drake................No. J76 ....Dalrymple Wm. Duncan, Master
Franklyn A. Dominy, Jr. Warden
R. M. Zernke, Past Master
Artesia............................No. J77 ....C. Elmer Stormes, Master.................. JS.SO
F. D. Caldwell, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ JS.SO
Mlzpah...........................•No. J78 .... 0tto A. Kaulbars, Jr. Warden .......... J4.40
F. E. Burt, Past Master
Fillmore...... :................... No. J79 .... Lesley G. Burson, Master .................. Jl.40
Edwin S. Rice, Sr. Warden
Ronald A. Ritchie, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach .........No. 380.... Eddie D. Harpold, Master................ J6.90
Louis Conrady, Sr. Warden
Poscoe E. Mcintosh, Jr. Warden
Oceanside.:......................No. J81....George A. Otis, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 41.JO
A. B. Eschwege, Representative ........ 41.30
Highland Park.............. No. J82 .... Arthur S. Kirkpatrick, Master ........ J4.40
Chas. 0. Brittain, Jr. Warden
Millard M. Mier, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
OrosL. ...........................-No. J83 .... Milton F. Spaith, Master.................... 18.00
El Centro........................No. 384....Edwin N. D. Hatch, Master.............. S2.02
Herbert R. Anderson, Sr. Warden
Chas. E. Sones, Past Master, and
Committee .......................................... S2.02
John S. Ross, Past Master and Past
Grand Master .................................... J4.40
Dinuba.............................No. J8S .... C. L. Fraser, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 17.SO
E. C. W. Scruggs, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 17.SO
Coalinga .......................... No. J87 .... Roland G. Obert, Sr. Warden.......... 20.80
Parnassus....................... No. J88 ....George F. Haag, Master
Vernon Chas. Richards, Sr. Warden ·
Samuel Miller, Jr. Warden
F. C. Sunder, Past Master
J . C. Durhan, Past Master
Charles Goff, Past Master
E. F. Louideck, Past Master

JlS

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Palos Verdes .................. No. 389.... Clark Cornelius Burgess, Master.... 35.70
lmperiaL. ....................... No. 390 .... Lawrence Wm. Allen, Sr. Warden .. 52.02
East Belt... ...................... No. 391....James F. Cooper, Master.................... 14.00
Wilbur B. Armstrong, Sr. Warden
West Lake ......................No. 392....John W. Hill, Master.......................... 34.40
Wm. E. Rydalch, Sr. Warden
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 34.40
Walter L. Berger, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 34.40
W. T. Osterholt, Past Master
C. E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Balder ..............................No. 393 .... Byron H. Martin, Master
Donald J. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Clarence H. Peterson, Jr. Warden
N. S. Stohl, Past Master
John 0. Hanson, Past Master
University.......................No. 394.... Chas. E. Gartman, Master.................. 34.40
Wentworth A. Wolfe, Sr. Warden
Edward A. Brown, Past Master
Turlock ........................... No. 395 .... Lloyd G. Cunningham, Master.......... 7.00
H. 0. Carlson, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 7.00
Apollo ..............................No. 396.... 0scar Robert Presco, Master
Oscar George Lake, Jr. Warden
Rising Light... ................ No. 397.... Rueben F. Marshall, Master.............. 34.64
Ralph D. Treadwell, Sr. Warden
John Richards, Past Master
Walter D. Piper, Past Master
Fraternity....................... No. 399....W. E. Drew, Past Master.................. 2.90
Burlingame.....................No. 400.... George B. Flagg, Master
Walter C. Schafer, Sr. Warden
S. L. Hawken, Past Master and Inspector
C. J. Orman, Past Master
Wm. Henry Eddy, Past Master
Patrick R. Rorke, Past Master
Bay View........................N o. 401....Eugene D. Sellers, Master
Hartley A. Postlethwaite, Sr. Warden
Samuel W. Gardiner, Jr. Warden
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley.......................... No. 402.... William Oliver Gerry, Sr. Warden .. 51.70
Yerba Buena...................No. 403 ....Turner McAllaster, Past Master
Inspector
Albert B. Cosad, Representative

Glendora......................... No. 404.... Ralph L. McKenna, Jr. Warden........ 36.10
Moneta ............................ No. 405 .... Homer C. White, Master .................... 34.40
Burbank. ......................... N o. 406.... Herbert S. Sprinkle, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 33.70
La Mesa .......................... No.407 ....Paul T. Mannen, Jr. Warden............ "42.98
Sierra Madre................_No. 408.... Thomas M. Schwartz, Master .......... 35.20
Thomas Miller, Jr., Jr. Warden
Rudolph R. Hartman, Past Master
Honolulu.........................No. 409 .... Harold L. Houvener, Sr. Warden ... .250.00
Charter Rock ................. No. 410.... George T. Babcock, Master
Frank W. Plant, Sr. Warden
Roy M. McHale, Jr. Warden
Arthur L. Patterson, Past Master
James K. Fisk, Past Master
Perris .............................. No. 411....Calvin S. Foss, Master ........................ 39.18
Calexico.......................... No. 412.... Marcus Ward Bates, Master ............ 52.02
William L. Jacobs, Sr. Warden
Waucoba......................... No. 413 .... lra W. Uhlmeyer, Jr. Warden.......... 47.60
Arlington........................ No. 414.... Carl F. Peters, Master ........................ 34.40
Benjamin M. Banks, Sr. Warden
Silver Trowel................No. 415 ....Henry Clay Blanchett, Master.......... 34.40
Harold B. Chambers, Sr. Warden
William F. King, Past Master
C. L. Bagley, Past Master
Lindsay............................No. 416.... Walter Wm. Baxley, Master ............ 19.30
Herman C. Landers, Sr. Warden
John H. Mercer, Jr. Warden
Clovis ...............................No. 417....George E. Talbert, Sr. Warden ........ 16.50
Elysian ....:....:..................No. 418.... Henry E. Phister, Master .................. 34.40
Henry D. Coley, Sr. Warden
Harry L. Jackson Nicholas, Jr.
Warden
Robert F. Callender, Past Master
H. N. Waugh, Past Master
Upland.............................No.419 ... .Sam Lester Lamb, Jr. Warden .......... 36.90
W. R. Farmer, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 36.90
Kerman ........................... No. 420 .... Gail B. Hillhouse, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 15.00
Inglewood ....................... No. 421....Ralph E. Dent, Master........................ 34.40
George C. Kinsfather, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past M·a ster and
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
· Eagle Rock .....................No. 422.... Bernard A. Lee, Sr. Warden............ 34.40
York. ................................No. 423 ....James W. Lanyon, Master................ 34.40

316

317

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exeter.................·-······-·No. 424....R. B. Montgomery, Master................ 18.90
William A. Waterman, Sr. Warden
Frank W. Mixter, Past Grand Master ........................................................ 18.90
L. R. Coote, Past Master
Holtville..........................No. 425 ....Jasper V. Yeargin, Jr. Warden........ 52.02
Midway........................... No. 426....Chester M. Inman, Master................ 26.90
Chino Valley...................No. 427.... Ernest 0 . Carlisle, Sr. Warden........ 36.80
San Dimas......................No. 428.... Henry G. Mills, Sr. Warden.............. 36.20
Arthur E: Tangeman, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 36.20
Pittsburg........................ No. 429.... Lester A. Richards, Master................ 3.00
Archie V. McFaul, Past Master
McCloud..................... _.. No. 430....Lawrence G. Evenson, Sr. Warden.. 25.80
Alpha...............................No. 431....George M. Clarke, Master.................. 1.00
E. George Harlow, Sr. Warden
William F. Fraser, Jr. Warden
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
John W. Smiley, Past Master
Everett C. Lamerecht, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
Hammonton ................... No. 433....Guy Wm. Coats, Jr. Warden............ 9.00
Maricopa.........................No. 434....John W. Jones, Sr. Warden.............. 26.60
Fairmount.......................No. 435....Daniel I. Bosschart, Master
Max A. Cowan, Sr. Warden
Denman S. Wagstaff, Past Master
Henry F. Harwood, Past Master
Edward F. Leonard, Past Master
William 0. Purdy, Past Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
Rudolph llling, Past Master
· Pieter Arnoldus DeVries, Past Master
Ivan Thomas Crase, Past Master
George W. Gerhard
Claremont......................No. 436....W. Howard Tooker, Master.............. 36.60
Earl Fort Jones, Sr. Warden
Lancaster.............;........-No. 437.... George Milton Rush, Sr. Warden.... 29.70
Acacia..............................No. 438....Rene Burgin, Master.......................... 34.40
Hermann Dehnhardt, Sr. Warden
William Wiesner, Jr. Warden
Arthur Schramm, Past Master
Karl L. Ratzer, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
Tyrian............................. No. 439.... Arnold H. Morris, Sr. Warden........ 5.20

Standard......................... No. 440....Wesley P. Relfe, Master
Edward Leslie, Jr., Warden
William Flack Wood, Past Master
John E. Brunzill, Past Master
Coronado...................:....No. 441....Howard L. Pfeiffer, Master............ 42.98
Harry S. Clark, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 42.98
E. C. Nevins, Past Master
W. A. Lindgren, Past Master
Blackmer.........................No. 442....Charles B. Frailey, Master ................ 42.98
Charles A. Irwin, Sr. Warden
Warren E. Libby, Past Master, and
.
Committee ......................................- 34.40
Schofield................-....... No. 443.:..Louis Zuckerman, Sr. Warden..........250.00
Carpinteria..................... No. 444.... Leonidas C. Kirkes, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 29.80
Thornton M. Shorkley, Past Master
Wilshire..........................No. 445.... Harold A. Snell, Master.................... 34.40
Frederick E. Clark, Sr. Warden
T. A. Dille, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 34.40
. Frank B. Belcher, Past Master, and
Committee ····-····-··················.......... 34.40
Will H. Fischer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 34.40
La Puente....................... No. 446.... George E. Cross, Sr. Warden............ 35.60
Torrance.........................No. 447....Edgar H. Barlow, Sr. Warden........ 35.40 .
Mount Diablo.................No. 448.... Howard G. Fahy, Master.................. 2.70
Thomas Smith, Sr. Warden
Paul A. Leslie, Past Master
Park.....................-..........No. 449.... Reginald Duden, Master
Floyd M. Elmore, Sr. Warden
Arthur L. Hillman, Jr. Warden
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer
Albert W. Stokes, Past Master
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys...,.,............,.... No. 450....Walter C. Hall, Master...................... 34.40
Montebello.,....................No. 451....Paul Mike Pryor, Master.................. 34.40
San Pasqual................... No. 452.... Nathaniel P. Moerdyke, Master........ 35.20
Herbert G. Boultinghouse, Sr. War.
den
Bethlehem....................... No. 453....Robert G. Lauer, Master

318

319

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Crocker........................... No. 454.... George C. Chamberlain, Master
Wm. A. Jaques, Sr. Warden
Royden K. Freidrichs, Jr. Warden
James G. Allan, Past Master
George Watson, Past Master
Alex C. Anderson, Past Master
Robert H. Turner, Past Master
Andrew McNeill McKeown, Past
Master
John Mitchell, Past Master
Golden West........- .........No. 455....Frederick Chas. Haun, Master
Morten Holm, Sr. Warden
· George E. Chapin, Past Master
Ramona ...........................No. 457.... Martin Madsen, Master ...................... 34.90
Sherman C. Fowler, Sr. Warden
Wilbert J. Stewart, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 35.20
Henry S. Orme..............No. 458.... Walter E. Trask, Sr. Warden.......... 34.40
Fred C. Warner, Past Master and
M
ilnspector ············-···········--·········---······ 35.90
ount Oso......................No. 460....Thomas P. Duffy, Master.................. 4.16
Argonaut.........................No. 461....0scar D. Ritchie, Master
Ralph E. Pfeiffer, Sr. Warden
Edwin Jos. Barshell, Jr. Warden
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Maste1·
Sigfried Pelo, Past Master
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Joseph Bernard, Past Master
Purcell Rowe, Past Master
Virgil L. Wallace, Past Master
Walter H. Downing, Past Master
J . A. Blackford, Past Master
C. A. Rice, Past Master
John A. Evans, Past Master
Paul Revere....................No. 462....Ernest A. Stewart, Master
John Cox, Jr. Warden
John C. Oslin, Past Master
William A. Gerder, Past M~ster
William A. Fogalsang, Past Master
George B. Wilson, Past Master
Louis D. Smith, Past Master
Phil Werner, Past Master
Morgan Hi!L.................No. 463 ....Dalton A. Gildersleeve, Sr. Warden 4.10
Alta Vista....................... No. 464.... Francis Jos. Herz, Master
·
Glenn Waters Gifford, Sr. Warden
Earle L. S. Bagot, Jr. Warden
H. L. Wintergill, Past Master
Jesse E. Williams, Past Master

321

Center..............................No. 465 ....Leland C. Dickie, Sr. Warden.......... 15.70
Roy C. Lacy, Jr. Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, Past Master
Libertas...........................No. 466....Leonard V. Balfanz, Master.............. 23.20
Oren H. Pearson, Sr. Warden
Clyde E. Mcilwain, Jr. Warden
Arthur E. Overton, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 23.20
Culver City:....................No. 467.... Allan W. Courtney, Sr. Warden...... 34.40
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 34.40
Rockridgc ....................... N o. 468....Samuel ·F . Stockum, Master
Carl Otto Homeryer, Sr. Warden
William E. Harris, Jr. Warden
William W . Shea, Past Master
G. W . Miller, Past Master
Yorba Linda................... N o. 469..,.Ross B. Johnson, Master.................... 36.24
Lincoln............................ No. 470.... Eldon B. Spofford, Master
Felix Scheyer, Sr. Warden
James C. Wilder, Past Master
A. D. Layne, Past Master
Arthur M. Joel, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
Alexander J. High, Jr., Past Master Delta................................No. 471....George 0. Washburn, Sr. Warden.. 5.10
MauL.............................. No. 472.... Chas. M. Peters, Sr. Warden............272.00
Blythe.............................. No. 473.... L. H . Rains, Past Master and Representative ........................................ 51.88
Victory............................No. 474....Chester Dalmas, Master
Chas. A. Cooper, Sr. Warden
Clarence S. Farris, Jr. Warden
Chas. H . Manning, Past Master
George L. Halek, Past Master
Harry S. Griffith, Past Master
Wm. H. Dufton, Past Master
America.......................... No. 475 .... Edward G. Thomas, Master.............. 34.40
William A. Schreider, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 34.40
Coachella ........................ No. 476....Frank M. Rogers, Sr. Warden.......... 45.90
Temblor ..........................No. 477....Frank S. Shane, Master...............·....... 27.40
Arthur E. Hawthorne, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 29.06
T houand Oaks............... No. 478.... Virgil P. Gibson, Master
Wm. C. Koch, Sr. Warden
Otto L. Zeus, Jr. Warden ·
Herbert J. Watt, Past Master
Leroy V. H itchcock, Past Master

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Golden Rule.... ...............No. 479.... Norman G. Henry, Master................ 2.90
Arthur H. Rhoads, Sr. Warden
Morris Jensen, Past Master
Joseph C. Boschken, Past Master
Fellowship...................... No. 480....J. W . Holleman, Master
Edward Hackers, Sr. Warden
John B. Warner, Past Master
Mt. Davidson..................No. 481.. .. Harold L. Fraser, Master
Elmo N. Murphy, Sr. Warden
Jos. Lewis Mayers, Jr. Warden
Hugh E. Oliphant, Past Master
Thomas F. Quinn
Clarence F. Smith ......... No. 432.... Paul J. Phillips, Master...................... 34.40
Jay G. Reel, Sr. Warden
Frank F. Falloon, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
Bell... ................................N o. 483 .... Harold C. Coma ford, Master............ 34.40
Donald G. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Wm. Henry Dalrymple, Jr. Warden
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Albert Pike.....................No. 484.... Harmon McCoy Aytes, Sr. Warden 34.40
Chowchilla.....,................No. 485.... Carl D. Clausen, Master.................... 9.50
Caledonia................ ;.......N o. 486.... 0scar L. North, Master...................... 23.20
Frank A. Bartlett, Sr. Warden
Clyde E. Mallachowitz, Past Master
George McHugh, Past Master
Homer Myers, Past Master
•
Norla D. Cleghorn, Past Master
Vallejo............................No. 487....William T. Smart, Master................ 2.00
George G. Martin, Sr. Warden
Virgil V. Lee, Jr. Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 2.00
Henry M. Rowe, Past Master
Patterson........................ No. 488.... Wm. H. James, Sr. Warden.............. 5.90
Wm. F. Howell, Past Master
East Bay............•.............No. 489.... Arch C. Greely, Sr. Warden
Robert Dudley Wall, Jr. Warden
Roy H . Parkinson, Past Master
Clifford B. Marker, Past Master
Corcoran.........................No. 490 .... Harold Handley, Sr. Warden............ 18.54
Woodstock ......................No. 491....Charles A. Nesmith, Master
Chas. W. Bennett, Sr. Warden
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Chas. J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Layton A. Choice, Past Master

323

Garvanza......................... No. 492....Eugene H . Wiggenborn, Sr. Warden 34.40
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Atascadero ......................No. 493.... John Cicero Burton, Master.............. 13.50
. Chas: Wm. Stakey, Sr. Warden
Fred Chas. Hess, Past Master
Acorn...............................No. 494.... Bertram E. Hahn, Master
Roy Levin Burg, Sr. Warden
Reginald Victor· Joste, Past Master
Chas. M. Herkenham, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Lebanon .........................-No. 495 ....Monroe I. Markuse, Master
Craig C. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Harry A. Greenberg, Jr. Warden
Bernard B. Stimmel. Past Master
George F . Illack, Past Master
Benj. H. Roberts, Past Master
Riverdale.........................No. 496.... Whitney Galleher, Jr. Warden.......... 17.00
Fremont... ....................... No. ·197....Homer A. Buck, Master
Fred F . Morse, Sr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, Past Master and
Inspector
Stockton ..........................1\'o.493....James H. Luly, Master...................... 5.10
John Preston Spaerhower, Sr. Warden
Capital City....................No. 499....Millard F. Scott, Master.................... 5.40
Roosevelt... ..................... No. 500.... Ernest J . Armando, Master
Edward Cereghino, Sr. Warden
Dr. Chas. A. Ertola, Jr. Warden
Nils Erci Johnson, Past Master
Otto C. Huth, Past Master
William F. Traverso, Past Master
Westwood.......................No. 501....William J. Tunison, Master .............. 25.21i
Harbor............................No. 502.... lowell R. Sears, Master.................... 1.00
Francis H. Wilkins, Sr. Warden
Emmett Hitchcock, Past Master
Point.......................:.:......No. 503....Cyrus M. Nielsen, Master.................. 100
Seaside........................,... No. 504....Paul C. Perrin, Master ........................ 35.70
William T. Corbusier, Past Master
William J. Courtiour, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 35.70
Silver Cord .....................i\l'o . .~05 .... 0len F. Turner, Sr. Warden ............ 36.40
Mount Olive...................i\l'o. 506.... Allan M. Watt. Master...................... 34.40
Thomas C. Ralph, Sr. Warden
Fl Segundo.....................No. 507....Stuart J. Mandaville, Master............ 35.40
Joppa................................No. 50~L .John H . Wachter, Master .................. 15.10
B~njamin Franklin ........No. 509.... Clarke E. Gilhousen, Sr. Warden .... 34.40

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cupertino.................:-....No. 510.... William W. Sharp, Master................ 2.82
Gilbert M. Aylesworth, Sr. Warden·
]. A. Ball, Past' Master
Sunnyva,le.......................No. SIL.Joseph B. Kehl, Master...................... 2.40
Robert Rankin, Past Master
H. N. Bishop, Past Master
Palms..............................No. 512.... Alexander Young, Master.................. 34.40
Cahuenga........................ No. 513.... Ralph E. Fulkerson, Master.............. 34.40
Earle D. Baker, Sr. Warden
Argonne .......................... No. 514....J. Hugh Wheeler, Master
Chas. E. Barkis, Sr. Warden
Lloyd I. Tarleton, Jr. Warden·
Sam H. Hardin, Past Master
John H. Turner, Past Master
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Vermont Square............No. 515 .... Elmer A. Torongo, Master................ 34.40
Harry E. Dawson, Sr. Warden
·
Taft..........·-····················No. 516.... Clarence McNutt, Master.................. 26.90
·Jacob L. Kofahl, Sr. Warden
Mount Vernon..............•No. 517....]eptha F. Briggs, Master
Alva V. Sligar, Sr. Warden
Leland E. Langdon, Jr. Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
S. J. Rossi, Past Master
.
La Jolla........................... No. 518.... Winfred J. Regal, Jr. Warden.......... 42.98
Euclid............................_No. 519 ....James T. Montano, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 34.40
Ionic.................................No. 520....Harry ]. Malerstein, Master............ 34.40
Joseph Greene, Sr. Warden
Isadore Moore, Past Master
Piedmont.........................No. 521.... Verne R. Pentecost, Master
Sunrise............................ No. 522....E. Everett Hollingworth, Past
Master and Representative............ 34.40
Bellflower.......- .............•No. 523....Albert V. Heaman, Master................ 34.90
Wm. S. Mitchell, Sr. Warden
Erich H. Fredericks, Past Master
Catalina ...........................No. 524....James C. Davis, Master...................... 38.90
John]. White, Sr. Warden
George Washihgton......No. 525 ....Arthur F. Williams, Master
George W. Savage, Sr. Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City..........................No. 526....Henry Robipson, Master
Lerner Wilfred, Sr. Warden
Dethlefsen T. Arnold, Jr. Warden
Sol Gross, Past Master

Covenant.........................No. 527.... Harry H. Burkholder, Sr. Warden .. 34.40
Beverly Hills.................No. 528. ...Joe Bookman, Master .......................... 34.40
Albert Hitchen, Past Master
Loyalty.....:......................No. 529.... Albert Hiram Lee, Master. ............... 34.40
Sun Garden.....................No. 530.... Benjamin T. Hayes, Sr. Warden...... 15.70
Herbert R. Hargrav.e, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 15.70
Alexandria..•......._........~.No. 531....Christian H. Mingst, Sr. Warden
.
Irwin J. Sprott, Jr. Warden
Frank G. Hobbs, Past Master and
Asst. Grand Secretary
Kenneth F. Gable, Past Master
Frederick B. McAtee, Past Master
Smyrna........................... No. 532....John A. Orr, Representative............ 6.50
Azure...............................N o. 533.... Norman A. Richards, Master............ 35.84
Chas. M. Brawley, Sr. Warden
Forest Hill......................No. 534.... Emory W. Eskew, Master
Andrew L. Hanselman, Sr. Warden
Alexander Findlay, Jr. Warden
Louis.]. Douat, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton: ....No. 535.... Archie]. Bush, Sr. Warden .............. 34.40
Seal Rock. .......................No. 536.... Carl F. Meyer, Master
Gus W. Kramer, Sr. Warden
William R. Hamilton, Jr. Warden
Utopia.............................No. 537.... Cadle A. Post, Master........................ 34.40
Frederick Chas. Cromer, Jr. War·

325

den
Ascot................................No. 538.... William E. Brown, Master ................ 34.40
Arthur L. Reed, Sr. Warden
Belvedere........................ No. 539....Sherman J. Wilson, Master.............. 34.40
Queen Beach...................No. 540 .... Charles E. Seeley, Master....~---'········ 35.70
Henry Morse
Stephens......................No. 541....Harold W. Conklin, Sr. Warden
Malcolm Hansen, Jr. Warden
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Lankershim.................... No. 542.... William A. Fullerton, Master............ 34.40
Signal.............................. No. 543....Kenneth R. Lewis, Master................ 35.70
Guy A. Cheney, Sr. Warden
Glendale.........;................ No. 544.... Ray Hollis Phillips, Master .............. 34.00
Ralph W. Martin, Past Master
Ray H. Phillips, Past Master
Jonathan .........................No. 545 .... Christopher T. Powell, Master
H erbert E. Stone, Past Master
San Gapriel.....................No. 546.... Lawrence E. Berg, Master................ 35.00
Warren D. Gill, Grand Pursuivant
and Past Master.............................. 34.90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Arcadia ... c••••••••••••••••••••••• .No. 547.... Clarence S. Hearn, Master................ 35.40
Triangle .......................... No. 548.... Carl W. King, Master.. ...................... 35.70
Justice.............................. No. 549.... Arthur H. Cordes, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Ralph 0. Biedenbach, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Hans C. Christiansen, Past Master
Seaport... ......................... No. 550.... Benjamin L. Canning, Master
Anthony Jos. Spatafore, Sr. Warden
Chas. F. Knipe, Jr. Warden
John Alpers, Past Master
J. G. Wullschleger, Past Master
Otto Holtzen, Past Master
Lakeshore ....................... No. 551.. .. William E. Yocom, Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Jr. Warden
J. R. McKalip, Past Master
Thomas Marshall Lewis, Past Master
John R. Wood, Past Master
Semper Virens ............... No. 552 .... Harold 0. Hilfiker, Sr. Warden ...... 23.24
Golden City..................... No. 553.... Peter L. Taix, Master
Bion R. Gregory, Sr. Warden
Arthur F. Lewis, Jr. Warden
Educator ......................... No. 554.... Lester L. Gribble, Sr. Warden
J. H. Jorgensen, Past Master
White Pine....................."\fo. 555 .... Elwin Greene Adams, Sr. Warden .. 24.50
Fairfax ............................ N o. 556....Earl S. White, Master........................ 1.10
Hermosa..........................No. 557 .... Lawrence V. Norman, Sr. Warden .. 35.70
Point Firmin ...................N o. 558....Ira C. Berns, Master............................ 35.70
Albert S. Crossfield, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 35.60
Craftsmen .................. :... .No. 559.... Edward W. Arnolt, Master .............. 34.40
· Martin L. Thayer, Sr. Warden
Plymouth ........................ No. 560 .... William C. Rawson, Master
Harold G. Crew, Sr. Warden
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Chas. K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego .............. No. 561....Harvey Leon Shafer, Sr. Warden .... 40.82
Pyramid .......................... No. 562 ....Thomas K. McNulty, Master
Albert Wm. Archibald, Sr. Warden
Frank Boone, Jr. Warden
Harry C. Meeker, Past Master
Thomas E. Harris, Past Master
South Park. .................... N o. 563 .... Chester Guy Smith, Master ................ 34.40
Newton D. High, Past Master
Foothi!L. ......................... No. 564.... George A. Murphy, Master
Arthur M. Lyons, Sr. Warden
Benj. L. Miller, Jr. Warden

James A. Garfield.......... No. 566 .... Arthur N. Cha fee, Sr. Warden ........ 34.40
Searchlight... .................. N o. 567.... Chas. B. Grant, Master ...................... 35.70
Park Boulevard ............. No. 568.... John Miner Drew, Master
Edward W. Long, Sr. Warden
James E. Hammond, Past Master
John McSweyn, Past Master
Charles Herbert Adams, Past Master
Chateau Thierry............No. 569.... Robert M. Miller, Master
Walter E. Orcutt, Sr. Warden
Walter J. Breen, Jr. Warden
John E. Hagstrom, Past Master
Chas. Veale, Past Master
Military Service............ No. 570.... Fred L. Somers, Master
Otto Vogt, Sr. Warden
Robert J. Stanton, Jr. Warden
August Siedler, Past Master
Frank L. Lamberton, Past Master
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck. .....No. 571.. .. George M. Stoltz, Master
George S. Jennings, Sr. Warden
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master
James Madison ............... No. 572.... Claude M. Barnard, Master .............. 34.40
Hillcrest... ....................... No. 573 .... Sherwood L. Stanley, Jr. Warden
S. W. Hackett... ............. No. 574 .... Wi!liam 0. King, Sr. Warden.......... 42.98
Fort Crook. ..................... No. 575 .... Alvin R. Haynes, Sr. Warden .......... 28.60
Thomas A, Fortson, Jr. Warden
El Cajon Valley............. N o. 576.... Robert Livesey, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 43.48
Sunnyside........................No. 577.... Thomas S. Beadle, Master .................. 34.40
G. Everett Framme, Sr. Warden
Progressive.................... No. 578 .... 0rval A. Richmond, Master .............. 34.40
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Sr. Warden
Warren G. Harding...... No. 579.... John R. Trusler, Master.................... 5.70
Frank H. Johns, Jr. Warden
Santa Maria................... No. 580 .... Louis Baldwin, Master...........c•••••••••••• 45.38
Aaron H. Schrock, Sr. Warden
Security........................... No. 581....Clarence R. Meikel, Master .............. 23.20
Rialto .............. c•••••••••••••••• No. 582.... Van Frank Dunlop, Master................ 37.80
Wi!liam T. Dunn, Sr. Warden
Wasco.............................. No. 583 .... Emil V. Oswald, Master .................... 21.82
Thomas F. Prather, Sr. Warden
Thurston V. Little, Past Master
Harding.......................... No. 584.... Chas. L. Hanson, Sr. Warden.......... 34.40
Manchester..................... No. 585 .... Loren L. Starry, Master.................... 34.40
Oliver M. Todd, Sr. Warden
Garden Grove................. No. 586 .... Warren G. Fergus, Master................ 36.40
Valley Forge .................. No. 587.... Chas. H. Hart, Master ........................ 34.40
Carl F. Menke, Sr. Warden

326

327

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIF ORN IA

328

329

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

El Sereno........................No. 588.... Arthur C. Clark, Sr. Warden .......... 34.40
Kauai... ............................No. 589....Albert W. Duvel, Sr. Warden ..........272.00
Compass..............:...........No. 590....Madison U. Stoneman, Sr. Warden 36.50
Escalon............................No. 591....Theodore B. Roberson, Master........ 6.30
Bernard L. Blackmore, Sr. Warden
Tujunga...........................No. 592....Hilmer ]. Breidt, Sr. Warden.......... 37.32
All States........................No. 593....George W. Milligan, Master.............. 35.70
Arthur A. Schultz, Sr. Warden
Service............................ No. 594.... Harry R. Curts, Master...................... 35.70
Alexander Graham
Bell...............................No. 595....Clyde V. Stoner, Master.................... 34.40
Guardian ......................... No. 596....Frank E. Le Pia, Master.................... 34.40
Truth..............:················No. 597....Ivan E. Wallace, Sr. Warden............ 34.40
Pearl Harbor.................No. 598....John Harger, Sr. Warden..................250.00
Carmelita........................ No. 599....Allen D. Pyle, Master........................ 35.20
Lynwood.........................No. 600....Arthur B. Cousins, Sr. Warden........ 34.72
Grizzly.............................No. 601.... Harry S. Date, Master........................ 23.30
A. N. Waite, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 23.30
Melrose... ~ ....................... No. 602....Raymond ]. Huff, Master.................. 34.40
James L. Goode, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
Dimond............................No. 603 ....Hal Allen Belyew, Master
Henry A. McKenna, Jr. Warden
Jubilee............................. No. 604....Wilford G. Lewis, Sr. Warden ........ 36.40
Fred H. Pope, Jr. Warden
Glassell Park..... ........... No. 605....Clay E. Grapnell, Master.................... 34.40
Sojourners......................No. 607....Lawrence M. Larimer, Jr. Warden.. 35.50
'7ranada...........................No. 608....John H. Wernex, Sr. Warden.......... 34.90
Provident........................ No. 609.... Theodore P. Pendleton, Master........ 5.40
.
Louis M. Gambach, Sr. Warden
Cecil Clair Skinner, Jr. Warden
Leslie W. Wood, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 5.40·
0. Almon Rosecrans, Past Master
Frederick W. Whitney, Past Master
Roscoe L. Clark, Past Master
Elmhurst.........................No. 610....]ames C. Thompson, Master
Horace W. Lee, Sr. Warden
James S. Blaine, Jr. Warden
Canoga............................ No. 611....Earnest M. Merritt, Master.............. 32.90
Temple City...................No. 612....Carl 0. F. Noid, Master.................... 34.90
Three Pillars..................No. 613....Evon L. Wilson, Master.................... 5.40
Henry G. Thiele, Past Master
Larchmont......................No. 614.... Earl H . Marsh, Master...................... 34.40
George F. Salm, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
Hemet................. :............No. 615.... Alexander Watt, Representative and
Past Master ...................................... 40.40

1

Seal Beach....................:.No. 616....George E. Marshall, Master.............. 35.70
Big Bear..........- ..............No. 617....Thomas B. Andrew, Jr. Warden...... 41.06
Southland........................No. 618....]abez M. Ball, S r. W arden................ 34.40
William L. Hovis, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.40
David Fletcher, Past Master
Neptune.......................... N o. 619....Chas. F. Andrews, M aster .................. 35.70
Point Loma.....................No. 620....Wm. E. Nelson, Master...................... 42.98
The Gardens...................No. 621....George W. Brooks, Master................ 34.40
Jack B. Nealon, Jr. Warden
Atwater.......................... N o. 622....Elliott E. Schmidt, Master................ 34.40
Menorah...........:......:.......No. 623....Robert I. Kronick, Master................ 34.40
· Aaron Elmore, Sr. Warden
Fortitude.........................No. 624.... 0lof E. Anderson, Master
Lionel B. Benas, Sr. Warden
James C. W illiams, J r. Warden
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Andrew H. von Eck, Past Master
Frederick L. Shaw, Past Master
Bradford N. Newman, Past Master
Angeles Mesa.................No. 625 .... Willard L. Sears, Master.................. 34.40
Walter R. Gentry, Sr. Warden
Chula Vista.................... ~o. 626.... Kenneth]. Gilbert, Sr. Warden ........ 40.82
Lamanda Park. ..............No. 627....Harry J. Arnold, Master.................... 35.20
Gustav H. Breitenfeld, Sr. Warden
Beacon of the West... ....No. 628.... Raymond D. Kolb, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
Louis F. Grauer, Past Master
Fairview..........................No. 629.... Merle J. Menges, Master .................... 34.40
Almer R. Hines, Sr. Warden
William C. Hudnall, Past Master
Ingleside..........................No. 630.... Frank A. Mor row, Master
Donald H . Frew, Sr. Warden
Cecil A. Reid, Jr. Warden
Raymond W. Blossom, Past Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Master and
Inspector
Herbert P. Shaw, Grand Chaplain
Benevolence....................No. 631....Raymond H. H orton, Master............ 34.40
Claude Mayhugh, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights.,.......... No. 632....Elmer Muhl, Master............................ 42.98
Poinsettia........................No. 633 ....Vernon E. Patterson, Master............ 29.80
Clarence F. Carlisle, Sr. Warden
Victorville.......................No. 634....James C. Garrison, Master................ 39.06
Riverside .........................No. 635.... Hugh McCulloch, Sr. Warden.......... 37.90
J ohn Marshall ................No. 636....0rigene E. Senay, Master .................. 34.40
Palisades.........................No. 637....Lewis Thomas, Master ........................· 35.70
.
Ira Wheeler, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 35.70

331

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Indian Rock .................... No. 638.... Paul S. Gavin, Master
Lawrence F. Williams, Sr. Warden
James R. Esty, Jr. Warden
Composite....................... No. 639 .... Morris N. Kroopen, Master.............. 34.40
Veritas .............................No. 610 .... Ralph V. Larsen, Master
Philip Collischonn, Jr., Sr. Warden
Chas. R. O'Donnell, Jr. Warden
Ira Henry Larsen, Past Master
James A. Foshay ...........No. 641....Albert E. Anderson, Master .............. 34.40
Henry F. Starbuck, Past Master
La Cumbre ..................... No. 642....William W. McKee, Representative
and Inspector .................................... 27.10
Alta Loma ....... ·-····-"·······.No. 643 .... Cecil H. Thompson, Master .............. 35.70
Lomita ............................. No. 644.... George W. Murphy, Sr. Warden...... 35.70
A. F. E. Irwin................ No. 645....Henry C. Cantrell, Master ................ 35.70
Henry P. Haynes, Sr. Warden
Metropolitan .................. No. 646 ....William M. Leffert, Master .............. 34.40
James M. MacDonald, Past Master
Hawthorne ......................No. 647.... Eugene Wm. Barnes, Sr. Warden .... 34.40
L. E. Henry, Jr. Warden and Past
:Master
Damascus ....................... No. 648 ....Lawrence L. Nichols, Master ............ 37.90
Florence .......................... N o. 649 .... Ralph Norton Merrill, Master. ......... 34.40
Julius Wm. Maas, Sr. Warden
Fred W. Kennett, Past Master
La Brea ........................... No. 650 ....Theodore A. Heinold, Master ............ 34.40
William L. Wheeling, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 34.90
William H . Parcels, Past Master .... 34.40
Menlo Park. ................... No. 651....Gerald J. Owens, Master.................... 1.82
Clyde A. Howard, Sr. Warden
Clarence E. Sebring, Jr. Warden
J. Ross Hardy, Past Master
F. Bryan Hunnell, Past Master
Crescenta Valley ...........'\o. 652 ....Albert E. Sullivan, Sr. Warden ........ 34.00
Fontana........................... No. 653 ....Garnett S. Moore, Master .................. 37.60
Jordan .............................. N o. 654 .... Frank Beach, Master .......................... 34.40
· Frederick A. Palmer, Sr. Warden
Albert P. Henry, Past Master
Monte Vista...................."J :"> 655 P1~;lsant E. Hines, Master .................. 35.70
Robert M. White, Jr. Warden
CitroL ............................ ~o. 656 .... George Friend, Master ........................ 36.00
John D. Spreckels ......... 'fo. 657 .... Lloyd W. Carter, Jr. Warden .......... 42.98
Livingston ...................... No. 65 1L.·S fllman H. Swan, Sr. Warden........ 7.60
La Habra ........................ No. 659 .... Philip H . Goodell, Sr. Warden ........ 35.80
Baldwin Park. ................No. 660 .... William F. Mahan, Sr. Warden ........ 34.98
Malta............................... No. 661....Edwin H. Le Baker, Master.............. 34.40
Henry Knox ...................No. 662.... Arthur D. Fruth, Master.................... 34.40

Ojai... ...............................No. 663 .... William T. Frederick, Past Master
and Representative··············-··---··--·· ,31.10
Oasis ....................... ~ ........No. 664.... John Ward Tyler, Master .................. 52.02
0. J. Bradshaw, Fast Master and
Inspector-·-·--·······-----------···---············-- 51.52
Kaweah ........................... '\To. 665 .... John Wm. Harvey, Sr. Warden ........ 18.90
Reseda ............................. N o. 666.... Cornelius Davis, Sr. Warden ............ 34.40
Wm. K. English, Past Master
Meridian ..........................No. 667 .... Earle W. Thompson, Master............ 34.00
John R. Moore, Past Master, and
Committee ........................................ 34.00
San Gorgonio ................. No. 668 .... Howard A. Osborn, Master .............. 39.70
DeRoy H. Gates, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 39.70
John P. Jarman............. No. 669 .... William J. Penberthy, Master.......... 2.90
Nels H. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Creed M. Triplett, Jr. Warden
Herbert Pritchard, Past Master
C. E. Sheffer, Past Master
GreenleaL ................... :.No. 670 .... Charles M. Casey, Master .................. 35.60
William A. Wood, Sr. Warden
San Clemente ................. No. 671....Earl H. Moore, Jr. Warden .............. 40.40
Laguna Beach ................ No. 672 .... William J. Harris, Master ................ 36.40
Far West... ......................No. 673 .... N. Walter Anderson, Master
Ca.rroll S. Locke, Sr. Warden
Julius L. Girod, Jr. Warden
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Howard Taylor, Past Master
Louis A. Gintzler, Past Master
Albert S. Sandell, Past Master
George B. Quamby, Past Master
Los Cerritos ................... No. 674 .... Jack M. Grand, Master ...................... 35.70
Herbert C. Goldman, Past Master
Modesto .......................... No. 675 .... Robert A. Johnson, Sr. Warden ...... 6.20
Willow Glen ...................N o. 676 .... Chester R. Moody, Master................ 2.90
Louis A. Bergna, Sr. Warden
Harry Burres, Past Master
Liberal Arts ................... N o. 677 .... G. Ellsworth Meyer, Master .............. 34.40
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master and
Grand Orator .................................... 34.40
Ira F . Thrmpsrn. Past Master
Altadena ..........................No. 678 .... Samuel J. Hughes, Sr. Warden ........ 35.20

330

At 4 :40 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until
10 o'clock Friday morning.

332

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jn ~r anb JLobge
Friday, October 12, 1934.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of Thursday's sessions were read and approved.

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The annual- election of officers being now in order, the
Grand Master appointed tellers, and the election was held,
the result being as follows:
The R. ·. W. ·. Randolph V. Whiting of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was elected Grand Master.
The R.'. W.'. Earl Warren of Sequoia Lodge No. 349
was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.'. W.'. Rollie W. Miller of Sunset Lodge No. 352
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.'. James T. Fraser of Humboldt Lodge No. 79
was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V .'. W .'. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was reelected Grand Treasurer.
The V.'. W.'. John Whicher of King David's Lodge
No. 209 was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V .'. W .'. Leslie E. Wood of Provident Lodge
. No. 6C:S was elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of
the appointive officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Herbert P. Shaw of Ingleside
Lodge No. 630.
Grand Orator, Ira F. Thompson of Liberal Arts Lodge
No. 677.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria Lodge _No. 531.
Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson of Argonne Lodge
No. 514.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

333

Grand Standard Bearer, Nathan F. Coombs of Yount
Lodge No. 12.
Grand Sword Bearer, Marquis F. Calmes of Maui Lodge
No. 472.
· Grand Bible Bearer, Harry Horne of Redlands Lodge
No. 300.
Senior Grand Deacon, Albert Wollenberg of Starr King
Lodge No. 344.
Junior Grand Deacon, Albert H. Ross of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260.
Senior Grand Steward, Chas. 0. Hamilton of Oroville
Lodge No. 103.
Junior Grand Steward, Walter D. Adriance of King David's Lodge No. 2C:S.
Grand Pursuivant, Warren D. Gill of San Gabriel Lodge
No. 546.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson of Jewel Lodge
No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson of Presidio Lodge No. 354.
The M.'. W.". Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master, was
appointed Master of Ceremonies, and the officers-elect and
appointed, excepting the Grand Standard Bearer, Grand
Sword Bearer, Senior Grand Steward, and Junior Grand
Steward, were installed by the retiring Grand Master in
due and ancient form.
The Grand Master then invested his predecessor with a
diamond-studded lapel pin and the apron of a Past Master;
the Adams lapel pin was transferred from the retiring to the
present Grand Master; the other chair officers interchanged
their lapel pins; and Alexander D. Potts, Master of Lodge
le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371, in behalf of the Brethren
of the Hawaiian Islands, invested the Grand Master with
~ beautiful lei, speaking_in part as follows:
"Every country has its language
And its word in greeting you,
But Hawaii has the sweetest
Of all I ever knew-

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

That beloved word 'Aloha'lt means so much to us.
It's a greeting when you're happy,
It's a comfort when you're blue,
For Aloha means we love you,
And seals friendship staunch and true."

Brother Henry S. Cohen, in behalf of the oldest Lodge
in Los Angeles-Los Angeles Lodge No. 42-pres~nted an
engrossed set of resolutions, done on parchment and bound
in vellum, to Past Grand Master Gist.
Jam es T. Fraser, in the name of the Grand Lodge, then
presented to Brother Gist a fine wr.i st watch and a set of
silver.
The Grand Master then announced the appointment of
Charles M. Wollenberg to be Trustee of the Masonic Homes,
vice self, term expired, and at 2 :30 o'clock, all business being
completed, Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

335

COMMITTEES
Standing Committees

Jurisprudence-Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; John D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland; Benjamin F. Bledsoe,
639 Roosevelt Building, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling, de Young
Building, San Francisco; Bradford Webster, 360 29th Street, Oakland;
George L. Jones, Nevada City; Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San
Francisco.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South
Spring Street, Los Angeles; William A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery
Street, San Francisco; Albert E. Boynton, 155 Montgomery Street, San
Francisco; Will H . Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles; William H.
Waste, State Building, San Francisco; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter;
James B. Gist, Security First National Bank, Los Angeles.
Grievances-Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles; Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco;
William Penn Humphreys, Balboa Building, San Francisco; Arthur W.
Brouillet, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; Frank B. Belcher,
510 So. Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Finance-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Frank C. Ruppel, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Arthur S. Crites,
Bakersfield; Claude H. Morrison, First National Bank, San Diego;
Walter L. Berger, 640 South Spring Street, Los Angeles.
Credentials~Leonard S. Leavy, City Hall, San Francisco; Frank M.
Smith, 2808 North Sichel Street, Los Angeles; Charles E. Sones, El
Centro; Martin L. Griffith, 5739 Eleventh Avenue, Los Angeles; Thayer
B. Thomas, 225 El Camino Real, Burlingame.
Charters-Lee T. Mullen, Security Title Insurance Building, Los
Angeles; John R. Moore, Glendale; Henry Eissler, Bakersfield; William
F. Traverso, 550 Montgomery Street, San Francisco; Leo V. Youngworth,
902 Fidelity Building, Los Angeles.
By-laws-Arthur Joel, Mills Building, San Francisco; John Robinson, Sacramento; ] ulius Gabriel, 250 Broadway, San Francisco; Warren
E. Libby, 1015 Spring Street, Arcade Building, Los Angeles; Theo. T .
Spurgeon, 1834 West 80th Street, Los Angeles.
Pay of Members-] ohn H . McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento ;
J oseph Block, 156 Fourth Street, San Francisco; Fred L. Johnston, 23
West Figueroa Street, Santa Barbara; Benjamin G. Wright, 740 South
Olive Street, Los Angeles; Fred Snidecor, Corona.
Accounts-( All San Francisco)-Paul Nathan, 311 California Street;
Edward E. Conn, 27 Clay Street; Otto G. Freyermuth, 209 Post Street;
Max ]. Mertens, 179 11th Street; Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple.

337

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Returns-Robert E. Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco; Jacob
M. Bashor, Monrovia; John S. Corey, Grass Valley; Loys T. Newton,
Stockton; Percy S. King, Napa.

Public Schools Week-Chas. Albert Adams, 1017 Humboldt Bank
Building, San Francisco; Walter L. Bachrodt, City Superintendent of
Schools, San Jose; Arthur H. Chamberlain, Olympic Hotel, San Francisco; Roy W. Cloud, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco; Will Crocket,
1545 Santa Clara Avenue, Alameda; Elias E. Ellison, 1863-18th Avenue,
San Francisco; Willard E. Givens, City Superintendent of Schools, Oakland; C. Burnham Heryford, 1101 West Perkins Street, Ukiah ; 0 . S.
Hubbard, City Superintendent of Schools, Fresno; George C. Jensen,
Assistant City Superintendent of Schools, Sacramento; Wesley W. Kergan, Russ Building, San Francisco; Edwin A. Lee, City Superintendent
of Schools, San Francisco; Vaughan MacCaughey, 155 Sansome Street,
San Francisco; William G. Paden, City Superintendent of Schools, Alameda ; Lewis W. Smith, City Superintendent of Schools, Berkeley; Robert
A. Ode\1, 524 Van Nuys Building, Los Angeles; John B. Beman, PacificSouthwest Bank Building, Los Angeles; Melvin E. Bowman, Principal,
Franklin School, Santa Barbara; Frederic Josef Brudi, 622 West Magnolia Street, Inglewocd; L. E. Chenoweth, City Superintendent of Schools,
B.akersfield ; A. R. Clifton, County Superintendent of Schools, Los Angeles; Will C. Crawford, City Superintendent of Schools, San Diego ;
Percy R. Davis, City Superintendent of Schools, Santa Monica; Dr.
Walter V. Goodfellow, Guaranty Building, Hollywood ; F. A. Henderson,
City Superintendent of Schools, Santa Ana ; J . L . House, Principal,
Central High School, El Centro; Frederick F. Martin, City Superintendent
of Schools, Redondo Beach ; James T. Montano, 620 Myrtle Avenue,
Inglewood ; Charles E. Teach, City Superintendent of Schools, San Luis
Obispo.
.

336

Corresp~ndence-Jesse M. Whited, Phelan Building, San Francisco;
Byron F. Hillhouse, Woodland; Trustom R. Dinsmore Eureka· Martin
Ortlieb, Seventh and C Streets, San Diego; C. M. Hickman, Pl;cerville;
Henry Mottett, 1030 Leavenworth Street, San Francisco; Charles Ziegler
Harris and Frank Building, Los Angeles; Bion S. Gregory, Hears~
Building, San Francisco; A. Cogliandro, 622 Montgomery Street San
Francisco; Franklin Padan, 1700 South Second Street, Alhambra. '

Necrology-Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, Riverside; Ezra Decoto
Financial Center Building, Oakland; Karl Lobdell, 4il West Fifth Street:
Los Angeles.
Grand Lodge Week Activities-Foster G. Dyer, and San Francisco
Inspectors.
. Library-Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick Street, San Francisco; Rudolph Rosenberg, 742 22nd Avenue, San Francisco; Theodore
M. Wright, 19 North Second Street, San Jose; Lee Crawford, Apt. 204,
1800 Broadway, San Francisco; Orrin S. Henderson, Box 242, Palo Alto.

Special Committees
Masonic History-Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco;
Mark Sawrie, 1061 Mariposa Street, Berkeley; David Tullock, Oakdale;
Rosc~e L. Clark, M.D., 822 Forum Building, Sacramento; Albert F. Ross,
Reddmg ; (:has. E. Haas, Department 42, Superior Court, Los Angeles;
Charles R. Ingram, Grass Valley.
Clandestine Masonry-William A. Schreider, Mutual Life Building,
Los Angeles; John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco; Orio A.
Pratt, Calexico; Harold L. Scholefield, Perkins Company, Sacramento;
Harry W. Beatty, Taft.
Masonic Education-Irving Magnes, Easton Building, Oakland;
Ralph E. Hoyt, Courthouse, Oakland; A. Heber Winder Riverside·
Joseph M. Argabrite, 321 West Third Street, Los Angeles. '
'
Publication of History-Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco; David J. Reese, Ventura; Mark A. Sawrie, 1061 Mariposa Street,
Berkeley.
Ritual-The Grand Lecturer and Assistant Grand Lecturers.
. Financi1ig Building Projects-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston
Street, Los Angeles; William P . Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco; Herbert C. Goldman, 202 Belmont Avenue, Long Beach.

Constitutional Boards

Board of Control-*David J. Reese, Ventura; Robert F. Callender,
1128 West Kensington Road, Los Angeles; James R. Erskine, Box 974,
Fresno; Eugene Elkus, 485 .California Street, San Francisco; Frank M.
Wise, 603 Ocean Avenue, Santa Monica.
Trustees Masonic H omes-Chas. M. Wollenberg, President; Relief
Home, San Francisco; John Stewart Ross, Vice-President, W. M. Garland Building, Los Angeles; Samuel E. Burke, 649 South Olive Street,
Los Angeles; Chas. Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; Earl Warren, Courthouse, Oakland; Rollie W . Miller, Associated
Realty Building, Los Angeles; James T. Fraser, Eureka.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston
Street, Los Angeles; William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring Street,
Los Angeles; Frank M. Smith, 2808 North Sichel Street, Los Angeles;
Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles; Leon 0. Whitsell,
+ D·c.1 November 9. Succe3sor to be appointed.

~'l

......
~·

u

~:
..,

r

>-3 ,.....,
tT1 ),,'

~-

~

..,~

o ~
.... o -· >< I
g_wg
ti t:tl

~~a

8 s 61 r z
::w't:lro

H

<.n.

w

fr

~·

5·
0 z
Q.."C U'J 0
c "' n .
~·a. > .,. . .

~

t:1

..,~r

::i

Ul

0

s.

=:

~

'O

"'

"

Q.

-

"'

0

t:tl
"'

'°!)

0\

'O

c

.

<
(1)
::i
0

U>

-· "'

"' ..,

5· .~
()

~ -~

0

. . . c~-

~

....0

"
Q.

~

-·

w ()

<.n.

::i

Q.

c:r

'<

::;- "'
"'~ n
;:;..·

"'

!2. ><:
c: c:

(1)
(1)

Ul

"'

aq

~

~

..,
00
s· r-

0

......

..

rJJ

......
o::i

V'I

"' if;"

"" .....0

"" "

c:

"'...... 'O

.....
0

<.n.

-·""<.n."'....
"'
3". ..._, >
a-°' ~

"'

Q.
tFt

•

8-°"" ~

.

(1)

<

-

g:::!".

z

~

00

"" q-·

"" ~"'

..' l

-

Q.

~

r+

....

"'

......

i::
...,

()

t"'
11>

11

Town.

Places of Location .

County.

"

"

"
"
"
"

"

1851.

"
"
"
"7, "
"
5, 1852.
" "
" "
" "
" "
20,
"
5, 1853.
" "
"6, "
"
5,
"
" "

"
"
27,
"
"6,
"

1850.
19,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

1 California •.••... 1 San Francisco . . . . . . San .Francisco ..... . April
2 W estem Star ...•. 2 Shasta ............. Shasta ............ .
"
3 Tehama ....••••• 3 Sacramento •.....•. Sacramento .......•
"
4 Benicia .......•. 5 Benicia ............ Solano ........•....
"
5 Tuolumne ...•.•. 8 Sonora ............. Tuolumne ......... .
Nov.
6 Corinthian ..•..• 9 Marysville ......... Yuba ....••.......•
"
7 San Jose •....... 10 San Jose ........••. Santa Clara ..•.....
8 Yount .......•••• 12 Napa ..........•... Napa ..........••.•
May
9 Nevada •..•..... 13 Nevada City ...•••.• Nevada ........... .
"
10 Temple .........• 14 Sonoma ............ Sonoma ........... .
"
11 Eureka .. . ..... . . 16 Auburn . . . . . . . . . . . Placer ............ .
Nov.
12 Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco ..... . May
13 Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville ........ Sierra ............ .
"
u San Joaquin .•...• 19 Stockton .... .. ..... San Joaquin ....... .
"
15 Washi~gton .•.. . . 20 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ....... .
"
16 Hawanan ...... . 21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
"
17 Occidental ...... . 22 San Francisco. . . . . . . San Francisco •.....
"
18 Madison ........ . 23 Grass Valley . . . . . . . Nevada ........... .
"
19 Mariposa ....... . 24 Mariposa ......... .. Mariposa ..........•
20 Georgetown .... . 2ii Georgetown ........ El Dorado .......... , . "
21 El Dorado ....... . 26 Placerville .... : . . . . El Dorado ......... .
"
22 Trinity ......... . 27 Weaverville ........ Trinity ........... .
"
23 Goltlen Gate .... . 30 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco ..... .
"
24 Gold Hill ....... . 32 ,Lincoln ....•....... 1Placer •....•.••••.•
25 Ophir ...•....... 33 JMurphy 's .... . , .... 1 Calaveras ....•....•

Names of Lodges.

~I

0

'-'

Er ·"' S. 0.:

"'·

rs
..... aq c: -·
Ul
nn ...cnJ? 0 ~

Ul~l:TJ~o ~
EJ Q ;;:: ~ ~- -

?

:::.. "' aq
I» "'
(b::g~"'·~

::i

::r: 8 ::r: e: ~
'."I1 ~ •• ~ ~"'
'"C
u; · tT1 .., "' !;;o'
_,....c:'<::Si==::.,

g.-'""'" g.... ~ ~

'°!)

-

"'

-·

~ ::t> 0 :;~ (b
::s - ·
._ 5· ::i
0:: p..
~

aq

:::isui"'::i:i:<:
"' "' ;.;- ~
~tn::l~aW

"' " aq
O"
>
O" •
t:tl
~

wO

"'"'

9

9
!I

41

103

1

50
50

41

115

757

12
10

100

162
156
50
188

857

w
w

'O

>

H

2:

~

""0
199

167
30

n
>
t"'
H

>rj

0

Cl
M

ti

t"'
0

s~

Cl

138
121

9
9

10
9
9

12
12

9

12

5.'l ..... .
50
5
. 30 .... . .
50
5
50
5

2!}

12
80 ..... .
75 10
80 10
100

622

529
360

9

30 ... .. .

12
9
9

469
249

159
226
319

9

9

81
4:~9

9

12
9
12

679

);~

12

<

~c

..,.;

_sc

100 20
50
6
75 10
50 ..... .
75
2
50 ······
50 ..... .
60 ..... .
50 .. ... .
40
2
50 ···· ··
100 15

<

c

~A

:; ~

"'"' ~iEl

Q.) ~$

w

""'
A

"'
M

p::

>rj

0

Ul

Cl

:z:

H

M
M

ti

:Ul"'C:Ul
:;- g ~ . ~-~()
~ u;· t:tl n""
..... gc: ... uiu
r . . §:ifo~

~.9
.......

..,,,;
O<V

~

n

0

~

w
w

00

~::;;.., _::;. @·
p :;:

~ <"' Q ;:::. g ..,
~ ;;· ::s p.. g- ~ ~

"' .... r.ri'.::..>r'r!

~q~~;~&~
~~~ 0!'. .;i:.fCl
q s· _,. . . ~
::3

~;i 0-::;;;F trl~
§: ? ~. g. < n. §:
5· ~"' ~ 2l g 5·

.:;igQ§?i~"
0
:::•..... ll:J ....

~ u °' ~ ~ (;" ~

r!;;o'""'" "'1 P-i
- · ·""' 00 'rj
HUl
c:r
vv

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 5934.

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

N

"'

.... -"'"'
0

·"'. . . >
"'
0"
""'" aq

~.

r
< 0

()

c ....

"'
5· Ul

...... <

0

...... 0

0 :;-

0

'l

::: u

•

."' "0 "".... z
g u" ::;; "
~ t:1 tT1 ~
t:1 t-< Q
p_., ;;; · .
C\ u;· ~ :;.
E." ~ g~q-r-c~
..,E." .~ ~ s·:::: S-. ~ Q
::!. > ... >
[ ;:;· tT1 ::i ii. ~ n crq w ~ F ~~ :::0 =::i
rn
,_.i;; ::r:: n
0 - r.n U'J
"' <: "'
~ n ~·
> 0=: iil 0 e: 0
ll:J
ll:J
:::; e: ~ ~ "'"' ::;;
r.n
::::-: Po>
z
..... r .., :: ·.. . .
•U'J 0.....
::s....
..... >
0
z..,::i0 so e. 0. ~ 0 ..... 00 ..,
0
tn
•
""
:::
w
0
~"'
r g-· :;:o""
0 ~ ;;; · :;: .
8.
0
0
0 ~· ~
~ 'O
•.
"' Ul
::s"'
~ ..,
~ [ '.". gi
0..
..._... ....... ,__..

><: (/l

0

z !:i" n z
~ ::r:: p
z ""'" gtt. UltT1

5· !;" Ul
~~ ~ 0
c "' u .
~- ~
~ 5· tTJ I

~

u
..,

~·

z"

Ei

."'"'

.0

Town

81
82
83
84
85
86

l!G

72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79

71

54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70

............
.............
..............

. .......

............

........

..........

.........

.............

············

Yolo ..... .. ..... 81 Yolo ...........•..• Yolo ...............
Vesper .......... 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama ............
Solano
Naval ........... 87 Vallejo
Rose's Bar . . . . . . 89 Bmartsville •..•.•... Yuba ••.•.....•..••
North Star ..... . 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou ....... ; ...
St. Helena . . . . . . . 93 St. Helena ••...•••. Napa ..............
Henry Clay . . . . . . !l5 Sutter Creek .••.••.• Amador ............
Hornitos ......... 98 Hornitos • , .••••.•.. Mariposa ...........
Merced
Yosemite .....•.. 99 Merced
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ••....... Placer
Oroville ....•.... 103 Oroville ...•..••...• Butte
Lexington ...•••• 104 El Monte ....•...•. Los Angeles ........
Arcata .......... 106 Arcata ••..•..•.••. • Humboldt ..........
Pajaro ....•...... 110 Watsonville ......... Santa Cruz ........•
Chico ........... 111 Chico .............• Butte .......•....•.
Summit ~ .....•... 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus .........•
Eden .........•.• 113 San Leandro ..••... Alameda ..........•
Sacramento
Concord ......... 117 Sacramento
Clinton •......... 11!1 Igo ................ Shasta ....•••.•...•
Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco •.•... San Francisco •....•
Alamo ........... 122 Walnut Creek •..... Contra Costa ......•
Sotoyome •....... 123 Healdsburg ........• Sono·ma ............
Table Mountain .• 124 Cherokee ..........• Butte .........•...•
Sonoma .•..........•
La Fayette . . ..... 126 Sebastopol
Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco •....• San Francisco ......
Visalia ....•..•.. 128 Visalia ............• Tulare .• ...... . •...•
Nicohus ... . .•... 129 Wheatland •....... • Yuba •............•
Woodbridge • •.... 131 Woodbridge •..•...• San Joaquin ........
Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville ......... Plumas ...•.•.....•
Vacaville ....••.. 134 Vacaville
Solano ............•
Valley ........... 135 Linden ........•.•.. San Joaquin .......
Pacifie .........• 136 San Francisco •.•... San Francisco ......
Crockett ......•.. 139 San Francisco. . . . . . . San Francisco .....•

···········

........
.............

27 Howard . . . . . . . . . . 37 Yreka ...........•.• Siskiyou ...•..•••..
28 Santa Cruz •.••.. 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz •..•....•
29 Sacramento ..•.. 40 Sacramento ........ Sacramento
30 Martinez . . . . . . . . 41 Martinez ..•........ Contra Costa ········
...•..•
31 Los Angeles . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..•.....
32 Hiram .......... 43 El Dorado .......... El Dorad._ ..........
33 Mount Moriah .••• 44 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•....
34 Crescent . . .• . . . . 45 Crescent City •...... Del Norte ..........
35 Texas . . . . . . . . . . . 46 San Juan .......... San Benito ....•....
36 Forbestown . . . . . . 50 Forbestown ........ Butte ...•.•....•...
37 Illinoistown .•... 51 Colfax ••.....•.•... Placer .. • .•••.•.•..
38 Suisun
.•••••.. 55 Suisun •...•........ Solano ...•.........
39 Volcano . . . . . . . . . 56 Volcano ............ :A.mador •.•....•....
40 Santa Ro.9a . • . . . . 57 Santa Rosa ...•..... Sonoma ...•........
41 Union .....•..... 58 Sacramento ........ Sacramento .-.......
42 Gravel Range . . . . 59 Camptonville ....... Yuba ...•.....•....
43 Plumas ....•.... 60 Quincy ..••.....•.. Plumas ......•.....
44 Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ••...•.•...• Alameda ...........
45 Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ............• Sacramento
46 Amador ....•... . 65 Jackson ............ Amador .•........ ; .
47. Forest . . . .• ••. . . 66 Alleghany ••....•... Sierra
48 Morning Star . . . . 68 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ........
49 Enterprise . . • . . . . 70 Yuba City ......... Sutter •..........•.
50 Bear Mountain ..• 76 Angel's Camp .•...• Calaveras •.....•...
51 Calaveras ......• 78 San Andreas ......• Calaveras
··········
52 Humboldt ....... 79 Eureka
..........
············ Humboldt
53 Ione .•..... . .... 80 Ione •....••......••
Amador

"

"

"

"
"
"

5,
3:

3,

"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"15,
"
"

"

May
May

"
"
"

"

"

11, 1860.
10, 1860.

"
"
"

"
"
"

"

14, 1859.
13, "

"

"

May

"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

13, 1858.

"
"
"
"
"

May

14, 1857.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

18.56

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,

"

8,

"
"
"
"

8
1

......

9
9

9
12
12

ll

5

12 .
9
9

ll

u

9
15
12
12

9

12

9

12
9
9
15
12

\j

15

10

12
12

9

9
9

9
9

18
9

9

9
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
12
9

\j

15
12
12
9
9
12

\j

12

708

ni

177
59ti
40
47
92
54
78
221-1
65
247
167
197
256
365
39
217
254
38
638
133
171
88
191
249
303
93
113
94
160
70

64

88

369
69

621
211
323
546
216
762
44
475
131
51
53
77
147
29
373
530
31
101
1000
114
79
52
441
227
76

""
<"

""

2l"
~

::E;:a

i::i

50
5
75 ......
50 12
100 20
100 25

so

5
5
10
5
5
5
5
so 1
50 ......
100 20
50
8
50
5

50
80
75
30
100
80
75

50 ' l ?i
50 IO

55 10
50 ......
.
60
50
5
5,5
1
55

60

50 .... ..
50 ······
50 10
50
5
35
5
50
1

50 ......

j 80
50

<

8, 1856.

"
"
"
"

2, 1855.

4',

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

May

"'"'

i:..i::i

"
"
"2, "
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
"4, "
"
1, 1855.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

o-

.. 0

.,

. . " ""' ....
.. &:ii "iii ..

0"'

-2!
., -'ai
.,-

80
1
75 10
50 ......
50 10
75 20
100 10
50
6
30
1
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
30
5
75
5
75 10
55 ......
50 2.50
50 10
5
50
50 ......
50 ......
80 ......
5
50
3
50
5
50
75 ... ...

May

May

"
"
"
"
July

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

May

6, l853.
3, 1854.

D.. te When Charter
was Issued

County
I
26 San Diego . . . • . . . 35 :5an Diego . . . . . . . . . ::;an Diego .........
May

Names of Lodges

Places of Location

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.
w

:<I
0

tJ

""'"

w

>

z
.....

0
:<I

"l

.....

>
t"'

n

"l

0

l'1

Cl

t"'
0

tJ

z>

:<I

Cl

l'1

...; ·
p::

"l

0

VJ

Cl

2:

tJ
.....

l'1
l'1

n

"C

""'0 "

115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151

89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114

87
88

Town.

County.

"
"

May

"

"
May
"
"
"
"
May
"
May
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
........ Oct.
"
Oct.
......... ""
"
"
Oct.
.............. "
............. "
.........

···············
..... .. .

I

..... ......

........ .....

....... ....

....... ... .

"

"

"
"

"

Oct.
Santa Clara .•. . ••. .
Keith ...••. • .••. 187 Gilroy
Alameda •..•...
Oakland .•...•..• 188 Oakland
"
Oct.
Northern Light ••. 190 Millville •...••.••• • Shasta ...... . ... . . .
Marin ••••..•••.. 191 San Rafael ••.•••••• Marin •••••••••••• .
"
Santa Barbara ...• Hl2 Santa Barbara •.••. Santa Barbara •••.•
"
Oct.
Humboldt •••...••••
Ferndale • • . . . . • • 193 Ferndale
Mountain View ••. 194 Mountain View ..... San ta Clara •.•••••.
"
Buckeye ••.•••••. 195 \Vinters .•••....•.. Yolo ...•••••.....••
"
Cambria
........•••
San
Luis
Obispo
...•
San Simeon .•.•••• 196
"
Oct.
Wilmington
•.•
•
.••
.
Los
Angeles
•.....•
.
Wilmington • .•••• 198
Lakeport
•
·
••......•
Lake
.••..•..•••••
.
Hartley .•. • .•• • . 199
"
Truckee ••.....• • 200 Truckee ......... . .. Nevada ••••• •• •.. • .
"
Dixon
Solano
•.....••.
..
••
Silvey v ille .•...•. 201
"
Pentalpha .•..•.. 202 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles ........
"
Confidence •...... 203 Castroville ••••..... Monterey ..••. • . ••.
"
SalinaD ••••••••.. 204 Salinas •.•......... Monterey •.....• . •
Oct.
Olivet ••••••••.•. 205 Corning .•.••••.•••• T ehama . .... .. ..... .
Stanislaus ....... 206 Modesto .•....•... • Stan islaus .•• . .. •.•.
"
Orange ..••.••.•. • ••
Anaheim ...••.•• 207 Anaheim
Rio
Vista
....
..•
.•••
Solano
•
.
..
.
.•..•
..
•
Rio Vista •....•.. 208
"
King D avid's •••. 209 San Luis Obispo . ...• San Luis Obispo .. . ..
"
Oct.
San
Jose
••
•••.
..
...
Santa
Clara
....•.
.
.
Friendship ...•.•. 210
ollist
er
......
.....
H
San
B
enito
.•..
...•.
San Benito ...•.•• 211
"
So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •...•.
Ventura
••••....
.
.
.
Ventura
..
..
....
.
...
San Buenaventura . 214
Oak Grove ..••... 215 Alameda ••••.. . . . . . Alameda ..... • •..•.
"
Doric ..•.••.••..• 216 San Francisco .• . • . • San Francisco .•• . . .
"
Monterey . .• ..•.. 217 Monter ey •..... . . . • Monter ey •. . .......
Oct.
Mosaic .. . •.. : •• . 218 Livermore . .... ..... Alameda . . .. .• ••.. .
Speranza Italiana. 219 Sax Francisco ... . .. San F rancisco ..... .
"
Downey . • ....•.. 220 Downey ..... . ... . •. Los A ngeles ...... . .
Inyo .... . ... . .. . 221 Independen ce ... • . . . I nyo ..•. . .•..... ..•
"
Rosev ille . . ....•• 222 RoseYille .... .. .. . . . . P lacer •.. .. . ... .. . . Oct .
Oct.
Baker~field . . . • •. 224 Bairnrsfield ...•.... . K ern ....... .... ...
Brooklyn ....•... 225 East Oakland •. , ... . Alameda ...... . . . . .
"
San Mateo ...•... 226 Sa n Mateo •.••..•.. San M a teo . .. . . . .. .
"
Athene ........ . . 228 Da v is ····· ... ... .. Yolo . . ...... .... . · '
"

..............

.........

..........
...........

I

"

"
1864.
"

"14,
"

"

1866.

"

"
"
"

1873.

"
"
"

18,

"
"
"

" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"
14, 1870.
" "
" "
" "
" "
14, 1871.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"11, 1872.
"
" "
" "
" "
12, 1912.

"
"
14,

"
1868.
"
15,
"
"
14,
"

"
"
1869.
"
"
"
1869.

1868.

15,

"

1867.

10,

"
"
"
"

.."" """

12, 1865.
11,

"
"
" "
13, 1865.

"
"
"

13,

1863.

"
"
"
15, 1862.

"

"
1861.

"
"
"
17,

16,

"

10,

1860.

z"'

E

~

Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale ......... Sonoma . ...•.••..•.
Grafton . . . . . • . . . 141 Knights Landing .... Yolo
Franklin .••..••. 143 Courtland ..••.••... Sacramento
Orienta! •........ 144 San Francisco ..•• . . San Francisco •..••.
Vitruvius •....••• 145 Blr.·omfield .....•...• Sonoma .......•••••
Abell •.......••• 146 Ukiah •••••...•..•.• Mendocino ••.•••.•• 1
Eel River .......• 147 Fortuna .....•..... Humboldt ••.•••••••1,
Lassen ....•....• 149 .:3usanville ......... . Lassen .. • .•.•.• • •• ;
Molino ....•.... . 150 Ti>hama ...•• • ••. . .. Tehama •..•.••••• •.
Woodland ........ 156 Woodland ..•. .• . . .. Yolo .....•. . . . . . .••
Keystone ........ 161 Milton .........••.. Calaveras •••.•.• . .•
Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City •....•... Sierra .........•.. •
Excelsior .•••.•.. 166 San Francisco •.••.. San Francisco ..•••.
Alameda ..•..•••. 167 Centerville ..••.••. Alameda •.•.•.••••.
Redwood City ••.. 168 Redwood City •••••. San Mateo ••••.••••
Mission .•....•.. 169 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco •.••••
Elk Grove ..•••... 173 Elk Grove ..•.••••.• Sacramento
Dryto\VIl ..••.. • • 174 Plymouth • •. . ... . .. Amador ••. • •. • •••••
Antioch • •. ••. • . . 175 Antioch ••..••.••.•• Contra Costa •••••••
Phoenix •..••.... 178 San Bernardino ••••• San Bernardino •••••
Mendocino •...••. 179 Mendocino •.•••••••• Mendocino
Petaluma .••••••• 180 Petaluma
Sonoma ••••••••••.•
Russian River .••• 181 Windsor
Sonoma ••.••••••.••
Arbuckle ••••..•• 182 Arbuckle •........• Colusa •••••••••••••
Clear Lake .•••••• 183 Lower Lake ••••..•• Lake
Sierra Valley ••••• 184 Sierraville
Sierra
Claiborne .••••••• 185 Point Arena • • •••••• Mendocino
Evening Star ••••• 186 Etna Mills ••••••••• Siskiyou •••••••••••

Names of Lodges

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Pl11ces of Location.

I

...

.;

List of the Snoordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

0"'

O ·-

!«el

9

35
3
80 ......
75
5

5(1 . .....

50 ......

105 35
30 ......
5
50
50 2~
100 .... ..
80 ......

50 ......

50 ......
50 ......
1
50
80 j 1
50 .. .....
301 1
95 ... ...
50 1......
75
1
100 10
75 ......

50 ......

75 ······

40 ······

50 .. ... .
5
50
30 ......
80 ......
30 ......
5
60
5
60
50 20

50 .... ..

12
12
16
12
12 1
9
12
12
9
20
12
12
12
18
9

!-I

12
15
9
9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
12

15
12

~I 25
l

9

9
12
9
12
9
12
12
18
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
12

!-I

9
18
12
9
12

50 ......

30
5
75
1
100 25
30
1
50
8
50 ......
60 12
50
1
50 ......
30 IO
30
5
50 10
50
5
80
1
100
5
50 10
30
5
50
5
55
3
50
5
80
5
50
1
50
1
55 10
50 . .... .
5
50

168
858
86
455
2i3
15:?
190
104
103
315
156
118
134
649
29
272
105
317
29.')
87
28 1
534
143
27 1
268
612
561
15-l
131
393
196
77
265
442
616
242
123

176
191
132
245
31
15
560
138
296
790
107
34
153
456
150
300
107
85
41
39
58
47

162

69
63
90
470
89

~;;i

., o

""'
s:: .
s::

::;

...

..
.£ s::

-< -<
$)
75 . .....

~A

G>t<>
.,.,
IE~

... 0

..... _.,r:i A"'"'
-;;
-~

.;

-"'"

::0

"1

<..>
-"'"
<..>

>

z
....

0
::0

"1

....

>
t"'

()

0

t>1

Cl

t"'

0
ti

ti

>
z

C'.l

t>1

:Il

t-'l

"1

0

rn

Cl

z

ti
....

t>1
t>1

()

'"C

::0
0

N

<..>

?14

213

2l2

210
211

179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209

..

z

:::l

E

"'

.;
J:J

............

Town.

I

Places of Location .

··············
.........
.............
............

County.

·············
...........
··········

..........

.............

"

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"

"
"

"
"

16, 1884.
Oet.

"

.... . ......

············

..·........

..

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"

"

"
"
"
Oct.
··············
"
"
"
"
Oct.

·············

Oct.

"
"
"
Oet.

"

1884.

..

.;

50

oO

.. i::

<

IJ

9

12
9
9
12

<

<l
<l

....

12
12
9
9
12
9
20
9
12
9
12
12
12
10
12
12
12
9
9
9
24

1l!

12
12
12
9
9
12

lfl
9

12
9
9
9
9

u

30
3
50 ······
80 15
50 ......

50 ......
50 ......

IJ

218
233
383
199
108

605

123
138

209
204

131
245
106
53
71
656
202
3l!
584
313
88
116
171
651
155
176
62
58
156
70
110
103
64
97
846
289

12
12
12

9

ll

.S"'

~~

.;

"

..

s<=
"'0
a;

Q

""'

.;

9
9
9
50 ...... 12
75
1 12
31 15
75
5 12
70
9
75 10
50
5 18
50
3 12
80
3
9
1
40
9
70 ...... 15
l
35
9
50
8 12

50 10
50 ......
40 ······
50
1
55
5
50 10
1
30
80 ······
50 10

1
1
2
50
30
5
30 ......
80 10
50 ......
1
30
70 ......
80 ......
6
35
1
50
50 12
100 15
75
3
50
30 ......
5
30
1
50
30 10
!j()
3
501······

50

..

c ..

- " -:;;
,,.s
,,;::
°'"'
" " :<.16
""i=.

" . ""
"
16, 1885.
" "
" "
"
" 1886.
"
14, 1887.
" "
" "
" "
" "
11, 1888.
551" .....
301......
"
"
501 10
" "
501......
" "
"10, 1889.
"
~~1· i
501......
"
"
301......
" "
" "
I 80,......
501......
" "
......
" 1890. 501
75,......
" "
50,
.. ....
" "
4-0, ......
" "

16,

"

"
"
" . 11,
........ Oct
1883.
··········· "
" "
.............
" "
"

"

"

15, 1881.
12; 1882.

"

"15, 1880.
"

"

"
"

1879

"

16,

" "
10, 1878.
" "
" "

" "
"11, 1877.
"
" "

14,

"

Oet.
Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.
·············
.......... "
"
"

··············
.............

"
"

"
"
"

1875.
12, 1876.

"

"

16, 1874.

..

"

"
Oct.

1873.

18,

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

"
"
Oct.
.............. "
"
Oct.
"
"

LompCJc .......... 262 Lompoc ...•.....••• Santa Barbara ....•
Hesperian ••..... 264 Santa Maria ...•...• Santa Barbara •.•.•
Glenn ............••
Orland .......... 265 Orland
North East ..••... 266 Fort Bidwell •.....• Modoc .•••••......•
Galt .......•.•..• 267 Galt ............... Sacramento
Durant ••......•• 268 Berkeley ......•.... Alameda
Olive Branch ..... 269 Tulare ...•.....•.•. 'fulare
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ...•...• Colusa •...•...•..••
Los Angeles ......••
Pasadena •••.•.•• 272 Pasadena
Anchor ......•... 273 Compton .....•...•• Los Angeles •.......
Arroyo ........•. 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo ..•..
Oakdale .....•.•. 275 Oakdale ••.....•..•.• Stanislaus ...•..•.•.
Fresno
Selma •.......... 277 Selma
Soutl:t>rn Calif.... 278 Los Angeles ....•... Los Angeles ......••
Kings ..••.••.....••
Hanford ...•..•.. 279 Hanford
Madera •.••..•... 280 Madera ...........• Madera .•....•....•
Shasta .......... . ••
Mount Shasta •.•. 281 Anderson
Callayomi •.••••. 282 Middletown ........ Lake
South VVest ....•.. 283 National City ...... San Diego ......•...
San Miguel ...•... 285 San Mignel ........ San Luis Obispo ••.••
Paso Robles ..••.. 286 Paso Robles ......•. San Luis Obispo ...••
WinMdumah ••.•. 287 Bishop ............• Inyo •..••...•....••
Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell ......•.... Colusa ...... • ......
Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore ...•••...... Riverside
East Gate ....•.•. 290 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Santa Paula .•.•.. 291 Santa Paula ........ Ventura ...........
Los Gatos ......•. 292 Los Gatos •......... Santa Clara ......••
Orange Grove .•.•. 293 Orange •••••••••••• , Orange
Traver ..•..•••••. 294 Kingsburg •........ Fresno .•.........•.
Mt. Jackson ..•.•. 295 Guerneville ........ . Sonoma ..........••
Silver Gate : •..•. 296 San Diego ••...... .. San Diego ..........
Dunsmuir ......•. 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou •..•.....••
Liberty .....•.... 299 Santa Clara •......• Santa Clara ......•.
Redlands ....•••• 300 Redlands . • ......... San Bernardino •...•
Ontario . • • . . • . • . 301 Ontario ••.•......•. San Bernardino ...••
Sa nta Lueia ..•••. 302 Kings' City •..... :. Monterey

..............
···········
...........
··············
............
..........

............
············

..........
..........

Solano ...•.•.... 229 Valle,io ..........•.. •Solano ............•
North Butte ...••. 230 Gridley
Butte
Covelo .......••. 231 Covelo .•........ ·... Mendocino
Janesville •••..•. 232 Lassen ............. Lassen
Napa ..............
Calistoga .•...... 233 Calistoga
Plumas
Hope ............ 234 Beckwith
Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville ...•...... Modoc ..... ·•.......
Hill's Ferry ...•.. 236 Newman ....... . ... Stanislaus ...........
Guadalupe ...•.. . 237 Guadalupe ..•...... San ta Barbara ....•
Colusn .......••.. 240 Colusa ............. Colusa .............
Santa Ana ........ 241 Santa Ana ......•.. Orange ............•
Magnolia .......• 242 Santa Barbara ...... Santa Barbara ......
Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards .......... Alameda ..........•
~65
Alcatraz ....... ; . 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda ...........
Glenn
166 Laurel .. : ..••.•. 245 Willows
Los Angeles ........
167 Pomona ....•.... 246 Pomona
l68 Fresno ......••.. 247 Fresno .•........... Fresno ...........•.
169 Alturas ......•.•• 248 A.lturas ............. Modoc ............•
Modoc .............
170 Adin •.......••.. 250 Adin
Yolo
171 Landmark •...... 253 Esparto
172 Reading ......... 254 Redding ............ Shasta .............
173 Welcome •...•.•. 255 Lemoore
Kings
San Joaquin .......•
174 Lodi ..••.••.•••. 256 Lodi
175 Penrhyn ...•••••. 258 Penryn
Placer
176 Evergreen ....... 259 Riverside
Riverside
177 King Solomon's .•. 260 San Franeisco ..•.. San Franci11co •...••
178 Tuscan ••...••••. 261 Williams .•. ; •.•••.• Colusa ......•....••

152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164

Names of Lodires.

List of the ~ubordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

"'

.j:>.

w

>

z
.....

0
::<l

lrj

t<
.....

>

(')

lrj

0

i."rj

C"l

0
t:1

t<

t:1

z

>

C'l
::<l

0

lrj

i."rj

::i:

...,

0

rn

C'l

z

.....

t:1

i."rj .
i."rj

(')

'"O

::<l
0

w

.j:>.
.j:>.

County.

Porterville •••••.. 303 Porterville •........ Tulare ............ .
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ........... Fresno ...•..•.•...•
Azusa ....•...••. 305 Azusa • . . . . . . . . • . . . Los Angeles ....... .
Ashlar ...••..... 306 Colton ..•.......... San Bernarqino
Santa Monica .•... 307 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ...•....
Monrovia ••..••.. 308 Monrovia • . • • . . • . . . Los Angeles ••.•..•.
Delano ...•.•••.. 309 Delano ••••..••••..• Kern •..•.....•••..
Sisson ...••.••... 310 Mount Shasta .....• Siskiyou ••.•.••.•..
Los Bllnos .....•.. 312 Los Banos ••.••.... Merced ••••..••••..
Tehachapi ••••••• 313 Tehachapi ••..••••.• Kern ......•.••.•..•
Temescal ........ 314 Corona .......•....• Riverside ...•.••...
Norwalk •....•.•. 315 Norwalk ..•..••.... Los Angeles •..••••.
Sanger •..•.•••.. 316 Sanger ..........•. Fresno ............ .
Fallbrook ••...... 317 Fallbrook .........• San Diego •.........
Emmanuel ....•.• 318 Biggs •......•.•...• Butte •....•••••••.•
Hollenbeck •..••. 319 Los Angeles ..••.... Los Angeles •.......
South Gate .•.••.. 320 Los Angeles •..•.... Los Angeles ...•.•••
Alioal .....•••... 321 Pleasanton •....•... Alameda ...••••..••
Alhambra ...••••. 322 Alhambra •..•••...• Los Angeles .•••.•.•
Whittier .....•... 323 Whittier • . • • . • • . . . Los Angeles . •.••••.•
Corona ..••.•.••. 324 Pasadena • . . . . . . • • • Los Angeles ••••....
Consuelo •••••••. 325 Escondido • • . • • • . • . . San Diego •..•••.•••
Needles ••.•.•••• 326 Needles •••••••....• San Bernardino •.•••
Long Beach •••... 327 Long Beach ••...•.. Los Angeles ..••....
Redondo .•••.••• 328 Redondo ..•....•..• Los Angeles •..••...
Vallee de France .• 329 Los Angeles ••.••..• Los Angeles •.•.••..
Kilauea ••••••••• 330 Hilo ••••••••••••••• Hawaiian Ter••.••••
Pacific Grove ••••. 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monterey ••••••••••

Town.

Places of Loootion .

I
243 San Pedro ••..••. 332 San Pedro ••...•.... Los Angeles ••••••••
244 Alta •••....••••. 333 Bridgeport ......••• Mono •..•....••.•.•
245 Covina ••..•.•••• 334 Covina • • .••••••.•. Los Angeles •••••...
246 West Gate ..•••.. 335 Los Angeles ••••..•. Los Angeles ••••••••
247 Fruitvale •••••.•• 336 10akland ....•....•. Alameda .••••••••••
248 Carquinez ••••••• 337 Crockett •......••.. Contra Costa •••.•••
249 San Jacinto •••••. 338 San Jacinto .•.••••. Riverside •.•••••••.
250 Fullerton •••••••• 33!) Fullerton ...••••••• Orange •••••••••••.
251 Oxnard ..••....•• 341 Oxnard ........•..• Ventura ...••..••.•
252 San Fernando •••. 343 Fernando .•••••.... Los Angeles ••••••••
253 ·Starr King •.••.•. 344 San Francisco ..••••. San Francisco ....•.
254 Brentwood ••••••. 345 Brentwood •.••..••. Contra Costa •.•••••
255 Palo Alto ••.••••. 346 Palo Alto .•.••.•... Santa Clara ....••..
256 McKinley ..•••.. 347 Richmond ......••.. Contra Costa ..••.•.
257 San Bernardino .•. 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino •....
258 Sequoia •••••.••. 349 Oakland ...••••.••. Alameda ..•..•••...
259 Palestine ••.••••. 351 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles . . . . . . .
260 Sunset ....••..•. 352 Los Angeles •.•..••. Los Angeles ••••.••.
261 Pinole ..•..•••.•. 353 Pinole ....••...• • •. Contra Costa .•••...
262 Presidio .•..••... 354 San Francisco ••.... San Francisco ...•..
263 Hollywood ..••.•. 355 H?llywood .•..•.... Los Angeles ....... .
264 Mill Yalley ...•••. 356 Mill Valley .....•... Marin ...••••••....
265 Buen!!. Park ...... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ....••.••...
266 Golden State . .. .. 358 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
267 Loyalton ..•.•••• 359 Loyalton ........... Sierra . .... . ....... .
268 San Franciscc; ... . 360\San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
269 Fort Bragg ....... 361 Fort Bragg ......... Mendocino ...•.....
270 Charity ....••..•. 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ....... .
271 Berktiley •....... 363 Berkeley ........•.. A.lame1la ......•....
272 Willits ...•...•.. 365 Willits ......•..... Mendocino ........ .
273 Las Pal mas .....•. 366 Fresno ............. Fresno .........••..
274 South Pusadena . . il67 South Pasadena ... . Los Angeles ....... .
275 Unity ........... 368 Glendale .. .• ..•• . .. Los Angeles ....••..
276 Ocean Park ...... 36!)! Ocean Park ....... . Los Angeles ...•.•.•
277 Amity .......... . :llO San Franiiisco . . . . . San Francisco ..... .

236
237
238
239
240
241
242

23G

215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234

Names of Lodges.

ci

"s
:i
z
,Q

"
"
"
1893.

...

"
"
11,
" "
" "
" "
"11, 1894.
"
" "
" "
" "
11, 1895.
" "
" "
13, 1896.
"
"
15, 1897.
" "
"
"

"

12,

"
"
"
1892.

"

1890.
1891.

14,
14,

11,
10,

"

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"

1900.

1898.
1899.

1897

"
"
"
1904.
"
"

"
"
"

12,

"

"
"

1905.

"

.. "". . ".
"

"
...
."

Oct.

"
"

Oct.

..
"
.." .. .
"
..

"

"
"
"
"
13,
"

"
"
"
"

1903

16,

Oct.

"

.. .. "
.. .. ..

"
"

"
"
"
'·'

1901.
15, 1902.

15,

Oct.

.. . .
.."" .."" ""
"
"
".. .

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"

16
14:

Oct.
Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

5

1

3
15

80
80
100

25

75 ..... .
80 ... .. .

5

80
50

100 ..... .
50
5
75 ..... .

50 ..... .

100 10
30 ..... .
55 4%
75 ..... .
55
5
80
1
75 10
75 ..... .
50 ... .. .
75 15
50 12
100 ..... .
30 ... .. .
50 .. ... .

50 ..... .
75 ..... .
50
1
50 ... .. .

50 ..... .

80 .... . .
53
5
80 . ... . .
75 .... . .
50 25

75
1
130 ..... .
60 .... . .
100 12
50 ... .. .
75 ..... .

50 ······

10
50 no fee
50 .. ... .
50 .... . .
55 ····· ·
70
8

50

50

50 ..... .
50 .... . .
50 ..... .
50 .. ... .
80 ... .. .
50 ... .. .
50 .... . .
50
2
75 ..... .
75
1
50
2
30 ... .. .
50 .... . .
30
5

<I

... .; ,....,;

oO
-o.,.,... -:o
Q) .~
'"" ~IE
i'<A
""

9
12
9
9
12
9
9
10
12
12
12

15
9
9

9

12

12

18

12

12

9

12
9
9

12

9
9
15
12
12
9
12
12
9

12

9

12

12

12

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
9
12
9

12

9
9
12
9
12
12
9
9
12
9

~

~~

w

-"'"

~

"'.I

>
!:"'
....
0

~

;;:

129
908
70

496

~57

566
133
653
538
402

!!4
113

377

(')

....,

w
-"'"

z

"'.I

"'.I

0

467

137

()

l'l

598
597
1052
320

!:"'
0
I:'

I:'

>
z

()
~

l'l

~

>-l

0

1JJ

()

....I:'
'.Z

l'l
l'l

(')

0

'"d

0\

500
942

331

241
619
94
476

236

98
414

150

521
46
227
83-5
765

607
245
137
211
156

213

386
482
562
147

110

714

306
260
167
63
127
167
145
123
165
62
74
1280

170

146
168

282

e:" ""'
""
"'"'
"" ::=i;:;:
<"

.;

z"

E

...........

...........

Town.

I

Places of Location.

............

County.

304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336

............

.............
............

··········
.............
···········

········
...........

"
"

"
"
"

C'et.

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

" "
"
"
"
"
12, 1912.
" "
" "
"
"
"
Oct.
"
··········· "

··············

"
"11, 1911.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"

1910.

13,
Oct.

"
1909.

1908

"

"
. ........... ""
············ "
"
Oct.

. .........

"

"

"" . ""
" "
"14, 1909.
"

"

14,

15,

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
1908
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"

1907.

"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"

"

1905.
HI06.

"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

.......... ..

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
10,
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,
"

12,
10,

Oct.
Oct.

Date when Charter
was· Issued.

"
Oct.
···········
.......... "
"

···········
..............

Fraternity •••••.. 399 San Jose .••.....••. Santa Clara ..•..•.• 1
San Mateo ••...••.•
Burlingame •••••• 400 Burlingame
Alameda ••......•••
Bay View •••• ; ••• 401 Oakland
Br;lwley ••••••••. 402 Brawley ••••...•••. Imperial .•••.••••••
Y erba Buena ••.•• 403 Oakland.•••.••.•.•. Alameda ••••••......
Glendora •••••.••• 404 Glendora ••..•••••.. Los Angeles ..•••••.
Moneta ••••.••••• 405 Los Angeles •.••••.• Los Angeles ....•••.
Burbank •.••••••• 406 Burbank •••.••••••• Los Angeles ....••.•
La Mesa ••••.•••• 407 La Mesa .••..•...••• San Diego ...•.•••••
Sierra Madre •••• .408 Sierra Madre •...•.•• Los Angeles ...•••..
Honolulu •..••••. 409 Honolulu
Hawaii ..••.••••••..
Charter Rock .•••• 410 Berkelev ••......••. Alameda ..•..•.••..
Perris ..•••.•••• .411 Perris
Riverside
Imperial •••.•••.•.•
Calexico ••.••••• .412 Calexico
Waucoba • • • •• • • • 413 Big Pine ..•••••..•. Inyo ........••••...
Arlington • . . • • •. 414 Los Angeles .•..•••. Los Angeles ........
Silver Trowel. •.•• 415 Los Angeles ....••.. Los Angeles .•••••.•
Lindsay ••••••••• 416 Lindsay ............ Tulare
Clovis ••••..•.••• 417 Clovis
Fresno
Elysian .•.••.•••• 418 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....••..
San Bernardino .....
Upland .......... 419 Upland
Kerman •.••••••• 420 Kerman •••••••••.•. Fresno .•.••...•.•...
Inglewood ••••••• 421 Inglewood ........... Los Angeles ••••••••
Eagle Rock ••.••• 422 Eagle Rock • .- ••...•. Los Angeles ...•..•..
York •.•••••••••• 423 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ••••••••
Tulare ...•..•.•...•
Exeter ...•••.••• 424 Exeter
Holtville •••••••. 425 Holtville ........... Imperial
Midway •••••.••• 426 Taft .••••..•••••••. Kern
Chino Valley •••• .427 Chino ••.•...•.••.•• San Bernardino •••.•
San Dimas ••••.••• 428 San Dimas •.•.••••• Los Angeles •••••..•
Pittsburg •••••••• 429 Pittsburg ••••.•••.. Contra Costa .•....•
McCloud .••.••••• 430 Me Cloud . . . . • . . • . . . Siskiyou •.••••.•.. ~
Alph!t .....••••.• 431 Richmond . • . . . • • . . . Contra Costa ...•.••

...........
..........

............
...........

Le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ..... ,371 Honolulu ••••••••••• Hawaiian Ter•••..••
:79 Gardena ••••••••• 372 Gardena
Los Angeles ••••••••
:80 Veteran •.....••• 373 Sawtelle
Los Angeles ••••..••
:in Jewel .•••..••••. 374 San Francisco .••••• San Francisco •••.••
82 Rbh:nond .••••••• 375 San Francisco ..•••• San Francisco •.••••
83 Francis Drake •••. 376 South San Francisco. San Mateo ••••.••••
84 Artesia ....••.••• 377 Artesia
Los Angel.-ie ••••••.•
85 Mizpah .......... 378 Loe Angeles ••••••.• Los Angeles •.••...•
86 Fillmore ....••••• 379 Fillmore
Ventura •.•••••••.••
2 87 Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach •. Orange
2 88 . Oceanside ...••••. 381 Oceanside ..•••.••.• San Diego ••••••••.•
89 Highland Park •••• 38"2 Los Angeles ..•.....• Los Angeles .•••..•••
90 Orosi .•••••••...• 383 Oroei ••.•••••••••.• Tulare •.•..•.•....
2 91 El Centro ...•.••.. 384 EI Centro •....•.•••. Imperial
92 Dinuba ..•...•••• 385 Dinuba ••••••••••••• Tulare
93 Coalinga ••...•••. 387 Coalinga •.•.••.••.• Fresno .••••••••••••
2 94 • Parnassus .•..•••• 388 San Francisco •••.••• San Francisco •...•.•
95 Palos Verdes ••••• 389 Long Beach .•••••..• Lo_s Angeles ..•••••••
96 Imperial ..••••..• 390 Imperial
Imperial
97 East Belt .•••••.. 391 Tuolumne
Tuolumne
98 West Lake .•.•••• 392 Loe Angeles •.•••••• Loe Angeles .•...•••
99 Balder • . . • •• • •• • 393 San Francisco .••.••• San Francisco ...••••
00 University •·•..••. 394 Loe Angeles ..•..•.•• Los Angeles .•••••.••
01 Turlock ..•.••••. 395 Turlock •••..•••..•• Stanislaus
3 02 Apollo .....•••••. 396 Alameda ..•••...••• Alameda ..••.•..•••
03 Rising Light ••••. 397 Huntington Park ..•• Loe Angeles ..•.•..••

:78

Names of Lod11es.

...
.0
"

.;

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

Q.).~

~

9'
18
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12

12
15
12
9
12
12
9
12
9
9
12
12
18
12
12

!l

12
9
12
12
12
12
9
12
15
9

~

~
~

"

50 ......
50
3
50 .....
8
10
5
80
3
30
5
50
30 ...... ......
50 ...... . 9
5 12
75
50 ...... 12
9
50 ······
5 10
80
3
9
50
9
80 ......
3 12
80
80 ...... 12
9
80 ......
50 ...... 10
9
75 ......
50 ...... 12
50 ...... . 9
55 ...... 12
75
1 12
9
50 ......
75 ......
9

'l···

50 ......
50 ......
1
80
5
75
80 25
60 ......

80 10
100
5
75
3
100 30
50 10
75
5
50 ......
50 15
50
1
50 ......
50 ......
75 20
50 ......
75 no fee
50 ......
100 ......
100 10
75 ......
50 10
5
liO
50 50
50 20
50 ......
80 ......
1
75
75 ......

~

"" ~ii

..

0"

"liO

~

. ""
_,,. .e~
""al
...;

.;

398
421
340
129
401
·104
712
242
130
93
2r.o
452
68
165
48
388
340
158
234
475
147
55
301
271
175
161
99
373
60
113
139
110
435

:J 7
5 1

165

5 9
5 4

1 5
1()()
4 2
1 2
~ 9
1 2
506
,3
2 9
1 0
2 5
€ 8
4 6
,5
4
10 3

"1

""'"
\0

c.>

H

z
>

::c

0

"1

H

>
t""'

(')

"1

0

()
trj

t""'
0
ti

ti

z

()

::c
>

trj

P'.1

>'l

0

[fl

()

z

H

ti

trj
trj

(')

>-c

0

tl

::c

00

1 4
1 3
1 4

:J 5

""'
~~

"'0

2l ~

,...;

c.>
+..

County.

...........
··········
.........
........

.........
·········

Maricopa ••..•..• 434 Maricopa ••..•••••. Kern •....•.••..•••
Fairmount •..••• .435 San Francisco .••... San Francisco ..•..•
Los Angeles
Claremont ...•.. .436 Ularemont
Los Angeles ••.••••
Lancaster ...•.. .437 Lancaster
Acacia ........•• 438 Los Angeles .....•. Los Angeles ....•..
Tyrian • . . . • . . • . • 439 Manteca ..•.•...••. San Joaquin ..••.••
Standard ..••.... 440 Oakland
Alameda •.••••••..•
CoTonado ••..•••• 441 Coronado
San Diego •..••••••
Blackmer .•••..•• 442 San Diego
San Diego •..•.••••
Schofield ...•..••• 443 Schofield Barracks .•. Hawaiian Ter ..•.•.•
Carpinteria ..•••• 444 Carpinteria
Santa Barbara .••••
Wilshire •.•••••• .445 Los Angeles •...... Los Angeles ......••
La Puente .••...•• 446 Puente ....•.•....• Los Angeles •..•••••
Torrance •.•••••• 447 Torrance .....••...• Los Angeles ....••••
Mt. Diablo ....... 448 Concord ............ Contra Costa •.•.•••
Park ••.••..•..•• 449 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco ...•.•
Van Nuys ..•••.. .450 Van Nuys ......... Los Angeles •.••.•.•
Montebello • • . . • •451 Montebello •. • ..••.. Los Angeles ••••..••
San Pasqual ••.•• .452 Pasadena ......... .. Los Angeles ••••••.•
Bethlehem •••••• .453 San Francisco .•••.•• San Francisco .....••
Crocker .•••••••• .454 Daly City ........... San Mateo .••..•...•
Golden West .•..•. 455 San Francisco .....•• San Francisco ....•••
Ramona ••..••••• 457 Monterey Park .... ; . Los Angeles ...•.•.•
Henry S. Orme .•• 45!! Los Angeles ••••..•.• Los Angeles .••...•.

...........
············

......... ...

362 Riverbank .•.•••• 459 RiYerbank ...•..... Stanislaus ......•.. .
363 Mount Oso ..•••. .460 Tracy .... .......... San Joaquin •...•.•.
364 Argonaut •.••..•• 461 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•••..•
365 Paul Revere ••..•• 462 San Francisco ..•.• . San Francisco •••...•
366 Morgan Hill .••••• 463 Morgan Hill ........ Santa Clara .••.....
367 Alta Vista .•.•... 464 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . •... . •
368 Center •••..•••.• 465 Fresno ....••..•.... Fresno
369 Libertas •..••••. .466 Bakersfield .....•... Kern ...............
370 Culver City ....... 467 Culver City .•....••• Los Angeles .• . •... .
371 Rock ridge ••••••. 468 Oakland . . ..•••••.. Alameda •••.•••..••
372 Yorba Linda ••.... 469 Yorba Linda •..••.•. Orange ••••.•..•.•.
373 Lincoln •• . •.•... 470 San Francisco • • ••.. San Francisco .... .•
374 Delta ...•.•..•••• 471 Stockton
San Joaquin ..... . .
375 Maui ............ 472 Kahului
Hawaiian Ter. . ....
376 Blythe • .......••• 473 Blythe .......•...•. San Bernardino .....
377 Victory •....•.•. 474 San Francisco •••... San Francisco ....••
378 America • •••.•••• 475 Los Angeles .. •. •... Los Angeles ••......
379 Coachella .•••... .476 Coachella .....•.... Riverside ..........
380 Temblor ......••. 477 Fellows ........•... Kern . . .............
381 Thousand Oaks .. .478 Berkeley •. ......... Alameda ... . . . .....
382 Golden Rule • ••.. .479 San Jose .. . .... . ... Santa Clara .•......
383 F ellowship ...... 480 Oakland . ......•...• Alam eda ...... . .. . .
384 Mt. Davidson ..•.. 481 San Francisco . ...... San Francisco ••....
385 Clarence F. Smith .482 Los Angeles ...•...• Los A ngele.s ..•.... .
386 Bell ............ .483 Bell ...•.....•.•.... Los Angeles .. ... .. .
387 Albert Pike •••.. .484 Los Angeles .. . •.... Los Angeles ........
388 Chowchilla ...•... 485 Chowchilla ... . ..... Madera •.... • ......
389 Caledonia . • ..•• .486 Bakersfield ..• . ..... Kern .........•...•
390 Vallejo .......... 487 Vallejo ..•• • ••....•• Solano .........• . ..
391 Patterson ...•••. .488 Patterson • ..•. . •..• Stanislaus ...•.•.•..
392 East Bay • •. .•.• .489 South Berkeley ••••• Alameda ••. • • . .....
:i93 · Corcoran • • .••.... 490 Corcoran •••••.••••• Kings .. • ••.........
:rn.i Woodstock •••••• 491 Alameda ....•.••••• Alameda ...........
:i!l5 Garvanza . .••.••• 492 Los Angeles •.•.•• • • Los Angeles • •.....•
:l!l6 Atascadero ...... 493 Atascadero .......... . San Luis Obispo .....
:l!li Acorn .. . .. ...•• .49! Oakland ••••••••••• Alameda .•.•• • .. . ..

338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361

z

::I

"

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
Oct.
"
"

"

Oct.

"

"

"
"

"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"

"
"

1914.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"

1913.

"

"
"
" "
11, 1917.
"
"
"10, 1918.
"
"
"
"
"
"16, 1919.
"
"
"
14, 1920.
" "
" "
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

"
"

"

"

191;)

1916
,,

22,
12,

"
"
'"
"

"
"
" "
" "
14, 1915.

"
"
15,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
."

"
"

"
"
Oct.
"

"
"
"
"

16,

was Issued.
Town.

E

/:>.

I
337 Hammonton ••.••• 433 Hammonton ..·.•••.• Yuba •.•.••..•••••• Oct.

Names of Lodges.

Date when Charter

!

...,...
Places of Location.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

"'c:

8o

50
2
80 ······
75 JO
liO
1
80 ······
5
501 10
80

~~l . ·io

100 ······
50 .. .. ..
5
75
50 ......
100 10
80 ......
5
50
5
50
80 10
75 25
75 ······
50 ......
5
75
75 ......
l
80
105 ......
80 ......
50 ......
75 15
50
1

30 ... ...
80
6
80 ......
100 10
1
50
105 ......

50 .... ..
50 20
100 ......
50
······5
55
50 10
50 ......
80 10
50 ......
80 ......
80
5
.50 ......
50 ......
1
50
50 ......
5
80
70 10
3
80
3
50
70 Hitt
50 15
3
50
105 10
60 ......
75 ......

12
12
12
12
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
15
15
9
12
18
9
9
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
12

9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
24
9
15
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
15

i:d

~

345
332
21 6
324
267
190
195
1)8
150
243
71
270
79
174
176
51
303

mo

74
183
358
547
!.16
289
339
248
226
366
118
295
299
121
35
223
rl57
85

1 8
4 ,4
2 ·5
2 7
3 2
3 ·9
2 ,9
4 0
2 5
E 17

1 fi

"l

w

>

H

z

i:d

0

"l

H

t-<

>

n

"l

0

t'1

C'l

0
ti

t-<

ti

C'l
i:d

>
z

(.fl

t'1

..,
546
0

0

(fl

zC'l

....

ti

t'1
t'1

n

0

"d

,3

1
3 3
1 7
5 6
2 17

l
5
1'
1 0

(

..

"'"'
~~

...Qi=

<i

-o

"'"'

:::s
A

< <c:

~~ ~ij

c:
... 0
e";~
i~

...0 .,..
_.,

w

0
"'

JI

Town

....... ...

457
458
459
460

156

449
450
451
452
453
!54
455

448

445
446
447

443
444

442

.......... ... .

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

..

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

..

"
"

"
"

..

~~

<

~e

so······

100 10
55 2 7f
80 1

!>.A

:;.,.,~

"0
"m _.,
"'
o<>
o-

...

"'.,

9
9

9
12

80
5
100
5
80 ..... .
50 .. , .. .
80
5
50 20
55 ..... .

"

"
"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

5

1

55
2
55 .•.. ..
60 Hr.II

75 10
100 21;
75
5
75 ..... .
80
5
80 ······I

50

12
211

9

12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12

9

12
12
12

9

9

9

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

IO

1923

50

9
9
9

"

"
"
"
"
"

75 ······
5o ·nr.1
60 ... :..
80 ..... .

9
9

12

8
J2
9

12
9
12
12
12
12

80 ..... .

55 ..... .
100 ..... .
50 10
100 10
60 ··•···
125
5
76 ~'"

12
10

9
9

72
166
88
104
155

119

261
236
267
364
168
142
87
104
163
173
203

99
129
121
438
227
207
108

160
110
279
207
273
215
210
339
128
55
195

3:~4

166
212
143
261
298
200
179

9

15
12
12

12

!-I

9

!}

12
9

9

12
12
9
9

"'

<
12
121
12
12
9
12
9

296
60
271
120
lli6
151
178
147
106
291
212
304
172
51
222
82
116
195
297
342

" ""'
Oi
"'"'
~~
"'" )1~
A

80
5
70 ..... .
100 ..... .
56 10
75
1

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"

1922

7510
80 5
"
35 10
"
i5 ......
"
75 .....
"
80 ······
"
50 1
" "
7510
" "
50 ... ...
" " I 50
5
" "
" "
50 ······
50 .. ...
" "
50 ......
" "
50 47-f
" "
50 5
" "
100 5
12, 1922
50 ······
"
"
50 ......
" "
80 10
"
" 100
......
"
"
50 ......
" "
50 10
"
"
80 5
"
"
5010
" "

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Bellflower •.••••• 523 Bellflower .. • ....•.. Los Angeles ..••..•. October 12,
Catalina Island .•. 524 Avalon ....••••..••• Los Angeles .....•••
"
"
Geo. Washington .525 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ....••
"
"
Bay City •••••• • •• 526 San Francisco ••• . •. San Francisco ...•••
"
"
Covenant •••••••• 527 Los Angeles ......•• Los Angeles .. . .... .
"
"
Beverly Hills • •••• 528 Beverly Hills ....... Los Angeles . . ..... .
"
"
Loyalty ••.•••••• 529 Los Angeles . .... .. . Los Angeles .•......
"
"
Sun Garden ..•••• 53() Fresno ........•.... Fresno ........•....
"
"
Alexandria •..••. 531 San Francisco .....• San Francisco .....•
"
"
Smyrna ••••••.•. 532 Ceres .............• Stanislaus . ....... •
"
"
Azure ....••..••• 533 Fullerton • . . . . . . . . . Orange .. .. ....... .
"
"
Forest Hill ..••••. 534 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco .....•
"
"
Alex. Hamilton •.. 535 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Seal Bock .•••..•. 536 San Francisco ... . .. San Francisco .....•
"
"
Utopia •.••.••••. 537 Los Angeles .•...... Los Angeles .......•
"
"
Ascot ••.•••••••• 538 Los Angeles . . . . . • . . Los Angeles .......•
"
Belvedere ••••..•. 539 Belvedere ...... . .• Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Queen Beach •••••. 540 Long Beach . .•..... : Los Angeles ........• October
11,
Henry Morse
Stephens ....•. 541 Berkeley •.......•... Alameda ..•••••••..•
"
"
Lankershim •••••• 542 North Hollywood ..•• Los Angeles ......•..
"
"
Signal ...••..••• 543 Long Beach ... • ..... Los Angeles ....•.•..
"
"
Glendale .••••••. 544 Glendale ..•..•.•.... Los Angeles ......••.
"
"
Jonathan ..•••••. 545 San Francisco .•....• San Francisco ...•. ..
"
"
San Gabriel •...•. 546 San Gabriel. ..•••... Los Angeles .•.••••••
"
"
Arcadia ••••••••. 547 Arcadia ......••.•••. Los Angeles ...•..•.•
"
"
Triangle ••••••••. 548 Venice .•.. .•. ..•. ••. Los Angeles; .....•..
"
"
Justice ••.••••••• 549 San Francisco .•..••. San Francisco ..••...
"
"
Seaport ..•••••••• 550 San Francisco ...•••• San Francisco .•.. • .•
"
"
Lakeshore ....••. 551 Oakland .... . ....•••. Alameda ..•••.••••.•
"
"
Semper Virens .•• . 552 Eureka .•. ....•.••.•. Humboldt ....••.• • ..
"
"
Golden City ....•. 553 S an Francisco ....••. San Francisco .••....
"
"
Educator .....••. 554 San Francisco ....••. San Francisco .•.....
"
"
White Pine .....•. 555 Weed ...... •.• ••.... Siskiyou • .... . .....•
"
"
Fairfax .......... 556 F airfax. . . . . . . . . . . . • Marin . . ...•... . .. ...
"
"
Hermcsa .... . .... 557 llermosa Beach . ... . Los Angeles . ..... .. .
"
"

.....
.... ..... .. ...

..... ...
·········

Fresno . ... .. . ......
Riverdale ..•..... 496 Riverdale
Frem<1nt ••...• .. . 497 Oakland . . . .. . ...... Alameda ........•..
Stockton ......•. 498 Stockton . ········'· San Joaquin .........
Sacra mento . . ..... . .
Capital City .•.••• 499 Sacramento
Roosevelt ........ 500 San Francisco . ... .. . San Francisco . ..... .
Westwood .....•. 501 Westwood
L assen .............
llarbor ....•..... 50~ Richmond . .. ... ..•. Contra Costa ...... ..
Point ....•....•.. 503 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ........
Seaside • . .. .• . ... 504 Long Beach . . .. . . .. . Los Angeles.... .... .
Silver Cord ....••. 505 Santa Ana . ... ... ... Orange . . ....... .. ..
Mount Olive ... . .. 506 Los Angeles .. •. .... . Los Angeles .. ..• . ...
El Segundo ...•.. . 507 El Segundo ..•...... Los Angeles ...... . . ..
Joppa ......•.••. 508 San Joaquin ........ Fresno . ............
Benj. Franklin .•.. 509 Los Angeles . . . .... . . Los Angeles ... . . .. . .
Cupertino ........ 510 Cupertino .......... Santa Clara . . .......
Sunnyvale ••..••. 511 Sunnyvale .. . ..• .... Santa Clara .. . .... . .
Palms . .. .. . .••.. 512 Palms ..... . ... .. . .. Los Angeles .. . ... .. .
Cahuenga •....... 513 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ..... . ...
Argonne ....•.••. 514 San Francisco
San Francisco ... .. .
Vernon Square .••. 515 Los Angeles ...... Los Angeles ........
Kern
Taft . . ... •• ..••. 516 Taft
Mount Vernon .••. 517 San Francisco .. .. .. San Francisco .....•
La Jolla . ....•••. 518 San Diego .......... San Diego .... .. ...
Euclid ......•.••• 519 Los Angeles ....... . Los Angeles ........
Ionic ......... • •. 520 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Piedmont . •.. •.•. 521 Piedmont ......... . Alameda ........ . ..
Sunrise ...•..•••. 522 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .. .... . .

426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441

299
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425

13, 1921

Date when Charter
was Issued

County
I
398 Leb!l.non ••.••.•. .495 San Francisco ... .... San .l!'rancisco ...... .
Oct.

Ne.mes of Lodges

Places of Locl\tlOn

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-COntinued.

~

>
....

CH

CH

z
....
>

:;d

0

I:"'
"1

("')

0

"1

l:'1

c;l

t:l

I:"'
0

t:l

z>

:;d

c;l

"'

::11
l:'1

...:i

"1

0

Ul

zc;l

l:'1
l:'1
t:l
....

("')

0

:;d

CH

N
"'

Town

I

County

Point Firmin •••.. 558 San Pedro ..•..•..•.. Los Angeles ..•.••...
Craftsman ••..••• 559 Los Angeles ...•....• Los Angeles ••..•.•.•
Plymouth •..•.••• 560 Oakland .....•...•.•. Alameda ...••••••..•
East San Diego .•• 561 East San Diego ..•... San Diego .•••.•.•••.
Pyramid .•..•.••. 562 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
South Park ••••••• 563 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .•...•...
Foothill ......... 564 Oakland ..........•. Alameda .....••.•..•
West Adams .•..•• 565 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ...•••...
James A. Gar:field.566 Los Angeles .•.••..•. Los Angeles ••..•••••
Searchlight •••••• 567 Long Beach ••••••••. Los Angeles ..•.••...
Park Boulevard ... 568 Oa '·~.ind ..•••....•• : Alameda .•.•••.••..•
Chateau Thierry •• 569 Oakland ..••••..•••• Alameda ..••.••.••.•
Military Service .. 570 San Francisco ...••.• San Francisco ..••.•.
Francis K.
Shattuck .••.... 571 Berkeley ••..••••.••• Alameda •••.•••.••••
James Madison ... 572 Los Angeles ••••.•... Los Angeles ........•
Hillcrest •..••.••. 573 Berkeley ..•••••••••• Alameda ..•..•.•••.•
S. W. Hackett .••. 574 San Diego ..•..•..••. San Diego ....••••••.
Fort Crook ..•.••. 575 ·Fall River Mills •••. , Shasta ....•..•••••••
El Cajon Valley ..• 576 El Cajon .•••......•. San Diego ..•••••.•.
Sunnyside ....... 577 Los Angeles .•...••.. Los Angeles ...••••••
Progressive ...•.. 578 Los Angeles ....•.••. Los Angeles ••.•••.••
Warren G.
Harding ....•... 579 North Saeramento ... Sacramento .•..••••.•
Santa Maria ...... 580 1Ramona .....•...•..• San Diego ......••..

z

Cl

"'8

Places of Location

484 S~curity •.••.•••• 581 1 Bakersfield .•.••.•..• Kern ...............
485 Rialto ••...•••.•• 582IRialto .......•....... San Bernardino .....
486 Wasco ....••.•••• 583 Wasco ...•••••.•..•. Kern ....•.........•.
487 Harding .•.••.••• 584 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ....•..•.
488 Manchester: •••••• 585 Los Angeles .•.... -. .. Los Angeles .........
489 Garden Grove ••••• 586 1Garden Grove ....... Orange •..••....•..•.
490 Valley Forge ..••• 587,Los Angeles ........• Los Angeles .........
491 El Sereno •.••.••. 5881Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
492 Kauai .•••..•.••. 589 Lihue ............... Kauai, T. H ..........
493 Compass ••••.•••• 590 Pomona ............. Los Angeles .........
494 Escalon ..•.•.•••• 5911 Escalon ..•.......... San Joaquin ....•...
495 Tujunga •.....••• 592 •rujung& ............. Los Angeles .........
1
496 All States, ...••.. 5931Long
Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
497 Service ....••••.• 5941 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .......•.
498 Alexander Gr~l).am
I
Bell............ 595 Los Angeles ••••••••• Los Angeles .......•.
'199 Guardian ........ 5961South Gate .... , •.... Los Angeles .......•.
500 Truth ..••..••... 597 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .......•.
501 Pearl Harbor ...•. 598 Honolulu ..........•. Oahu, T. H •.•••...•.
502 Carmelita •.••••.• 5991Pasadena ............ Los Angeles .......•.
503 Lynwood ..•• _•••. 6001Lynwood .......•.... Los Angeles .........
504 Grizzly •••..•.. • .60llportola .....•.••.••. Plumas .....•...•.••
505 Melrose ••.•••••• 603 Los Angeles ....••.. Los Angeles ..•...••
506 Dimond •.•.•••••• 603 Oakland ...•.•...•. Alameda ••••.•.•.••
507 Jubilee ••.•. • •••. 604 Santa Ana ••.•••••. Orange .......•...••·
508 Gl~ssell Park ••••• 605 Los Angeles ••.•••.. Los Angeles .•.•.•••
509 SoJourner •••••••• 607 Monrovia •.••.•••.• Los Angeles ••.•..••
510 Granada ••••••••. 608 Alhambra .•.••••••• Los Angeles •..••••.
511 Provident ••••••• 609 Sacramento .••..••• Sacramento .•..•.• .,
512 Elmhurst •••••••• 610 Oakland ••..••.•••.. Alameda
513 Canoga ...••.•••.• 611 Canoga Park. • • • • • • Los Al).gel~~ · : : : : : : : :
514 Temple City .••.•. 612 ']lemple . • • • • • • • • • • • Los Angeles ••••••. ;
· 515 Three Pillara ••••• 613 Sacramento .•••••••. Saeramento •..•.. ·-•
516 Larchmont ; •••••• 614 Los Angeles ••••••.. Los Angeles •.••...•

i83

'175
'176
'177
'178
<l79
'180
'181
'182

461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
171
'172
i73
i74

Names of Lodyes

Q)

...

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

"

l(

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

1!121

"

..

"
"
"
"
"
,·,"
"
,.,

"

"
"
,.,"

•(

'"

"

"

rn.2::1

"

"

"
"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1925
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

"
"
"
"

'16, 1924

"

o~t.

16

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

,,,"
"

11

o .. t.

"
"

"

"
"
"
"

...

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"

Oct.

Date when Charter
Was Issued

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

c.i::::

.,tio

80 5
50 ......
80 50
!lO 15
70 ......
50 ......
5011}
50 IO
60 l
50 i
50 ......
50 .....
50 5
7510
80 1
75 1
50 ....
76110
5015

5Q
75 10
7-0 ·2
50
35 3
80 ......
75 ......

50 ·12~

100 ......
55 ......
80 ......
70 25
5{) 20
50 l

I

12
·9
12
9
9
12
9
12
9
18

12

12
12
12
12
12
12
·9
12

9
9

9

i~I
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12

121

97
148
160
111
90
129
185
148
227
102
2;;2
124
132
123
83
120
175

~24

147

170
84
104
152
234
98
192
125
92
137
ti6
711
289
298

135
42

...... ······ ......
30 ...... 12

so .....

50 4~
75 15

12
12
12
9

171
154
56
193
71
1\5
257
242
·9

Hil

2fl5
222
223
136
333
200
161
253

194
178
218

9
9
12

75 s
80 •fee
50 .....
80 ......
so 1

......

~

O>c:i
""'

~~

"'"'
"'c::c:: :a;:;;
""12 262

"'

80 ······
50 .....
9
80 10
12
60 ......
9
80 1
25
50
9
80 5
12
50 ...... 12
100 30
9
9
80 ......
80 5
12
50 l ......
lCO l'O
12

ii.A

"'"' ;;..""

Q)~

O+>

Q)

0

c::
""'·s A"'"'
_. .,.... _.,
...

l'%j

<n.
"'
<n.

H

z
>

::<:i

0

>
t"
....
l'%j

(")

':t:J

0

t"'
0
ti
C'l
t'1

ti

>
z

::<:i

C'l

t'1

::i:

...,

0

[fJ

C'l

z

H

t'1
t'1
ti

("')

"d
::<:i

0

<n.
"'
-!>-

~z

~

Town

I
County

;)44
545
546
547
!i48
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580

517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530

,,
,,

''

''
"
''
"
"
""
"
"
"

''

''

I I

1926

14,

"

''

I I

"

''
''
''''
''
''

''

"

,,
''
''

,,''
''
''
''

I I

~ .;
0:

99
96
99
149
187
188
94
125
101
172
98
l 14
72
74
50
1 . lZ
80 23 12
50 .... .. 12
80 .... .. 12
60 .. .... 12
50 .... .. 12
55 •....
9
50 ......
9
50
5
9
80 ······ 12
80
5 12
100 10 12

~gg ... ~.01 g

30 ··· ···
45 ······
30 30
50 .. ... .
75 ... .. .
75 ......
50 .... ..
50 .... ..
75 10
80
1
50
5
50
1
70 15

73
49
32
180
122
74
168
150
236
111
2!15
122
112

o

""'
"~
"'"'
::a"'"'
:E
~

9
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
12
12

-<

o;
~

i::o

"'~

"

...

14, 1926
75 .. .... l ;j
67
Oct.
L a G11mbre . . . . • .. 642 SantaB1rbara ....... Los Angeles . . . .. . .. .
238
75 ...... 12
Alta Loma .. . .. .. 64::! Signal Hill. ......... Los Angeles . . ...... .
"
"
"
102
60 .. .. ..
9
Lomit.& .......••. 644 Lomita ............. . Los Angeles, ........
" "
"
ll 9
80 5
12
A. F. E. Irwin . . .. 645 Sa~ Pedro . .... ...... Los Angeles .........
"
"
"
94
50 •fee 12
Metr:ipolitan .... . 646 Los Angeles •.... . ... Los Angeles .. .. .. . ..
" "
"
80 3
56
9
Hawthorne •...•.. 647 Hawthorne .......... San Bernaruino .... ..
"
"
"
1';'5
75 5
9
Dam:iscus ..•...•. 648 San Bernardino . . : . .. Los Angeles .-..... : . .
"
"
"13, 1927
186
55 4~
9
Florence •......•. 649 Los Angeles ..... .... Los Angl'les . .. ..... . Oct.
5010
9
183
La Brea . ... : ..... 650 Los Angeles •.. . . .. .. San Mateo .. . .. . . . ..
"
"
"
70
50 4~ 12
Menlo Park . . . . .. 651 Menlo Park •..•..... Los Angeles .........
"
"
"
55 ...... . 9
101
Crescenta Valley . . 652 Montrose .. . ..... . . . . San Bernaruino .. ....
"
"
"
5510.
84
9
Fontana ......... 653 Fontana ... .•... ..... Los Angeles ........ .
"
" "
144
75 ......
9
Jordan . . . . . . . . . . 654 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles . ........
"
"
"
217
50 ...... 12
Monte Vista ...... 655 Long Beach ..... . .. . Los Angeles .........
"
" "
50 1
12
13"
Citrol .. . ..... ... 656 Brea . .. .. .... ..... . . Orange .. ....... .... .
"
"
"
262
RO ... .. . 12
John D. Spr eckels .657 San Diego . . . .. .. . ... San Diego ... .•. .... .
"
"
67
5 ...... 15
Livingston ••.. . .. 658 Livingston .•.... • •• . Merced ...••••••••••
" "
"
122
50 ...... 12
La Habra . .. ....•. 659 La Habra •. . ..• .... . Orange . .....•....• .
"
"
"
71
Baldwin Park .•... 660 Baldwin Park ..•••.. Los Angeles .. .••.. ..
50 ······ 12
"
" "
107
Malta . ..... . .. . 661 Los Angeles •..••.... Los Angeles . ..••• .. . Oct.
50 ......
9
11, 1928
145
Henry Knox ..... 662 ~s. Angeles .. ....... Los Angeles •...••...
50 10
9
"
" "
47
Ojai .. ... . .. . . . . 663 0.1ai. . ...• .. .. .. .. .. Ventura . ..... .... .. .
.....
15
45
"
"
"
71
Oasis . . ......... 664 El Centro .....•..•.. Imperial. .... . ......
12
75
"
"
"
46
Kaweah ....... . 665 Woodlake ... ... ..... Tulare .. .. ... . ..... .
7o ...... 10
"
"
"
Reseda . .... . ... 666 Reseda .. . .. .. . ...•.. Los Angeles . . ... . . ..
9
65
75 ......
"
" "
Meridian .. .. : . . 667 Glendale ... ..... • .. . Los Angeles . . . .... ..
159
75 .. ,... 12
"
"
"
San Gorgonio. . . . 668 Banning ........... . Riverside . ........ ..
75 1
12
68
"
" "
John P. Jarman . • 669 San J ose . .. . . . . .. . .. Santa Clara .........
9
90
50 5
"
"
"
Greenleaf .... . .. 670 Whittier ... . .. .. . . .. Los Angeles . . . . . ...
9
137
55 ......
"
" "
San Clemente. . • . 671 San Clemente . ...... Orange ............ .
35
100 ......
9
"
"
"
Laguna Beach •.. 672 Laguna Beach ....... Orange .............. Oct.
10, 1929
53
J
1\0
12
Far West. . . . . . . . 673 San Francisco ... . . .. San Francisco . ..... .
111
75 10 12
"
" "
L os Cerritos ..... 674 Long Beach .....•... Los Angeles .........
77
12
50 ... .
"
"
"
Modesto . . .... .. 675 Modesto ............ Stanislaus .. . .. .. ....
9
111
" "
"
501
......
16, 1930
Willow Glen .. .. .. 676 Willow Glen ... .. ... Santa Clar a ......... Oct.
50 .. ... .
9
71
Liberal Arts ...•. . 677j Los Angeles .....•... 1Los Angeles ... ... . .•
10
50 .....
64
"
"
"
Alta dena ...... . .. 6781Pasadena .. . . . ... • . . 1L os Angeles . .. .... . .
14 5
70 .... .. 12
"
" "
Total membership, 1934 returns ............... . ... . 132,331

''

,,
''
"

"

''"

I I

"
''''
,,''

"
''''
,,''
''

,,
'',,

1925

15,

l<.A

Was Issued

... o
c-

~

""'
"" ii:E-<

_.,,
""'
c"
....

Date when Charter

Hemet ...•••••••. 615 Hemet ... . ... , ..... Riverside ......... . Oct.
Seal Beach .. . .... 616 Seal Beach . , ....... Orange .•..•.... •• ••
''
Big Bear ••••••••• 617 Pine Knot . ...•. . .. San Bernardino ....
"
Southland ••••••• 618 Los Angeles . .. ...... Los Angeles .... . ..•
Neptune , ........ 619 Long Beach ...•.... ' Los Angeles ...•....
''
Point Lowa ....... 620 San Diego .•....... San Diego ....•....•
''I I
The Gardens ..•••. 621 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •....•.•
Atwater •.•• • •••. 622 Los Angeles ...•.. .. Los Angeles ••.•.••.
Menorah ••••••••• 623 L(\s Angeles ....•..• Los Angeles .•.••• , •
Fortitude ........ 624 Oakland ......... ,, Alameda .......... .
"
Angelus Mesa., ••• 625 Los Angeles ...•.•. , Los Angeles ...•....
Chula Vista ...... 626 Chula Vista ........ San Diego ......... .
''
''
Lamanda Park., •• 627 Pasa<lena . . .• .•.. , •• Los Angeles . , .••• ••
Beacon of the
Oct.
West • ...• , .• , • , . 628 Los Angeles . . . . . . . • Los Angeles ..... , ..
''
531 Fairview .•..• , .• 629 Inglewood ..... ; ... . Los Angeles .......•
"
532 Ingleside , .•• , , •• 630 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .. . •.•
"
533 Benevolence .•••. 631 Los Angeles., ..•. ,, . Los Angeles •• ,,,,,.,
534 Normal Heights .•. 632 San Diego ........... San Diego .......••..
''
535 Poinsettia ••• , ••• 633 San Buenaventura .. .. Ventura., ... ,,.,,, ..
''
536 Victorville • , , .• , , 634 Victorville. . . • • . . . . . San Bernardino .•..•.
537 Riverside ........ 635 Riverside ..... . .. • ... Riverside . ...... .. . .
538 John Marshall •••• 636 Los Angeles ....•.. ·. . Los Angeles .....•...
539 Palisades . , , •. , , ,637 Santa Monica ....... . Los Angeles .... ,, .. .
"I I
540 Indian Rock ...... 638 BerkP.ley ....•. • ...• . Alameda .........•..
541 Composite ....• , , . 639 Los Angeles. . . . • • . . . Los Angeles .... . . •..
Veritas
••......••
640
San
Fra
ncisco
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
San
Francisco
......
..
542
''
543 James A. Foshay •. 641 Los Angeles . ... ..... Santa Barbara .•.. .. .

Names of Lodges

Places of Location

List ot Subordinate Lodgee, etc. -Continued.
VI

i<'
0

VI

.....

<..>

>

H

z

0
i<'

H

.,,

>
t"'

(")

0

.,,

toJ

0
tl
C'l

t"'

tl

C'l
i<'

>
z

toJ

~

..,

.,,0

Ul

C'l

'"'z

tl

~

(")

"d

°'

<..>

Corinthian ....... Marysville •••••• Yuba . . ...•..•.• May

69

Saint Louis .••••. • Howland 's Flat ... Sierra .••....... May
Unity•.••..•••••• Orleans Flat ..... Nevada .. . ...... May
Quitman .••..••.. North Bloomfield. Nevada . ....•... May
Polar Star .••.••.. Poorman 'ii Creek. Plumas . ·.•...•.. May
Acacia . . • • • . • • . . Coloma •••.••••• F.\ Dorado .•..••. May
Caymus ....•. . .. Yountville ...... Napa .....•..•.. May
Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ... Plumas .......•.. May
St. John's ........ Yreka ...•....... Siskiyo17. ........• May
.fefferson ......... . La Porte •. • ..••.• Plumas .... •• • .•• , May

86
88
88
90
92
93
~

96
97

1

Mountain •.•••••• Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne •...... May
Rising Star .•..••• Forest Hill ..• ..• • Placer . . . . • • • • . . May
India-n Diggings .• . Indian Diggings .. El Dorado ....... May
82
83
85

71
f2
73

Nebraska •••.•••• Michi~an Bar .••. Sacramento .. ; ..• May
E. K. Kane .•••••• Nevada •••..•••• Nevada •..•..•.• May
Tyro .•.•.••.•••• Drytown .••...•. Amador ......... May
Franklin •.• •. •••• Meadow Vlilley •.• Plumas ..•..... • May
74 Wisconsin Hill ...• Wisconsin Hill ... Placer .......... May
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North ..•. Sierra ...•.. .. •.. May
71 Petaluma ••..••.• Petaluma ........ Sonoma ......... May

Ind. Royal Arch •• Marysville .•..•. Yuba •.•••••.••. May

89

87 Miji.nesota ••••••• Minnesota · ... • ••. Sierra ..••.•..••. .M.ay

-· __

I

"""
00
"'

"""
'O
"'

>

b

14, 1859 Surrendered;
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
69.
2, 1855 IDec.,
1874 Consolidated with Maryl!vi1le No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
C"l
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
i;d
15, 1857• . . • • • • • . • . • • • . Charter never issued.
>
2!
3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
t::l
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
t::l
Q
8, 1856 ,May 18, 1861 Surrendered.
8, 1856 Sept.
2, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16. t>l
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark 's No. o
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
"".!
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
[;?
8, 1856 iNov.,
No. 158.
t"'
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
::;:j
8, 1856 May
18, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13. o
8, 1856 Oct.
8, 1858 Surrendered.
~
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No.
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
8, 1856 IOct.
St. Helena.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
8. 1856 JDec.
3, 1854 Dec.
8, 1924 Consolidated with Howard No. 96,
as Howard No. 37.
8, 1856 July 1911926 Consolidated with Forbestown
1
No. 50.

2, 1855 I.May
2, 1855 May

..,

g

Chartered
{ame
Location ·
1.Jounty
-..11..n"n'u
Became Extinct
Remarks
County
Na
4 Berryman ... .. .... Sacramento .... .. . Sacramento ....... April 19, 1850 ..•........... Name changed to Jennings.
61 1853 Charter surrendered.
4 Jennings .......... Sacramento ....... Sacramento ..•... . ..........•... May
6 Sutter .·....... .. .. Sacramento ... . . .. Sacramento .. ..•. . May
7, 1850 May
(lj 1853 Surrendered.
7 Davy Crockett .... San Francisco ... . San Francisco . ... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 1~, 1852 Name changed, to San Francisco.
7 San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco . . .. Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
11 Willamette ........ Portland ......... Multnomah ....... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregpn.
1851 Transferred, to jurisdiction of
"'d
9, 1851 INov.,
15 La Fayette. • • . • . . La Faye~te, Ore. . . ................ May
Oregon.
l;d
Nashville ......... Nashville ........ . El Dorado ....... . Dec. 24, 1851 *1· ............ . Charter never issued.
t'1
5, 1853' ............. . Charter never issued.
Pacific .....•..•.•. Valparaiso .... . .. Chili ............. May
Name ·changed to El Dorado.
§
26 Palmyra .•••.••.•. Placerville .....•. El Dorado ........ May 6, 1853 Oct. 10, 1929
5, 1853 Oct. 15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. ""'
28 Columbia ......... Columbia . ........ Tuolumne . ... .... May
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as ~
Tuolqmne No. 8.
rn
0
5,
18531
Oct.
18,
1873
ISµrrendered.
29 Diamond . ........ . Diamond Springs . . El Dorado ...... . . May
"".!
5, 1853 1Oct. 13, 1883 C9nsolidated with Calaveras
31 Mokelumne ...•.. . ¥okelumne Hill .. . Calaveras . .. ..... May
No. 78.
p::
5, 1853 IOct. 15, 1887 Revoked.
34 Santa Clara ....... Santa Clara. . . . . . Santa Clara. . . . . . May
t'1
Sµrrendered.
a,
1854
Sept.
3,
1864
36 Butte . .. . ......... Bidwell .......... Bu~te ..•......... May
C9iisol\qated
with
Corinthian
No.
3,
1854
June
16,
1916
39 Yuba ...........•. Marysville ......• Yuba ............ May
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
3, 1854 Oct. 15, 1897 Surrendered.
47 Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff .. . . Placer .......... . May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May
48 Grass Valley ... .. . Grass Valley ...... Nevada ...... .. .. May
3, 1854 June 29, 1851 Revoked.
49 Lebanon .. . . ..... . San Francisco ..•.. San Francisco .... . May
1864 Sur.rendered.
3, 1854 Nov.,
52 Rough and Ready .. Rough and Ready. Nevada. . . . . . • . . . May
3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
53 Franklin .••....... Sacramento .. :·. . . Sacramimto .....• . May
2, 1855 Feb. 20, 1875 Surrend,ered.
54 Saint James ...... Jamestown ..... . . Tuolumne ..•.. . .. May
3, 1856 Sept. 15, 1919 Co.nsolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
62 Geo. Washington .. . ChiMse Ca.ID:P· ... Tuolumne ..•..... May
3, 1855 Oct. 29, 1857 Sµrrendered.
63 Iowa Hill ......... Iowa ~ill .... ~· .. Placer ........... May

EXTINCT LODGES

.
Location.

I

I

County.

.

I Chartered. Became Extinct

N~ITT.

;g

~

Arcturas •••••.... \Petaluma .•....• ISonoma .......... I Oct.
182 Meridian •••••.•. Arbuckle •..•••• Colusa .....•.... Oct.
185 Arenas . ••..•..••. Punta Arenas .... Mendocino .... . .. Oct.
189 Latrobe ••..•.. ... Latrobe ..•.....• El Dorado ....... Oct.
197 Paradise ..•...... Haywards ......• Alameda . . . . . . . . Oet.
Rocklin •....... •. Rocklin .....••••• Placer ..... . ..... July
213 Bodega . . . . • . . . . . Bodega ....•.... Sonoma ......... Oct.

180

152 Josephus ......... Brush Creek .••.•• Butte ........... May
153 Rising Bun ...... . Brandy City ..• . • Sierra .....•.... May
154 Carson .......... Carson City ...... Nevada Ter ...... May
155 Mount Carmel .... Red Dog ...... .•. Nevada ......... Mav
157 Washoe ........ . Washoe City ..... Nevada Ter ...... May
158 Gibsonville ... . . . Gibsonville ...... Sierra .. . ..... . .. .May
159 Gilroy . . . . . • . . . . Gilroy .....•.... Santa Clara . . . . . . May
160 Pilot Hill.... . . . . Pilot l!ill ........ El Dorado ..... . . May
162 Virginia City ..... Virginia City••.•• Nevada Te'" . .... May
163 Silver City ...... . Silver City ....... Nevada Ter . . . ... May
165 Silver Star . ...... Gold Hill ........ Nevada Ter . . .. . . Oct.
170 Esmeralda ..•.• • . Aurora .......... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
171 Escurial •...•••.• Virginia City .... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
172 Lander •.•.•••.•. Austin ..... . .... Nevada Ter .. .... Oct.
Alpine •....•.•... Markleeville .... Alpine .......... May
175 Claiborne .•••.... Antioch ......... Contra Costa ..... Oct.
176 Merced . • • • • . • . . . Snelling . . . . . . . . . Merced . . . . . . . . . Oct.
177 Aztlan ...••.. .•.. Prescott ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct.

151

San Luis Obispo ... San .Luis Obispo .• 1':.L Luis Obispo .. May 16, 1861 IDec.
Doric ............. North Fork ...... Trinity .......... . Jan. 11, 1861 May
Palmyra .....•.•. 1Placerville .•.••• 1EI Dorado .••.... 1.May 16, 1862 Oct.

2, 1865 :-;urrendered
17, 1861 Charter not issued.
10, 1902 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
·
26 as Palmyra ·No. 26.
15, 1862 Oct.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug.
16, 1872 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Trnnsferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Oct.
15, 1908 1 'onsoli<latecl with Jefferson No. 97.
14. 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1.S9~ r·onsol!datt•d with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863 fen.
16, 186:J Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863 Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 fnn .
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
25, 1864* Oct.
1, 18641Charter never issued.
12, 1865 ............ · · Name changed to Antioch.
12, 1865 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
11, 1866 Mch. 25, 1882[Tran~ferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
11, 1866 IDec.,
1898,Consolidated l ith Petaluma No
77 as No. 180.
16, 1919 Name changed to Arbuckle.
10 1867 Oct.
10'. 1867 .............. Name changed to Claiborne.
15, 1868 Dec.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
20, 1872 Surrendered.
14, 1869 July
30, 1870* .. . .. .. .. . .... Charter never issued.
14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.

14, 1857 Sept.
14, 1857 Oct.
14, 1857 June
14, 1857 May
14, 1857* Ja.a.
13, 1858 ,Tan.
13, 1858 Oct.
1858 Oct.
13, 1859 May
13, 1859 Oct.

>

~

"",_.
°'

>

,....

~

O

:;:j

t"'

~

P1
~

Cl

ti

b

§

z

27, 1879 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26. ~
26, 1894 Revoked.
>-3
18, 1861 Surrendered.
~
28, 1858 Charter never .issued.
P1
5, 1859 Surrendered.
8, 1905 Surrendered.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1863 Revoked.
16, 1913 Consolidated with La Grange No. 99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
1862 Surrendered.
Oro Fino ..•.•• . ·· 10ro Fino .•....... !Siskiyou ..•..... !May 10, 1860 !June,
16, 1879 Surrendered.
Violet ..•....•••• Spanish Flat ..... El Dorado ......• May IO, 1860 Oct.
1, 1882 Consolidat1!d with Equality No.
Colusa •...•...••• Colusa ..•· .. ....• Colusa .........• May 10, 1860 April
240 as Colusa No. 240.

lfS

137
138
l<lll

109
114
115
116

Dibble ...•.•••••. Omega .........• ,Nevada ..•...... May
Mt. Zion •••••••• Grizzly Flat ..••• El Dorado •••.... May
Saint Mark's .•••. Fiddletown ...... Amador ......... May
Windsor ..•..••.• Windsor ... .... . Sierra ........... May
Folsom •. ..•••.•• Folsom .......... Sacramento ...... Feb.
118 Vallecito .•.•.••• Vallecito .......• Calaveras •... ... May
121 Ionic ....... ; .••• Iowa Hill ........ Placer .......... May
125 ProgreBB .....•. ··1San Francisco .... !San Francisco ... .
130 Unity .......•••. San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May
133 Y osemit11 •.••.••. Coulterville •..••• Mariposa ..•..•.. May

108

107

102
105

Hemarks.

{,,)

0
°'

8, 1856 .............. Name changed to Hornitas.
9, 1856 Oct.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
1898 Consolidated with Calave1as
8, 1856 Oct.,
No. 78.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
Manzanita •....•. ,North San Juan .. ,Nevada ..•...... ,May
8, 1856 1oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
Siskinu ....... •. Henley .......•• Siskiyou ..... ~ .. May 15, 1856 Oct.
No. 37.
o
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 i:J
Mount Jefferson .. . 'Jiarrotte ..•..•... !Tuolumne ....... !May 14, 1857 IOct.
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol· P1
umne No. 8.
ti
Oweu .....••.••.. !Scott's Bar ....••• !Siskiyou ......... j May 14, 1857 IOct.
15, 19081 Consolidated with North Star

Name.

98 Quartzburg ..•... . Quartzburg ...... 1Mariposa ....... · !May
99 La Grange ...•••. Merced ....•... ·1Merced ......... May
100 Campo Seco ..•.... Campo Seco ...... t;alaveras ....... May

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

~fame

I
Location

I
County
11, 1872
18. 18711
18. 187a
14, 187;)
14. 1875
14, 1875

Oct.
Nov.
Oct.
Oct.
Sept.
April

I Chartered jBeca me Extinct I

Pleasanton . ...... Livl)rmore .. ..... Alameda ..... . .. Oct.
Maui . . . . . . . . . . . Wailuku . . . .. ..... Hawaii ..... ...• <'d.
Contra Costa ...... Somersville .. . ... C:ontra Costa ..... 0.:t.
Tyre ...... .. .... Gold Run ...... -·. Placer .......... Oct.
Pescadero ........ Pescadero ... .... San Mateo ...... · IOct.
Equ_alit.y .. . ...... Colusa... . . . ..... Colusa ........ .. Oct.

Remarks

L, 1905 Oct~
10, 1907 Dec.
15, 1908 'Jct.
11, 1872 May
16, 1913IOet .
14, 1915 Dec.
15, 1925 !Oct.

Oceamc .. .....••. Honolulu ..•....• -Oahu, T. H ..•.... Oct.
Corregidor ....... . Manila •.••• • ••• Philippine Islands Oct.

Owensmouth ..... \Canoga Park . ....!Los Angeles .. . •. !Oct.

386

398 Fowler _. . .. . .... Fowler ••....... . Fresno .... ...... <kt.
432 Granite No. 222 ... Rocklin .. ..... , . Placer . ... . . _ . Oct.
Germania ........ Lo~ Angeles · · · • · Lo.~ Angeles .... . Ot:t.
Kennett . ... . .... Kennett.·· · ······ Siskiyou .. .. ...•. Oc:t .

371

438
456
611

*Date of disren~ation.

1:, 190• 10et.

... 1; 11.,0ct.

I

Olivet: ... ,.,.: ..• Corning .•...... • ·1Teha:ma

364

IOct.

of

1, 1917 Consolidaied with New vilht 111 o
205, a.s Oli~et No. 205.
U; 1916 Name changed to Le Progi'e!!
de I' Oceania Ne. 371.
.
19, 1912 Transferrea to jurisdiction
.
Philippine Islands.
14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.
29, 1919 Consolidated with Roseville No.
432, as Rosevi1le No. 222.
10, l!l1 S Name changed to Acacia.
18; 1925 Consolidated with Reading,
No. 254.
15, 1931 Name changed to Canoga.

18, 1881/Name changed to Mosaic.
17, 1877 Surrendered.
15. 1897 Surrendered.
16, 1884 Surrendererl
26, 1890 Surrendered.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
249 Greennlle ........ Cl reenv1lle ....... Pluma!! .......... Oct. 10, 1878
16, 1896 Consolidated with Hncerity No. 132
251 Brotht;rh:>od ...... 1Duncan's Mills ... !:'onoma .... . .... O<'l . I 0, 1878 April l!l, 1888 Surrendered.
252 Bodie . .... ...... !Bodie ... • ....... Mono ... . . ...... O ~ L. IO, 1878 Dec.
20, 1918 Consolidated with \~ inne<lnm ah
No. 287.
257 Arizona . ......... I Phoenix ........ !Arizona Ter ...... IOr.t. 16, 1879 Mch. - 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Solomon ........• !Tombstone ....... !Arizona Ter . ... .. !June 4, 1881 * Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
263 Tucson ...... .. .. ITucson ... ...... IArizona Ter ...... !Oct. 15, 1881 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
270 Fall River .....•. Burgettville ..... Shasta ......... . Oct. 11, 1883 Oet.
10, 1895 Revoked.
276 Westport ........ Westport ........ Mendocino .. .. . .. Oct. 16, 1884 May
26, 1888 Surrendered.
284 Tyrian ........•.• Dunnigan ....... , Yolo . . .......... Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
11, 1911 Con~olidated with Woodland ~o . 156
298 Mokelumne Hill ... Mokelumne Hill .. CalaveraR .•.•••• «>cl. 16. 1890 Dec.
25, 1919 Consolidated with Calaveras No. 7R.
3li l{ue~erne ........ Hueneme ........ Ventura .....•... Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.
16, 190!! Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341.
34'0 Santa M:aria . ...•. Santa Maria ... . . . flanta Barbara .... Oct. 11, 1900 bct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Hes1>P.rian No. 264.
342 Manila . .. ·· •• ··•· Manila ..••••..•• Philippine Islands Oct. 10, 1901 Dec.
19, 1912 Transferred' to jurisdiction of
Philippine fsla!ids: ·
3f>O C~vite
Ciivite .......... IPhilippin«;i I~landslOct. 1s, l90ll I p~~19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine 'Islands.

218
223
227
238
239
240

No.

EXTINC'_.l' LODG ES-CONTI"l"'UED

i:.,

0\

>

c.:.

0--

i:.,

z

->

;:=::

-::>

"'1

I-'

t"'

>

(")

0
..,,

M

Cl

0
t:l

t-<

§

~

(%j

~

...,

'%J

0

en

Cl

t:l

z

~

n

~-

"d

N

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

364

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1850

1855

1861

Jonathan D.Stevenson, G. M. William H. Howard ..G. M. James L. English...... G. M.
California No. I
T. A. Thomas..........D. G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Jan. I, 1800
Born June 5, 1813
Jno. A. Raymond .. S. G. W.
Died Feb. 14, 1894
Died May 29, 1889
Sam.
A.
Merritt
......
J.
G.
W.
John A. T11tt...-....... D. G. M. Addison Martin............G. T. Wm. C. Belcher....D. G. M.
Caleb Fenner ·'····-S• G. W.
John W. Harville....S. G. W.
Sashel Woods ........J. G. W. Levi Stowell ........- ........G. S. Caleb E. Wilcoxon ..J. G. W.
Levi Stowell ...------·····G• T.
1856
James Laidley ···-········-G• T.
John H. Gihon...·-···'···-G. S. William H. Howard .. G. M. Alex G. AbelL. ...........G. S.
1851
John A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
1862
John A. T11tt..............G. M. Lemuel Lyon ······--·S• G. W.
Peter W. Randle ....J. G. W. William C. Belcher .... G. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Addison Martin............G. T.
Corinthian No. 69
Died May 19, 1900
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Benj. D. Hyam ...... D. G. M.
Died Sept. 1,.1895
1857
E. F. W. Ellis ···-·····s. G. W.
Gil. B. Claiborne....D. G. M.
Benj. S. Olds ..........J. G. W. Nathaniel G. C11rtis.. G. M. John W. Harville....S. G. W.
Towns'd A. Thomas...... G. T.
John B. Hewson·......J. G. W.
'ro~~h~~it_o; ~25 20
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.
James Laidley ..............G. T.
Died July I~. 1897
Alex G. Abel! ..............G. S.
1852
Charles Marsh........ D. G. M.
Benjamin D. Hyam ....G. M. Aaron D. Park...._:.s. G. W.
1863
Benicia No. 5
John B. Pope..........J. G. W.
BornAddison Martin ............G. T. William C. Belcher ....G. M.
Chas. M. Radcliff.. D. G. M. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. Gil. B. Claiborne....D. G. M.
Adolphus Hollub....S. G. W.
Louis Cohn ·---~---····S. G. W.
1858
Wm. A. Davies ......J . G. W.
J. R. McConnell ....J. G. W.
Nathaniel
G.
Curtis
..
G.
M.
James Laidley ..............G. T.
Addison Martin............G. T.
Levi Stowell ..................G. S. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Wm. McCormicL..S. G. W.
1853
1864
Charles M. Radcliff.. G. M. Jas. W. Bicknell......J. G. W.
Addison Martin ............G. T.
Tuolumne No. 8
William
C.
Belcher ....G. M.
Alex G. Abell ..............G. S.
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Died Dec. 31, 1889
1859
Wm. A. Davies:.......S. G. W.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall....S. G. W. Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Isaac S. Titus.. ........J . G. W.
Richard F. Knott....J. G. W. P. W. Shepheard....D. G. M. James Laidley ..............G. T.
Addison Martin............G. T. Ebe.nezer Lane........ S. G. W. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
Levi Stowell ....-............G. S. Thos. P. Hawley......J. G. W.
1865
Addison Martin............G. T.
1854
William H. Howard ..G. M. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Gilbert C. Claiborne.. G. M.
· San Jose No. 10
San Joaquin No. 19
1860
Born Aug. 29, 1810
Born 1828
Died Sept. 18, 1866
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Died Dec. I, 1908
Nath. G. Curtis....D. G. M. P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M. W.m. A. Davies...... D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole...... S. G. W. Wm. C. Belcher......S. G. W. Isaac S. Titus..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ......J. G. W. Afvinza Hayward ....J. G. W. Henry H. Hartley..J. G. W.
Addison Martin............G. T. Addison Martin ............ G. T. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

~o-.G.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.'!?..!......

B~~;~·· · ·

1873

1879

365

G;lbo•
M. Loo•ifo
G. M. Joh, M.
.G. M.
Henry H. HarW,ey.. D. G. M. Benj. H. Freeman.. D. G. M. Wm. W. Traylor ....D. G. M.
Wm. H. PetersOll....S. ·G. W. Geo. C. Perkins......S. G. W. Wm H. Crane ........S. G. W.
Thomas Beck .....-l.•.J . G. W. John M. Browne....J. G. W. Robt. C. Broder......J. G. W.
James Laidley ......,........G.-T. James Laidley - --·········6. T. Moses Heller ·······-·······6. T.
Ale~ G. Abell.. ....._ ___ G. S. Alex G. Abell.........,....G. S. Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.

. 1867

William A. Davies ......G. M. Isaac S. Tit11s..............G. M. William W. Traylor....G. M.
Columbia No. 28
San Joaquin No. 19
California No. I
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Born March 17, 1822
Died June 20, 1916
Died April 22, 1892
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M. Geo. C. Perkins......D. G. M. Samuel C. Denson .. D. G. M.
Thomas Beck ..........S. G. W. Jno. M. Browne......S. G. W. Clay W. Taylor......S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt....J . G. W. Chas. E. Mitchell....J. G. W. John Q . Adams......J. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T. l.~oses Heller ·····-·········G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1868

1874

1880

Charles Marsh ............G. M. George C. Perkins ....G. M. Samuel C. Denson......G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Oroville No. 103
Union No. 58
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Sorn Aug. 23, 1839
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Died April 28, 1876
Died Feb. 26, 1923
Died July 26, 1917
Leonidas E. Pratt.... D. G. M. John M. Browne.... D. G. M. Clay W. Taylor ...... D. G. M.
Theo. G. Cockrill ....S. G . W. Wm. B. Parker........S. G. W. John Q. Adams......S. G. W.
Fredk. F. Barss........J. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin ......J. G. W. 0. W. Hollenbeck:.J. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. James Laidley ..............6 . T. Moses Heller ................G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1869

1875

1881

Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. John M. Browne........ .G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........G. M.
Mountain Shade No.18
Naval No. 87
Weltern Star No. 2
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Born May 10, 1831
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Died May I , 1897
Isaac S. Titus.......... D. G. M. Ch11s. L. Wiggin ....D. G. M. John Q. Adams......D. G. M.
John S. Ward ........S. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin ......S. G. W. Jonath. D. Hines....S. G. W.
Richard Dale ..........J. G. W. Jacob H. NefL .....J. G. W. Thos. J. Bowers......J. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T. Moses Heller ................6. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1870

1876

1882

Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. J~hn M. Browne..........G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........G. M.
Isaac S. Titus..........D. G. M. Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Jonath. D. Hines ....D. G. M.
Chas. L Wiggin ....S. G. W. Wm: S. Wells..........S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freeman....J. G. W. Solon W. Craigue .. J. G. W. George Hinds ...:....J. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. James Laidley ..............G. T. Moses Heller ····-··········G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell....:.........G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1883
Jonathan D. Hines......G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M. John M. Browne..........G. M.
Born Jan. I. 18"15
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Chas. L. Wiqgin .... D. G. M.
Ben. H. Freeman ....S. G. W. Wm. W. Traylor......S. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin...... D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins......J. G. W. Wm. H. Crane........J. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
James Laidley ..............G. T. Moses Heller ................G. T. Hiram N. Rucker....J. G. ~Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Moses Heller ................ 6 . ·
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

1871

1877

I
366

PROCE EDI NGS OF THE

1884

1890

1891

Edm. ·C. Atkinson .. D. G . M.
Hiram N. Rucker.... S. G. W. William Johnston ......G. M.
Franklin No. 143
Henry H. Knapp....J. G . W.
·a_orn June 2, 1825
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G . T.
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Alex G. AbelL ............ G.·S. Clias. R. Gritman .. D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ______ $, G. W.
1886
Ju. B. Stevens________ J , G. W.
Edmund C. Atkinson .. G . M. N.iithan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
Sacramento No. 40
<SJeorge Johnson .......... G. S.
Born Nov. 17, 1837
Died March 20, 1911

1895 /

1896
William T. _Lucas.......:G. M.
·Guadalupe No. 237
lorn March 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1931

Thomas Flint ---·--··--D. G. M.
F. M. Angellotti .... S. G. W.
Chas. L. Patton......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
George Johnson __________G. S.

Hiram N. Rucker.... D. G. M.
1892
1897
Morris M. Estee...... S. G. W .
Alvah R. Conklin.... J. G. W . Charles R. Gritman .... G. M. Thomas Flint.. ............6. M.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
' Yount No. 12
Texas No. 46
Born Dec. 10, 1838
lorn May 29, 1858
Alex G. AbelL ........... G. S.
Died May 14, 1894
Hianry S. Ormlt...... D. G. M. F. M. Angellotti ....D. G. M.
1887
Chas. L. Patton ......S. G . W.
Hiram N. Rucker ...... G. M. Jiis. B. Stevens........S. G. W. Jos.
A. foshay ________J, G. W.
'Edw. -M. Preston...... J . G. W.
La Grange No. 99
N~than W. Spaulding .. G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905
Gieorge Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin .... S. G. W.
1898
1893
Wrr,. Johnston ........ J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. ~. T. Hfenry S. Orme.......... G . M. Friank M. AngellottL .G. M.
Alex G. AbelL ........... G. S.
lllarin No. 191
: So. ·California No. 278

1888

Born March 25, 1837
· Died Nov. 29, 1912

Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932

Morris M. Estee ........ G. M. Jas. B. Stevens...... D. G. M. .Chas. L. Patton......D. G . M.
Edw. M. Preston....S. G. W. J41s. A. Foshay ........S. G . W .
California No. I
\\4ni. 'T. Lucas__________J , G . W. Wm. ·s. Wells__________J . G. W.
-Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
Alvah R. Conklin.... D. G. M. Giaorge Johnson __________ G, S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
William Johnston ....S. G. W.
Marc. D. BorucL....J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T.
1899
1894
Alex G. AbelL ............ G. S. J111mes B. Stevens........ G . M. Charles L. Patton ......G. M.

1889

Yount No. 12
Born March 27. 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

Jonathan D. Hines...... G. M. .A!v,.h R. Conklin ...... G. M. Edward M. Prest,6n ....G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnin...... D. G. M.
l~yo No. 221
Nevada N~
. ·
·
'8orn 1835
Born May 4 1841
Edm. C. Atkinson .. S. G. W.
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Died April , 1903
Hiram N. Rucker.... J. G. W.
Moses Heller ---------·-----JS. T. Williain Johnston .. D. G . M. Wm. T. Lu s........ D. G. M.
Alex G. AbelL............ G . S. Chas. R Gritman ..S. G. W. Thomas Flint .........cS. G. W.
tienry S. Orme...... J. G. W. F. M. An99llottL ...J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
1885
Wiley J. Tinnin ____________ G. M. George Johnson __________G, S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910

\

California No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923

Morris M. Estee.......•G . M.
William Johnston .. D. G. M. Edw. •M. Preston.... D. G. M. Jos. A. Fothay........ D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W. Wm. :r. lucas.".........S. G . W. Wm . .5. Wells ..........S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. ThornM FlinL .........J. G . W. 0. 5 . .Henderson....J . G . W .
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T. EdWjlrd Cole man ___ ,_,____G. T.
Alex G. Abell .............. G . S. ·George Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S.

1905
James A.

367

1910

shay........ G. M. Motley H. FlinL ....... G. M. Dana R. Weller..........G. M.

So. Ca lifo ia No. 278
Born Nov. , 1856
Died Jan. I 1914

Ea1t Gata No. 290
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Died Ju ly 14, 1930

So. California No. 278
Born- -

Wm. S. Wells ..._\. ... D. G. M. Edward H. Hart .... D. G. M. A. J . Mon roe.......... D. G. M.
0. S. Henderso" __ $. G. W. Geo. M. Perine......S. G. W. W m. P: Filmer : .......S: G. W.
Chas. W. N'utting>...J . G. W.
vben H. Lloyd ....J. G. W. J , D. Murphey........J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ~---i..... G. T.
ward Coleman .......... G. T. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson .......,.. G. S.
orge Johnson .......... G. S. Jehn Whicher -----·-·-·----G· S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L
m, H. Edwards.......... G. L 'Thomes J. Baker:......... G. L

~

1901

1906

19ll

William S. Wells........ G. M. Edwud H. Ha rL ....... G. M. A lon10 J. Monroe ...... G. M.
Ma rtinex No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan 23, 1919

Live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917

0. S. Henderson.... D. G. M. !Geo. M. Perine ...... D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting .. S. G. W. ·Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter ....J. G. W. Oscar Lawler __________J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G . T. Edward Colema n.......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S. ·George Johnson.......... G; S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.

1902

1907

H.umbo ld t No. 79
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Died June • 14, 1922

Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey........ S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John W hicher .............. <!;. S.
Thomas J . Baker. ......... G. L

1912

Orrin S. Henderson....G. M. ;George M. Perine ...... G. M. Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M.
Morning Star No. 68
Born-

Pacific No. 136
Born 1852
Died O ct, 6, 1933

King Solom1>n No. 260
Born March 3, 1866

Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G. M. Reuben H. Lloyd .... D. G. M. Jno. D. Murphey .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter .... S. G. W. Oscar Lawler..........S. G . W. Benj. F. Bledsoe ......$. G . W.
Motley H. FlinL... J. G. W. W. Frank Pierce ....J. G . W. Alb. G. Burnett.'.....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. 1Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S. John W hicher ..............S.S.
Wm. H. Edwards.. ........ G. L. Thomas J. Ba ke r.......... G. L. Thomas J . Baker.......... G: L.

1903

1908

1913

Charles W. Nutting .... G. M. Oscar Lawle r .......:.... G. M. John D. Murphey ......G . M.
Eveni ng Sta r No. 186
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917

.

East Gate No. 290
Born April 2, 1875

Geo. W. Hunter.... D. G . M. W. Fra nk Pierce .... D. G. M.
Motley H. Flint ...... S. G . W • Dana R. We lle r......S. G. W.
Edw. H. Ha rt..........J . G . W . A. J . Monroe .......... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T. Edwa rd Cole ma n.......... G. T.
George Johnson .......... $ . S. John Wh icher ..............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L. Thomas J . Bake r.......... G. L.

1904

1909

Alta No. 333
Born-

Benj. F. Bledsoe...... D. G . M.
Alb. G. Burnett......$. G. W.
F. V. Ke esling ........ J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher --·'--·-··-..G. S.
Thomas J . Baker..........G: L.

1914

George W. Hunter.... G . M. W. Fra nk Pierce........ G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe..........G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
"
Died Od. 14, 1925

Oakla nd No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Dlod Oct. 3, 1910

San Bernardino No. 348
Born-

Motley H. Flint...... D. G. M. Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M. Alb. G . Burnett.... D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart.......... S. G. W. A. J. Monroe ..........S. G. W. F: V. Keesling ........$. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ...... J. G. W. W m. P. Filmer........J . G. W. W. Rh. Hervey........ J. G. W.
Edward Colema n.......... G. T. Edward C olema n.......... G. T. Wm. Pa rke r Filmer...... G. T.
George Johnson.......... G .-S. Jahn Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L. Thomas J . Baker.......... G: L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G". L.

\
PRO CEEDI NGS OF THE

368

1915
Albert G. Burnett ...... G. M.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April 9, 1856
Died Auc;i. 15, 1923
F. V. Keesling ........ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey .... S. G. W.
Bradford Webster..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1916

1920

1925 I

George F. Rodden .... G. M. Albert E. Boyin ...... G. M.
Marin No. 191
Oroville N~I 103
Born Dec. 24, 1867
Born Oct. ~ 1875
Died Mar. 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke ........ D. G. M. Geo. L Jon.s .......... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman .... S. G. W. Will H. Fisl:her ......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites...... J. G. W. Gus. A. ti{utaff........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. P.,fker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ......- ...... G. S. John Whicher .........•....G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1921

GR AN D LODGE OF CALI FO R N IA

I

1926

1930

1933

John ~wart Ross ...... G. M.
El C tro No. 384
Born ay 21, 1879

James B. Gist ............G . M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, 1868

Robt. B. G\ylord .... D. G. M.
Frank W. ~xter ....S. G. W.
James B. Gl\.t........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher _ .......... G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

R. V. Whiting ........ D. G. M.
Earl Warren .......... S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller....J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

\

1931

1934

Francis V. Keesling .... G. M. Samuel E. Burke ........G. M. George L. Jones ........ G. M.
California No. I
Sunset No. 352
Madison No. 23
Born Feb. 17, 18n
BornBorn May II. 1873

Robt. B. Gaylord ........ G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1876

Randolph V. Whiting .. G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 13, 1870

Wm. Rh. Hervey .... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster.. S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Wm. A. Sherman .... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites...... S. G. W.
David J. Reese ........ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ., ............ G. S.
Thomas J, Baker.......... G. L.

Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff........S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L.

Frank W. Mixter .... D. G. M.
James B. Gist..........S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher :............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Earl Warren ..........D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller......S. G. W.
James T. Fraser......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............G. L

1917

1922

1927

1932

Wm. Rhodes Hervey.. G. M. William A. Sherman .. G. M. Will H. Fischer .......... G. M.
Pentalpha !(lo. 202
Presidio No. 354
Wilshire No. 445
Born March 26, 1870
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Born Sept. 11, 1875

Frank W. Mixter........ G. M.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1873

Bradford Webster.. D. G. M.
Chas. A. Adams ......S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ...... J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.......... G. L.

Arthur S. Crites ...... D. G. M.
David J. Reese ...... S. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton ...... J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. &. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

Gus. A. Hutaff........ D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ..$. G. W.
J. S. Ross................J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............&. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L.

James B. Gist ........ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ........ S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ........ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ..........c•••G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1918

1923

1928

Bradford Webster ...... G. M. Arthur S. Crites.......... G. M. Gustav A. Hutaff...... G. M.
Liva Oak No. 61
Bakersfield No. 224
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Born Od. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
Chas. A. Adams.... D. G. M. David J. Reese ...... D. G. M. C. M. Wollenberg .. D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ...... S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton ...... $. G. W. J. S. Ross................S. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke .......... J. G. W. Geo. L. Jones ..........J. G. W. Robt. B. Gaylord .... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher ..............&. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1919

1924

Chas. Albert Adams .. G. M. David J. Reese ............G. M.
Excelsior No. 166
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Born Aug. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Geo. F. Rodden .... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ...... D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke..........S. G. W. George L. Jones .... S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman ....J. G. W. Will H. Fischer...... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. &. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J . Baker.......... G. L.

1929
C. M. Wollenberg ...... G. M.
Starr Kinc;i No. 344
Born March . 13, 1873
John S. Ro11 .......... D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord .... S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L.

369

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta .... ....... •• -•.. J. H. W. S. Kemmis .••.•• . Calgary
BrazilThe Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
. The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
.
The Grand Lodge of the .State of Panahyba
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula ·
The Grand Lodge of Bahla
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
British Columbia. ..• •••• W. A. De Wolf-Smith .... .. .New Westminste1
Canada. (Ontario) •••••••Wm. y; Logan . ••.•....•• .Hamilton
Chili. .. ....... . ...•.•. .Rudolfo C. Oliveira. ..•••••• Cassila No. 2867
Santiago, Chili
ColombiaNationa.l Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Aparta.do 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Grand Lodge of the Republic a.t Bogota.
Costa Rica .. .. .. .. • . .•. G. F. Bowden ............. San Jose
Cuba ......... .. .. ... .. Dr. Jose l!,, Castellanos .... . Ha.bans.
Czecho-Slovakia.The Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovaki111
Both Seated a.t Prague.
Denmark .............. P.O. Rosenorn .........•.. Blega.msuej 23,
Copenhagen
Ecuador •............Jose de la Cuadra .. .. • •. .Guayaquil
Egypt ... . ........... . . Abd El :Maguid-Younis ..... Freemason's Hall.
6 Fouad 1 St., ·
Cairo.
England .....• ..• .•••• • l'. Colville Smith ..........London
!•'ranee (Grand Lodge of) Auguste Viet ............ . 8, rue Puteaux,
Paris
Independent National G. F. Beaumont, 42 ... ..... Rue D RocheGrand Lodge of France
caouart, Paris
German Grand Lodges
National Mother Grand Lodge of the Three Globes
Grand Lodge of Hamburg
Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship
National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons
Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" Bayreuth
Grand Lodge Saxony
Grand Lodge Concord at Darmstadt
Grand Lodge German Fraternal Chain at Leipzig

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

371

.
::s

1
Francisco S"alazar ...•.. ... Gua.temala
Gua. ma. a. ............ ..

·
M F Rodriguez .•. ... . ... Tegucigalpa
Hond :r,a.s....... ••• •••• . ·
Ireland . ..........••.•. Henry C. Shellard ... .. • ." . . Dublin
Holland ~e.thiltlands) ..A. E. L. Fp.ubel. .•.• • ..... • Fluweelen .
··
Burgwal 22
The Hag1ie
Manitoba. .....•...•.... J. A . Ovas .....•........ . .Winnipeg
Mexico (York Grand
·
d
Lodge) .............. A. P. Old ... , .. ... ... ...... Aparta. o 1986 ,
Mexico City, Mexico, D. F .
Mexico.:Me~dc-0, D. F.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific.
Postal 20, Guaymas, Sonora.
'ck
J irwining Hartt .. .. ..... . Saint :fohn
N ew B runSWl . . • · · · · · ·
New South Wales ...... _D avid Cunningham,
·
P. D. G. :M .. . ... ....... .S'ydney
George Barclay .. . ........ :Christchurch
N ew Z ealand ..•..... • · ·
.E Lo wig-Hansen . . ........ Osl o
N orway ..... · · · · · · · · · · ·
·a.
James C. Jones . . .•.....•. Halifax
N ova. S co t i • • • • • • • • • • •
•
.Jose.Oller ....••. . .••.••.. P anama
P anama. .••.. · · · • · · ·• · ·
_
'
Gerardo Alanis. .. . ....•. •. Lima.
· ·'
P eru . .. . ••.. • · · · · · • · · · ·
Philippine Islands ..•••• Newt on C. Comfort· . · · · · · ·Manila
Porto Rico .... .•.•• • ...Jose G. Ginorio •• •..•. • ••• San Juan
Prince Edward Island .. Ernest .Kemp ........ ..... Charlottetown
W W Williamson ... . ... . . :Montreal
Queb ec . .. . .. • · • · · • • • •·•· · ·
Queensland .. : .... .' .... .Leslie P . :Marks .. . . .. . : . .. Brisb ane
Salvador ••• '." ..•••••. Salvador Grand Lodge ... Cuscatlan
Saskatchewan . . •• : •..•• W. B. Tate .. ········ · ••· .Regina.
Scotland ......... . ...... Thomas G. W inning ..••••.•Edinburgh
Berbes, Croates and
J
Slovenes • ....•.•.•.. 8. Chokora.h .. .'. · · · · • · · · · .Beogr~d, ugosla.v1a..
South Australia. .•.••••• Chas. R. J. Glover ... . . , ... Adelaide
s ed n
Yneve G. Wish;_ .. .' . .• ..... Frimurarelogen,
w e ······· ·········
stollkholm
Switzerla.ndThe Swiss Grand Lodge-Alpina.
Arnold Raschle, Grand Secy., Zurich, 18
·
Tasmania ......... • .•.. W. H . Strutt ....... ·.··· · .Hobart
Victoria. . . ......•..••...W. Stewar t ... .. .. : .. ..... Melbourne
Vienna . ........•.... .• Wla.dimir :Misar .• •..•.•••. 1 Dorotheergasse
12, Vienna.
Western Australia ...-... J. D. Stevenson . . ... . · ··· .Perth

372

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

Alphabetical List of Lodges
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

Count;y.

A. E. F. Irwin .••••• 645 San Pedro .... • .••.....• Loe Angel~.
Abell •••••••.•••.•• 146 Ukiah .•••.•.•.••••••.•. Mendocino.
Acacia •••...••••••. 438 Loe Angeles •••••••••••• Loe Angeles.
Acorn .... • •••••••. 494 Oakland ..•••••••••••••• Alameda.
Adin ..•••..••••.•. 250 Adin ••..•.•••.••.••••• • Modoc.
Alamo .•...••..•..• 122 Walnut Creek ....••.•.• Contr111 Costa.
Alameda •.••.•••••• 167 Centerville •...••••••••• Alameda.
Albert Pike .•• •. . • .484 Los Angeles ••..•...• : . . Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ...• ••••••. 244 Oakland ...•••.•.•••..• Alameda.
Alexandria .•••••••• 531 San Francisco ••••• , •••• San Francisco.
Alexander Graham
Bell . .. ........... 595 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton.535 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Alhambra .•••••••• . 322 Alhambra •.....••.•...•. Los Angeles.
Alisal ••••••..•••••. 321 Pleasanti;n .•••••••.••••• Alameda.
All States •••.•••••. 593 Long Beach ••.•••••.•... Los Angeles.
Alpha ............. 431 Richmond .. .. ........... Contra Costa.
A lt111 • •• . , • .• .•..••. 333 Bridgeport ••••.•••••••• Mono.
Altadena •.•.••••••• 678 Altadena ................ Los Angeles.
Alta Vista ••....•• .464 San Francisco •• .•.•.•.•. San Francisco.
Alta Loma .••••••••. 644 Signal Hill ••.••.•.••.•• .Los Angeles.
Alturas • •...••.••.. 248 Alturas ...... . .......... Modoc.
Amity • • • • ••••••••. 370 San Francisco ....•..... San Francisco.
Amador ............ 65 Jackson ................ Amador.
America .••••...••. 475 Los Angeles . . ........ .. . Loe Angeles.
Anaheim ....•• . • •• . 207 Anaheim ..... . .......... Orange.
Anchor . . ... •• .•••• 273 Compton . . ...... .... .... Los Angeles.
Angeles Mesa •••.. •. 6!5 Los Angeles .. ... ... ..... Los Angeles. ·
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ....... .... ...... Contra Costa.
Apollo . . ........... 396 Alameda ................ Alameda.
Arcadia ••••••••••. 547 Arcadia ..•••....•.....• ·Loe Angeles.
Arbuckle .......... 182 Arbuckle ... . ... . .. . ..... Colusa.
Arcata •••.••• •• •• •106 Arcata . .. . ... ........•.. Humboldt.
Argonaut ••••••••• .461 San Francisco •..•.•.• ••Ban Francisco.
Argonne •• •• ••• •. •. 514 San Francisco . . ...•... •. Ban Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande .......... San Luis Obispo.
Arlington • • •.••.•• •414 Loe Angeles .......• , .•. Loe Angeles.
Artesia •....••••••• 377 Artesia ................. Los Angeles.
Ascot .... ..••••.••. 538 Los Angeles ....•....•.•• Los Angeles.
Ashlar .. • ...•••••.. 306 Colton .................. San Bernardino.
Atascadero •.•. • ••. 493 Atascadero .•.......••... San Luis Obispo.
Athens .•••.•••••••. 228 Davis .•••.•.• • •. . ••••••• Yolo.
Atwater •... • ••••••. 622 Los Angeles ••.•••••••••. Loe Angeles.

Lo.lg!\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Ne.

Post Office.

373
County.

Azure • . i . . . . . . . . . . . 533 Fullerton •............•. Orange.
Azusa •.•••••.••.•. 305 Azusa . . ... ..•..••••••••• Los Angeles.
Bakersfield •. . . .. . .. 224 Bakersfield ......... .. .. Kern.
l~alder .....•....... 393 San Francisco ........ . . San Francisco.
Baldwin Park ••••••• 660 Baldwin Park ..••••..•.. Los Angeles.
Bay City .......... 526 San Francisco ..•..• .• .• San Francisco.
Bay View . • •.... • •. .401 Oakland ............... Alameda .
Beacon of the West .. 628 Los Angeles .•.••••••••• Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain . . •.•. 76 Angels Camp ... . ........ Calaveras.
Bell •....•......•.. 483 Bell .............. . .... Los Angeles.
Bellflower •. .•. • .•. 523 Bellflower ..•...•.•.•.. Los Angeles.
Belvedere ••.•..• • .. 539 Los Angeles ••••.•••••• •Loe Angeles.
Benevolence ••• ••••• 631 Los Angeles .......•..•. .Los Angeles.
Benicia . • . . . • . . . . . . 5 Benicia ... ... . . . . . ... .. Solano.
Benj. Franklin ..... . 509 Los Angeles..... ...... .. Los Angeles.
Berkeley •.•. • .•... . 363 Berkeley ... . ....... .... Alameda.
Bethlehem . . .... .. .453 San Francisco ... ..•.. . . . San F rancisco.
Beverly Hills ...... 528 Beverly Hills •••••••.•• Los Angeles.
Big Bear ........... 617 Pine Knot ••••••••••••• Ban Bernardino.
Blackmer .. •.. .... .442 San Diego ............ ... San Diego.
Blythe ..•...•...•.. 473 Blythe ........... . . .. . . San Bernardino.
Brawley . .. .. ...... 402 Brawley .. . . . . . ... ... • . Imperial.
Brentwood ..•.. .... 345 Brentwood . .. .......... Contra Costa.
Brooklyn • ...•... . . 225 East Oakland . . . .. ...... Alameda.
Buckeye ...•. .••.. . 195 Winters .... .. ...•...... Yolo.
Buena Park.. ;. '. .• .. 357 Buena Park .... ...... .. Orange.
Burbank .• •• : ..... .406 Burbank .. ....... ... ..• Los Angeles.
Burlingame . ,' ...• .. 400 Burlingame ............ San Mateo.
Cahuenga . ......• . . 513 Los Angeles ... ......... Los Angeles.
Caledonia .. .•... .. .486 Bakersfield .. . . ... . ..... Kern.
Calexico . .. . .' .. . .. • 412 Calexico ... ... ... . ..... Imperial.
·California . . . . . . . . • . 1 San Francisco .. . .. .... . . San F rancisco.
Calaveras • . . • . . . • . . 78 San Andreas . ..........• Calaveras.
Callayomi ..•... .. .. 282 Middletown ... ... .•.. .. Lake.
Calistoga • ... •.... . 233 Calistoga ............ . . Napa.
Canoga .• ; .• ..•.... 611 Canoga Park ... .. ..... Los Angeles.
Capital City.... . .. .. 499 Sacramento .. . .. .. ... .. Sacramento.
Carmelita . .... ,. . . . . 599 Pasadena ........... .. .. Loe Angeles.
Carpinteria ••. ~: ••• 444 Carpinteria ... . .... : .. .• Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .. . ... .• .. 337 Crockett ............ . . •Contra Costa.
Catalina Island . . • • . 524 Avalon ••...•.••..•..•. Loe Angeles.
Center .. .. .•• . , .. ,.465 Fresno . . . .• ......... . . Fresno.
Charity •• .. •.• . . ••. 362 Campbell ..•. ..... .. . .. Santa Clara.
Charter Rock .•.... .410 Berkeley ....... ..... . ... Alameil11.
Cha teau Thierry . . .. 569 Oakland ..•.•••••••••••• Alamecla.

374

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

Post Office.
County.
Chico . . ............ 111 Chico . .. . . ........... . . .. Butte.
Chino Valley ...... .427 Chino ... . .............• San Bemardino.
Chula Vista. .....•.. 626 Chula Vista ....••..••• San Diego.
Citro! .............. 656 Brea .................... Orange.
Claiborne ....•.•... 185 Point Arena ........•... Mendocino. ·
Claremont ......... 436 Claremont ..•.........• Los .Angeles.
Clay ...... ; ........ 101 Dutch Flat ...... . .....• Placer.
Clear Lake .•... , •... 183 Lower .Lake ......•.....• Lal«!.
Clinton ....... ...... 119 Igo ....•.....•.... . ...• Shasta.
Clovis ...... . ...... 417 Clovis ........•........• Fresno.
Coachella ... . ...•... 476 Coachella ...... .......... Riverside.
Coalinga .... .. ..... 387 Coalinga . . ... .. . . . . ..... Tulare..
Compass . . .... . . ... . 590 Pomona .. . ... ..... . .. . . .. Los Angeles.
Concord ............ 117 Sacramento •...•..•.••• ,Sacramento.
Confidence .......... 203 Castroville ...... . •...•... Mont6l'ey.
Consuelo ........ ·... 325 Escondido ...... .. ..... San Di~go.
Corcoran ... . . • .... .490 Corcoran . . . . .......... . Kings.
Colusa . ·............ 240 Colusa ... ........ .......... Colusa.
Composite ........... 639 Los .Angeles ..... . .......Los Angeles.
Corinthian . •.. . . . . . . 9 Marysville ....... .. .... Yuba.
Corona . . ......... •324 Pasadena . . . . ........... Los A11geles.
Coronado .. . ...... .441 Corona do .............. San Di!)go.
Covelo ..... . ....... 231 Covelo . . ................ Mendocino.
Covenant ...•....•. 527 Los Angeles ..•..•. . ... Los .Angeles.
Covina . . .... .. •... • 334 Covina . . .... . .... ...... .. Los A;ngeles.
Clarence F. Smith . .. .482 Los Angeles ....... . .... Los Angeles.
Craftsmen . . ....... 559 Los Angeles ....... .. .... Los Ap.geles.
Crescenta Valley •••. 652 Montrose ............ . .. Los Angale1.
Crescent . . . . . . . . . . . 45 Crescent City ...... ... .. . Del Norte.
Crocker ............ 454 Daly City . . ............... San Mat.ea.
Crockett ... •. ...... 139 San Francisco .... .. ....• San Francisco.
Culver City .. .. . .... 467 Culver City .... , .. .. ...• Los Angeleti . .
Cupertino . ... . .. . .. 510 Cupertino .. . . . •. ..... •. Santa Clara.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ..... . . . ..... Sonoma.
Chowchilla .. . ...•.. 485 Chowchilla ...... . .. ......Riverside.
Damascus •...•.••... 648 San Bernardino .•.. . ..•. San.Bernardino.
Delano .. . . .. . .. .. . . 309 Delano ... .. .....•... • •.. Kem.
Delta ....... . ....... 471 Stockton ....... .. ... . ... .San. ..Joaquin.
Dimond ............ 603 Oakland .•........•.••• Alameda.
Dinuba •. . ......... 385 Dinuba ........ . ....... Tular.e.
Doric . .•.. . ... .. . .. 216 San Franoisco . .. . ... .... San Franciseo.
Downey . . . .... ..... 220 Downey . ...... . . . ...... J,oa .Angeles.
Drytown .... . ... , .. 17 4 Plymouth .............. Amador.
Dunsmuir .... , . , , .. 297 Dunsmuir ...•.......... Siskiyou;
Durant .. . : . . :. : .' .. 268 Berkeley ... .... .. . ... .. Alamella.
Lodge.

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

375

Lodge.
No.
Post Otflce.
County.
Eagle Rock ... • .. , .. 422 Los Angeles . . ..... . .... Los Ang~les.
East Bay ........... 489 Berkeley ....•..... , ...• .Alamflda.
East Belt ... .. ..... 391 Tuolumne . ........ • .... Tuolumne.
East Gate. , , , , ..... 290 Los Angeles ............. Los Ang!Jles.
East San Diego .•••. 561 East San Diego .... .. .. . San Diego.
Eden .•••.•.••..••. 113 San Leandro .... . . .. ... Alameda.
Educator , ••• • •.• , .554 San Francisco ...........San Francisco.
Eel River ..•.. , ..•.. 147 Fortuna • ....... . .. . ... Humboldt.
El CajoB.' Valley ..... 576 El Cajon . . .. • ..... . .... San Diego.
El Centro ..•.• ~ ..... 384 El Cent.ro . . .......... .. . Imperial.
El Dora.d-o ·• • • • • • • • • • 26 . Placerville .••..•.. • ..•.• El Dorado.
Elk Grove .•........ i73 Elk Grove . ....... . ... . . Sacramento.
Elmhurst .•.••.•...• 610 Oakland .....•.... . ..• Alam.e da.
Elsinore ..••••....• 289 Elsinore . ......... ... .. Riverside.
El Segµndo ·· •....•.. 507 El Segundo ....... . ..... Los Angeles.
El Sereno .•...•.•.. 588 Los Angeles ..•... ... ... Los Angeles.
Elysian.. •.•...• . .•.. 418 Los Angeles ..... . .. . .. Los Angeles.
Emmanuel .•...• .... 318 Biggs . . ... . . ... . . .. . . .. Butte.
Enterprise . • . . .••.. 70 Yuba City ........ .. .... Sutter.
Escalon .•......•••. 591 Escalon .......... .. .... San Joaquin.
Eucalypt·us .• • ..•... 243 Haywards ...... •. .....• Alameda.
Euclid· . . ••• , •• • .••.. 519 Los Angeles •...... . ... Los Angeles.
Eureka. ............. 16 Auburn ...•....... . .... Placer.
Evening Star ....... 186 Etna Mills ....... .. . . .. Siskiyou.
Evergreen • ......•.. 259 Riverside . . ....... ... .. Riverside.
Excelsior .•..••..... 166 San Francisco ..... .• . .. . San Francisco.
Exeter ............. 424 Exeter . . ........ . . .. ... Tulare.
Fairfax •.••.•...... 556 Fairfax ... . .............Marin.
Fairview •.•••• , .•.. 629 Inglewood ....•......... Los Angeles.
Fairmount ........ .435 San Francisco .... .. .. . .. San Francisco.
Fall brook .......... 317 Fallbrook ........ .. .... San Diego,
Far West .....••.••. 673 . San Francisco ....• . ...•. San Francisco.
Fellowship .. . .. • ... 480 Oakland ............. . . Alameda.
Ferndale ...... • ... . 193 Ferndale ••.•••.•... , ... •Humboldt.
Fidelity. . •......... 120 San Francisco .... .. ..... San Francisco.
Fillmore .....• • .... 379 Fillmore . . ..••.... • •.... Ventura.
Florence .•••.••.•.. 649 Los Angeles • ••• ... .•... Los Angeles.
FontaRa •••••••.••• 653 Fontana • ..••••••.•.... San Bernardino.
Foothill .•••. • •.••. 564 Oakland ........•. . ..... Alameda.
Forbestown. . . . . .. • . . 50 Forbestown ••....••.••• Butte.
Forest ••.•••. • ••... 66 Alleghany ••••••..••••• Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ..... , ...... . Mendocino.
Fort Crook-. ••••••• • 575 Fall River Mills ... • •.•• Shasta.
Fortitude .••• , ••••••• 624 Oakland ••••••••••••• ,Alameda.
Franklin .. .-•.•••.•. 143 Courtland ......... . .... Sacramento,

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post 01Tlce.
County.
Francis Drake ..... . 376 South San Francisco ..... San Mateo.
Francis K. Shattuck.571 Berkeley ............... .Alameda.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.·
Fremont •••••..••.. 497 Oakland . ....... ....... Alameda.
Fresno •.•.••.••••.. 247 Fresno ................. Fresno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose ..•.....•...... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .......•.. 336 Oakland .. ; ...... .. .... Alameda.
Fullerton .......... 339 Fullerton ..•..........• Orange.
Galt ........•...... 267 Galt ...............•....Sacramento.
Garden Grove ...... 586 Garden Grove .. .. .. .....Orange.
Gardena ........... 372 Ga·rdena ...... ' ........ Los Angeles.
The Gardens ••.•.•.• 621 Los Angeles. . • . .. . . .. .. Los Angeles.
Garvanza ..•..•.. \ .492 Los Angeles .....•. '. •.•. Los Angele11.
Georgetown . . • . . . . . 25 Georgetown .... ... . ...• El Dorado.
George Washington .. 525 San F:ancisco .... ... .•. San F·rancisco.
Olassell Park ....••. 605 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
Glendale ••••••••••• 544 Glendale .............•••Los Angeles.
Glendora .......... . 404 Glendora ...... ..... .... Los Angeles.
Golden City •••••..•. 553 San Francisco ...... , .. • .San Francisco. .
Golden Gate. • . . . . . . 30 San Francisco ..... •... . . San Francisco.
Golden Rule ....... .479 San Jose .....•. . ....... Santa .Clara.
Golden West •..... .455 San Francisco . .. . . . .. . . San Francisco.
Golden State ....... . 3n8 Los Angeles ..... ·....... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ........... 32 .Lincoln . ......... . .... . Placer.
Grafton ............ 141 Knights Landing ....•. Yolo.
Granada ••••••.•.•.. 608 Alhambra ....•..•.•••• Los Angeles.
Gravel Range ....... 59 Camptonville .. .... ... . Yuba.
Greenleaf ......... . . 670 Whittier •.•.....•..•....Los Angeles.
Grizzly ........... .. 601 Portola .. . •....•.•.•••• Plumas.
Guadalupe .•.. •. .. . 237 Guadalupe ............. Santa .Barbara.
Guardian ••.. .•.... 596 South Gate . .. .. . . .... .. Los Angeles.
Hammonton ....... .433 Hammonton ..... ,. ..... Yuba.
Hanford ••...•..... 279 Hanford ............•.. Kings. ·
Harbor ..•••.•..... 502 Richmond .. .. . ... •.•• .• Contra Costa.
Harding ........... 584 Los Angeles ... ......... Los Angeles.
Harmony . ..... .... 164 Sierra City ..........·... Sierra. .
Hartley ............ 199 Lakeport •............. Lake.
Hawaiian ........... 21 Honolulu .............. Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne ••.•••••. 647 Hawthorne . . ...•.••.••• .Los Angeles.
Hemet .•••••••••••. 615 Hemet •. . .•.•••..••••• Riverside.
Henry Clay. • • . . • . . • 95 Sutter Creek ............ Amador.
Henry Moree
Stephens •• .••. .. . 541 Berkeley .. .. . .•• • •..•• Alameda.
Henry Knox ........ 662 Los Angeles .......••••• Los Angeles.
Hermann ...... . .... 127 San Francisco ........ . . San Francisco.

377

Post Olrlce.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Hermosa .••• • •••••. 557 Hermosa Beach .••.•• •Los Angeles.
Hesperian .. .. .... .. 264 Santa Maria . • .•. . ... ... Santa Barbara.
Highland Park . . •... 382 Los Angeles .........•.. Los Angeles.
Hillcrest •••.•••••.. 573 Berkeley ..•.....•..•..•.Alameda.
Hill's Ferry•....•... 236 Newman ............... Stanislaus.
Hiram ... . ......... 43 El Dorado . .. .'. .. .. . .... El Dorado.
Henry S. 01me . ...• 458 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck ..• . •.. . 319 Los Angeles .... .... .... Los Angeles.
Hollywood • . ..•. ... 355 Hollywood ............. Los Angeles.
Holtville ....... ... 425 Holtville ..•.•••.•••••• Imperial.
Honolulu ........... 409 Honolulu ....... : . ....• Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .. ............ 234 Beckwith .. .... ..•. .... Plumas.
Hornitos ..• .•· ••. .•.. 98 Hornitos .............•• Mariposa.
Howard .• .•.• .• • ••• 37 Yreka ...............•. Siskiyou.
Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ...•.•.....•.... Humboldt.
Huntington Beach •. . 380 Huntington Beach . . .... Orange.
Illinoistown ..• ; .... 51 Colfax ................. Placer.
Imperial ... ...• .....390 Imperial ..............• Imperial.
Ingleside ....••.••. 630 San Francisco ••••••••• San Francisco.
Inglewood ....•... .421 Inglewood ..•.....•...• Los Angeles.
Fairview •••••••••• 629 Ingl!lwood .••••••••. , .Los Angeles.
Indian Rock .•..•••• 638 Berkeley •.....••. .. ...• Alameda.
Inyo •.... . ......... 221 Independence ... . ... . . . Inyo.
Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 lone .. . .. . , . . .. • .... .. Amador.
Ionic .... : ; ........ 520 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
J ames A. F osh ay . ... 640 Los Angeles • ..••. .• •.• . .Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield . .• 566 Los Angeles ..•..•..•.•. Los Angeles.
James Madison .••.•. 572 Los Angeles •••• • ••••••• Los Angelea.
Jefferson .•••• , • • . • 97 Laporte ••• •.•••.••••••• Plumas.
Janesville ..•..•••• 232 Lassen • .•• ..••••• •••••• Lassen.
Jewel ... .... .. . ... 374 San Francisco . : .•••••• ,San Francisco.
John Marshall •••••• 636 West Hollywood ..•• •• ..• Los Angeles.
John D. Spreckels . . • 657 San Diego ............•. San Diego.
John P. Jarman .•. •. 669 San Jose . •• ••• •• ••.•....Santa Clara.
Jonathan ••••.•••.. 545 San Francisco • •••••. •• • San Francisco.
Joppa. •.. : ..•.• •.••. 508 San Joaquin •• . • , ...••. Fresno.
. Jordan •.••••.•••••• 654 Los Angeles ••..•..••••. Los Angeles.
Jubilee •.• .' ...... ... 604 Santa An& .............. Orange.
Justice • • ••..••..•• 549 So.n Francisco ••.•.•••.. San Francisco.
Kauai ....... ; ..... 589 Lihue ............ . ..... Kauai, T. H .
Kaweah ............ 665 Woodlake ..••.•..•.....• Tulare.
Keith .............. 187 Gilroy . ..... ... "• ...... Santa· Clara.
Kerman •.•••.. ••• •• 420 Kerman .•.•. •. ...•••••. Fresno.
Keystolle • .•• ••• ••. 161 Milton .••..•••.•••.•.•• Co.laveraa.
Kilauea .•• . ••• .••. 330 Hilo ................... Hawaiian Ter.

GRAND · LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

378

379

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
King David's •..•.. 209 San 'Luis· Obispo ..•...•.. San Luis Obi1po.
King Solomon's .•.. 260 San Francisco •.•••.•••• San Franoisco.
Knox, Henry ... . .... 662 Los Angeles .••..•.......Los Angeles.
La Brea ............. 650 Los Angeles .•........... Los Angeles.
La Cumbre ......••. 642 Santa Barbara ........•• Santa BarbaTa.
La Fayette ....••.. 126 Sebastopol ..•••.••...•.• Sonoma.
Laguna Beach ..•.•.. 672 Laguna Beach .....•.....Orange.
La Habra .......... 659 La Habra ...............Orange.
La Jolla ....... . ... 518 San Diego ............. San Diego.
Lakeshore ..... . ••. 551 · Oakland ••.......•••••• Alameda.
Lamanda Park ...•. 627 Pasadena .....•.......•. Los Angeles.
La Mesa : ......... .407 La Mesa ................ San Diego.
Lancaster .... .. ••. 437 LancasteT .....•••....•• Los ·Angeles.
Lankershim ....•... 542 North Hollywood ..•.••.• Los -Angeles.
Landmark ..... .• ... 253 Esparto ...••••.•.•••••• Yolo.
La Puente ..... ..... 446 Puente ................. Los '.A.nghles.
Larchmont. ......... 614 Los Angeles ...•.....•.• Los Angeles.
Las Palmas. ....•... 366 ·.Fresno •.••.••....••.•• ,.Fresno.
Las.s en ·: ...• . •• ... . 149 Susanville . ..••.••.•••••. Lassen.
Laurel . ...• ........ 245 Willows ....•.•......••. Glenn.
I.ebanon • .'...•..... 495 San F~ancisco .' •..•• ·•••. San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu ••......•.••••• Hawaiian Ter.
Lexingt_9 n ••..•.... 104 El Monte .•......•..•••• Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts ........ 677 Los Angele~ ............. Los Angeles.
Libertas ..•........ 466 Bakersfield ..••.••••••. Kem.
Liberty . ; .......... 299 Santa Clara ........... ; Santa Clara.
Lincoln ..... -. ..... ,470 San Francisco .••.•••••• San Frucia110.
Lindsay ........... 416 Lindsay .....•.......• •• Tulare.
Live Oak .......••• ·61 Oakland . . .............. Alamed~.
Livingston ••..•.••. 658 '.Livingston ...••.••.•••. Merced.
Lodi ............. :256 Lodi ................... San I.Joaquin.
Lomita •........... 644 Lomita . ......•...•...• ;Los·Angeles.
Lompoc ......... . .. 262 Lompoc ................ Santa .Barbara.
Long Beach ..•..•. , 327 Long Beit~h ...•.•.•.••• Los Angeles.
Los Angeles ~ . . • . . • . 42 Los Angeles ...• ••...••• Los Angeles.
Los Banos .' . .... . .• 312 Los Banos .............. Merood.
Los Cerritos ....•••• 674 Long Beach .••.....•. , .• Los Angeles.
Los Gatos ·.....•.•. ,292 Los Gatos •.......• ~ •••• Santa Cla:ra.
Loyalton ..•....... 359 Loyalton ....•.••..•.•.• Sierra.
Loyalty ......•.•. ;529 Los Angeles .•.•.••..••. Los Angeles.
Lynwood ...•.•.•••. 600 Lynwood •••.......•.•.. Los Angeles.
Madera ... . ........ 280 Madera ............... ;Madera.
Madison . ; ......... 23 Grass Valley .. ." ........ Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barb:rra .... .. .. ; :Santa Bntb11r.i .

Post Otrlce.
County.
No.
l
·os
Angeles
·
....
.
..
.
••.•
Los
Angeles.
Malta ••.... ........ 661
Manchester· ........ 585 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Maricopa ....•...... 434 Maricopa ...... .. , .. . . . Kern.
Marin •..•....... .•. llH San Rafael . . ........... Marin.
Mariposa .. ~ .. . ..... 24 Mariposa ............... Mariposa.
Martinez • . . . . . . .. . . 41 Martinez .. ... ...... .. . Contra Costa.
Maui ................ .47~ Maui, Kahului. .... . .... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell .... . ....... 288 Maxwell . . ..... .. . . .. ... Colusa.
McCloud ..... ..... .. 430 McUloud .. .. .... .. ..... Siskiyou.
McKinley ...... .. .... 347 Richmond .............. Contra Costa.
Melrose ............ 602 Loe Angeles .•........•Los Angeles.
Menlo Park •••••••. 651 Menlo Park . ...... • •..•. San Mat eo.
Los Angeles •....•..••• Los Angeles.
Menorah •••........ 623
Mendocino·
.. ........... Mendocino.
Mendocino ...• .. ... 179
Meridian •••....... 667 Glendale . ....•..... . ..•. Los Angeles.
Metropelitan ...•••• 646 Los Angeles.............. Los Angeles.
Midway .• ,, ...... .426 Taft . .......... .... .. . Kern.
Military Service .•.. 570 San Francisco ......... ..San Francisco.
Mill Valley .... .. ... 356 · Mill Valley ......... . ... Mar.in.
Mission •........... 169 San Francisco ........ .-.San Francisco.
Mizpah ........... ·. 378 Los Angeles ..... . . . .... Los Angeles.
Modesto ........... 67{i Modesto . ..•.• •.... •• .• , Stanislaus.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama .... . ...... .. .. Tehama.
Moneta ......... .. .405 Los Angelos ... .. .... . .. Los Angeles.
Montebello ........ .451 Montebello ... ... . . . . ... Los Angelos.
Monrovia .......... 308 Monrovia . ... .... . . .. . . Los Angelps.
Monterey .......... 217 Monterey . ... .... ... ... M-0nteJ>ey.
Monte Vista •..••••• 655 Long Beach ....•••...... Loe Angeles.
Morgan Hill . .. ... . . 463 Morgan Hill ............ Bantu Clara.
Morning Star. . . . . . . 68 Stockton ......•. .. . . ... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ...•....... . . Alameda.
Mount Davidson · ... .481· San Francisco ..... . .... San Francisco.
Mount Dialilo ....... 448 Concord .. . ... .... . .. . . Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville •. . . . ... .... Sonoma.
Mount Mori111h ; ..... 44 San Francisco ..... . .... San Francisco.
Mount Olive •....... 506 Los Angeles . ... . .. , .... Lgs Angeles.
Mount 0so·, ....·... .460 Tracy .... . . .. .. ....•.. San J oaquin.
Mount Vernon• •. , •.• 517 San Francisco ..•....... San Francisco.
Mountain.Shade; •••. 18 Downieville ...•........ Sierra.
Mount Shasta ....... 281 Anderson ........ , , .. .• Shasta.
M·o untain View...... 194 Mountain View . . ....... Santa Clara.
Natoma -............ 64 Folsom . .. ............. Saoramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo . .... ........... Solano.
Needles ....... . ..... 326 Needles . .• ...... ·.. ••.. San Bernardino.
Neptune ••. .'..• ; .•• 619 Long Beach •...•.••••• Los · Angeles.
Lodge.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Nevada . .. . ........ 13 Nevada City ........... Nevada.
Newville ........... 205 Paskenta .............. Tehama,
Nicolaus ........... 129 Wheatland .. ......•.... Yuba. .
Normal Heights .•••• 632 San Diego .•.....•••.•.. San Diego.
North Butte ........ 230 Gridley . .•............• Butte.
North East ......... 266 Fort Bidwell ............ Modoc.
Northern Light ..•... 190 Millville ........•...... Shasta.
North Star.......... 91 Fort Jones . .. ........... Siskiyou,
Norwalk ........... 315 Norwalk ......•.•••.... Los Angeles.
Oakdale ............ 275 Oakdale ........ . ....•. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ......... ... ... Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............... Alam.e da.
Oasis , ....... . . , .•. 664 El Centro ...........••. Imperial. .
Occidental . . . . . . . . . 22 San Francisco ........•. San Francisco.
Ocean Park ......... 369 Oceanpark ............. Los Angeles.
Oceanside .....•.... 381 Oceanside . ' ............ San Diego.
Ojai ....•.....•.... 663 Ojai. ....•.........•...• Ventura.
Olive Branch ....... 269 Tulare . .. .............• Tulare.
Olivet ............. 205 Corning , . •............•Tehama.
Outario .......... , .301 Ontario . .• . . ........... San Bernardino.
Ophir ...........•.. 33 Murphy's . .•........... Calaveras.
Orange Grove ..•. , .. 293 Orange .... . . .....•.... Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco .... , ..... San Francisco.
Orland .. , ..•...... 265 Orland ........•......• Glenn.
Orosi .. , •••... . . • .. 383 Orosi . . ...•. .. •. ••. ••. •Tulare.
Oroville ...... , .. , .. 103 Oroville ............... Butte.
Oxnard .. , ...... , .. 341 Oxnard ............•... Ventura.
Pacific ........•.... 136 San Francisco ...•..•... San Francisc1:1.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ........... Monterey.
Pajaro .... , ...•.... 110 Watsonville .....•...... Santa Cruz.
Palestine .. , .. , .. , .. 351 Los Angeles .... : •...... Los Angeles.
Palisades . , .•..•.•. 637 Santa Monica . ..•.•..••. Los Angeles.
Palms ·............. 512 Palms .. •......... , .... Loa Angeles.
Palo Alto ............ 346 Palo Alto ............... Sada Clara.
Palos Verdes ... , .... 389 Long Beach ......•..... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union., •... 17 San Francisco .......... San :francisco.
Park ........ , , .... 449 San Francisco ... , ...... San Francisco.
Park Boulevard., •. ,568 Oakland • ..•....•. , ...•. Alameda.
Parnassus ...•... , .. 388 San Francisco ....... .. . San Fran.cisco.
Pasadena ......• , •. 272 Pasadena . .. ... ........ Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ... , , , , . 286 Paso Robles ............. San Luis Obispo.
Patterson ..•...... .488 Patterson .............. Stanislaus.
Paul Revere ... ,., .. 462 San Francisco ....... , , .San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor , , •• , .598 Honolulu ....••.•.. ,, ••• Hawaiian Ter.
Penrbyn ...• , , , •••. 258 Penryn ••.•••...•.•.•.• Placer.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

Post Otrlce.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Pentalpha •......... 202 Los Angeles ..•.. • .•. ~ .• Los Angeles.
Perris •............ 411 Perris .......•..••..... Riverside.
Petaluma .......•. . 180 Petaluma •. , •.•.....••. Sonoma.
Phoenix ..•.•...... 178 San Bernardino •........ San Bernardino.
Piedmont •••••••••• 521 Piedmont ••••••••• , •••• Alameda.
Pinole ••..•.•.••••. 353 Pinole .. , •.•..• , .•..... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .••..••••. 429 Pittsburg .•.•••...•.•.. Contra Costa.
Plumas ••••••••••••• 60 Quincy •.••••••••• , ••••• Plumas.
Plymouth •••••••••. 560 Oakland , •••.••.••••.• , • Alameda.
Poinsettia ••••••••• 633 Ventura.,, .••••.• , ••••• Ventura.
Point· , , •• , •••• , , , , .503 Richmond ••.....•....••. Contra Costa.
Point Firmin • , , , ••• 558 San Pedro ••••.•.....••• Loa Angele3.
Point Loma .•••••••• 620 San Diego ..•.•••.•..••. San Diego.
Pomona •.••.•. , •••. 246 Pomona .........•.•.• • .. Los Angeles.
Porterville ••.•.•••• SOS Porterville ••.•..••••.••• Tulare.
Presidio • , , ..•••••. S54 San Francisco ..••••.••• San Francisco.
Progressive •••••••• 578 Los Angeles •••• , .•.•.•• Loa Angeles.
Provident .••••.•••• 609 Sacramento ••••••.•.•••• Sacramento.
Pyramid ••••• , • , ••. 562 San Francisco .••.••..•• Ban Francisco.
Queen Beach ••••••• 540 Long Beach .• , • , ••.•.•.. ·Loa Angeles.
Ramona ••.•.••••••. 457 Monterey Park •. , •.• , • ,Loa Angeles.
Reading ••• , • , ••••• ,254 Redding •.••••.•.••••.•• Shasta.
Redlands ••.••••••. ,SOO Redlands . , •••. , •..•••• ,San Bernardino
Redondo •..•.••.•••• S28 Redondo ... , • , , , .•.• •.• ,Loa Angeles.
Redwood City , , • , : , 168 Redwood City ••.•.•.•.. ,San Mateo.
Reedley • , •••• , •• , •• S04 Reedley .....•.... , .. , •. Fresno.
Reseda ..•.•...••.. 666 Reseda ..•........ , ..•.. Los Angeles.
Rialto .....•.••••••. 582 Rialto • , , ••••..•••.•.• , .San Bernardino.
Ricnmond • , .•••••.. S75 San Francisco , , , , , . , •.. San Francis~o.
Rio Vista •..•.•.•. , .208 Rio Vista .•. , . , ...•• , ... Solano.
Rising Light ....... S97 Huntington Park ••••.• ,Los Angeles.
Riverbank .. , , ••••. 459 Riverbank ••••••••.•.••. Stanislau11.
Riverdale . , • , ••..•. 496 Riverdale ••.•. , , ••.• , •• ,Fresno.
Riversid'e ••••.• , ••. 035 Riverside ... ,, ••• , ••• , .• Riverside.
Rock ridge .•..• , , ••• 468 Oakland ..•.... , •..• , ••• Alameda.
Roosevelt ... , . , ••.•. 500 San Francisco , •...•.• , .San Francisco
Rose 's Bar • . • . . . • • • • 89 Smartsvllle ..•.........• Yuba.
Roseville • , , , •.••••. 222 Roseville , , , , • , .•..••.•• Placer.
Russian River •••.• 181 Windsor , .•••••• , •.•.•.• Sonoma,
Sacramento . , . . • • • • 40 Sacramento , ..•. , •• , . , •• Sacramento.
Saint Helena • , ..••. 93 Bt. Helena ..•..•• , ...... Napa.
Salinas ............. 204 Salinas • , , , , , .•.• , .•••• ,Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister •••.. , , • , • , •.• , .San Benito.
San Buenaventura .. 214 Ventura •...... , •• , •.•.. Ventura.
San Clemente .•••. , • 671 San Clemente ..•..•.•• ,. Orange.

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE'

Lodge.
No.
Post· Office.
County.
San Diegq . . . • . . . . • • 35 San Diego •............ ,San Diego.
San Dimas ... ; ..... 428 San Dimas .......•....•. Los Angeles.
San Gabriel ...... ... 546 San Gabriel . ........... Los Angeles.
San Gorgonio .......• 668 Banning .....•.......... Riverside.
Sii.nger ............. 316 Sanger . •.......• .i.~. ,., .. Fresno.
San Bernardino .... 348 San Bernardino .... ; ...... San Bernardino.
San Fernando .•..... 343 Fernando .•.•.... . ....•. Los- Angeles.
San Francisco •..••. 360 San Francisco .....••...• &n Francisco.
San Jacinto......•.•. 338 San Jacinto ••.•....... ,Riverside.
San Joaquin ..•••..• 19 Stockton •....••..•. '. .-.. San -Joaquin-,
San Jose ... .'.• ~ .... 10 San Jose ............... Santa Clara:
San Mateo· ........ .. 226 San Mateo ... .. ............ San Mateo.
San Miguel' ..... • .••. 285 San Miguel. ..... ,<;.,; • .,San· Luis• Obispo.San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena .......•...•... Los Angeles.
San Pedro .......... 332 San Pedro ........... " •. Los Angeles.
Santa Ana •.......... 241 Santa An·a ........ ·...... Orange.
Santa Barbara·, ... .. 192 Santa Barbara . ......... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz .......... , ... Santa Cruz.
Santa -Lucia· ........ 302 Kings City ....... ~....... Monterey.
Santa• Maria ..... . .. 580 Ramona . .•...•.• .-........ .San Diego.
Santa Monica ..•.... 307 Santa Monica •.. . ....... Los Angeles.
Santa Paula......... 291 Santa Paula ...•....•... Ventura.
Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ...... ·'· •.... Sonoma.
San Simeon ......... 196 Cambria . .......... -. ..... San Luis Obispo.
Schofield ........ .. .443 Schofield Barracks '• .•.. . Hawaiian T6r.
Seal Beach ......•.. 616 Seal Beach •. . •••• ,., .•• Orange.
Seal Rock ....•...•. 536 San J!'rancisco ......•.•• San Francisco.
Searchlight . .....••. 567 Long Beach ..............Los Angeles.
Seaport .••......••. 550 San Francisco ............San Francisco.
Seaside ............ 504 Long Beach•....... , .... Los Angeles.
Security ......•.... 581 Bakersfield-. ...... •...... Kern;
Selma ......•...... 277 Selma ....... . ...... . .. Fresno.
Semper Virens ...... 552 Eureka ..••.......•..... Humboldt~
Sequoia .....•...... 349 Oakland .... . ............ Alameda.-'
Service ........••.. 594 Long Beach ...... " ..... Los Angeles,
Sier-ra Madre .•.... .408 Sierra. Madre . . _........ Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley .... .. . 184 Sierraville ...... ... ..... Sierra.
Signal ......•.. . .•. 543 Long Beach . .... ........Los Angeles.
Silveyville ..•...... 201 Dixon ..•........ -. .... Solano.
Silver Cord ........... 505 Santa Ana . ............. Orange. ·
Silver Gate ......•.. 296 San Diego .... : .. ... .... San Diego.
Silver Tr.owe! ... ; •. .415 Los Angeles ......... ; •.. Los Angeles.
Sincerity .•....•. : .132 Greenville- .......•. ' •.. Plumas;
Sisson ..•. .- •.. , _, .. _.310 Mount Shasta-. •..•.••.•• Siskiyou.
Smyrna ..••.....•• .• 532 C.e rea ..................... Stanislaus.
Snow Mountain ..... 271 Stony Ford ..••..•••.... Colusa.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Sojourner .......••. 507 Monrovia . ....... . .•••. Los Angeles.
Solano ••....•••.... 229 Vallejo ... . ............. Solano.
Sotoyome .....•.... 12'3 Healdsburg ...•.... , • , ,Sonoma.
Southern Califqrnia•. 278 Los Angeles ........... ·Los Angeles.
South Gate.......... 320 Los Angeles ....... . •.. ·Los Angeles.
Southland .......•.• 618 Los Angeles .......••• •Los Angeles.
South Park .•...•••. 563 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
South Pasadena . .•.. 367 South Pasadena ....... . •Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San Prancisco ........ . ·San Francisco.
South West ......... 283 National City .......... ·San' Diego.
Speranza Italian a ... 219 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Standard .....• • .... 440 Oakland .. .. . . .. ...... ·Alameda.
Stanislaus ...•..... 206 Modesto ... ... . . ...... ·Stanislaus.
Starr King... ....... 344 · San Francisco .. . ....... San Francisco.
Stockton ........... 498 Stockton ............. ,San Joaquin.
Suisun .. .'.. .. .. .. .. 55 Suisun ........ . .. . ..... Solano.
Summit .. . .... .. ... 112 Knights Ferry .......... Sti;inislaus.
Sun Garden . ....•... 530 Fresno . .....•...•••••• Fresno
Sunnyside ... . .. .... 577 Los Angeles .. ... . . . ..• •. Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale ....... . . 511 Sunnyvale ....... . ..... Santa Clara.
Sunrise ••..•.• ~-· ..• 522 Los ·Angel~s ... ......... Los Angeles.
Sunset .......••...• 352 Los. A.n.geles .... ........... Las Angeles.
Surprise Valley •.... 235 Cedarville . . ..... .. .. . . Modoc.
S. W. Hackett ...... 574 San Diego .....•.•.•. •• . San Diego.
Table Mountain ... .. 124 Cherokee .... •.. . , ...... Butte.
Taft ....•.• . ••••••• 516 Taft ................. . ·Kern.
Tehachapi •.•... . ... 313 Tehachapi .. ........... Kern.
Tehama ..... • ,... .. 3 Sac11amento ....... .. .... Sacramento.
Temescal •........ . . 314 Corona . . ... ....•...... Riverside.
Temblor .. .. .• .... .477 Fellows .... . ......•.... Kern.
Temple City •••.••.• 612 Temple ..•...•.••••••••• .Los Angeles.
Temple •..... .. ...• 14 Sonoma ................ Sonoma.
Texas .......... .. .. 4.6 San Juan . .. .. .... . ·..... San Benito.
ThouHnd Oaks . . ... 478 Berkeley •..•..•••..••• Alameda.
Three Pillars .• . .... 613 Sacramento •...••..•• • Sacra·m ento.
Torrance ....•.. . .. .447 Torrance • •......... .. . . Los Angeles. ·
Traver ...... . . . .... 294 Kingsburg .......... ... Fresno.
Triangle •....... . •. 548 Venice ..•...•..•..•.... Los Angeles.
Trinity ... . ........ 27 Weaverville ............ Trinity.
Truckee .'.... . ...... 200 Truckee ........... .... Nevada.
Truth .. ', ......•..• 597 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Tujunga ........... 592 .T ujunga ... : .... : . ....... Los Angeles.
Tuolumne . . • . . • ••• . 8 Sonora. .•......... . ...• Tuou:tmne.
Turlock . .. .... ..••. 395 Turlock ••. . ..•......... Stanislaus. ·
Tuscan •. .. ....... . 261 Williams .....• . .. . .. , . Colusa.
Tyrian .. .. ' .. .. .. .. 439 Manteca .............. . San J oa quin.

383

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
County.
Post Office.
Union ..• . •••••..•• 58 Sacramento . ... .... . .•• Sacramento.
Unity ••.•...•.•... 368 Glendale ........••.•.•. Los Angeles.
University •••••..•. 394 Los Angeles . . . . ...•... . Los Angeles.
Upland ...•.•..•.•. 419 Upland ..•..•.. .. ...•.. San Bernardino.
Utopia .•...••••.••• 537 Los Anficles •••.••••••• Los Angeles.
Vacaville .• ..•.. . .. 134 Vacaville •.•..••.•..... Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles •.•..••••••• Los Angeles.
Vallejo •.••..••... .487 Vallejo .. ... ......•.• .. Solano.
Valley ..••..•.•.... 135 Linden .....•......•..• San Joaquin.
Valley Forge ••••• •587 Los Angeles .•.••..••... Los Angeles.
Van Nuys ••.•..•... 450 Van Nuys ..•..•..•..... Los Angeles.
Veritas ••• •• •••• • .. 640 San Francisco . ••• •.• • • •. San Francisco
Vermont Square •.•. 515 Los Angeles •.•..•.•••• Los Angeles.
Vesper ..•.•••..•.•• 84 Red Bluff ..... . ..•..•. . . Tehama.
Veteran ..•..•••.•.. 373 Sawtelle •.••.......•..• Los Angeles.
Victorville ••••.••.. 634 Victorville ••••••••••••••San Bernardino.
Victory •.•.....••.. 474 San Francisco • .•.•....• San Francisco.
Visalia ..••.•....... 128 Visalia .....•.....•..•• Tulare.
Vitruvius •. •.. •.... 145 Bloomfield •.. .. ..•... • . Sonoma.
Volcano ...•......•• 56 Volcano •.. • .....••• ••.. Amador.
Warren G. Harding .. 579 North Sacramento .......Sacramento.
Wasco .••..•••••••• 583 Wasco .••••.•.••.•••••••Kern.
Washington •....... 20 Sacramento ..•.....•..• Sacramento.
Waucoba . . ..••.... 413 Big Pine ............... Inyo.
Welcome . . . •. .• ...• 255 Lemoore . .......•..•... Kings.
West Adams ...•..•. 565 Los Angeles ...• .• .. •• .• Los Angeles.
Western Star . . . . . . . 2 Shasta •.......•..•••.. Shasta.
West Gate ...•••.••. 335 Los Angeles ••. •. •••••.• Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ..•..•.. •..• Los Angeles.
Westwood . •. . . ..... 501 Westwood ...........•• Lassen.
White Pine ..•.....• 555 Weed ........•..•.•••••.Siskiyou.
Whittier ........... 323 Whittier •.....•....•..• Los Angeles.
Willits ... •... .• . ... 365 Willits ... .....•....... Mendocino.
Willow Glen .••••••• 676 Willow Glen •...•....... Santa Clarit.
Wilmington .....•.. 198 Wilmington .••.•.....•• Los Angeles.
Wilshire ....•.• . ... 445 Los Angeles ......... .. • Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ...•••• 287 Bishop .....•.....•...• Inyo.
Woodbridge •.•..•.. 131 Woodbridge •..........• San Joaquin.
Woodland ..•..•.•.. 156 Woodland .•....•....••Yolo.
Woodstock ..• •. ... .491 Alameda .. ............ ,Alameda.
Yerba Buena .. ....• .403 Oakland ... ... ..... . . .. Alameda.
Yolo •.......•...••. 81 Yolo .•.. . .. . ..... ... . •Yolo.
Yorba Linda •. . ... .469 Yorba Linda •..•••..••• Orange.
York .....••.•..... 423 Los Angeles .....•.. ••• • Los Ange~'ls.
Yosemite .... .• .••.. 99 Merced ................ Merced.
Yount ..•.. .....•.. 12 Napa ...•....••••.•..•• Naua.

I N D E X -- 1 9 3 4
Page

A
Accounts-Report of Committee on........................................................163
Activities Committee-Appropriations for ............................................ 291
Report of ..........:: ..~...:...........:......................... ~ ............................,.......... 269
Adin Lodge-Purchase of stock from ....:...............................................288
Advance information of proposed legislation proposed................... .279
Allegiance to our Country-Resolution reaffirming ..........................282
Amazon and Acre recognized ....................................................................278
Annual E lection of Officers of Grand Lodge........................ ~ ............... 332
Annual O ration by Reynold E . Blight.................................................... 67
Ann\]ity .Contracts for Masonic Hoines .......................................... 177, 284
Appropriations-Boards of Relief ............................................................286
Employment Service ..........................................................................286
Activities Committee ..........................................................................291
Mason'c H omes Endowment Board ................................................292
Pay of Mem'b ers....................................................................................291
Payment of Public Accountant.. ......................................:.................292
Portrait of Grand Master.................................................................... 290
Salaries ....................................................................................................291
Traveling expenses Grand Master....................................................290
U. C. Club Houses .................................................................................289
Assistant Grand Lecturers ..........................................................................338
Audi t of Account·s ........................................................................................289

B
Baker, Thomas }.- Memorial services .....................................................207
Blight, Reynold E .- Annual Oration...................:.................................. 67
Board of Control-Annuat' Report of......................................................250
Appropriation for Chairman.................................................;., ..........290
Grand Master's reference to ...........................................:.................. 38
Reimbursements recommended ........................................................253
Reports of Boards of Relief... ..........................:................................~.254
Resolution to ~ end chairman to F or t W orth.................. ,..... 171, 290
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for ..................................................... .286
Grand Master's reference to.....,............:.. .......................................... 39
Reports of .....................:...............................:.................:......................254
Boynton, Albert E.-Cable from China ....:............................................. 10

iii

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Budgets submitted by Finance Committee......................................44, 293
Building Projects-Report of Committee oh ......•'. ......:......................... 21 1
By-Laws amended ······---····-······-···-············-,-···--·--··········-······-·-··--···--········· 50
Report of Committee on......................:.....................•.........................268

Page
Devotional Service ........................ ..;---···-···················-··-······-············-·······--8
Dispensations issued ............................. ~---·····-·······-·················-····-·······-·····50
District officers associations ...................................................................•....40
Divorced wife-Relief for ............................................................................ 23
Donahue, Don D.-Resolution, Section 161............................................281
Donovan, George M .....:.Resolutions ..........................................................279
Downey Lodge-Remission of Grand Lodge dues ..............................288
Dues, delinquent-Grand Master's reference to .................................. 15
Reduction of-Wisdom of questioned .............................................. 14
Suspension of indigent memb~r ........................................................ 28
Stocks as payment for .......................................................................... 22
To Grand Lodge-Remission of ..: ..................................................... 187
To Grand Lodge unpaid ..............................................................43, 286

ii

c
Charter of Fairmount Lodge restored ................................................ 16, 246
Clandestine Masonry-Report of Committee on ................................ 244
Committee on Activities-Report of...•.............. - .......... :..............:..........269
On Accounts, Report of.........,..................................................•......... 163
On Building Projects, Report of............................:...................:..... 211
On By-Laws, Report oL.. ·--·········-·-······-················--·····-········--·····-···268
On Clandestine Masonry, Report oL ................... ,..........................244
On Credentials, Report of.................................................................. 297
On Education, Report of.................................•..................................210
On Fairmount Lodge, Report of...................................................... 246
On Grand Lecturer's Report, Report 0L.......•................•....•____ _a09
On History, Report of ............................................. .,.........................228
On Library, Report of.... ·-············-··--·--·--················:.........................242
On Necrology, Report of................................................•........::......... 194
On Pay of Members, Report oL................................:..................... 268
On Policy and General Purposes, Reports of... ........................... 275
On Public Schools Week, Report of... ........................................... 234
On Returns, Report of ...... ·-·····-········--·---··-···-----········-·······--····-'-·-------214
Committees of Grand Lodge._.....................,.............................................335
Conference of Grand Masters .................................................................... 12
Const'.tutional Amendments:
Section 27-Adopted ..............................................................•... 169, 277
Section 37e-Lost..................................................... :.................... 163, 282
Section 37k-Lost ........................................................................ 163, 282
Section 37j-Adopted ·············-··················································-·····-·-285
Section 9{).-Lost .......................................................................... 169, 276
Section 121-Adopted ...................•................... :.......................... 169, 283
Section 161-Lost........................................................................ 169, 281
Cooper, Chas. R.-Resolution to eliminate paragraph 13 of
petition for degrees ...........................•.................................. 170, 282
Correspondence-Report of Committee on.................................. :......... 163
Credent'als-Report of Committee on .....•...................... :........... :.......... .297
Curts, Harry R.-Resolution condemning atheism .................... 169, 278

o ·
Decisions of Grand Master-Report of Committee on ............... .21, 275
De Forest, Gilbert C.-Committee on Segregation ............................. .42
Degrees--Conferring by other jurisdictions .................................. 169, 283

E
Education-Report of Committee on ......... ;:.................
210
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes on ..... .284
Endowment Board-Annuity Contracts for Homes.................. 177, 284
Appropriation for ...................................:.•:...........................•--.. li9, 292
Detail of ~xpenses ....................:.....................•.......:............................. 180
Grand Master's reference to .•.........•.................................•.................. 37
Honor Roll certificates........................................................................ 174
List of Contributions .................................................. - ........................ 182
Report of ................................................................................................ 171
Endowment Fund, Composition of ........................................ :................. 109
Lodge may not donate funds to ........................................................ 21
Uses of .•...•.: .•............•... :...................................................................•.....285
Extinct Lodges-List of.....................: ..........................................•...........357
y

••••••••••••••••••••••••

F
Fairmount Lodge-Report of Committee on ........................................246
Restoration of charter .......................................................................... 16
Fees, Reduction of-Wisdom of questioned .......................................... 14
Fees for Degrees-Report of Policy and General Purposes on ........275
Stocks in lieu of cash .......................................................................... 22
· Fifty-year tokens issued .........................................................:.................... 45
Finances of Grand Lodge.........•.............................................................. 52, 56
Financing Building Projects-Report of Committee........................211
Fischer, Will H.-Eulogy, Gus A. HutafL ........................................... 205
Foreign Grand Lodges, recognized-List of........................................ 3
Foreign Jurisdiction recognized, Amazon and Acre ............................278
Funds of Lodge-Donation of not permitted ............................•.......21, 22
· May be used to purchase Masonic History.................................... 28

iv

INDEX

INDEX

v

Page
Public Schoots Week proclamation .......... :......................... 30, 31
Portrait of ·orcfered'............... :...................................•........... :....... .290
Report of Committee on Message of........................................ 63
S~~ C01T1mttnications ··'·'··"'''"··'·"··'·''·································· 14
Survey of Masonic Homes. .................................................3S, 276
Transfer of trials ........................................................................ 30
Unemployment ········--····-·············-·-········-···················-·············· lS
.Visitations .., .•.•. ,.•....•.. ,.,.....•......................_ .. _...............,. ............. 13
Grand Secretary-A=u1aJ: Repott 0£...................................... - ......... ,. ..;.. 43
Budgets .................................................................................................. 44
Ry-laws amended. ................................................................................ SO
Chartu, fiup.licate, i.ssu.ed. .......................................................... .44, 28S
Dispensations. issued ............................................................................ SO
Fifty-year buttons issued ....... ~-······················································· 4S
Financial report .................................................................................... S2

Page

G
Grand Lecturer-Annual report 0£.. .................................. ., .....•..•...•••..... S8
Plan for teaching ritual... .......................................................... --········ 40
Report of Committee on .....~ ....................,......................................... 209
Grand Lodge Officers-List of.........•..•.................................. - ......•.,,••..••6, 'i
Grand Master~Annual Message .............................................................. 11
App-~op~iatio~ for traveling expense ....................................- .•...... 290
Board of Control ...............................................•.......--············•············· 38
Boards of Relief ·······································•············································ 39
Confer~nce of Grand Masters ...........................................•................ 12
Bulletins issued ...........................•........................•..•...............•............ 16
Decisions ........................................................ _., .....•.............................. 21
Approval of Jurisprudence Committee ....................................284
Charity, how often may be dispensed in one month .............. 23
Donation of Lodge funds to Endowment .............................. 21
Funds of Lodge-Purchase of Masonic History .................... 28
Incumbent treasurer must 'be installed .................................. 24
Liquor, restrictions ................................................................26, 29
Objection before initiation .......................................................... 24
Petition, withdrawal 0£... ............................................................. 26
Physical insufficiency .................................................................. 2S
Relief for divorced wife ....................................................•......... 23
.Relief, restrictions on granting................................................ 28
Stocks as pay for degrees ............................................................ 22
Suspension of indigent member for non-payment of dues .. 28
Trowels to candidates-From what fund payable ................ 22
Delinquent dues .................................................................................... lS
Dispensations issued ....................................................................50, 28S
District Officers Associations ........................................................ 40, S9
Dues, reduction of............ :.................... :...................................... 14
Fees for Degrees ...................................................................,14, 27S
Fairmont Lodge .................................................................... 16, 246
George Washington Memorial Association ............................ 12
Hawaiian Islands ........................................................................ 13
Inspectors ·····································-·········································39, 61
Life membership funds ........................................................ 16, 28S
Masonic Club Houses .................................................................. 19
Masonic Education ........................................................ 19, 210, 284
Masonic History ..................................................•......... 17, 228, 230
Masonic Homes ............................................................................... 34
Masonic Homes-Endowment Board ...................................... 37
Placement of graduate children ........................................ 37
Survey of........... ;.....................................................,........35, 276
Necrology ........................................................................................ 11

~!:o~~m~e;~~i;sf~~~-~~::::=::::=::=::::=:=::::::::=:::::::::~=:=::::::=:::::::: ~~
Membership ............................................................................................ 43
Report of Committee 011...........................-·······-································ 6S
Representatives appointed ·············------------··--·-······--·--·---·-·······--·-·----· 44
Trial records ··-----·-------·----·-····--·-·-····------······---·······-·-·····-----·-------······-·--- 47
Unpaid dues --·-----···---------····--·---·····---·-·····-----·····---·-·······-·--·--··--············ 43
Grand Treasurer, Report 0£.. ....................................................................... S6
Grievances-Reports of Committee on.................................................... 270

H
Halley, James L.-Resolutron to amend Section 27,
Constitution .......................................................................... 169, 277
Hawaii-Visit of Grand Master to .............. ,........ ;.................................. 13
l';Iistory, Masonic-Lodges may purchase ................ :: ............................ 28
Publication of authorized .................................................. ;................. 17
Report of Committee oh .........: ........... :............................ ;.: .................228
Report of Committee on pubtication oL ........................................ 230
Hu.taff, Gustav A.-Memorial
services
. ..
.. .......···········-······----·-···················.203

I
lrtspectors-Commendation. of by Grand Master ................................... 39
Grand Lecturer's commendatioe...................:.... c.•;:•••••••·..•••••. :.:.: ..•.. 61
Installation-Re-elected offke·r must he in-staltetl ......... :...................... 24

K
Keesling, Francis V.-Telegram from ............ ,....... ~ .............................. 10
Ket!ey, Lawrence C.-Committee -~·n S~gregation .............................. 42

•

vi

INDEX

Page
Kergan, Wesley W.-Committee on Grand Lecturer's Report........ 62
Resolution to amend Section 90, Constitutfon ........................ 169, 276
King, William 0.-Resolution to amend Section 161,
·
Constitution ..................:.....,........- ............ ___,...;;...;..___ 169; 281

L
Legislation-Advance information propos~d: ..........................,...............279
Library, Report of Committee on..............:........~ ..,...;.........;..'................242
Life Membership Funds-Grand Master's comments.....- ................. 16
Life Memberships approved .......................................................- ......49, 285
Liquors, Grand Master's reference to.......................................~ ......26, 29
List of Elective Officers from 1850..................- ......................................363
List of Lodgcs..........:...................... ~............................................,_. ___.:..""'.339

M
Magnolia Lodge-Purchase of stock from ..............................................288
Mallachowitz, C. E.-Resolution to reduce expenses................ 169, 280
Manual for Trials-Provision for printing..............................................293
Masonic Club Houses-Grand Master's reference to .......................... 19
Appropriations for ......................................................:....- .........,.........289
Report of Trustees, Berkeley Club House ....................................228
Report of Directors, Los Angeles .......... :.........................................243
Masonic Education-Annual Report-........................................~...............210
Grand Master's reference to..........................................:.....;............. · 19
Report of Committee on Policy................................................_ ....284
Masonic History-Report of Committce................c...............................228
Report of Committee on Publication of..............................,...........230
Publication authorized .......................................................- ............... 17
Masonic Homes- Annual Report of Trustees...................................... 84
Assets ............................................ :...........,................................,.,.......... 95
Annuity contracts for endowment......................:................... 177, 284
Care of bodily afflicted..........................................................- ............ 88
Covina-Admitted in the year.•_.........,............................. ~.............-.162
Donations to...~ ..............................- .....................................;...........148
Departures, list of....................................................:............- ....161
Names of children at.........
~
156
Outside relief, list of.................................................- ................. 159
Report of Superintendertt.......................- ...................................141
Decoto-Admitted in the year...... __ ..................................;...;..:....135
Died in the year......................,......- ......_,_........................:...,.....137
Donations to ...::-.............................................................................121
Nam es of residents ..........~ ...............~..........................................127
Outside Relief, list of....................................- ..........,.....:............ 138
Report of Superintendent.........................................................,..,115
¥ . .. . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . . . . .

INDEX

vii

Page
Donations ...................................,.·......................................................... 87
Endowment Fund ................................................................................ 107
Finances .................................................................................................. 88
Grand Master's reference to .............................................................. 35
Grayson Merrill .................................................................................... 84
. L egacies .................................................................................................. 87
Operating expenses ...................:.:.................................:......................103
Placing children after graduation..................................................37, 85
Reappointment of children ................................................................ 85
Receipts and disi)ursements ...,........................................................55, 89
Report of Auditors.................:...................:.......................................... 91
Secretary's Report .............................................................................. 93
Suggestions by Finance ComJQittee ..................................................295
Survey by, order of Grand Master ..............................................35, 276
Watson, Frank G.-Gift 0£........................,.,............:....;................... 87
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-appropriation for ....................292
Report of ................................................................................................ 171
Masonic Temple Stock-Purchase of......................................................288
Masonic Temple Association-Report of..............................................246
Master and Wardens on Committees......................................................277
Mcintyre, Howard S.-Resolution to check up on visitors ....... :....249
Membership of the jurisdiction................................................................. 43
Memorial Services-Eulogy, Thomas J. Baker....................................207
Eulogy, George F. Rodden........... :........................................... ~·..........203
Eulogy, Gus A. Hutaff................................:.:.......:.............................205
Morton, Oakley K.-Committee on Grand Lectu~er's Report.. ........ 62
Mount Diablo L odge-Duplicate charter issued..........................44, 285
M·urphey, John D .-Illness of a nd wire to ..............................................270

N
Nathan, Paul-Resolution to amend section 121, Constitution ..........................:..............................................,. ....,169, 283
Resolution to amend Sections 37e apd 37k....................................282
Necrology-Report ~£ Committee on ........................................:............. 197
(See Memorial Services)

0
Objection before init;ation-Decision on .............................................. 24
Officers Associations.............................................................................. 40, 59
Officers of Grand L~dge ...........................................:..,...............................332
Oration by Reynold E. Blight.................................................................. 67
Overton, Arthur E ......... Committee on Grand Lecturer's Report.. ...... 62

Vlll

INDEX

INDEX
Page

p

,

Parkinson, Roy H .-Resolution to shorten roll call..........................250
Pay of Members-Appropriation for ......................................................291
Report of Committee on .................~---··············································.268
Per capita tax levied........................... ~---·················································-··.293
Petition for degrees-Question 13.................................................... 170, 282
Withdrawal of ·····························-······-~-----······················-~---·············· 26
Physical insufficiency-Decision on..·-····.--············································· 25
Public Schools Week-Grand Master's proclamation....................30, 31
Expense-How Lodge may pay ..:..................................................... 22
Report of Committee on ........................................:..:..........~ .............234

R
Relief-Boards of-Reports of...............................................- ................254
For divorced wife .............. •-···················-·····.······-······························-··· 23
How often may be given in one month ..........................·.................. 23
Restrict ions on granting...................................................................... 28
Remission of Grand Lodge dues ...............•..............................................287
Report of Board of Co~trol... .....................................,...............................250
Report of-Endowment Board .................................................................. 171
Grand Lecturer ....................:................................................................. 58

g~:~~ ~rc::::;~r -::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Masonic Temple Association ........................... ~---··············-············----246
Trustees 1-fasonic Homes....·-···········-····························-·················· 84
Report of Committee on Accounts.......................................................... 163
On Activities ...:....................................................................................269
On By-laws ............................................................................................268
On Correspondence ............................................................................ 163
0 n Credent· als ····················---~---·········-·--········-····································.297
On Clandestine MasJnry ......................................... :.........................244
On Education ···'···---···-·····-····-·············-·········-··-···························210, 284
On Fairmount Lodge...,....................................................,............ 16, 246
On Finance-Activities Committee, appropriations for ..............291
Appropriations for Boards of Relief......................................... .286
Appropriations for Employment service......:.........................286
Audit of accounts..........................................................................289
Board of Control, appropriation for Chairman ....................290
Budget for 193J........................................................:......................293
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-Appropriation ......... .292
Masonic Homes-Suggestions by Committee..................... .295
Pay of Members ............................................................................291
Paymerit of Public Accountant..................................................292
Per Capita Tax..............................................................................293

ix

Page
Portrait of Grand Master __ _.__, _________ ,..,_,,____;______::._; ___, ____, _______ -:·-·.-290
Printing Manual for trials .........:................................................293
Purchase of Temple Stock.......'···············i····-'-····-····'-····-······-288
Remission of Grand Lodge dues ..............................................287
Rising Light Lodge commended ...................:..........................288
Salaries ··-······---··········-·····-··-·····-----·-··-·-··--···---··------··-·---------····----····291
Traveling expenses Grand Master......,................:.....:......... :..290
U. C. Club flouses ...........................................:............................289
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues:......................................,......... .43, 286
Report of Committee on Financing Building Projects ......................211
On Grand Master's Message....:......................... :.:....::..:.................... 63
On Grand Secretary's Re&>Qrt............................................................ 65
On Grievances ··-·····--······.-···;··•···-•····'-······'················'·······-··--- --·--:..270
On History ·····- ·-·····----:..,:.·.~~.,: ....::.......,.::.....:....:.:" ···--·•···'·:,-...,...::.~: ..228
On Jurisprudence-Decisions of Grand Master........................... .284
Dispensations of Grand Master approved ................-..............285
Duplicate charter, approval of............ :..................._..................285
Life Mem'berships approved ........................:.................:... - ......285
_Us.e s of E11dowment Fund·.···············'"·-··········--····················'···:285
On Lil;>ra.r y ··.··.-·.-.···-·.·.··.····.··.········'···:....................:...................;..-...:.....•.....Z42
. On Grand Lecture.r's Re.PQrt ......................:.....•.................................209
On Necrology .-.·.·.-.-·.·.··.-.·.-.·.·.·.··.·.·.·········'··-····················.···;.... :..:. _____:..............~ .... 194
.On Policy and General !'urposes.........................:........:-.,.....•.........275
Advance information of proposed legislation....... ~ ..................279
Allegiance to our countryi.......~-·-················-··················--······-···28~
Annuity contracts 'by Masonic Homcs....:.... :................ 177, 284
Decisions of Grand Master................................................21, 275
Expense accounts of Board of Control and Endow.
ment Board ·-···.-·····.···············-:.•..........:............. ,:......:........:....28~
Fees for degrees......~---········-· -· ·········· :: ................:...:........... - .. 14, 275
Light wines and beer......:.................:................•...........:,..... 170, 281
Mallachowitz resolutions ··'···························•···-··-:··-····-········280
Masonic Education .:...:..... ·-··-····························'-········-··········-·.284
Question 13, Petition for qegrees ..............................................282
Patriotrc resolution.......,...........................:.......:.....:.:.......... 169, 278
Recognition of Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acr·e..............278
Sectio n 27, Constitution...................:..........................................277
Section 90, Constitution.______________________________ .......•....................276
Section 121, Constitution .............. _........................•-··-·-·······-····283
Section 161, Constitution...:............................: .•.... ;...:.._,__________281
Survey of Masonic Homes..· ··········-··-··'·····'·:.:.. :.,. ... ,_.:_:_______ .:276
On Publication of History ........ ___ ,_____:.....•............:...:........:_............230
On Public Schools Week .............................:...,.. .:..:...........: ..........:.......234
0 n. Re·t~rns .. ::::::::::::....:.:...:.:.:::...:.~~:.:...... :~.:.: ..............:, __ .__,____________ 214
On Ritual.. .........................w••••~---················-··--··'-··: ......................... 83

INDEX

x

xi

INDEX

Page
. 0.n Pay of Members ..............................................................................268
Report of Directors U. C. Los Angeles Club House ................. .243
Report of Trustees U. C. Berkeley Club House .......... ·-··················'···.228
Resolutions~Checking up on visitors ............ :........................................ .249
Condemning atheism .............................•........................•................... 169
Ritual, proposed revision of...........................................:................... .209
Thanks to Square and Compass Players ....................................... .249
To amend Section 27, Constitution .................................................. 169
To amend Section 90, Constitution .................................................. 169
To amend Section 121, Constitution ................................................169
To amend Section 161, Constitution .................................................. 169
To eliminate paragraph 13 of petition for degrees ................ 170, 282
To permit use of beer and wines .............................................. 170, 281
To reduce appropriations U. C. Club Houses ................................ 170
To reduce expenses of Grand Lodge ................................................ 167
To reduce salaries....................................... _................................. 169, 170
To send chairman Board of Control to Texas ........................ 171, 290
To shorten roll calL..........................................:...................................250
Returns-Report of Committee on ............................................................214
Rising Light Lodge-Commendation of .............................................. ~ ... 288
Ritual-Grand Lecturer's comments ........................................................ 60
Plan of teaching.................................................................................... 40
Proposed revision of................................:............•..............................209
Report of Committee on ........•.........-.................................................... 83
Rodden, George F.-Memorial services ............................................... .203
Roll Call-Resolution to shorten............................................................. .250

s
Salaries of Officers of Grand Lodge ........................................................291
Seymour, Kent J. C.-Eulogy, George F: Rodden ............................. .203
Shaw, Herbert P.-Devotional service by.............................................. 8
Sherman, William A.-Telegram from ....................................... ,............ 10
Square and Compass Players, vote of thanks to ................................. .249
Stocks as pay for degrees ............................................................................ 22
Suspension of indigent member for non-payment of dues .................. 28

T
Thomas, Thayer B.-Resolution to reduce salaries .................... 169, 170
Transfer of affiJiation with continuous membership ................ 169, 281
Treasurer, incumbent must be installed................................................ 24
Trials-Manual for, to be printed.............................................................293
Transfer of, by Grand Master............................................................ 30
Trial Records-List 0£.......•............•.......••.............•..•.••....•••••••.......•........... 47
Reports of Committee on GrievanceSc............................................ .270
Trowels to Candidates-From what funds payable ............................ 22

u

Page

U. C. Berkeley Club House-Report of Trustees ............................... .228
U. C. Los Angeles Club House-Report of Directors ....................... .243
Unemployment-Bulletin of G:rand Master............................................ 15
University Club Houses-Appropriation for ........................................289
Grand Master's commendation .......................................................... 19
Resolution to reduce appropriations ................................................ 170
Unpaid dues to Grand Lodge .................,............................................. .43, 286

v
Veteran Masons-Tokens issued to, ....................................................... 45
Visitations of Grand Master...................................................................... 13
Visitors-Resolution to check up on .......... ~................................•............ 249

w
Wagstaff, Denman S.-Resolution to revise ritual.. ............................ 2()()
Weller, Dana R...:_Eulogy, Thomas ]. Baker........................................207
Wheeler, William-Pay for services ....................................................... .292
Wilson, Ezra M.-Introduced.................................................................... 10
Wilson, Lloyd E., Assistant Grand Lecturer-Committee on·
Segregation ..........•............. ~ ....~ ..............................................42, 338
Withdrawal of petition ..................··········'···················································· 26
Wollenberg, Chas. M.-Cable from China ............................................ 10·
Wunner, Emil G.-Resolution to reduce appropriation for
club houses ............................................•....................................... 170

Randol

Virginius Whiting

On October 11. 1935, , I , , ,
,, 1 '.
the sixty.eighth Grand Master
'1
, in , r i ·
sincerity of his intentions in the business in which he
a sympathetic ear to all those who came to him for
retained the CQnQdenc:e, respect and admiration
his

r •
r

• .,,.

Jors as
the
.. I by giving
advice

' ·r

He wa.s born in Quincy, Ph:nnas
.the fourth son
of a family of eight childre
I
1
'
• •
and Martha Jane
(Mastin) Whiting: His father, .
me
from Virginia shortly
before its admission into the Urti<lµ 1 ~
,
..
of the ' , · ·
in the days of the
I
His
line between Quincy, Oroville and 1 • • ••
uncle, George C. Whiting, who was Acting Secretary of the Interior upon se
era! occasions, was Grand Master of Masons in the District of Columbia at the
time of his death in 1867, afrer having served
that cap;J.City for a period ot
almost eight years , and George C. Whiting I ·'
No. 22, • A. \ \' at
Washington, is named for him.
Brother Whiting received his
' education in the 'Public schools at Qui$tey,
and, after taking certain prep;iratory work at .Bowen's Academy in Berkdey,
entered the l)uivtr&ity ot California with the cla,ss of 1893 and subse~ntly
graduated from Basti~s College of the Law
1895. He immediately entered
the practice of law in San Francisco and · •
that
ession 1
date. On May 29, 1900, he marriecl M
"" .. daugh~ ·
of the founder of the
·'
' • '
i '
which he later taught.
, r district atPublic duty first called hint in 1900,
torney in San Francisco under District
. !S F. yington, • } r
remained in this position until 1906 lllld took part in the investigation which kd
to the subs~ent graft prosecutions in that
. He has been editor of the
California Decisioos and California Appellate Decisions • ' 1897, and was
appointed assistant reporter of decisions for the SUpreme Court and Pistrkt
Courts of Appeal in 191'5. He was advanced to the office of reporter · 1 ~
and now holds that position, During the ~riod
the t>art i r ·
the
United States in the World War, he gave his entire time to
Draft
Board No. 12 in San Francisco. He was president of . San Fr •
Association in 1930-1932, and the present home of that •
monument to his efforts during his term of office.

RANDOLPH V. WHITING

Grand Master 1934

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111

in
)n
On April 21, 1902, he was made a Master •, •·
No. 260, in San FranciSCQ, and soon became , •
r th~ '! •
of th
·'
serving as its Master in 1909. He recei-ved the '•
•,
· ree m April, 1903,
in California Chapter No. 5, and was knighted in
.. wmniandery No. 1
on January 29, 1904. He is also a member (32")
··•
randsco Bodies No. 1,
A. & A. S. R., and of Islam Temple of the Shrine He served as a member of
the Committee on Appea.111 and Grievances of
L()dge from 1912 to 1917

Randolph Virginius Whiting
Grand Master 1934-1935

On October 11, 1935, Randolph Virginius Whiting completed his labors as
the sixty-eighth Grand Master of Masons in California. By exemplifying the
sincerity of his intentions in the business in which he was engaged, and by giving
a sympathetic ear to all those who came to him for counsel and advice, he has
retained the confidence, respect and admiration of his brethren.
He was born in Quincy, Plumas county, California, and was the fourth son
of a family of eight children of Fenton Berkeley Whiting and Martha Jane
(Mastin) Whiting. His father, who came to California from Virginia shortly
before its admission into the Union, was the owner and operator of the express
line between Quincy, Oroville and Marysville in the days of the gold rush. His
uncle, George C. Whiting, who was Acting Secretary of the Interior upon several occasions, was Grand Master of Masons in the District of Columbia at the
time of his death in 1867, after having served in that capacity for a period of
almost eight years ; and George C. Whiting Lodge No. 22, F. A. A. M., at
Washington, is named for him.
Brother Whiting received his early education in the public schools at Quincy,
and, after taking certain preparatory work at Bowen's Academy in Berkeley,
entered the University of California with the class of 1893 and subsequently
graduated from Hastings College of the Law in 1895. He immediately entered
the practice of law in San Francisco and has continued in that profession to this
date. On May 29, 1900, he married Mary Rosslet Bowen, the charming daughter
of the founder of the academy at which he took his preparatory work and in
which he later taught.
Public duty first called him in 1900, when he became assistant district attorney in San Francisco under District Attorney Lewis F. Byington, and he
remained in this position until 1906 and took part in the investigation which led
to the subsequent graft prosecutions in that city. He has been editor of the
California Decisions and California Appellate Decisions since 1897, and was
appointed assistant reporter of decisions for the Supreme Court and District
Courts of Appeal in 1915. He was advanced to the office of reporter in 191$
and now holds that position. During the period of the participation of the
United States in the World War, he gave his entire time to service on Draft
Board No. 12 in San Francisco. He was president of the San Francisco Bar
Association in 1930-1932, and the present home of that association is a monument to his efforts during his term of office.

RANDOLPH V. WHITING

Grand Master 193•
~lnl!lllU/1111111111!11~

On April 21, 1902, he was made a Master Mason in King Solomon's Lodge
No. 260, in San Francisco, and soon became active in the affairs of the Lodge,
serving as its Master in 1909. He received the Royal Arch degree in April, 1903,
in California Chapter No. 5, and was knighted in California Commandery No. 1
on January 29, 1904. He is also a member ( 32') of San Francisco Bodies No. 1,
A. & A. S. R., and of Islam Temple of the Shrine. He served as a member of
the Committee on Appeals and Grievances of Grand Lodge from 1912 to 1917

and from 1924 to 1928. In 1929 he was appointed chairman of the Committee
on By-Laws and served in that capacity until his election as Junior Grand Warden
in October, 1932. He was elected Deputy Grand Master in 1933, and Grand Master on October 12, 1934. From October, 1932, to October, 1934, he served as a
member of the Board of Trustees for the Masonic Homes. In February, 1935,
he was elected and served as chairman of the Conference of Grand Masters of
Masons in the United States, held in Washington, D. C.
The foregoing brief summary of the life of Randolph Virginius Whiting is
indicative of his unselfish desire to be of service to his fellow-man, and shows
that he has merited the esteem of his brethren and the confidence reposed in him.

~ranb JLobge of <!California
I, JOHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby certify that
the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of
that body at its Eighty-sixth Annual Communication, commenced at the city of
San Francisco on Tuesday, the eighth day of October, A. L. 5935, and terminated on Friday, the eleventh day of October, A.· L. 5935,

3Jn ~estimonp ~bereof
I have hereunto appended my official
signature and have affixed the seal of
the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction
of California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary, in the city of San
Francisco, this twenty-sixth day of
October, in .the year of Light, Five
Thousand Nine Hundred arid Thirtyfive.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree anb ~ccepteb .masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-Sixth Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 8, AD. 1935, AL. 5935
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 11, AD. 1935, A L. 5935

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, 509 Sansome Street
1935

Officers of the· Grand Lodge of
California
For the. Year Commencing October, A. L. 5935

GRAND LODGE
OF

jfree ·anb ~ccepteb j[Masons
.

Grand Master.......................····················-·······································--Earl Warren ( 349)
Court House, Oakland

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Deputy Grand Master ................................................................ Rollie W. Miller (352)
Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles
Senior Grand Warden .................................................................. James T. Fraser (79)
Eureka
Junior Grand Warden .................... ·-····················-···················Leon 0. Whitsell (293)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Treasurer...................................................................... William P. Filmer (260)
· 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secretary............... ·-·······················································-----·John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
.
Grand Lecturer .............................................................................. Leslie E. Wood (609)
711 California ·street, Sacramento
Grand Chaplain ................................... '............:..................Rev. Herbert P. Shaw (630)
2520 Bush Street, San Francisco
Grand Orator.·-·············-·······-·····················-·································Albert F. Ross (254)
Redding
Assistant Grand Secretary.......................................................... Frank G. Hobbs ( 531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal... ................................................................. Henry G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Standard Bearer..........................:........,...:...............:................ Gordon Ross (21)
c/o Brewer Company, Honolulu
.
Grand Sword Bearer................................•............................. Chits. Listenwalter (392)
Third and Rimpau Streets, Los Angeles
Grand Bible Bearer.......,..............................:............... - .......:............ Harry Horne (300)
- Redlands
Senior Grand Deacon...................................................... Albert C. Wollenberg ( 344)
2748 Steiner Street, San Francisco
Junior Grand Deacon............................................................ Cyril W. McClean (349)
403 Central Bank Building, Oakland
Senior Grand Steward ................................................. :................ Harold Conklin ( 541)
1767 Capistrano Avenue, Berkeley
Junior Grand Steward_ ........................................................Walter D. Adriance (209)
San Luis Obispo
Grand Pursuivant... .......................................................................Warren D. Gill ( 546)
Edison Building, Alhambra
Grand Organist........................................................................Chas. E. Anderson (374)
1717 Cabrillo Street, San Francisco
Grand Tiler..................... ·-··········-···: .......................................... Frank G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco
-·

OF THE

Eighty-sixth Annual Communication
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its eighty-sixth Annual
Communication in the Masonic Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak
Street, San Francisco, on Tuesday, October 8, A. L. 5935, at 10
o'clock a. m.
The roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Officers of Grand Lodge
M.'.

w.·. RANDOLPH v. WBITING..·-····························-····················"···Grand Master

R. •• W. •• EARL WARREN ···········-·····-···················-···················Deputy Gra1ui Master
R. •• W. •• ROLLIE W. MILI.ER ................................... .-.•.• ---···--~---Senior Grand Warden
R.·.
JAMES T. FRASER •...•.....•.....•.......••....••......•.•....•........... .Junior Grand Warden
JOHN WHICHER .•..•.•...•...........•••..••...•...•..•......•.•.••...•..•.....•. Grand Secretary

w.·.
v.·. w.·.
v.·. w.·. LESLIE E. Wooo•••• ·-·-·······'-··········-·····································--Grand Lecturer
v.·. R.·. HERBERT P. SHAW........•...••... - ••:...•••••••..•....•.••.••.•..•••- •••.•..••.•Grand Chaplain
w.·. IRA F. THOMPSON .•. - ...............................··················-·················Grand Orator
w.·. FRANK G. HoBBS ....•......................................-..... A.rsistant Grand Secretary
w.·. HENRY G. MATHEWSON .. ·-·······'·······························-····-······-Grand Marshal
w. ·.MARQUIS F. CALMES ............•...•.....•.......•..•.....- .......•••. Grand Sword Bearer
w.·. HARRY HORNE ··································-·······························Grand Bible Bearer
w.·. ALBERT c. WoLLENBERG... ..... .•...••.••........................••..Senior Grand Deacon
· w. ·.WALTER D. ADRIANCE................••.•...•......·-··············.Junior Grand Steward
w. ·.WARREN D. GILL............•........ ·--···················-····················Grand Pursuivant
w. ·.CHAS. E. ANDERSON ........ ·-················-···································Grand Organist
w.·. FRANK G. WATSON..........·-···················-···-··························-·····Grand Tiler
PAST GRAND MASTERS

M:. w:. ORRIN s. HENDERSON
M:. w:. ALBERT E. BOYNTON
M:. w:. JOHN D. MURPHY
·M .". w:. GEORGE L. JONES
M:. w:. BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE
M.". w:. WILL H. FISCHER
M:. w:. WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY M:. w:. CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG
M:. w:. BRADFORD WEBSTER
M:. w:. JOHN STEWART Ross
M:. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M:. w:. ROBERT B. GAYLORD
M:. w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M:. w:. FRANK w. MIXTER
M:. w:. WILLIAM A. SHERMAN
M.". w:. JAMES B. GIST
M.". w:: ARTHUR s. CRITES
And 1513 officers and representatives from 571 chartered Lodges,
and delegates from two Lodges under dispensation.

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the following appointments :
Grand Treasurer, Chas. A. English.
Senior Grand Steward, Chester H. Warlow.
Junior Grand Deacon, Lloyd E. Wilson.
Grand Standard Bearer, Sidney K. Lehman.
Jurisprudence Committee: John Stewart Ross, Oakley K. Morton.

And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with music and
prayer by the Grand Chaplain.

Distinguished Visitors
M.'. W.'. A. F. Aymar, Grand Master of Masons in Nevada.
M.'. W.'. Wm. E. Crawford, Past Grand Master, York Grand
Lodge of Mexico.
. R.'. W.'. E. J. Hudson, representing the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
W. ·.Simon Bley, representing the Grand Podge Pacifico.
Messages of greeting were received from Past Grand Masters
William P. Filmer, Francis V. Keesling, C. A. Carlson, Jr., our Representative near the Grand Lodge of Nevada; Frank K. Ebbitt, our
Representative near the Grand Lodge of Canada; Clark Weigand,
President U. C. Masonic Club House Council at Berkeley.

Devotional Service
Rev. Herbert P. Shaw, Grand Chaplain, spoke as follows:
Were I to take a text this morning, a text which I would feel appropriate to
the occasion of the times and the conditions facing us, it would be the clear
clarion call of one of the greatest prophets of Israel in his great urge to his
people-Isaiah 54 :2, "Enlarge the place of thy tent, a~d let them stretch forth
the curtains of thine habitations ; spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen
thy stakes."
As in the day of Isaiah, so in our day today, in our great nation, in our own
beloved State, the time has come when God must have a chance, when every man
and every Mason must "enlarge the place of his spiritual tent," when he must
"stretch forth the curtains of his spiritual habitation," when he must "spare not"
to lengthen his spiritual cords and strengthen his spiritual stakes.
The prophet is saying a simple thing in strong language. He gives enunciation to a great principle in sirriple statement, that God cannot be pushed out of
the life of a nation, nor the life of a state, nor the life of an individual; and the
nation, the state, or the individual live. To push God out, says the prophet, is to
"make a covenant with death." And the prophet says such a covenant is like a
"bed shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it; and the covering narrower
than that he can wrap himself in it."
Have you ever slept with someone who wrapped himself in the covers, leaving you just a corner? And you slept cold all night? The prophet says that "For
the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it ; and the covering
narrower than that he can wrap himself in it" is like trying to establish a civilization by leaving God out.
There never was an age with such tremendous mechanical miracles as today:
Miracles on land, miracles in the air, miracles on sea, miracles under the sea.

393

One of the greatest of such miracles is in . our own neighborhood: the
great bridge between Oakland and San Francisco. Down at the Ferry Building
is a slice of the great cable used on the Oakland-San Francisco bridge. If my
figures are correct the great cable is composed of three-eighths inch solid
wire, 474 such wires being spun into each strand. There are 37 strands in the
cable, or 17,538 wires. This total creates a huge solid mass twenty-eight and
three-quarters inches in diameter, the equivalent of two and one-third feet.
There are seventy thousand miles of wire in the cable, which mileage is
nearly three times around the world at the equator. And the weight! The wire,
p\us clamps, plus wrappings, is 2000 pounds, or one ton, per square foot. The
total weight of the cable is 18,700 tons.
But, brethren! All the cables, all the tremendous power, plus the power of
the towers, the power : hydraulic, electrical, and steam, plus the engineering
skill and engineering genius; this, plus all the ability necessary to create such a
marvelous miracle, could not of .itself pull one single man out of the gutter and
put him on his feet. Such mechanical miracle needs something else; it needs
spiritual power, it needs spiritual strength, it needs God. It needs the kind of
spiritual truths taught in Masonry: Brotherly Love, Relief, Truth.
Oh my brethren ! What an hour of need is there today for temperance, fortitude, prudence, justice. For regard for the sacred book as the Great Light. For
a reliving of important duties to God, to our neighbors, and to ourselves : To
God, with reverence, to neighbor, upon the square; to ourselves, by enlarging
the place of our spiritual tent, by stretching forth curtains of our spiritual
habitations.
It was my privilege this past summer to visit the Republic of Panama.
Panama, which contains another one of the modern miracles of engineering
skill and genius. Panama, which has within it the constant picture of man's
creation. Yet, in the back country and outlying districts of Panama there is much
need for enlightenment, for education, and fo r spiritual power.
Upon one of our excursions we "followed a trail into the jungle. We went
down a steep bank, across a flowing stream, over a fallen log, up the steep
bank on the other side, and into a trail which led ahead through a mass and a
maze of tangled tropical jungle.
·
On either side of the trail was the tangle of poison vines, massive trees,
and dense growth of every tropical variety. It was a temptation and an enticement for one to leave the trail and follow the songs of singing birds, the flaming
blossoms of the wild banana, and the very breath and allurement of the jungle
itself. However, to leave the trail meant to be swallowed up and lost in the
maze and tangle, and the unknown darkness of overhanging danger.
To keep the trail meant to come out on the other side where were native
huts, built on stilts, with thatched roofs, grass in the yards, chickens and little
pigs. Homes where was the laughter of little children and the joyous harmony
of husband and wife.
In the experience, my brethren, I realized that in the jungle of our modern
life and living in the maze of uncertainty of our every day experiences, there
is but one course, one trail, that leads through and beyond into the everlasting
home, the home of God. That trail is the spiritual trail, the lengthening of the
spiritual cords and the strengthening of the spiritual stakes.

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MESSAGE OF RANDOLPH V. WHITING, GRAND MASTER
October 8, 1935

of well spent and use{ul lives while ·here. By their kind and generous acts they
have erected monuments irt our hearts and minds which shall never perish.
Special eulogies will be delivered to their memory at the proper time by Brethren
specially appointed for that purpose.

Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
As I am about to pass the gavel of Grand Lodge to my successor, I take
this opportunity of expressing to you and to the craft my deep appreciation ~f
the great honor bestowed upon me in my selection as. Gra~d. M~st~r of .this
grand body. It is an honor of which any man, whatever his position m hfe, might
well be proud.
I accepted the position with a keen sense of responsibility, for I felt .the
duties of the office would tax the ability and energy of one far more capable
than myself. I relinquish the office with some sense of disappointment, as I
realize how little can be accomplished in the brief period of a yea~-.
I have endeavored to visit as many Lodges and con.tact as many Brethren as
possible but I found it humanly impossible to cover the whole jurisdiction
thoroughly, and all that I can say to those whom I was unable to reach . is that
it was only the shortness of time, and the multiplicity of my duties, that prevented me from doing so, and that I am keenly disappointed in not having had
the opportunity of meeting them. The contacts that I was able to make ~ere
most agreeable and pleasant; indeed, the pleasure that the Grand Master enioys
in this regard is ample compensation for the labors he performs in the discharge
of his duties.
Assistance of Officers
I desire to express my sincere gratitude to the officers of Grand Lodge for
the generous support and assistance given me throughout the year. The R. W .
Deputy Grand Master, Brother Earl Warren, and the R. W . Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens Brother Rollie W. Miller and Brother Thomas Fraser, have
on all occasion~ genen;msly contributed their time and energies to assist in
relieving my burdens.
Throughout the year I have had the valuable counsel and sympathetic
encouragement of our distinguished Past Grand Master and Gran? Treasurer,
Brother William P. Filmer, as indeed I have had for the past thirty years or
more. His friendship has been one of the most genuine that I have had the good ·
fortune to enjoy at any time. I am confident that the generous heart of Grand
Lodge beats in loving sympathy for him in this, his greatest hour of grief and
bereavement, in the irreparable loss that he has recently suffered.
It gives me a special pleasure to acknowledge my indebtedness to our Grand
Secretary, Brother John Whicher, for his untiring kindness and gene;ous support of my efforts, without which my labors woul? h~v~ b_een greatly 1~crease?.
His long efficient and loyal service to this grand iunsd1ct1on has contributed m
a very l~rge measure to placing it in the enviable position it enjoys among the
grand jurisdictions of the country. He has richly earned and, I feel sure, enjoys
the affectionate gratitude of every Brother within our jurisdiction. I congratulate
him on having attained his eightieth birthday, and wish for him many years of
health and happiness, which we are glad to say he now enjoys; and for ourselves
we hope we may have a long continuance of the benefit of his efficient services.
The Departed ·
In addition to the usual loss by death, Grand Lodge has suffered a particular
loss in the passing of Brothers Past Grand Master David J. Reese, Inspector
Roderick G. Guyett and William P . Jeffries, all of whom were mos.t devoted
and efficient in their long service to Grand Lodge. These dear Brethren, as well
as all the others who have departed during the year, will be sadly missed by us,
but we confidently believe they have passed to a life eternal to enjoy the rewards

395

Visitations
It is regrettable that time does not permit the Grand Master to visit all
Lodges in the jurisdiction. His visits are made occasions for large gatherings of
the membership, and, I believe, have a very stimulating effect. The Lodges are
most generous and hospitable in their entertainments and seem to deeply appreciate the presence of the Grand Master. I was particularly struck with the
universal respect paid by the craft. to the office of Grand Master, representing,
as he does, the great fraternity to which we are all proud to owe allegiance.
Unfortunately, in these practical days, too little respect is paid to positions,
either public or private, political or fraternal, and I believe that the critical
state of the public mind in this regard is most destructive. Ideals have their
value and a wholesome public opinion is necessary to support constituted authority
and our social structure. While criticism, if constructive, is necessary for progress, criticism without suggested improvement is of but little value, and in my
addresses to Lodges I have constantly urged the creation of a wholesome and
constructive attitude toward public offices, and those upon whom we must depend
for the conduct of our government.
State of the Fraternity
I have . been greatly gratified to find on my visitations to Lodges that the
fraternity seems to be strong and healthy, notwithstanding the distressing times
we are passing through. The "spirit of Masonry" seems virile and active in all
the Lodges visited. I was particularly pleased with the personnel of the Lodges,
and, generally speaking with the officers, all of whom seemed keenly interested
in their work and active in seeking to carry out our purposes.
Conference of Grand Masters
I had the unusual pleasure of attending the conference of Grand Masters,
held annually in Washington, D. C., and, as a tribute to the Grand Lodge of
California, I was elected chairman of the conference and presided during its
sessions. I found it most interesting and instructive, and I believe well worth
while. In the absence of a grand jurisdiction of the United States, this is the
only opportunity for a ready interchange of ideas and discussions among the
grand jurisdictions of our country on subjects that are of common interest. A
number of outstanding and able papers were read on subjects of general public
importance and many addresses delivered on particular Masonic topics, general
discussion ensuing with a beneficial exchange of ideas. The agenda were as
follows:
1. Lodge Attendance. How may it be improved? What methods to secure
increased attendance are most effective? (a) Masonic lectures and addresses;
(b) programs of general entertainment. Give outline of plans which have
been successful.
2. Lodge Dues. What methods of collection have been found most effective?
In what manner may· Grand Lodges assist? Are specific regulations by Grand
Lodge on the subject, such as prescribing uniform time for action on delinquents and mandatory compliance with regulations desirable?
3. Dimits. Consideration of survey of laws of the several jurisdictions and their
operation as made by a committee of the Conference of Grand Secretaries.
Is greater uniformity in practices of various Grand Lodges desirable and
how may it be obtained?
4. Masonic Burial Service. How may present tendency to decline such service,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

observed· in some jurisdictions, be counteracted? Is service too long or its
·
content objectionable in any way?
5. The Eighteenth Amendmmt. How may conditions growing out of repeal be
met? (a) With reference to petitioners connected with the liquor business?
(b) With reference to members engaging in the business after initiation?
6. New World Conditions. To what extent and in what sense should Masonry
endeavor to adapt itself to meet changed conditions in the outside world?
Can these changes be made without conflict with the basic principles and
ancient landmarks of the craft?
7. lnterj14risdictional Relief. (Continued by request from 1934 Conference.)
(a) Methods of extending; (b) duty of Lodge or Grand LOclge where
sojourning Brother resides to be governed. wholly or in part by instructions
from his Lodge; ( c) how best to insure reimbursement by home Lodge for
relief extended.
B: United States Constitution. To what extent should Freemasonry undertake
an educational campaign among its members with reference to the Constitu. tion and the fundamental principles upon which our country was founded?

At Santa Paula, May 18, 1935, to lay the cornerstone of the United States
post office at that place.
At Pittsburg, May 25, 1935, to dedicate the new Masonic temple at that place.
At Kahului, June 10, 1935, to install Marquis F. Calmes as Grand Sword
Bearer.
By the Senior Grand Warden:
At El Monte, May 24, 1935, to lay the cornerstone of the new post office
building at that place.
By Past Grand Master Mixter:
At Visalia, March 23, 1935, to dedicate the new Masonic temple at that place.

396

George Washington Memorial
Upon the adjournment of the Conference of Grand Masters, the members
of this body who comprise the George Washington Memorial Association held
a meeting of the Association in the Memorial Auditorium at Alexandria.
According to the report of the President and the Board of Directors $3 963 352.24 have been expended on the memorial, to which California Mas~ns 'ha;e
contributed over $170,000. The building is still uncompleted and the project will
require about $500,000 more. Urgent requests were made for further contributions, as it was considered a reflection upon the fraternity to allow the work to
remain unfinished, the ground floor presenting an unattractive appearance to the
visiting public and creating the unfavorable impression that Masonry is either
apathetic or negligent in this great patriotic enterprise. I believe we should make
further contributions, as others are doing, when our financial condition will
permit.
Hawaiian Islands
My visit to the Hawaiian Islands was particularly pleasant and interesting,
not only on account of the proverbial hospitality of the local members, but also
because of the unusual conditions which prevail there. In my travels around the
four islands, on which there. are eight Lodges in all, I found sterling groups of
Masons, many of them occupying leading positions in industry. By reason of
the great foreign population, much of which is not assimilable in Masonry the
Masonic field is restricted, but it is apparent that Masonry has a pow~rful
influence in the industrial and social life there, and that it plays an important
role in shaping the destiny of this vital Pacific outpost of our continent.
Special Communications
We have held a number of special communications during the year and
several cornerstones of public buildings and temples have been laid by Grand
Lodge, with impressive ceremonies, supported by local bodies. Generally speaking, on these occasions preparations had been carefully made and the ceremonies
well conducted, but local bodies should be careful to see that members who fill
the stations in these ceremonies are qualified to do their work creditably, as
these are among the few occasions open to the public, which receives a favorable
or unfavorable impression according to the way the ceremony is conducted.
The following is a list of special communications:
By the Grand Master:
At Sebastopol, May 1, 1935, to tay the cornerstone of the new high school
"~~~

.

.

397

Fairmount Lodge No. 435
I am happy to say that the differences of Fairmount Lodge seem to be
ended and the Lodge restored to a state of harmony. Too much credit cannot be
given to the committee of the Grand Lodge consisting of Past Grand Master
Adams, Past Grand Master Wollenberg and Past Grand Master Jones, for their
wise and considerate direction under which this Lodge operated for a. time; nor
can too much praise be given to Worshipful Past Master Daniel Bosschart and
Worshipful Master Max Cowan for their able administration and energetic efforts to restore harmony. The members of this Lodge are also entitled to great
credit for ultimately suppressing their individual feelings and, in a spirit of true
Masonry, uniting in their efforts to remove factionalism and to restore peace.
I congratulate them all and commend their generous spirit and great interest
in their Lodge.
Decisions .
Decision No. I: Demit.
I was asked by a member of Crocker Lodge No. 454, who was a Past
Master of that Lodge of long standing, for a ruling on his status in the Lodge
under the following circumstances :
The undisputed facts were that on January 2, 1934, at a stated meeting of
the Lodge, the Brother requested a demit (without recommendation) ; no action
was taken by the Lodge at that time, but a committee was appointed by the
Master to ask the Brother to reconsider. The committee waited upon him upon
one or more occasions to discuss the matter, and on June 2, 1934, he wrote the
Master refusing the demit. The Brother had paid his dues for the last quarter
of 1933, but had not paid for the first quarter of 1934.
I ruled that the Brother was not entitled to a demit at the time he applied
for it, for the reason that his dues for the quarter beginning January 1, 1934,
were not paid and that such dues had become due and payable on the 1st of
January, 1934. Under the provisions of article XI of "The Uniform Code of
By-Laws of Lodges," and under section 150 of the Constitution, he was not
entitled to receive a demit, and the demit thereafter issued was void.

Decision No. 2: Information as to .Standing of Member.
I was asked to determine whether a Secretary or Master of a Lodge has
the right to issue a letter of standing of a member in the Lodge without the
consent or request of that member. The information was sought by a sister of a
member for the purpose of joining the Eastern Star.
I ruled that neither the Secretary nor the Master had any right, without the
consent or request of the member, to furnish such information.
Decision No. 3: Physical Qualification of Officer.
An inspector requested a ruling as to whether a Brother who had been
elected Senior Warden, and had an injury on his left knee, preventing him from
kneeling on it, was disqualified from election or serving in that capacity.
I ruled that this did not disqualify him.

398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decision No. 4: Objection to initiation. Sale of Beer by Petitioner.
A Lodge asked for a ruling on an objection to the initiation of a petitioner ·
who had been elected to the Lodge, the objection being that the petitioner ran a
pool room and sold beer over the counter as draught beer, the beer being
so-called 3.4 beer, rated by the United States Government as non-intoxicating.
I ruled that, under section 108 of the Constitution, objection might be made
by any member of the Lodge any time before initiation, and that the petitioner
could not receive the degree unless such objection was withdrawn within sixty
days, and that unless it were withdrawn it had the effect of rejection by ballot.
Decision No. 5: Master Elect. Loss of H a1id.
An inspector asked for a ruling as to whether the fact that a Master Elect
had lost a hand disqualified him from serving as Master.
·
I ruled that it did not, provided he was able to perform the duties of that
·
office.
Decision No. 6: Objection to Petitioner After Initiation by Non-Member
of Lodge.
The Master of. a Lodge requested a decision on an objection made after
initiation of a petitioner by one not a member of the Lodge. After the objection
was made the Lodge unanimously voted to overrule it.
I held, first, that the objector had no standing, not being a member of the
Lodge, to make the objection, and, secondly, as the Lodge unanimously overruled the objection it was in order to proceed to confer the degrees.
Decision No. 7: Duplicate Pictures of Past Masters. Payment for.
A Lodge requested a ruling as .to whether the expense for i>ictun:s of Past
Masters, to be placed in a fire-proof safe to be used in the event the originals
were lost, could be taken from the general fund of the Lodge.
I held that this was not a proper or necessary expense of the Lodge and that
the cost should be supplied, if at all, by individual contributions, basing my
decision upon the ruling of Grand Master Preston, noted at section 176 of the
Digest.
Decision No. 8: Investment of Lodge Funds.
A Master of a Lodge requested a ruling as to the legality of investing
Lodge funds in the securities of a building and loan association.
I ruled that under section 87 of the Constitution, the investment of funds by
a Lodge was only permitted in securities prescribed as legal by the laws of
California or the Territory of Hawaii for investment by savings banks; that
under the law of California there was no authority for the investing of such .
funds in building and loan company securities. My decision was based upon the
law as it existed at the time of the decision.
Decision No. 9: Remission of Dues of Forty-Year Members.
A decision .was requested as to the legality of a proposed amendment to the
by-laws of a Lodge, providing for the remission of dues in favor of members of
forty years' standing, or m·ore.
I ruled that the policy of Grand Lodge had been to require all members who
are so circumstanced that they can pay their dues to continue to contribute to
the support of the Lodge, regardless of the length of time that they have
belonged to a California Lodge, and that the amendment should be remodeled to
conform to the opinion of Grand Lodge.
Decision No. ro: Objection to a Petitio11. Erroneous Overruling of O/:Jjection. Status of Petitioner.
A Master asked for a ruling as to the legal effect of overruling an objectioi'i,
made before initiation by a member of the Lodge, to a petition for degrees, and

GRAND · LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

399

also as to the status of petitioner after an erroneous overruling of the objection.
I ruled that under section 108 of the 'Constitution, neither the Master nor
the Lodge had any power to overrule the objection, and that it was the duty of
the Master to report the objection at the next stated meeting, and if the objection was not withdrawn within sixty days from the latter date the candidate
stood automatically rejected, ·with the same effect as rejection by ballot.
As to the status of the petitioner, I ruled that it was that of a Fellowcraft
Mason, basing the decision on the ruling of Grand Master Weller, found at
section 71 of Ross' Digest of Decisions (Second Edition, 1932).

Decision No. II: Dispensation to Re-ballot on Candidate.
I had a number of requests for permission to re-ballot upon the petitions
of rejected candidates, some of which I granted and some I denied.
I ruled that under the Constitution and decisions of Grand Lodge, a dispensation to re-ballot on the petition of a rejected candidate should not be granted,
unless there ·was good reason to believe that a mistake had been made, or other
extraordinary circumstances existed, and that a showing should be made to the
Grand Master of reasons for granting the dispensation.

Deci~ion No. u: Exemption of Past Masters From Payment of Dues.
. A Lodge requested an opinion as to the legality of exempting Past Masters
from the payment of dues.
I ruled that under section 128 of the Constitution a Lodge has no power
"by amendment to its by-laws, resolution or otherwi'se" to remit the dues of its
members, or any of them, for any stated period, or in advance, except as to one
who has been a member in good standing in a Lodge for a period of forty years
or more, but it may annually remit the accrued dues of those of its members who
have rendered special service for the Lodge, or who are unable to pay them.
I further held that under sectiori 88 of the Constitution, a Lodge may in its
discretion appropriate from its funds any amount for the i>urchase of a testimonial for its "retiring Master," and that under this provision the Lodge would
have the right to purchase a life membership for, and present it to, its "retiring
Master."
Decision No. r3: Physical Insufficiency.
My attention was called to the fact that a Lodge had raised a candidate who
had lost an eye and leg. I addressed the following questions to the Master of
the Lodge:
"First: At the time the petition of this candidate was received in your
Lodge and when it was balloted upon and when the candidate was initiated,
passed and raised, were you in the Master's station?
"Second: If you answer the above questions in the affirmative, were you
familiar with the Constitution and the decisions of Grand Lodge with reference
to the physical qualifications of candidates?
'"'fhird : Make any other explanations you desire to offer."
The Master answered in substance that he was not the Master at the time
the petition was received, or when the candidate was elected, or when the
candidate was confirmed to receive the degrees, or when the latter was initiated;
· that he was not present when the candidate was passed to the Fellowcraft degree,
as he was at home sick, but that he was Master when the candidate was raised,
and I assumed from his answer he was present in the Master's chair at the latter
time. I wrote the Master as follows :
"Dear Sir and Brother:
"This is the first opportunity that I have had to further consider the case of
the candidate raised in your Lodge March 25, 1935, who had suffered the loss of
an eye and a leg.
"I note that you state you were not the Master of the Lodge when the

400

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

candidate's petition was received, or when he was elected, confirmed to receive
the degrees, or initiated; also that you were absent from the meeting on account
of illness, at the time the candidate was passed. You were howeve; Master at
the time the candidate was raised, and I infer from you: statemedt, although
you ~o not say so expressly, that you were present at that meeting. .
. _You ~tate that you have 'earnestly sought to fulfill my duties as to being
fam1har W!th the Constitution and Decisions as to the physical qualifications
required,' but it is perfectly obvious that your research on this particular subject
has been· so superficial that you failed to read the decision of Brother Grand
Mast~r James B. Gist, found in the Proceedings of 1934, at page 25, which
scat~mgl~ rebuked tw? Lodges which ignored the law on the question of physical
qual~ficat1ons ~f can~1dates. You also seem to have failed to discover the ~is­
cuss1on found m section 247 of Ross' Digest of Decisions, Second· Edition.
. "Brother Grand Master Gist, in his decision above referred to after commenting upon the case of the candidate who had lost a foot and another who had
lost his right hand, states:
'
'This matter is so important, so fundamental, that it must be admitted
that a Lodge which will wilfully admit a man in spite of the fact that he is
physically insufficient is incompetent to hold its charter; and that a Master
who permits it is unworthy to continue in his office. I therefore recommend
that it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that if such a case ~ccurs again,
both the Lodge and the Master should be disciplined.'
"Your letter to me of May 28th .seems to indicate a disposition on your part
to excu.s~ ?'ourself fro1?1 the performance of your 'plain duty by shifting the
respons1b1hty, at least m part, to others. You seem to justify your action in
allowing the candidate to be raised by the fact that the previous Master, who, of
course, was also culpable, had allowed the candidate to proceed. It would seem
unnec~ss~ry to call your attention to the fact that your responsibility as Master
ma.de 1t mcumbent upon you at all times to see that the Constitution and regulations of 0U1: Order were observed; and it was the duty of the previous
Master, or other officer occupying the Master's station at the time, under section
94 of the Constitution, to advise the Lodge with reference to the 'nature and
extent' of the candidate's disabilities before the ballot was taken and also advise
the Lo.dge .with reference to. the law· on physical insufficienc~. The physical
defect m this case was so obv10us that the members of the Lodge were required
to use n~ ?iscretion to determine the question, and if they had been advised of
the cond1t10n of the candidate and of the plain provisions of the Constitution
and Decisions of Grand Lodge there is no doubt they would have determined the
candidate to be physically insufficient.
.. "You and. your Lodge, in this case, have been either culpably negligent in
failmg to advise yourselves as to the regulations, or, if advised of them, you
have been deliberately defiant of the plain mandate of Grand Lodge.
"I have been informed by members who claim to know the candidate that
he is a man of fine character, which would well qualify him to be a member of
our fraternity, ~xcept for his physical disqualifications, and, of course, he is in
no way responsible for the offense that has been committed against the fraternity in receiving him.
"While I feel that I would be justified, under the decisions of Brother
Grand ~faster Gist and Brother Grand Master Ross, above referred to, in
suspendmg. you as .Mast~r, and arresting the charter of your Lodge, I hesitate
to take this drastic action, because in arresting the charter many innocent
membe~s of the Lodge .will be punishe~ fo r an act for which they are not
responsible; and I refram from suspendmg you as Master, under the circumstances of the case, deeming that your action is the result' of weakness rather
than deliberate intent to violate the law.
"11 therefore, consider this reprimand ·to you and your Lodge a sufficient

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

401

warning against a repetition of the offense, but in order that there may be no
excuse in the future for a similar offense, I order that you cause this letter to be
read at the next stated meeting of the Lodge. I also dirct that immediately after
my order has been complied with you notify me of that fact."

Decision No. 14: Examination for Admission to Lodges.
I was requested for an opinion as to whether examinations for admission
to Lodges should be conducted individually or in groups. I advised the Master
that the examination should be made individually.
Decision No. lS: R eceiving Petition Before Petitioner of Age.
A Lodge requested a decision as to the right to receive a petition for the
degrees of Masonry before the petitioner was twenty-one years of age.
I ruled that the Lodge had no such right.
Decision No. 16: Suspension for Non-Payment of Dues.
A Brother requested a decision as to the legality of his suspension for the
non-payment of dues. The circumstances of the case are sufficiently set forth in
my ruling, which is as follows :
"Brother
states that he has been a Master Mason for forty-six
Lodge, was one of its charter members,
years, helped to organize
and its original Junior War.den. He has presented to me a copy of your letter
to him dated April 4, 1935, calling attention to his delinquency in the payment of
dues, to which letter, he states, he replied that he hoped a streef improvement
bond for over nine hundred dollars, which he had deposited with your Lodge,
would answer for the time being and that he had no funds of any kind at that
time. He also furnished me with a copy of a letter dated June 22, 1935, signed
by the Secretary of your Lodge, calling attention to the fact that he was more
than twelve months in arrears for dues and that his name would be presented
for suspension at the next stated meeting, July 11, 1935, unless one of the
. following actions was taken prior to that time, to-wit: 'Payment in full, or part
payment to bring dues arrearage to less than twelve months owing,' or 'written
request made to have your dues remitted, .giving reasons or extenuating circumstances why payment could not be made.'
"Notwithstanding a showing of inability by reason of lack of funds to pay
his arrearage, your Lodge is alleged to have suspended him on ! uly 11, 1935.
"In the light of the provisions of section 117 of the Constitution, I am at a
complete loss to ,understand the action of your Lodge in this. matter. In the fir~t
place, under said provision, when a Brother shows that he 1s unable to pay ~ts
dues by reason of 'sickness or inability' the Lodge has no power to suspend him,
provided, of course, his inability is satisfactorily shown.
"Under the circumstances of this case your Lodge, I assume, knew the
financial condition of Brother - -- -- , and if he had not advised you of it,
it would have been at least a graceful and brotherly Masonic act to have made
investigation and shown the fundamental Masonic spirit of brotherly considera·
tion for a member of his long standing.
" In addition to the above, the notice of your Secretary required a written
request for the remission of dues, which th~ .law does n~t require.
.
"Let me call your attention to the prov1s10ns of section 128 of the Constitution, with reference to the remission of dues of a member of forty years'
standing. Let me also call your attention to section 121a of Ross' Digest of
Decisions, Second Edition, in which you will find the statement: 'If he (the
delinquent member) is entitled to that relief (remission of dues ) it should be
given him and a receipt issued to him to date, charging the same to the Lodge.
This should be done whether he req11ests it or not; otherwise his dues will
accumulate and be still more impossible for him to pay.' This statement seems
t9 p~ jp accordance with Masonic principles.

403

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

· "Under the circumstances of this case, it appears to me that your Lodge has
taken a · very illiberal and ungenerous attitude toward a member who was
.entitled for his long service to more consideration, and·my ruling will be that his
suspension was illegal, first, because the notice issued by the Secretary of your
Lodge requiring a written request for remission of dues was illegal, and, second,
because the showing made by the member of his inability to pay was sufficient
to prevent his suspension."

ordered the charter arrested until the present communication of Gra~d Lodge.
It will, therefore, be for Grand Lodge to determine what further action should
be taken in the matter.

402

Decision No. IJ: Jurisdiction.
Objection was made to the raising to the sublime degree of Master Mason
of a petitioner who had . been previously rejected in three Lodges, in one of
which he was rejected four times. The circumstances briefly were that the
petitioner had for a number of years owned a home and resided in San Pedro,
with his family, where he conducted a business, and after his last rejection by
the Lodge in this district he changed his registration for voting purposes, as he
states, upon the advice of a Master of one of the Lodges, to Pine Knot, where
he had a summer home. Some time after this he presented a petition to Big Bear
· Lodge and was elected, initiated and passed, after which objection was made to
his being raised, and I was called upon for ruling on the case.
I appointed a conunittee to investigate the case and was present at a hearing
of the committee in Riverside, at which the committee and myself listened to
statements of officers of Big Bear Lodge with reference to the case. I thereafter
· propounded certain questions to the petitioner with reference to his residence,
which, with other evidence surrounding the case, satisfied me that the petitioner
had never in fact abandoned his residence in San Pedro. I held that a person
under Masonic law, as well as under civil law, can have but one place of residence at a time, and that I was satisfied under the evidence that the petitioner
had never abandoned his residence in San Pedro and, therefore, that Big Bear
Lodge had irregularly received his petition. I ordered the latter Lodge to return
to the petitioner the fees he had paid it for the degree of Master Mason, and to
turn over to the Lodge of proper jurisdiction the fees he had paid for the
Entered Apprentice and Fellowcraft degrees. I further decided that the petitioner
had the status of a Fellowcraft Mason, but could not be raised to the sublime
degree of Master Mason except upon proper proceedings therefor in the Looge
having jurisdiction.
·
Decisio11 No. I8: Sale of Intoxicating Liquor. Restaura11t and Hotels.
I was requested by the Master of a Lodge for a ruling as to the propriety
of a Lodge receiving a petition for degrees by one who owns and operates a
cafe and holds a retail license for the sale of wine and beer, and who on occasions himself served his customers, for consumption on the premises, but ordinarily the service being performed by his employees.
I ruled that under section 129A of the Constitution, a petition for degrees by
one who is legally selling intoxicating liquors in connection with the operation of
a bona fide hotel or restaurant may be received and acted upon; and the fact that
the peti tfoner occasionally serves customers does not alter the case, provided he
· is the owner and operates the hotel or restaurant business in good faith.
Decision No. I9: Suspension of Master of Acacia Lodge No. 438 and arrest.
of Charter.
Complaint was made that Acacia Lodge No. 438 had sponsored a Sunday ·
picnic at which intoxicating liquors were served and members of the Order attending the picnic became intoxicated. It was also charged that funds of the
Lodge had been used to purchase such liquors. It further developed that a state
oi great inharmony existed in the Lodge by reason of factionalism.
After investigation I ordered the Master of the Lodge suspended from his
office until the further order of Grand Lodge or the Grand Master, and I

Public Schools Week
Public Schools Week inaugurated by Grand Master Charles Albert Adams
in 1921, has continued to ~row in importance and popularity. · ~ had the pt:asure
of attending several meetings this year and was greatly surpnsed and de~ighted
to see the interest that is being taken by the public and the fine. entertainment
and display of school work given by pupils. While our fraternity ~as al"."a.ys
supported this fine movement; in many districts it is ~ade .a co~mumty activity
and conducted by the school authorities and others, which gives 1t a more ge~eral
character and effect. No more stimulating effort could be made than this . to
excite public interest in our public school system, which is so essential to inculcate our democratic ideals in_the young mind ..
Board of Control and Boards of Relief
The Board of C::ontrol under the stimulating leadership ~nd energy ~f our
deceased brother, Past Grand Master David 1: Reese, and h1~ successor in the
chairmanship, Brother Eugene Elkus, wit? their ca~able associates, has reached
a point of efficiency which has resulted in the saving of thousand.s of. d?ll~rs
annually to ·Grand Lodge by recovering moneys advanced for foreign JUnsdtc-.
tions for relief of their members.
.
.
.
·
It has also brought more closely together the Boards of Relief, systematized
their work and furnished a more ready means of solving the relief problems
of the Lodges.
.
.
·
For the past three years I have been closely in touch with th.e work and
have been able to judge of its efficiency. The members of the committee deserve
great credit for their energy and effectiveness.
Unemployment
.
While unemployment is still a serious and pressin.g. ~uestion, I. beli~ve the
fraternity has been assuming its full share of respons1b1ltty and doing its ~art
in relieving the distress resulting from it. The problem cannot be solved in a
day and we should redouble our efforts to assist in overcoming it. If ~~ch
brother would keep constantly in mind tha~ soi:iie other brother. ~eeds a pos1t10n
and would make it his individual duty to inquire for opportunities for employment undoubtedly the results would be worth the effort. We who are fortunate
enou~h to be employed, or have the means for carrying on, are too.. prone t,o
took lightly upon the situation of the less fortunate. We must be our brothers
keeper" to the full extent of our ability.
Delinquent Dues
It is gratifying to note that general industrial improvement has ~e­
sulted in a corresponding financial improvement in the Lodges. M.y information from many Lodges is that collections have been showi.ng a
marked increase. I have advised throughout the year that great leniency
be shown to members who have fallen behind in their dues, and that careful
investigation should be made before suspension for the nonpayment o~ dues.
Fine results have been obtained in many cases by considerate action. I
believe that no member who has shown himself worthy in the pa~t should
be lightly deprived of the privileges of Masonry, at l~ast not ~ntJI he has
displayed an attitude of indifference or neglect of his. financial or other
obligations. When we consider the am~unt we. co~tnbute to dependent
members and their families yearly for direct reltef, 1t seems a small contribution to waive the dues of a member in financial distress and who needs
this small temporary relief.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I am sorry to say that in a few isolated cases I believe Lodges have
been too inconsiderate in their treatment of distressed brethren, and in some
cases they have not only not shown the proper Masonic spirit, but have
failed to carry out the spirit of the Constitution. Under Sections 117 and
118 of the Constitution it is obvious that a member should not be suspended for nonpayment of dues where it is shown nonpayment is the result
of sickness or inability to pay. The committees of Lodges should make
careful investigation of the circumstances of a brother before suspension,
where it is possible to do so; and relief should be granted him, if a meritorious case, even though pride may prevent him from asking for it.

. Entertainments in Lodges
I am advised that entertainments are permitted in social activities of Lodges
of an indecent character, and that frequently risque and eY'!n vulgar stories are
told on such occasions. This, of course, is absolutely unmasonic and should not
be tolerated under any circumstances. The Master of a Lodge should strictly
forbid any such occurrences and scrupulously insist upon a proper adherence to
this rule. Considering the high moral purposes of our fraternity, it is unthinkable
that such things are permitted or countenanced in a Masonic Lodge. The Master
should be held to a strict accountability in these matters.
My attention has also been called to the fact that even athletic activities
outside the Lodge precincts are patronized and in some cases paid for out of
Lodge funds. Such practice, in my opinion, is not within the domain of Masonic
activity and might involve financial 1liabilities resulting from injuries, which
would fall upon the Lodge; nor should Lodge funds be devoted to any such
purpose.

404

Financial Obligations of Lodges
During the depression, Masonry has naturally suffered with all other institutions, and, unfortunately, many building enterprises were started during
good times for which large obligations were assumed by Masonic groups and
which, with the coming of the financial crash, they were unable to meet. My
attention has been called to one or two instances where the attitude of such
groups toward their obligations has been criticized as not reflecting any credit
upon Masonry. In this connection I desire to say that I have no sympathy with
any Masonic group which does not meet such a situation squarely and perform
its obligation to the full extent of its ability. Any other course by a group or
individual Masons reflects no credit upon the craft.
Advertising Through Masonry
My attention has been called repeatedly through the year to the practice
O·f advertising through Masonry. This is done for business purposes, political
purposes, and even for meetings of churches. Various means and devices are
resorted to and the practice has become so prevalent as to be decidedly objectionable and should be stopped. I believe our present laws are sufficient to cover
the matter and should be enforced, but if not, further penalities should be provided against individual members who resort to this misuse of the fraternity.
Masonic Activities
As to the limit of proper activities of Lodges there seems to be some
difference of opinion, but I have considered and acted upon the theory that
matters of fundamental, general public concern are well within the purview of
our purposes, and that the presentation in the proper way, for the information of
the brethren, of data on such matters is entirely proper. It is, of course, obvious
that no subject should be presented that may result in dissension or inharmony,
and, naturally, no religious, political or personal questions should be considered, as
the discussion of such questions in all probability would ultimately result in
discord. However, as Masonry enjoins the obligation of patriotism and good
citizenship on its members, I believe discussions of such subjects are quite
within the range of our activities, as, of course, are subjects of Masonic history, ritual and the moral principles upon which the Institution rests. In fact,
there are almost innumerable subjects within these general classes that could be
presented for the information, benefit and entertainment of the membership, and
I believe that such activities should be encouraged in Lodges in order to stimnlate
interest. I find that this is being done in some Lodges, but it would be very
desirable, in my opinion, to have it more universally practiced. Masonry can
be made a powerful inst.rument for public good if, in addition to promulgating
its spiritual and moral precepts, it seeks to create through its membership a
wholesome public opinion and activity in matters of vital and general importance.
I am not, however, in favor of Lodges or other groups passing resolutions on
such subjects. It must be left to Grand Lodge to declare policies and the minds of
. members should be kept open until such matters are presented and considered in
the annual Communication.

405

Objectionable Activities
Complaints have been made during the year about activities of groups in
organizations which prescribe membership in the Blue Lodge as a prerequisite
to membership in those organizations, which activities, it is claimed, tend to bring
Masonry into disrepute. These activities, in a general way, may be described
as resorting to games of chance to raise funds for the particular organization,
improper use of intoxicating liquors, and the staging of indecent performances.
The groups particularly complained of are Shriners and Sciots. It would serve
no useful purpose at this time to go into the details of these activities, for I
believe that the fraternity is quite familiar with them as a matter of common
knowledge.
t
In another jurisdiction the Grand Master saw fit to put on trial individual
members who had been charged with promotion of a game of chance, and, I am
informed, some of these members were convicted and ordered expelled. After
mature consideration, I have come to the conclusion that this is not the effective
way to check such activities. When it is remembered that the promotion of a
lottery or other game of chance by a few members of an organization is done
with the knowledge and approval of that organization, which organization
accepts the benefit, if any, of the enterprise, in my opinion, the organization itself
should be held responsible and proper means taken to discipline it as far as
Grand Lodge has that jurisdiction. I, therefore, recommend for consideration
by the Policy and Purposes Committee the question of the advisability oi putting
under a ban any such organization which is found to be indulging in, or permitting its members to indulge in, any activity that is found by Grand Lodge
to be injurious to the reputation .of Masonry in general; and while the organization is .under such ban all Master Masons be forbidden to join or remain members
of it. If such policy should be adopted, legislation should be provided for carrying it into effect, and specific penalities should be prescribed also for individual
Master Masons who indulge in such forbidden activities. I can easily understand
that members of such <>rganizations, in their zeal for their organization and
ambitious to raise funds for its purposes, may be carrjed away with their enthusiasm, but the organization itself should see to it that its activities and the
activities of its individual members are not such as may be detrimental to
Masonry. Grand Lodge has · jurisdiction over every Master Mason and has
power to insist upon such course. It might be ;;idvisable to provide for a standing
committee to receive complaints and investigate such alleged objectionable
actions.
Masonic History
I am sorry to report that the plan to publish a Masonic History for· this
jurisdiction has not met with the success for which we hoped. The necessary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

406

407

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

subscriptions to induce the publisher to proceed were not obtained and, consequently, the wcirk has not gone ahead. The committee in charge of the matter
is still making necessary investigations and it is to be hoped that some way
may be found to bring about .this desirable end. Grand Lodge. has already made
large expenditures and the History Committee has acquired a vast amount of
material which should be utilized, and I believe the work would have a very
stimulating effect upon the craft. I hope that ways . and means may be found
to provide for an early publication of the work.
Masonic Homes
Under the able direction of our diligent Board of Trustees, and the capable
administration of our superintendents, our two Masonic Homes are functioning
with the usual fine results. Too high praise cannot be given to the brethren of
the Board of Trustees who have served for many years with all the fidelity ·and
ability that could be displayed in any private enterprise. The fraternity as a
whole ·has little knowledge of the time and attention devoted by these brethren
to this important work. Their devotion to the cause entitles them to our everlasting gratitude. We are also particularly fortunate in having such capable and
well qualified superintendents as Brothers Downen and Hartman in charge of
the Homes. Their long experience and loyalty to the institution fit them for
the positions as few men in the country are fitted. While the Homes are performing a wonderful service, the Lodges which place children or old people in
them, I am sorry to say, are not doing their part in one regard. There is too
little interest shown by many Lodges in the welfare of the children on leaving
the Covina Home, and in the old people while at their Home at Decato. The
Lodges should realize that, in a sense, they are the guardians of those whom
they place in the Homes and should contribute to their happiness and welfare
by some attention while there. It is especially important that Lodges should
interest themselves in placing children leaving the Home in positions and suitable surroundings. Frequent complaints have been made of lack of interest in
this regard. It should also be remembered that those in the Homes are without
means to make small purchases which will contribute to their comfort and entertainment, and if their Lodges would constantly bear this in mind and make
regularly, or at least frequently, gifts to them of small amounts of money, or
suitable articles, this would add much to their happiness., We must not forget
that we aim not only to provide for their material necessities, but to make them
as happy as their circumstances will permit.
·
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Notwithstanding the enthusiastic and energetic efforts on the part of this
Board, headed by our late lamented Brother Jeffries, the immediate financial.
returns have not been as great as we had hcped they would be, but I believe
with continued effort for a few years great results will be shown. Many wills
probably have been drawn with bequests to the Homes, which were inspired
by this great movement. I am confident that by calling the craft's attention to
the matter annually, and offering the brethren the opportunity to contribute, we
shall in time accumulate a fund large enough to support our institutions from
its income. Too high praise cannot be paid to the enthusiasm, zeal and energy
of Brother Jeffries and his committee in this great work, and the results I hope
will be an everlasting monument to them for their magnificent efforts and unselfish devotion to this great cause.
Masonic Club Houses
My observation convinces me that the Masonic Club Houses are performing
a service weli justifying their existence. They afford a center for youths who
need wholesome surroundings in their leisure hours and places where they can
gather for entertainment and proper association. Our club houses are ideally

·suited for these putposes and, I believe, are fully appreciated by the young
people who enjoy their privileges. They also afford an early opportunity . for
Masonic contact and Masonic influence. This influence cannot start too early,
and its importance cannot be o.verestimated.
New Ritual Plan
The new plan for instruction in ritual has, I feel, been a?ly put into practi~e
under the capable leadership of the Grand Lecturer, Worsh1pf_ul Brother Leslie
E. Wood, and his four assistants, Brothers Chester Warlow, Sidney K. Lehman,
Lloyd E. Wilson and Oscar L. Harris.
As to the relative merit of this system over the old system, I am not as able
to judge as those who have had more intimate connection with it, and I there.fore
refrain from making any recommendation, preferring that it shall be submitted
to Grand Lodge for determination, after the subject has been presented by those
who have had more detailed experience with it than I have had.
I am deeply appreciative of the uniform courtesy and assistance which I
received at the hands of the Grand Lecturer and his assistants throughout the
year. They have been more than generous in their kindness and willingness to
assist in relieving my burdens.
Inspectors
In my visitations to Lodges I have been deeply im~ressed by the charac.ter
of our Inspectors. I have found them, generally speaking, men of outstanding
ability ·and position, devoted to and keenly interested in their work, as ~ell as
our other activities. Many have served for years with the greatest fidelity and
zeal. · They have been of great assistance to me in making necessary i_nvestigations
and other services and I sincerely appreciate their hearty cooperation.
Masters and Other Officers of Lodges
While I have found, as a general thing, that the Masters and other office~s
of Lodges have been apparently competent and well qualified to perform their .
duties I am sorry to say that a number of cases have come to my knowledge
wher~ Masters were mentally unqualified and temperamentally unfit to serve
as Masters and the inevitable result has been inharmony and dissension in their
Lodges. 1n' this connection I make the suggestion that those memb.ers who con- .
tinue their interest and activity throughout the years should use their best efforts
to see that brethren with the proper mental equipment are put in line for offi~e.
It is necessary in any orga_nization that there should be :3' g~oup or g_roups wh1c?
maintain a steady interest in the welfare of the orgamzahon, and m Lodges it
might well be expected of Past Masters, office~s and ~t~ers of e~perience . to
maintain such interest and activity, and to exercise a gu1dmg hand m the maintenance of a high standard of proficiency in the work. I b~liev_e, ~!so, th.at Inspectors who come in clos~ contact wi~h the Lod~es of their d1st~1cts, without,
of course, endeavoring to improperly interfere with the free choice of officers
by the membership, should keep an eye on the personnel of the offi~ers ~nd constantly promote the policy of maintaining the proper standard. I belteve 1t would
be a good practice for Lodges to try out officers up ~o a~d t.hrough t~e. office. of
Senior Deacon, and, if such officer does not by t?a~ time md1cate qua!1t1e~ fittmg
him for the position of Master, he s.hould be eliminated and others m- !me who
are qualified should be advanced.
Masters and Wardens Associations
I have had the pleasure of attending a number of Masters and Wardens
Association meetings and found them interesting and instructive. I believe that
these associations can be very useful in discussing matters of Masonic procedure
and policy, as well as questions of fundamental publi~ importa~ce._Th.ey furnish a
means for imparting information to the membership of their districts and can

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

408 '

409

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

promote programs which will stimulate and incite interest in their various
Lodges.
I feel it my duty, however, to caution them, as I have cautioned Lodges
repeatedly, to be careful not to take up or allow discussion of controversial .
matters or of a religious, political or personal character that will tend to produce
inharmony. I am sure · the good sense of the leaders and members of these
associations will restrain any such tendency. It is obvious that it would be disastrous to Masonry to engage in controversies which would result in bitterness
and inharmony, and, of course, they should be avoided.
Officers·Associations
I have had several outstanding cases brought to my attention showing the
lamentable ignorance or disregard of our rules and regulations by Masters of
Lodges. It happened that the particular matters were such that there was no
excuse for the action of the Masters in reference to them, and they exemplified
in a pronounced degree the importance of the Master's functions.
Officers Associations can be, and should be, very useful bodies in instructing
officers with reference to the laws, regulations and procedure, and the Inspectors
should be particular to see that the officers are thoroughly schooled in this
regard. I have no doubt that much is being done in this line in the associations,
but my experience as Grand Master has taught me that there are too many
Masters who are either unqualified to perform their duties, or are negligent or
weak in their discharge. A Master's position is not only one of dig!)ity, but of
extreme importance. A Lodge's harmony and usefulness can be utterly destroyed by an incompetent or negligent Master.
Subversive Activities
In my addresses to Lodges during the year I have taken as my main theme
subjects allied to patriotism and government, and in this connection I have presented data on subversive organizations that are opposed to, and violently attacking, principles which -are fundamental in Masonry. I refer particularly to
the Communist Party of America, which is an organization dominated by the
Third Internationale of Russia.
In 1931 a committee of the House of Representatives made what appears
to have been a thorough investigation of this organization in all places in the
United States where its activities were evident. Its report states that hearings
were held in practically every section of the United States where Communist
activities were reported and that witnesses were examined representing all walks
of life; many of the prominent witnesses being named. Testimony verbatim of
some of the leaders of this party was also set out in the report. Among other
things the committee found as follows:
"The principles and aims of communists in Moscow and communists in
Berlin, Paris, London, New York, Los Angeles, Tokyo, and Pekin are the
same; they stand on the same platform and advocate the same principles,
and all take their orders from the Communist Internationale, with headquarters in Moscow, and obey them implicitly.
"It is not difficult to find out exactly what these principles are, and
to define communism so that he who runs can read, as communists do not
attempt to hide their fundamental purposes and admit and are apparently
proud of taking their orders from Moscow and giving allegiance to the
red flag and the Soviet Union.
"The following is a definition of communism, a world-wide political
organization advocating: ( 1) Hatred of God and all forms of religion; (2)
destruction of private property, and inheritance; (3) absolute social and
racial equality; promotion of class hatred; ( 4) revolutionary propaganda
through the Communist Internationale, stirring up communist activities in

foreign countries in order to cause strikes, riots, sa?otage, bloodsh~d, and
civil war; ( 5) destruction of all forms of representative or democratic governments · including civil liberties, such as freedom of speech, of the press,
of assembly, and trial by jury ; (6) the ultimate. and final objective is by
means of world revolution to establish the dictatorship of the so-called
proletariat into one world union of soviet socialist republic with the capital
at Moscow.
" Communism has also been defined as an organized effort to overthrow
organized governments which operate contrary to the communis~ plan now
in effect in Russia. It aims at the socialization of government, private property, industry, labor, the home, education, and religion. Its objectives are the
abolition of other governments, private ownership of property, inheritance,
religion, and family relations."
The report also shows the nature of the activities of this organization and
the means and methods of propogating its subversive and revolutionary ideas
among our people, especially among the youth of the country; and also
activity among labor organizations in stirring up strife, riots, and gen.era! ~1s­
order, all with the aim of weakening the morale of the country and 1mposmg
its atheistic, despotic and anarchistic principles upon our people.
This organization, as shown by the report, has many affiliates and adopts
many devious means and organizations to carry out its purposes. Am.ong those
organizations used to reach the youth of the country are the Young Pioneers of
America and the Young Communist League. The report shows that• Many
Young Pioneer Summer Camps, conducted by th~ Workers' I?ternationale Reli.ef,
have sprung up in various sections of the Umted States smce 1925, at which
time there were two camps. In 1929 the number had increased to twenty, located
in eight different states. New York state predominates, with five such ca~ps,
all teaching hatred of God, of our form of government, and of the A~encan
flag. In New York state alone over fifteen thousand young commum.sts are
turned out each year, according to the report, from these camps, tramed to
promote class hatred and to urge the destruction of all American ideals and
traditions. The report further states that a very large percentage of these
Young Pioneers are either aliens or foreign-born, probably eighty per cent, ancl
most of the remainder are children of foreign born parents, with perhaps not
more than five percent of native born Americans.
This report is so full of astounding information that it should be in the
hands of every citizen of our country. It is too long even to epitomize. Emanating as it does from our federal government, and showing .the care with whic.h
the material contained in it was gathered, I have deemed 1t the most authentic
information to be obtained on this subject. In addition to it, however, there .~re
·many other evidences of the activities of this nefarious organization in our
midst among them a report by William Green, President' of the American
Fede;ation of Labor, made to the President of the United States in July, 1934,
which is filled with similar alarming information. There is reliable evidence
that this organization has increased to a great extent in the past four years
and has a very large membership in the State of California, where its work
has been openly manifested.
There is reason to believe this organization has insidiously infiltrated our
higher educational institutions, public schools, civic organizations, public offices,
and even · to some extent churches, the Army and Navy and other government
departments.
.
.
Many patriotic organizations have vigorously taken up the fight to drive this
alien, atheistic, despotic and anarchistic organization out of our country, among
them various Masonic bodies, the American Legion, the American Federation
of -Labor, the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, and others.
The objects and purposes of this organization are so fundamentally anti-

!ts

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

410

411

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic and so contrary to the spirit and genius of our government and our
religious' and social institutions, that I have deemed it not only a proper subject
for presentation in Lodges, but as imposing an absolute obligation on every
Mason in this jurisdiction to advise himself as fully as possible with reference
to it, and to use every legitimate and lawful means to prevent the spread of its
influence and teaching. It is regrettable, but none the less true, that by the most
insidious methods, the promulgators of these poisonous and destructive theories
have enlisted the sympathy of many of our high-minded and well-intentioned
people who have been misled by lack of proper information and misrepresentation
and w'ho have stood upon the principles of the right of political liberty and
freedom of speech to justify their position, but these rights certainly give no
alien and not even a citizen of the country, the right to advocate the overthrow
of o~r government by force and violence, nor can any Mason tolerate a doctrine
that teaches hatred of God and all forms of religion.
The committee which rendered the above report stated it was convinced that
the surest and most effective way of combating communism in the United States
was to give the fullest possible publicity to the fundamental principles and aims
of the communists, which are the same throughout the world, as they are not
likely to prove acceptable to any considerable number of American citizens, unless
camouflaged by extraneous issues, such as unemployment insurance.
Bigotry and Intolerance
I .have observed with chagrin in the . past few months some evidence of
bigotry and intolerance in some members of the craft. This spirit is foreign
to the teachings and precepts of Masonry, which has no creed and opposes no
creed. Masonry stands upon the broad fundamental principle of a belief in, and
reverence for God and support of religion in general as a human institution
for the education ;f mankind in moral principles and as an elevating influence
in matters spiritual. It must be remembered that one of the fundamental ideas
upon which our country was founded was that of religious liberty and the right
of every individual to worship God in such manner as his conscience shall dictate.
Masonry has always stood for human liberty and liberty of conscience, and nothing could be more detrimental to it than a spirit of intolerance and bigotry, which
would inevitably breed inharmony and discord in our ranks. I, therefore, urge
the craft to discourage at all times any tendency in this regard.
Law and Order
In the last year we have had some striklng and tragic instances of lawlessness resulting in lynching, tar and feather proceedings and other illegal activities.
It is' not difficult to understand that under the stress and strain of great emotion
caused by dastardly .outrages, even ordinarily law-abiding citizens may take the
law in their own hands, but in sober moments they must realize the futility of such
proceedings and the detriment that is caused to the administration of justice. by
such acts. Masonry stands for law and order and for orderly procedure in the administration of justice between man and man, and cannot acquiesce in individual
action outside the law and judicial procedure. If such actions were countenanced,
society would inevitably disintegrate and chaos result. The due administration of
justice requires the sober, calm and deliberate action of minds that are unbiased
by excitement, passion, prejudice or self-interest, and "mob law,'' so-called, is
never administered under such conditions. Injustice is too likely to be done under
the stress of strong feeling and passion. We must, therefore, stand firmly for
the regular and due administration of justice through the channel of our courts
and under the procedure defined by our laws.
·
It is unfortunately true that too often there is a failure of justice in the
administration of our laws, but it is far better that we should devote our thoughts
and energies to reform our legal procedure than to countenance "mob law" with
its demoralizing tendencies. Much of our trouble comes from the lack of a whole-

some and strong public opinion in the matter of the administration of justice, as
well as in other things. We should seek to create a strong and healthy sentiment
in our communities for a rigid and strict enforcement· of our laws and the due
administration of justice. Each Mason can do his part in this regard in his immediate community, if he will interest himself.
Our Naturalized Brethren
I have found that in one or two cases serious inharmony in a Lodge; has
resulted, at least in part, from bitter controversies arising over the affairs of
foreign countries, and I am therefore prompted to suggest to our naturalized
Brethren that in acquiring citizenship in this great country they also assumed
obligations to it. If they prize their citizenship they should recognize that their
first duty is to our government and the .welfare of our country, rather than to the
country of their birth. It is easy to understand that one may have a lingering
interest in, and affection for, the land of his birth, but we cannot afford to have
matters of foreign controversy injected into our local affairs, especially where
they tend to breed inharmony in our ranks. We are concerned with the governments of other countries and their domestic affairs only to the extent that they
may interfere with and involve our own country and, therefore, we should _
scrupulously avoid injecting into our Lodges any disturbing questions with reference to foreign. theories of government or domestic regulations.
W arid Conditions
Pessimism and cynicism have no place in Masonry. We are taught to look
onward and upward and unceasingly to strive for the betterment of the human
family. But in the disturbed and distressed condition of the world today all
Masons are called upon to give thoughtful consideration to the threatening situation, lest democracy perish and despotism reign supreme.
A survey of the circumstances of the Old World presents a serious and sad
picture. We observe many of the leading nations under the domination of despotic
or militaristic governments which seem to have no regard for individual liberty,
and under which freedom of religion, freedom of the press and freedom of
speech and action have been almost completely suppressed. In these same countries
Masonry has been put under the ban for the obvious reason that its spirit of
democracy is directly and unalterably opposed to the rule and aims of such governments. Freemasonry has always been the implacab!;) enemy of tyranny and
oppression, and the champion of fundamental human rights.
History seems to repeat itself in this regard, for looking back over the ages
we observe despots and tyrants ruling for a time, and almost without exception
they have plunged the world into the catastrophe of war, with all its horrors and
legacies of hate, disaster and costs to humanity.
It is almost incomprehensible that, in these days of advanced education,
spiritual development and marvelous accomplishments of science, man's reason can
be so completely dethroned by the hysteria of war psychology as to cause him tu
turn all his accomplishments and powers to the destruction of his fellow-man and
the benefits of civilization. Unfortunately, the intense spidt of nationalism :rnd
the inordinate personal ambition of militarists, prompted by the lust for power
and material gain, seem stronger, at times, than the spiritual teachings of the
Master, and "man's inhumanity to man" seems to reach its extreme point of
brutality and to reap a full harvest of hate and misery.
Let us hope that a time shall come when man's moral and spiritual development shall prompt the nations of the earth to settle their controversies by reason
rather than by brute force.
Our Government
In the light of the tragic circumstances which face us today, it would seem
that we should be more appreciative than ever of our own form of government,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

under which we have lived in happiness, prosperity and contentment for one ·
hundred and forty-eight years. We should remember that our forefathers fled
from the intolerance and despotism of rulers of the Old World and established
on this continent a civilization and government which have been the admiration
of peoples of all countries.
The spirit and genius of America, which were developed by our revolutionary
fathers, insuring religious liberty, free speech, free press and freedom of individual action as far as is consistent with the rights of others, have been embodied in our Constitution, and we should cherish and jealously guard it. It has ·
survived the stress and strain of civil and foreign wars, internal disturbances and
the attacks of foes within and without our gates.
The statesmen of the world have proclaimed our instrument of governmen.t
to be the greatest that the mind of man has yet conceived, and that those who
conceived and framed it were the greatest group of statesmen that ever gathered
together at one time. These founders of our Government had endured the hardships of war, the trials and tribulations of domestic strife, and had the task of
harmonizing the contentions of the people of a new and struggling country impoverished by war and harassed by the difficulties attending a vast, undeveloped
country, and out of their wide experience and mature wisdom there was developed
a theory of government which seems to have met the requirements of our civilization, and no condition seems to have arisen which requires any substantial modification of its fundamental principles.
Masons played an important role in laying the corner stones of our Government, and it was founded upon the fundamental, Masonic principle of democracy,
guaranteeing equal rights to all.
In the first Constitutional Congress of 1774 fifteen members were Masons;
of the total fifty-six signers of the Declaration of Independence twenty-nine, a
. majority, were Masons, and of the ultimate number of forty-two delegates to
the Constitutional Convention of 1787, which adopted our Federal Constitution,
twenty-eight, a majority, were Masons.
As Masonry had such an influential part in giving to us our great Govern.ment, so should it stand guard to see that this rich gift shall not be impaired by
the subversive influence of enemies, within or without the borders of our country.
The framers of our . Constitution, zealously guarding the spirit of democracy,
wisely placed certain checks on the powers that were therein conferred; among
them being a division of authority in three co-ordinating and independent departments of government: the legislative, with power to formulate and promulgate laws for our government; the judicial, to interpret and pass upon the validity
and constitutionality of such laws ; and the executive, as the head of the administration department.
Time has proven the wisdom-of this division of powers and responsibilities,
and its preservation is essential to the perpetuation of our democratic ideals and
truly Masonic spirit of equal rights for all. Any encroachment of one of these
departments upon the other would inevitably lead to the destruction of our
fundamental theory and tend toward despotism.
In the light of the tragedies which are ·now being enacted in other parts of
the world through the policies of despotic rulers, this result should be carefully
avoided. Until our Constitution shall be amended by the calm and deliberate
action of the people we must look to that great tribunal, the Supreme Court of
the United States, in passing upon legislati0n, to preserve the spirit and intent
of our organic law. Fortu.nately, that court, from its beginning, has retained
the respect and confidence of the nation.
Our Constitution provides a method for orderly and deliberate change when
circumstances require it, but I believe that no substantial change in it should be
made in time of great distress, when the public mind is warped and impassioned
by temporary conditions.

We are too prone to believe that every new emergency or complaint should
be met by new law, but we must remember that our Constitution safeguards our
fundamental principles and secures to us the spirit and substance of democracy.
Let us rededicate our lives to the service of God and country, and reaffirm
our faith in our Government and our institutions.
With the dark clouds of war gathering over the nations of the Old World
and even threatening to envelope our own great country, I know of no more
appropriate Masonic sentiment than that from the Great Boo'k of Light, which
is the rule and guide of our faith:
"Glory to God in the highest,
And on earth peace, good will toward men."
In bidding you farewell as your Grand Master, I invoke the blessings of
heaven upon you and all mankind.

412

413

Referred by the Deputy Grand Master to the following Committee on Segregation: Robert B. Gaylord, Oakley K. Morton and
Lloyd E. Wilson.
At 12 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2 o'clock p. m.

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

415

Concord Lodge No. 117, for 1935............. :.................. ,.......................................
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, for 1935........................................ -............... -.......
Azure Lodge No. 533, for 1935....... ~ ........ - .............................. ~ ........................
Arcadia Lodge No. 457, for 1935 .~ .................... - ............................. ~ ................

Jn ~ranb JLobgt
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 8, 1935.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

428.25
400.00
262.25
71.50

Unpaid Loans
Drytown Lodge No. 174..,..........'.............:........................... ~---····:· .......................$ 440.00
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485~ ................ _ ............................................~............... 650.00
Seal Beach Lodge No. 616..........................................- ...- ....................c.-.......... 350.00

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

$1,440.00

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Representatives Appointed

I have the honor of presenting my twenty-eighth annual report, showing for the first time in five years a growth in the number of our Lodges.
Two new Lodges were organized in the year: Carmel, at the city of Carmelby-the-Sea, Monterey County, and Canby's Cr9ss, at Tulelake, Siskiyou
County, named after a monument erected near the town in memory of
Brother General Edward Richard Sprigg Canby, who was murdered by
Modoc Indians in 1873.
Membership
The gains and losses in the two last years indicate a better condition
for this year. They are as follows:
1934
1935
129,326
Membership as of July 31... ...............................................:.. .132,331
Initiated _..........................................................................2,098
2,413
2,333
Passed .... -.................... ,... :............................................... 1,991
2,293
Raised ........................................................................................ .. 1,898
192
249
Affiliated from other jurisdictions .................................. ,..... ..
654
671
Affiliated from California Lodges ...................................... ..
4
Dual members ....................................................................... .
11
477
580
Restored .......................................... :.............................................
12
15
By error in returns ................................................ :.................
3,247
Withdrawn .................................................................................. 1,097
Suspended N. P. D ................................................................... 4,560
Expelled ......................................................................................
24
Died ...........................................:...................... ,..................... .. 1,905
24
Errors in Returns ....................................................................... ..

3,809
1,109
3,611
22
2,028
44

7,610
. Total net loss ...:........................................................................ 4,363
Dues remitted .......................................................................... 7,368

6,814
3,005
6,312

Our gross losses in the last four years have been 27,889, of which 15,336
were by suspensions for non-payment of dues, and 7,731 by death. In those
four years Grand Lodge and the Lodges have lost revenue also from 26,525
members whose dues were remitted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, for 1932........................ ~.......................................$ 239.60
Larchmont Lodge No. 614, for 1933......................................................... :....... . 322.95
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, for 1934................................................................... . 649.50
Concord Lodge No. 117, for 1934...........................: ........................................ .. 200.00

January 3, 1935, Trinidati Vallejo Zepeda was by the Grand Master
commissioned as our Representative near the Grand Lodge Cuscatlan.
May 15, 1935, a commission was issued to Jose Goncalves Dias as our
Representative near the Grand Lodge of Amazonas and Acre.
Budget
The budget submitted last year by the Finance Committee estimated
the receipts for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1935, would be $90,500, and that
the expenditures other than direct appropriations would be $34,650.
The actual figures for the year are gross receipts, $91,686.32, and the ;::>
expenditures for the items noted in the budget, $41,056.91, an increase over
the estimate of $6,406.00. This increase includes the considerable sum of
$12,043, paid out for relief.
The liquid assets of Grand Lodge a·s of July 31, 1935, amount to $176,895.88, as against $175,112.87 last year.
· The cash receipts for August and September, 19.34 and 1935, were as
follows:
1934
1935
Grand Lodge General Fund..................................................$ 66,895.25
$ 68,046.50
Home Maintenance ...............,............................................... 92,423.85
91,863.00
Home Building ...................................................................... 61,616.40
61,242.00
$25 Home fees ...................:.................................................... 18,475.00
22,575.00
Total receipts, August 1st to September 30th ................ $239,410.50 ·

$243,726.50

Fifty-Year Buttons
Our Lodges still maintain the lead · of all other jurisdictions in the
number of veteran members.
In the year just closed-we have issued 96 fifty-year gold tokens, making
a total issue of 1,088 since 1929. The oldest veteran reported this year is
Leonidas Summy, Enterprise Lodge No. 70, who has been a member for
61. years.
Following is a list of Brethren who received their buttops since the
last report:
Name .
Raised
Lodge
Anderson, Charles John ................. Aug. 8, 1884 South Gate No. 320
Bacon, Lee F ............................_ .._.Dec. 30, 1884 Corcoran No. 490
Ball, Charles Dexter.......................June 23, 1885 Santa Ana No. 241
Bang, Anders ................. ! ..., ................ 1885
Fresno No. 247
Barker, Washington Dunn ............ Sept. 27, 1884 Santa Ana No. 241
Beaver, Romanus Hess ...................Nov.,
1878 Olive Branch No. 269

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Raised
Lodge
Berdrow, Asa ..............•... _.................July 16, 1883 Friendship No. 210
Bentley, Isom Hilliard ....................Dec. 15, 1883 Oakdale No. 275
Bernstein, Jacob A ........................... Mar. 24, 1885 Berkeley No. 363
Berry, Hugh Rier ............................. July 21, 1883 Visalia No. 128
Bonham, Andie L..•......................... May 26, 1885 Valley No. 135
Borg, Edward Nelson..................... Feb. 11, 1885 Humboldt No. 79
Boulware, Milton Amos ................. Feb. 9, 1885 San Jose No. 10
Bowes, Edward Chipman ............... Dec. 16, 1884 Oriental No. 144
Bowhay, Jasper Newton ................ June 6, 1885 Traver No. 294
Brandt, Horace .................................. Sept. 11, 1884 San Diego No. 35
Brust, Samuel... .................................Jan. 31, 1885 San Diego No. 35
Bull, Franklin PettingilL.............. Apr. 1, 1885 Excelsior No. 166 ·
Burgett, Rich Sisk............................Feb. 9, 1884 Snow Mountain No. 271
Buss, Edwin Dumont.. .................... June 1, 18$5 Bakersfield No. 224
Calhoun, Charles Albert.. .............. ~Nov. 24, 1884 Magnolia No. 242
Capell, Howell Pratt ............ - .......... May 12, 1885 Brooklyn No. 225
Chandler, Joseph Fountain ............ May 29, 1884 Henry Clay No. 95
Coleman, Thomas Newton ............. Nov. 16, 1884 East Gate No. 290
Cornish, Fred E ................................ July 19, 1884 Yerba Buena No. 40.3
Critchlow, Edward Coe .................. Nov. 28, 1884 Arlington No. 414
Crocker, William Henry................. Dec. 18, 1884 California No. 1
Crow, William David ..................... 1881
Inglewood No. 421
Cullen, Alexander ............................ Dec. 26, 1884 Hollywood No. 355
Dake, Charles B ............................... Aug. 30, 1884 Sojourner No. 607
Dean, Jay Dewitt ............................. Mar. 18, 1885 Glendora No. 404
Derbyshire, Philo Oscar ................ Nov. 20, 1884 Santa Paula No. 291
DeVries, William G......................... June 7, 1884 San Joaquin No. 19
Dickson, George ............................... Mar. 6, 1884 Alcatraz No. 244
Diehl, Sanford D .............................. .i\ug. 23, 1884 · Georgetown No. 25
Dixon, Willis Minor ........................ Apr. 2, 1884 Golden State No. 358
Farley, Newton Seymour ............... May 23, 1885 Alameda No. 167
Gardner, Charles F ................ :......... Mar. 6, 1884 Washington No. 20
Glazier, Frederick............................. May 24, 1885 Nicolaus No. 129
Goodrich, George Edwin ................ Dec. 27, 1884 Hanford No. 279
Granger, Farley B., Jr .................... May 23, 1885 Alameda No. 167
Grantland, J ohn ........................ :....... Oct.
1, 1884 Mission No. 169
Gregory, Calvin Levi... .................... 1885
Howard No. 37
Harrell, James Porter G.................1883
Capital City No. 499
Harris, Granville Swift ....................May 16, 1885 Temple No. 14
Hawkins, Arthur W ........................ Sept. 23, 1884 Arroyo No. 274
Henderson, Orrin S ....................... Nov. 20, 1884 Morning Star No. 68
Hertz, Henry...•.................................May 16, 1885 Santa Cruz No. 38
Hollister, Frank E ............................ July 22, 1885 Excelsior No. 166
Hudson, William Sullivan .............. Nov. 7, 1884 Francis K. Shattuck
No. 571
Humphreys, James Holroyd ......... June 23, 1885 Golden Gate No. 30
Isham, Murray Leo .......................... Mar. 8, 1885 Franklin No. 143
Johnson, Lewis B .............................May 2, 1884 Redlands No. 300
Jones, Richard Gordon .................... Jan.
7, 1884 Sunset No. 352
Kesselring, Francis Marion ........... Jan. 23, 1884 Snow Mountain No. 271
Latta, Samuel E ................................ June 5, 1885 Woodbridge No. 131
Levi, Adolph ...................................... Jan. 24, 1885 San Diego No. 35
Lucke!, Louis ..................................... Feb. 25, 1885 Acacia No. 438
Lynch, Willis ..................................... Nov. 17, 1884 San' Joaquin No. 19
Mann, Seth .........................................Jan. 27, 1885 Pacific No. 136

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Raised
Marca:cci, Antonio .•.......................... 1884
McWayne, Allen Lee...................... Jan. 28, 1885
Merritt, George ................................. Apr. 14, 1882
Miles, Edward Harrison .................. Mar. 15, 1884
Montgomery, James Andrew ........ June 30, 1885
Morris, Harry Bullen ......................]uly 25, 1885
Murphy, Chas. Henry........... ,........ :Nov. 22, 1884
Music, Ethelbert David .................. 1885
Nicol, William ................................... Dec. 23, 1884
Norris, Benjamin Thomas............. Jan. 16, 1884
North, Edwin B ..........................:.... Nov. 11, 1884
Ochletree, Gilbert B ........................ Dec. 30, 1884
Owens, David Robert ...................... Mar. 18, 1885
Patten, Joseph Albert... ................... Aug. 30, 1884
Persons, Louis ................................... Oct. 21, 1884
Phipps, William Thomas ............... .Oct. 14, 1884
Rasmusson, Charles Augustus ...... June 7, 1884
Retzer, George Washington .......... Mar. 6, 1882
Richardson, James L ...................... Mar. 17, 1885
Rice, Thomas J efferson .................. Feb.,
1884
Roach, William Henry.................... 1884
Stephens, Clarence Eugene ............} une 19, 1884
Stockton, Francis Milton ................ M;iy 30, 1885
Stoddard, August Wayne ............... Mar. 21, 1882
Storer, George Hiram ..................... .Oct. 27, 1884
Summy, Leonidas ............................. Dec. 21, 1874
Swain, Arthur Hussey .................... Mar. 26, 1885
Tadich, John Vincent......................Apr. 23, 1885
Taylor, Andrew Jackson ................ Feb. 3, 1885
Thompson, Samuel Alexander ......Apr. 19, 1884
Toplitz, Robert L. ............................Jan. 27, 1885
Uren, Joseph R. ..............................:.June 9, 1885
Voeltzel, Daniel... ..................•.......... Nov. 1, 1884
Wagstaff, Denman Sully................ May 19, 1885
Whittemore, Amos Carter ............. Sept. 18, 1885
Wrede, Augustus Adolph ............... Apr. 15, 1885

417

Lodge
Speranza ltaliana No. 219
Drytown No. 174
King Davids No. 209
Exeter No. 424
Pentalpha No. 202
La Fayette No. 126
Occidental No. 22
Burbank No. 406
North Butte No. 230
Center No. 465
Vesper No. 84
Francis K. Shattuck
No. 571
Crockett No. 139
Charter Rock No. 410
Humboldt No. 79
Union No. 58
El Dorado No. 26
Pentalpha No. 202
Wes tern Star No. 2
Adin No. 250
Durant No. 268
East Gate No. 290
San Diego No. 35
Oriental No. 144
Long Beach No. 327
Enterprise No. 70
Bakersfield No. 224
Park No. 449
Lankershim No. 542
Hanford No. 279
Pacific No. 136
Pajaro No. 110
San Diego No. 35
Fairmount No. 435
Lompoc No. 262
Alcatraz No. 244

Presentation To Our Museum
Robert E. Allan, for many years chairman of our Committee on
Returns, Past Master of Mission Lodge No. 169, presented the Past
Master's jewel of his father. It bears the following inscription: "Presented
by the brethren of Tyne Lodge No. 991 to Brother George A. Allan, P. M.,
as a mark of esteem. January 1, 1877." Bob received his Masonic degrees
in Tyne Lodge.
Brother Allan also presented two boxes of jewels formerly owned by
the late Brother Frederick Hemsley Shanks; one box containing a set of
Royal Arch jewels formerly belonging to Grandfather Shanks. The other
box of jewels contained a card reading as follows: "Worshipful Brother
Joseph George Shanks, Major in the Royal Marine Light Infantry, F. R.
G; S., Knight of the Imperial Order of the Medjedie, was in 1897-98 Master
of Cothele Lodge No. 2166 (Calstock, Cornwall, England) and on retiring
from office he presented a set of jewels to the Lodge, who by resolution gave
him these jewels, which were then sent to me to be used .at the dedication
of Lodge Thiele Lautoka, Fiji Islands."

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. Brother Shanks was an enthusiastic Mason, receiving his craft degrees
at Suva, Fiji Islands, in 1898, and was a member of San Francisco No. 1,
Scottish Rite bodies. At the time of his death on October 19, 1931, he
was a member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Shorter Roll Call
Many members appear to want some method adopted whereby less
time would be consumed in the calling of the roll at the annual election
and at other times when a roll call may be required. There is only one
way for the accomplishment of this desire, and that is to provide that each
Lodge represented shall be entitled to a fixed number of votes. And for
the purpose only of an expression of opinion by Grand Lodge, I offer the
following resolution:

4
•

That section 22 of the Constitution be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 22. Each Lodge represented by a Master, Warden, Past Master,
0r Representative duly elected, shall be entitled to one vote.
That sections 21, 23, 24 and 25 be repealed.
New Lodges
There are now two Lodges :working by virtue of dispensations issued
by order of the Grand Master, as follows: ·
Canby's Cross, Tulelake, Siskiyou county: Dispensation April 24, 1935.
Earl Fleming Ager, Master; Raymond. DeWitt Abel, and Ralph Andrew
Ganger, Wardens; and George Rieben, Luther McAnulty, Ruben James
Hamilton, Guy Porterfield, Fred Eugene McMurphy, William Herman
\Veitkamp, LeRoy Charles Kirbey, Edgar Malcolm Mitchell, Iva! Deloy
Wolfe, Charles Clyde Spears, Charles Osgood Blodgett and Chas. John
Heitz.
·
Carmel, Carmel, Monterey county. Dispensation May 15, 1935. Charles
Arthur Watson, Master; James Ralph Zuck and Arthur Grant Howell"
Wardens; and Bernard Henry Schulte, Charles Leon Berkey, Roy Joseph
Gale, Morris McK. W:ild, \Villiam Thomas Kibbler, David Askew, Herbert
Chester Fairley, Carl Samuel Rohr, Harry Clayton Hilbert, Conrad Christie
Immelman, Harry Edward Farley, \Valter Landy Gaddum, Donald Luke
Staniford, Joseph Addison Burge, George Alexander Wishart, Ross Earl
Bonham, Charles Grover Stoaks, Emil J. Risse!, Nels John Erickson,
Barnet Joseph Segal, George Lawrence Wood, George B. Branch.
Trial Records
No. 810-A member of Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. Acquitted October
6, 1933. Retrial.
No. 827-A member of Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. Expelled May 3,
1934. (Not acted on last year.)
No. 839-A member of Monte Vista Lodge No. 655. Expelled September 10, 1934.
No. 844-A member of La Brea Lodge No. 650. Expelled July
3, 1934.
No. 845-A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256. Acquitted November
9, 1933.
No. 847-A member of Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672. Expelled September 4, 1934.
No. 848---A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled November
6, 1934.
No. 849-A member of Utopia Lodge No. 537. Expelled January 4. 193~.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

419

No. 850-A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Acquitted January
8, 1935.
No. 851-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Expelled February
6, 1935.
No. 852-A member of Crockett Lodge No. 139. Expelled December
5, 1934.
No. 853-A member of West Adams Lodge No. 565. Expelled February 6, 1935.
No. 854-A member of Lamanda Park Lodge No. 627. Expelled
August 6, 1934.
No. 855-A member of Fairmount Lodge No. 435. Expelled April
1, 1935.
, No. 856"--A member of Mizpah Lodge No. 378 and tried by Wilshire
Lodge No. 445. Expelled March 4, 1935.
No. 858-A member of Marin Lodge No. 191. Expelled May 8, 1935.
No. 859.:_A member of South Pasadena Lodge No. 367. Expelled
May 7, 1935.
No. 860---A member of Magnolia Lodge No. 242. Expelled June 7,
1935.
.
No. 861-A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Ordered reprimanded June 5, 1935.
No. 862-A member of Granada Lodge No. 608. Expelled June 8,
1935.
No. 863-A member of West Lake Lodge No. 392. Expelled July 1,
1935.
No. 864-A member of Woodland Lodge No. 156. Expelled June 4,
1935.
No. 652-Petition for restoration from F. A. J., a. member of Palos
Verdes Lodge No. 389 and tried by Southern California Lodge No. 278
and expelled.
Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
Forbestown No. 50, $150; Park No. 449, $200; Mount Oso No. 460,
$300; Jordan No. 654, $150.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved the following requests for special dispensations for various purposes:

To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Corinthian No. 9; Chico No. 111; Lassen No. 149; Woodland No. 156;
Claiborne No. 185; Athens No. 228; Southern California No. 278; Fallbrook No. 317; Brentwood No. 345; Kerman No. 420; Acacia No. 438;
Woodstock No. 491; James Madison No. 527; Wasco No. 583; All States
' No. 593; John Marshall No. 636; James Foshay No. 641.
To re-ballot 011 candidates rejected urithin twelve months:
Doric No. 216 (2); Alhambra No. 322; Paul Revere No. 462; Piedmont
No. 521; Foothill No. 564.
To receive and act upon Petitions from members of the Army and Navy
who did not have the required residential qualifications:
Justice No. 549.
.To receive and act ·upon petition without reference to a Committee: Oakland No. 188.

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amendments to By-Laws
liicreasing fees: Culver City No. 467, to $75.
Increasing dues: Visalia No. 128, to $12; Santa Paula No. 291, to $15;
Garvanza No. 492, to $10.
Decreasing fees: Redwood City No. 168, to $50; Calistoga No. 233,
to $35; Eucalyptus N 0 . 243, to $50;.Alcatraz No. 244, to $50; Southern
California No. 278, to $50; Hanford No. 279, to $50; Long Beach No. 327,
to $80; Vallee de France No. 329, to $50; Covina No. 334, to $50; Sequoia
No. 349, to $50; Sunset No. 352, to $50; Mill Valley No. 356, to $80;
Gardena Lodge No. 372, to $55; Rising Light No. 397, to $50; Bay View
No. 401, to $50; Eagle Rock No. 422, to $50; Standard No. 440, to $50;
Ramona No. 457, to $50; Victory No. 474, to $65; Fellowship No. 480,
to $50; Clarence F. Smith No. 482, to $50; Garvanza No. 492, to $75; Beverly Hills No. 528, to $75; Utopia No. 537, to $50; Lankershim No. 542, to
$75; Jonathan No. 545, to $50; Semper Virens No. 552, to $50; Pyramid
·No. 562, to $50; James Madison No. 572, to $50; Truth No. 597, to $50.
Decreasing d14es: Santa Cruz No. 38, to $12; Inyo No. 221, to $15;
Calistoga No. 233, to $9; Sunset No. 352, to $15; Wilshire No. 445, to $12;
Seaside No. 504, to $10; Taft No. 516, to $12; The Gardens No. 621, to $9.
Increasing affiliation fee: Bay View No. 401, to $5; Florence No. 649,
to $4.50.
Reducing affiliation fee: Sequoia No. 349, to $1; Victory No. 474, to $15.
Eliminating affiliation fee: Standard No. 440; Maui No. 472; Sunrise
No. 522.
Changing time of stated meetilig: Alamo No. 122; Winnedumah No.
287; McKinley No. 347; Montebello No. 451; Point No. 503; Sunrise No.
522; Craftsmen No. 559; Valley Forge No. 587; Pearl Harbor No. 598;
Meridian No. 667; San Gorgonio No. 668.
Excepting holidays as stated meeting nights: California No. 1; San
Buenaventura No. 214; Brooklyn No. 225; Long Beach No. 327; Mill
Valley No. · 356; Golden State No. 358; South Pasadena No. 367; Le
Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371; Huntington Beach No. 380; Moneta No.
405· Charter Rock No. 410; Alta Vista No. 464; Vermont Square No. 515;
Bel~edere No. 539; Plymouth No. 560; James A. Garfield No. 566; Hillcrest No. S73; Temple City No. 612; Point Loma No. 620; Angeles Mesa
No. 625; Ojai No. 663.
Change of meeting place: Visalia No. 128; Anchor No. 273; Dinuba
No. 385; Fellowship No. 480; Sunrise No. 522; Craftsmen No. 559; Pearl
Harbor No. 598; James A. Foshay No. 641; Willow Glen No. 676.
Unfinished Business
Resolution proposing to amend Section 90 of the Constitution; relating to reimbursement for emergency relief. (Proceedings 1934, p. 276.)
Proposed advance information to Lodges of legislation to be· presented, advance information of Grand Master's recommendations; synopsis
to be sent to Lodges. (Proc. 1934, p. 279.)
·
Annuity contracts by Masonic Homes. (Proc. 1934, p. 284.)
Definite i:.:an of Masonic education to be presented. (Proc. 1934, p.
284.)
JOHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to Committee on Segregation . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

421

Report of Auditors
To the Finance Committee,
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California.

Pursuant to your instructions, we have completed an audit of the
books of account of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1935. The following statements are submitted
herewith:
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's report of cash receipts and . disbursements-General Funci.
Exhibit B: Grand Secretary's report of cash received for the account
of Masonic Homes of California.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's report of cash receipts and disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit D: Grand Treasurer's report of assets on hand July 31, 1935.
The scope of our examination included a verification of total cash
funds received during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1935, from the annual returns covering the fiscal year 1933-34. Funds received and on hand
held in suspense based upon the annual returns for 1934-35 are not included in our examination. Total receipts due from subordinate lodges
as per individual annual returns were found to be in proof by total number of membership, classification of source of revenue, and total amount
of gross revenue received, as evidenced by the recapitulation record of all
subordinate Lodges. Total of ali receipts were found accounted for and
cash received therefrom deposited in bank accounts. Bank accounts were
reconciled and verified, and sufficient examination of detailed vouchers
was made as to satisfy ourselves as. to the correctness of the accounting.
The following amounts due Grand.Lodge previously carried in memorandum, have been entered in the general ledger as at July 31, 1935, in
permanent form.
(a) Unpaid dues from annual returns, July 31, 1935:
Fiscal year 1931-32......................................................$ 300.00
Fiscal year 1932-33...................................................... 322.95
Fiscal year 1933-34................................•..................... 849.50
Total ·................................................................................$1,472.45
(b) Unpaid cash loans:
(due from Lodges Nos. 174, 485, 616) ....................$ 1,440.00
Total ................................................................,......:......$ 2,912.45
All _of the above are covered by notes, which were examined in detail.
Market values of securities have b'e en determined and set out in tota l,
Exhibit D.
Subject to the foregoing, we certify that, in our opinion, the attached
statements, with exception as to the stated or book value · of securities
on hand, reflect the fi nancial condition of the Grand L odge, F. & A. M.
of California, as at Ju ly 31, 1935, and that a proper accounting has been
made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL & LAND,
Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD G. WEBB.
.

422

PROCEEDINGS OF TI;IE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cash Disbursed on Grand Secretary's Warrants

Exhibit A

Grand Secretary's Office expense:
Salaries paid ·······-··-···.:_~------····--·:..$ 12,734.94
Less, reimbursed by Masonic
Homes ································-··············
1,350.00

Report of the Grand Secretary
CASH RECEJPTS AND DlSBURSEl\!ENTS
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31,

1935

General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1934..................•..................- .................:...•.....$ 11,573.07
Dues from Lodges (including $1,114.30 from prior·
years) ···'······································································$ 69,260.30
Dispensations ....................................................................
220.00
Collections from secretaries' and treasurers' bonds..
1,934.05
Sales of supplies:
Constitutions ····························--········-$
Monitors · ..............................................
Lodge dues receipts ......·--···--·'···········
Blanks ······················'·····························
Small diplomas ....................................
Large diplomas ....................................
Past Masters' diplomas ......................
Card cases, lodge lists and digests ..
Installation services, proceedings..
Bound volumes and funeral services
Masonic law and custom, sundries
Miscellaneous, including uniform
accounting system ..............•...........
Refunds and reimbursements:
Escalon No. 591......................................
Melbourne No. 3....................................
San Francisco Board of Relief..........
Los Angeles Board of Relief ............
Fresno Board of Relief... .....................
Lassen No. 149 Relief... .......................
Grand Master · Gist, refund from
expense account ................................
Employes' liability insurance
refund ..................................................

2,235.55
692.73
898.25
392.24
311.41
98.25
138.25
244.95
26.45
. 107.30
1C6.60
331.15

5,583.13

171.00
10.00
200.00
5.00
2.50
100.00
586.73
7.44

1,082.67

Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary.........._......$ 78,080.15

Cash Received by Grand Treasurer
Bank interest ..............................................
Bond interest ............................................
Dividends ...................................... :.............

423

$ 352.16
7,276.54
3,224.25

10,852.95

Bonds redeemed or .sold:
(reported in detail in Grand
Treasurers' statement) ..........................................

46,044.13

Rent ............................................................................
Postage (0) ............................................................
Telephone and telegraph ........................................
Supplies and sundry expense .....................•..........
0 ffice furniture ........................................................

$ 11,384.94
3,900.CO
328.59
215.14
415.98
47.00 $ 16,291.65

Printing and binding proceedings, etc.............................,...............
Printing and binding supplies for sale...........................·-··············
Postage-shipping supplies (0) ........................................................
Salary-Grand Lecturer····································································Expenses-Grand Lecturer and Assistants....................................
Auditing ··························'···············--·····················----···········--················
Relief-Order of Grand Master......................................-.................
·Expenses-Board of Control........................-....................................
Committee on Public Schools Week................................................
Grand Lodge Activities Week.....,.....................................:................
Gold buttons-Fifty year veterans ....................................................
Purchase of Masonic Temple stock from
Magnolia Lodge .....................................................:..........................
Audit of subordinate Lodge for Committee
of Inspectors .,....................................................................................
Inspectors' stationery ..........................................................................
Inspectors' aprons ··················································-········--·············.·····
Past Grand Mastei:s' portraits, Ross and Gaylord........................
Premium on Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds.,........................
Expenses-Grand Treasurer ·····'················································--····
Salaries-Grand Organist and Grand Tiler....................................
Miscellaneous expense ..........................................................:.............
Survey of Covina Home by Child Welfare
League of America............................................................................
Reimbursing Masonic Homes for outside relief
for those not eligible for admittance ..........................................
Appropriations:
Pay of members..................................$ 16,637.18
Boards of Relief and Lodges ............
1,796.01
Employment bureaus ........................ 9,600.00
Traveling expense, Grand Master... . 3,000.00
Masonic Club houses .......................... 12,000.00
Masonic Endowment Board.............. 6,000.00 $ 49,033.19

3,751.77
4,132.44
328.60
450.00
1,623.63
150.00
5,701.14
373.60
584.26
2,231.31
389.00
100.00
200.00
543.41
202.95
320.00
1,742.31
350.00
300.00
379.75
442.75
6,342.09

Total disbursements by Grand Secretary···'···-··················$ 95,963.85
Cash Disbursed by Grand Treasurer
Purchase of bonds
(reported in detail in Grand
Treasurer's statement) ............................................$ 8,120.57
56,897.08

Total cash to account for .......................................·--··········$146,550.30

Total all disbursements :............................:..........................$104,084.42
Cash balance, July 31, 1935:
Funds with Grand Treasurer.................................... 41,965.88
Funds with Grand Secretary........................'..............
500.00
$42,465.88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

424

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit B
Analysis of Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 193S
Per capita tax, 132,331 Master Masons, 1933-34:
(Less Masons whose dues were remitted, 7,368)
For maintenance at 7Sc ................................................$ 93,722.2S
For building at Soc...................................................... 62,481.50

425

Exhibit C

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
CASH RECEIFTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FISCAL .YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 193S
General Fund

Cash balance, August 1. 1934............................................................~ ..$ 11.073 07
Total tax due (based upon 1933-34
annual returns) ..............................................$1S6,203:7S
Deductions:
Amount remaining unpaid on
annual returns for 1933-34............
Sundry adjustments ........................... .

$ 672.0S
83.70

Total deductions ............................................. .

7SS.7S

Total cash received from annual returns
for the fiscal year 1933-34......................................$1SS,448.00
Add:
Total cash received for prior years............

l,283.7S

Total ...................................................................•........................$1S6,731.75
$2S.OO Initiation Tax:
1933-34
Initiations,
1933-34
Affiiliations,
E. A. and F. c., 1933-34
1933-34
Dual members,

Receipts

From Grand Secretary..........................$ 78,080.15
Bank interest ............................................
3S2.16
Bond interest ............................................ 7,276.S4
Dividends .................................................. 3,224.2S
Total ·············'·······-········································-$ 88,933.10
From bonds redeemed or sold:
30,200 U. S. Liberty 3Y,, 4Y,% ..........$ 30,200.00
1,000 Philadelphia Electric 4Y,%......
l,04S.OO
9,000 Pacific Gas and Electric SY,%
9,Sl3.63
5,000 Union Electric Light and
Power 476%........................................
S,28S.SO
Total ······························.·'··········-~·-·····················-$ 46,044.13

2098
192
2
11

Total receipts ...................................................,........................$134,977.23
Total cash to account for ............................................ $146,050.30
Disbiirsements

Total ...................•........................ 2303 $S7,S75.00
Less:
First three-quarters collected and
reported in 1934 proceedings........

39,02S.OO

Balance-fourth quarter 1933-34
collected during 1934-35................................... .

18,550.00

Add:
First three-quarters 1934-35
collected during 1934-35 ..................................... .

44,225.00

For Grand Secretary's warrants .................................. $ 95,963.8S
Purchase of bonds:
5,000 Golde~ Gate Bridge and
Highway District 4%%
62/3, 1969...................................... S,120.S7
3,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co .•
4%, 1964 ...................................... 3,000.00
Total ....................................................................$ 8,120.S7
Total disbursements ........ ,.....................................,.................$104,084.42

Total cash received from fourth quarter
1933-34 and first three-quarters 1934-35 ..........

62,775.00

Add:
Total cash received for prior years ..................... .

4SO.OO

Total ..........................................................................,.................$ 63,22S.OO
Total cash received for Masonic Homes and
turned over to the Grand Treasurer ............................................$219,956.75
JoHN WmcHER1 Grand Secretary.

Cash balance, July 31, 1935 .................................... ~ ...............................$ 41,965.88
The Sa1'1 Francisco Bank .................................•............$ 6,824.10
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co.....................
S40.84
Crocker First National Bank.................. ,................... 10,828.61
Bank of America ..........................................................
399.94
Anglo California National Bank .... 7........................... 23,372.39
Total ............................................................................................$ 41,96S.88

426

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit D
Schedule of Assets
JULY

31, 193S

General Fund
Cash in banks ............................................................ - .......... ;._..................$ 42,46S.88
Bonds: At cost (market value $129,330.00)
$ 6000 Southern Pacific Company, first
·
mortgage 4%, due 19SS....................................$ S,S80.00
10000 Southern Pacific Company 40%,
due 1981 .............................................................. 9,S6S.OO .
9000 California Gas & Electric Corp.,
refunding mortgage S%, due 1937.............. 8,SS0.00
8000 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Company
first and collateral trust S%, due 1937...... 8,000.00
2000 Los Angeles Cas & Electric Company
first mortgage S%, due 1939.......................... 1,860.00
4000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Company
general mortgage SY,%, due 1943......... ,...... 3,93S.OO
SOOO Los Angeles Gas & Electric Company
general mortgage 6%, due 1942.................... S,068.75
SOOO Southern California Gas Company
first mortgage SY,%, due 19S2...................... 4,787.SO
SOOO Pacific Gas & Electric Company
general mortgage S%, due 1942...................... 4,720.00
3000 Pacific Gas & Electric Company
first mortgage 4%, due 1964............................ 3,000.00
4000 California Oregon Power Company
first mortgage SY,%, due 19SS ................:..... 3,970.00
SOOO San Joaquin Light & Power Corp.
refunding mortgage S%, due 19S7................ . 4,912.SO
SOOO Central Arizona Light & Power Company
first mortgage S%, due 1960........................ 4,812.SO
10000 New York Telephone Company
general first mortgage 40%, due 1939........ 10,000.00
SOOO Mercantile American Realty Company
first mortgage S%, due 19SL........................ 4,912.SO
SOOO Brooklyn Edison Company
general mortgage S%, due 1949.................... S,2S0.00
9000 Philadelphia Electric Company
first lien 40%, due 1967................................ 8,932.50
SvOO Golden Gate Bridge & ' Highway District
4y.(%, due 1962/3/7.......................................... S,120.S7
2000 U. S. A. Treasury Bond 4y.(-3y.(%,
due 194S ······················'····································· 20,1S6.2S
123,133.07
Stocks: at cost
S898S shares Masonic Temple Association ..................$S89,600.00
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Company first
preferred SY,%, due (market value $S,100.00)
S,000.00 $S94,600.00
Total assets ................................................................................$760,198.95
WILLIAM

P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

427

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Twelve months ha'l:e passed since this Grand Lodge elected me to the
office of Grand Lecturer and charged me with the duty of trying out the new
ritual plan for another year. After a thorough and impartial trial on the
part of the Assistant Grand Lecturers and myself, I am pleased to make a
report of our activities.
At a meeting with the Grand Master, early in the year, four Assistant
Grand Lecturers were appointed : Oscar L. Harris for the northern district,
Lloyd E. Wilson for the San Francisco Bay area, Chester H. Warlow for
the central section of the jurisdiction and Sidney K. Lehman for the southern
district.
The Assistant Grand Lecturers have covered every Inspectorial District
in the jurisdiction (with the exception of the Hawaiian Island group) at least
twice; and in some districts as many as four and five meetings have been
held. Particular attention has been given to Inspectors in outlying districts
and I feel sure that greater uniformity of ritual and a more proficient group
of Inspectors has resulted from these Schools of Instruction.
In the month of May, a questionnaire was sent to the Inspectors and
among other questions asked was the following: "What is the comment in
your district, regarding the present plan of teaching the ritual?" The answers
showed that ninety-three per cent were in favor of the new plan. Seven per
·
cent were either indifferent or opposed to the present set-up.
To show the reaction of the Inspectors to this plan, I take the liberty of
making a few quotations from their reports. One says : "I believe from
observation that the present system is far superior to the former method, as
it leaves the responsibility of teaching the ritual- 'in the hands of the Inspector
and thereby avoids considerable discussion such as we have previously had to
contend with. As an example of this, we had one Master last year who
attended the School of Instruction at Grand Lodge in 1933 and on h_is return
was instructing the officers that the statfon of the Senior Deacon was in front
of and to the right of the Worshipful Master in the East. He' was so con. vincing in his arguments that he had the Inspector believing there had been a
change. Such action as this has a tendency to lessen the confidence of the
officers in the Inspector and at the same time discourage him in his efforts to
have the work uniform."
Another writes: "The present plan of teaching .the ritual to the officers
by the Inspector only seems to be perfectly sat is factory to this district. I
have had very hearty cooperation from all concerned. "The Assistant Grand
Lecturer has proven himself not only proficient in the work, but willing to
give me all the help required. I strongly favor .the present. plan."
Another: "I have heard much favorable comment concerning the new plan
and would say that it is being well received. Am getting splendid assistance
from the Assistant Grand · Lecturer."
Another reports as follows: "All of the officers in this district are in
favor of the present plan. The criticism was, that the old system did not fill
the need. One visit a year did not give the results hoped for. The present
plan gives the Inspector the proper standing among the officers. The only
objection I hear comes from self-appointed Inspectors among the Past
Masters."
And still another: "The present system is very satisfactory, both to the
officers and myself. We have more Schools of Instruction and the officers
seem to take more .interest in their work, under the present method."
I could go on for some time quoting from these reports, but feel that
the few quotations I have made will give a general idea of how the plan has
been received in the various districts.
During the past year, I had the pleasure of visiting several of. the Lodges
with the Grand Master. i installed the officers of sixteen of our Lodges and

429

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

assisted the Grand Master at the installation of several others. It has been
my pleasure, during the past year to attend many interesting meetings, some
of which were very unusual. At a meeting held in Hartley Lodge of Lakeport, on June 15th, the third degree was conferred on four brothers. This
meeting was made the more unique by 1he fact that the father of the boys
is a member of the Lodge and the Master is their brother-in-law. It was my
pleasure to present pins · to these brothers at the request of the father, who
for sentimental reasons was not equal to the occasion. I have also presented
fifty year buttons to several of our veteran brothers, at the request of the
Grand Master. This is always a very pleasant duty and . one which is much
appreciated by the recipient. I have met with many Officers' Associations to
address them on Masonic subjects and have spoken before a number of the
Lodges on the subject of Masonic Homes Endowment. I wish to express my
appreciation for the many courtesies shown me by the officers and members
at these meetings. Their kindness has done much to make the past year one
of pleasant memories.

thirty and the Master from thirty-five to fifty. These questions are asked of
the Masters and Wardens prior to their installation to ascertain their knowledge of the Constitution and Regulations governing Masonic Lodges. In the
absence of the Master, the Wardens ascend to higher duties and are ofttimes called upon to conduct the affairs of the Lodge. I therefore prepared
a list of questions to be answered by the Masters and Wardens alike ; believing that the Wardenss should be as well informed in the government of a
Lodge as the Master.

428

Condition of Lodges
From the reports of the Inspectors it is evident that the condition of the
Lodges generally is much improved over the past few years of depression
and economic strife. Many of the Lodges report they are receiving more
petitions fo~ .. the degrees, which has caused greater interest in Lodge work.
Perhaps the most encouraging report is that dues are coming in more readily;
thereby enabling many of the smaller Lodges, who for the past fe}V years
have been hard pressed to meet their financial obligations, to carry on in a
more normal manner.
Many of the Lodges are finding time for fellowship and education. On
meeting nights, when the Lodge room would otherwise be dark, speakers are
provided to address the brethren on subjects of general interest ; not only
Masonic, but also of a social or economic nature. The command "Let there
be light" is being answered in a practical way. The Master is informed at
his installation that it is his duty to spread and communicate light and in.
struction to the brethren of his Lodge. Masters are learning more and more
that a Lodge is not only a place where degrees are conferred or the business
of the Lodge dispatched as quickly as possible, but rather is, or should be a
ce11;ter. Qf learning. They are trying to carry out this instruction by means
of educational meetings. The practice is commendable and worthy of imitation.
Great care must necessarily be taken to prevent these meetings from becoming
political or controversial on any subject foreign to the policies of our institution. I believe the Masters can be relied upon in this regard. Summing up the .
reports, I would say the Lodges in this jurisdiction are in a healthy condition,
with the future promising to be even more bright.
Officers' Associations
The Officers' Associations are functioning throughout the jurisdiction in
a smooth and efficient manner and are accomplishing the results for which
they were formed; namely, the development of officers who will be more ·
proficient in matters pertaining to the government of a Lodge. I would suggest that these meetings be devoted more to matters of constitutional law and
procedure than to ritual; for while the ritual. is one of the most important
parts of Masonry and exemplifies those teachings upon which our Institution
is founded, it does not teach officers how to deal with the many perplexing
problems which confront every Lodge sooner or later. Schools of Instruction
are held for the sole purpose of perfecting officers in the ritual and for that
reason I believe the time should not be taken from the meetings of the
Officers' Associations.
For many years past, it has been the custom to prepare a different set
of questions for the Masters and Wardens. The Junior Warden has been
required to ·answer about fifteen questions, the Senior Warden twenty-five or

Assistant Grand Lecturers
The Ritual Committee has held four meetings this year for the purpose
of reviewing the ritual and perfecting themselves therein. These meetings
have all been two day sessions, making in all eight days that have been
devoted entirely to the study of the ritual. I feel safe in saying, that these
meetings, with their intensive application to the matter of ritual have developed men who are imminently well qualified to teach the work throughout
the jurisdiction, with a uniformity nearing perfection.
It is impossible to estimate the value of the assistance given this committee by Past Grand Master Dana R. Weller, who has been in attendance
at all of these meetings. His long service on the Ritual Committee and his
thorough understanding of the work, has made the progress of this committee
more rapid and enjoyable. We owe him a debt of gratitude and I here
acknowledge our appreciation.
My association with the Assistant Grand Lecturers during the past year
has .been most pleasant. Their loyalty and splendid cooperation has made it
possible to give the new plan a thorough trial. If my year as Grand Lecturer
has been, in any degree successful, it is due in no small measure to their
efforts.
Funerals
Masonic funerals have no doubt been mentioned more in reports to this
Grand Lodge . than any other one Lodge activity; but when we realize the
importance of · a good appearance before the public, we should endeavor to
act with the greatest dignity and decorum. Because of some peculiar quirk
of human nature, the world is slow to praise but quick to criticize; and we
should be more than careful in the performance of this sacred duty. Unfavorable . comm.ent is· not directed at the particular officer at fault, but is an
aspersion against the fraternity at large for allowing it to happen.
One case in particular which comes to mind, was that of a ·Past Master
who .had been requested to conduct the funeral of a deceased ·brother and
while thus engaged, spat tobacco juice near the head of the open grave. Had
I not been a witness to this disgraceful exhibition, I doubt if I would have
believed that any member of our craft c;ould have so little respect or reverence for the dead or could be so utterly without regard for the honor and
reputation of our fraternity. It is needless to say that this Past Master has
acted in that capacity for the last time.
Where the Master of a Lodge feels he is not qualified to conduct funerals,
I suggest that he delegate the duty to some member of the Lodge who is
better fitted to perform this function with credit to the fraternity. Through
lack of confidence, fear or plain nervousness, many men are not able to conduct funerals in a creditable manner. When one is so afflicted, it is far
better to admit the limitation and ask another to perform for him. Conferring a degree is one thing; to conduct a funeral is something entirely
different.
I know of one district in which one Past Master conducts practically all
the funerals. Because of his peculiar fitness for this work, his easy carriage
and his splendid delivery, the Masters are content to relinquish their rights,
knowing that in so doing the last sad tribute to the departed brother will be
paid with proper solemnity and dignity.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It might not be inappropriate at this time to mention the sad lack of
attendance at the funeral services of sojourning brothers. In many cases these
services are handled through the B-0ards of Relief, at the request of the deceased brother's Lodge. A brother dies while away from his home and is
buried by a L-Odge, not his own. Because the brother is little known and is
without relatives in the locality, he is usually accorded a Masonic service with
barely enough members present to act as officers. This condition could be
remedied if the Master of the Lodge would appoint a committee whose duty
it would be to attend the funeral services of all sojourning brothers, whom the
Lodge has been requested to bury. · This committee should be composed of
brethren who can leave their business worries behind, when the call comes.
We have such members in all of our Lodges who would be perfectly willing
to act on such an important committee if the need were explained to them.
It is not so much neglect on the part of the members as it is thoughtlessness.
I do not make these remarks in a spirit of criticism, but with the hope that
Masters will give serious thought to the subject and will attempt to overcome
a sad condition.

To make personal mention of all who have so generously and wholeheartedly cooperated with me this year would take reams of paper an~ would
require hours ·of reading. Therefore let me say that I deeply appreciate the
honor conferred and hope I have, in some small measure, proven worthy of
vour confidence.
Respectfully submitted,
LESLIE E. ·Wooo,
Grand Lecturer.

430

Cost of Administering the New Plan
The best way to bring out the value of anything is through comparison.
For that reason alone, I make the following statement of facts. The Assistant
Grand Lecturers and I have covered more than seventeen thousand miles
throughout the length and breadth of this grand jurisdiction in the performance of our duties. Our expense accounts have totaled less than eighteen
hundred dollars. Under the former plan of a full time Grand Lecturer the
expense to Grand Lodge was approximately seven thousand two hundred
dollars; fifty-four hundred dollars salary and a traveling expense averaging
eighteen hundred dollars. This shows a saving of approximately five thousand
four hundred dollars over the former system.
Conclusion
May I say in closing that I have endeavored to make a comprehensive
report of my activities as Grand Lecturer during the past year without taking
too much of the valuable time of this Grand Lodge. The duty assigned to me,
I have performed to the best of my ability, always having in mind the wishes
of this Grand oody.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master I wish to express my appreciation
for his kindness and hope that his year has been as pleasant and profitable to
him as my year has been to me.
To the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, Brother John Whicher, and
the members of his office, I am indebted for their many courtesies and kind
assistance. They have shown a willingness to help me on all occasiOns.
To the officers and members of the Lodges of the jurisdiction, I offer my
sincere thanks for their reception of me as Grand Lecturer and for the many
kindnesses they have displayed.
The Inspectors are deserving of the highest commendation and praise for
the work they are doing. Without them the efforts of any officer of Grand
Lodge would ·be in vain. They have given me every assistance and cooperation and have proven beyond doubt that without their services, Masonry in
this jurisdiction would be greatly handicapped. Under the present plan, the
Inspector must teach the ritual to .the officers of his district, as well as maintain a general supervision over the affairs of the Lodges. They have shown
their willingness and ability to do this and to them I acknowledge my
gratitude.
My association with the Assistant Grand Lecturers has been one of the
most pleasant experiences of the year. Aside from their ability as ritualists,
they possess in abundance that spirit of good fellowship and brotherly love
which makes their friendship something to be cherished through the years.

431

Referred to· the following Special Committee: Kent J. C.
Seymour, J. Lynn Goode, Harry A. Harper.

REPORT OF COMMIT.TEE ON MESSAGE OF THE
GRAND MASTER
To the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to which has been referred the Message of the Grand
Master, finds it, as all have anticipated, a worthy record of work well done
-creditable alike to the man, to his office, and to Grand L-Odge. It represents
a year of large activity in times of critical significance, and the record shows
no mean accomplishment.
·
We recommend that those portions of the Message which require specific
action be segregated and referred as follows :
T~ the Committee on Jurisprudence: Decisions numbered 1 to 18, both
inclusive.
Jointly to the Committee on Jurisprudence, and the Committee on Charters: Decision number 19.
Jointly on the Committee on Jurisprudence, and the Committee on P olicy
and General Purposes: That portion of the message deal.ing with "Objectionable Activities."
·
.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes: T hat portion of the
message dealing with "Masonic History."
To the Committee on Ritual : That portion of the message dealing with
"New Ritual Plan."
.
If time and the patience of Grand Lodge permitted, there ari; few ·~orhons
of the message which do n~t meri~ specia~ mention; however, ~e1the~ !1?1e nor
patience permit the exhaustive review which the Grand Masters act1v1t1es and
his message deserve.
.
. .
.
His references to the George Washington Memonal and to the conference
of Grand Masters at Washington, remind us of the extended scope of our
brotherhood· and of the necessity for united action. The memorial. is. not only
a tribute to the greatest Mason of his time, if not of all ages; it is equally
an inspiration to follow his ideals and his de.v?tion ~o love for God, t~ respect 'for the rights of fellow men., to g?Od c1hzensh1!>, and to those enltghtened institutions which are exemphfied m our Amencan system of !Fove~n­
ment. The conference of Grand Masters demon~trates ou~ far reach~ng influence, and the urgent necessity fo~ co-ordin~tmg . tha! mfl1;1ence, with ~e
responsibility which it .entails. In this co~ect1on his d1scuss10.n of Masomc
activities is peculiarly appropriate. Our ~eetmgs ai:e an appro~nate forum for
instructive and fraternal discussion of vital quest10ns by which '":"e are . c.onfronted · they cannot be used as a means for propaganda, or parhsan_.J?Oht1cs;
but the; may well be so conducted as to inspire not on~y. good. morals and. a
better understanding of our institution, but also good c1t_izensh1p and !he ~n­
culcation of that spirit which will guarantee the perpetuation of those ltberhes
for which our forefathers sacrificed their all.
His Teference to the responsibility and qualifications of Masters and
officers 0~ our lodges, and to the educational facilities afforded through our

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE ' OF CALIFORNIA

Officers' Associations, is timely. Adequate knowledge of tradition law and
ritual is essentia~, but ~?l~ss t~is knowledge is coupled with the me~tal equipment and executive ability which can make of law, tradition and ritual more
than an empty form, and through them lead rhe brethren ta use them for the
accomplishment of the purposes and possibilities of Masonry, an officer of the
Lodge lacks, the equipment which qualifies him to adequately discharge the
duties of his office. The time has come when serious consideration must ·be
gi:'~n b.y the craft t~ appropriate means for insuring the highest type of
ab1~1ty m office and, 1 f necessary to that end, the shortening of that line
which unfortunately has become traditional in California Lodges. If education
cannot bring a realization of the necessity for such procedure in the selection
of Lodge officers as will insure the installation' in office of the men who
represent the highest type of ability in the particular Lodge, the time may
come when some mandatory action on the part of Grand Lodge will be
required.

imperil the structure so patiently and painfully ·e rected through 'faith in God
and love for fellow man. Through our century and a half the courts of this
land, and above all the .Supreme Court · of the United States, have remained
an invincible bulwark between the rights of the individual and the temporary
and sometimes· passic.nate desire of the mass to encroach upon those rights;
when any man attacks, directly or indirectly, the integrity or ability of the.
courts of the land, or seeks to deprive us of our confidence in their efficiency,
he attacks the cornerstone of that foundation. · If the fundamentals of our
system must be changed, it should be only upon mature reflection and in the
exercise of sober judgment-reflection and judgment which cannot be accomplished either summarily or in a time of passion, prejudice or exigency.
Communism without and within find their common inspiration in · bigotry·
and intolerance, disregard for the lessons of history, disregard for freedom of
thought and action, and ·intolerance of that individual initiative which has
accomplished all we know of human progress.
The spirit of despotism pervades the world, Occidental and Oriental, and
creeps upon us here in free America. If we cannot withstand the attack of
the communist from without, if we cannot repulse insidious attacks from
within upon the fundamentals of American government with its checks and
balances which guarantee our individual freedom, the despotism of Japan and
Russia and Italy and Germany ultimately will flourish in that America which
we call free. Our Masonic institution counts its numbers by the million. In
its assemblages men of every degree meet upon "the level. It possesses toleration, understanding, sympathy and ideals. Potentially it is the greatest single
force to combat the attacks of the ignorant, the bigoted, the communist or the
despot. In such a time we must not fail.
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
OAKLEY K . MORTON,

. Each ~rand Master ·handle~ an extended amount of necessary routine,
which constitu~es the burden of his office; he realizes the pleasure .o f an untold
number of fi:1endships throughout the jurisdiction; the tributes which are
e?'~e??ed to him on every. hand, impress upon him the dignity and the respons1·b1hties of the honor which he has reecived, but through all the routine and
pleasure and honor, there is for a background in the mind of every worthy
Grand Master some purpose which he seeks to accomplish-some central
tho~ght which is hi.s ideal for the year, and through which he hopes to ieave
an impress upon his ·brethren and our institution which will justify his occupancy of high office. It requires no personal acquaintance with the present
Grand Master to read in his message the ideal which for twelve months has
inspired him, and the impress which he seeks to leave; it is one of the noblest
precepts of our order-good citizenship. In the concluding portion of the
message! the Grand Master discusses under several headings subjects which
~ppropi:iately may b~ classed
!hree divisions, and which are inextricably
mtertwmed-commurnsm, constitutional government and -bigotry.
. . J?isrespect for constituted authority and the protection of the rights of the
md1v1dual as they have been developed at untold cost of sacrifice and blood
through the centuries of our Anglo Saxon civilization, together with ruthless
dis:egard of that love for God which is the foundation of Free Masonry, and
which alone can beget that brotherhood which accomplishes freedom of
thought and action and personal peace among mankind, whether national or
international, this disrespect and disregard are cardinal virtues of the communist. The system of checks and balances of power and of guaranteed protection of the rights of the individual, though he be one man against a million
which has been written into the constitution of the United States constitute~
the most adequate declaration and defense of those principles which is to be
found in any document yet known to man. The man who would disregard
those constitutional guaranties, who through indirect action would deprive u;
of th~ir protection, who would rob them of their efficacy other than through
established prncedure, or who would subvert them through undue criticism of
those courts which declare their power and enforce their protection is
potentially, if not in fact, blood brother to the communist,' and should seek' his
happiness and exercise his activities in lands where methods of thought and
courses of action are more in accord with his own subversive purposes. Disrespect for law and disregard for the essentials of our scheme of constitutional government, go hand in hand. Our system of checks and balances of
power through three departments, legislative, executive and judicial, none of
which shall encroach upon the jurisdiction of the other, and the members of
all of which are duty bound to respect, observe and enforce that constitution
which all have sworn to uphold, is the foundation for a government which
has guaranteed individual freedom, and has brought happiness and prosperity
through a century and a half, a foundation which if ruthlessly removed will

!n

LLOYD

433

E. WILSON,
Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND SECRETARY'S
REPORT
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on the report of the Grand Secretary, submits the following report for your consideration:
It is refreshing to note in the first paragraph that California Masonry has
again resumed its forward march. Two new Lodges enter the ranks well
located. Candidates receiving the Master Mason Degree during the past year
show an increase of 395 over 1934. Affiliations from other jurisdictions increased by 57 over the preceding year. Not only did we secure considerable
new material, but restorations also show an increase of 103. T his shows consideration by the officers for those within the fraternity, who, for one reason
or another, have had difficulty. In a reorganization for an active program of
work, the way must be cleared, and those not interested, have withdrawn.
However, suspensions have decreased almost 1,000, as compared to 1934, which
just about equals the decrease in net loss. Remember, brethren, that Masonry
does not suspend a brother who has a bona fide desire to retain his membership.
The amendments dealing with the increase and decrease of dues and fees,
show that this question.is one to be dealt with only after careful consideration.
We recommend that the Grand Secretary's Report be segregated and
portions thereof be referred to the following committees :
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues: To Committee on Finance.
Budget: To Committee on Finance.
Shorter R oll Call : To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

New Lodges: To Committee on Charters.
Trial Records: To Committee on Grievances.
Life Memberships: To Committee on Jurisprudence.
Amendments to By-Laws: To Committee on By-Laws.
Unfinished Business: To Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
At the end of this report, we find a familiar name the owner of which
is loved and admired by Masons throughout our jurisdlction and beyond the
boundary lines of our Golden State. It is his able guiding hand and mind that
has helped to bring about these betterments we have just noted and his rich
experience that furnish the sound advice when needed.
'
This twenty-eighth annual report closes another year of his loyal service
to our debloved fraternity.

ANNUAL ORATION

434

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
OAKLEY K. MORTON,
LLOYD E. WILSON,

Adopted.

Committee.

435

By Ira F. Thompson

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers and Members of the Grand Lodge:
There can be no doubt that it would be interesting for us to review more
or less in detail the history of our well loved craft, and to elaborate upon the
part it has played in advancing the cause of civilization and the establishment
of liberty. But I entertain the notion, either correctly or err,oneously, that we
are confronted wit1- a problem of tremendous magnitude, not only deserving
but also commanding our most earnest and consecrated consideration. And while
I approach the task assigned to me in the spirit of humility, yet I am impressed
with the firm conviction that in these troubled times we should lay aside all
desire to speak in oratorical style, embellished with rhetorical flourishes and
ornamented with figures of speech, and should attempt within the limits of our
powers, in plain, blunt fashion, to declare those principles which niay help in
the solution of the problem mentioned.
The world seems all awry. Our fraternity stands condemned upon groundless accusations by those in charge of governmental affairs in two of the great
nations of the world. In another it is suppressed, if not quite extinguished.
It seems at times as though many men in whom we ought to repose confidence
have lost the capacity for straight, clear thinking and that, in the prophetic
words of Scripture, our "old men . . . dream dreams" while "our young men
. . . see visions." In fact, confusion of thought and an amazing response to
every appeal to the passions and prejudices characterize the years. What we
have been told constituted the "wisdom of the ages" is questioned and we are
almost torn loose from our moorings. There is a school of propaganda (I
decline to call it thought) which embraces every opportunity to stir up envy
and hatred. It preaches a doctrine abhorrent to Masons, of distinctions between
men, setting up class against class. Denying the existence of the Great Architect
of the Universe, they constitute materiality and material things their God, and
upon this basis deny the importance of the individual except as an adjunct or
chattel of the State. Under the guise of what would otherwise be laudable
peace movements or movements for youth or class betterment, they insinuate
their Godless doctrine and hate messages among the very elect of the people.
And the credulity of man stands appallingly revealed. Out of the darkness of
envy, hatred, suffering, false promises and Godlessness we seem to hear the cry:
Is there no truth? Is there no such thing as the great power of goodi charity,
brotherly love and tolerance? Is the doctrine that it is man's birthright to be
free, and adoring his great Creator, to so develop and mold his character that
he shall be ready to take his place in that spiritual building not made with
hands, to be overthrown?
The answer of Masonry to the first two questions is an emphatic "yes"
and to the last a calm and vigorous dissent. Coming down to us from the dawn
of civilization, gathering in its tireless quest for truth from the experiences and
meditations of men, it exhorts its devotees to stand still and contemplate the
miracle of miracles, the creation of the universe and all that is therein contained. The infinity of its extent, its order and grandeur, the tinted beauty of
the flower, the patient stateliness of great trees, the majesty of granite peaks,
the "still small voice" in man, and the loveliness of compassioned love, all bid
us have no doubt, that we are not the children of chance and caprice, but
creatures of an all-wise, omnipotent Father. An unknown poet has framed it in
·
this fashion :

l_; .

Our God has opened wide my eyes
To see the beauty of the skies.
The trees, the flowers that once seemed wondrous fair,
Have .now an added glory, and the rare

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sweet drifting perfume of fresh budding things
Lifts up my heart, until on joy-filled wings
I soar above the dreams of. mortal sense
And find in understanding recompense.
We agree, as did Aristotle, Plato and Newton, that we cannot understand
the universe without God, who, according to Holy Writ: "Stretcheth out the
north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing." (Job 26 :7.)
In truth, the conclusion ·is so inescapable that Masonry,• as its sole dogma;
requires its acceptance. With its acceptance, however, we establish the existence
of Truth, the principle of all created things.
We turn to inquire concerning the creature--man. Here we find no dogma,
unless we can say that because. we seek to impress through the medium of a
universal language the thought that man is largely the architect and master
workman of his own character, we dogmatically insist that man shall be free
to become, through the evolution of his own internal life and with the aid of
an almighty Parent, the master of his own destiny. Not dogmatically, but with
overpowering persuasiveness, we assert that men were not born-some to rulaand others to slave-but as children of a loving God, bound together by ties of
brotherly love and affection. In our ceremonies we require no man to kneel to
another as his superior. We assert only that he should kneel to his God for
guidance in the affairs of life-in the spirit voiced by that eminent member of
ou_r Order-philosopher and sage, Benjamin Franklin-when on an historic
occasion he addressed his fellow members of the Constitutional convention, in
these words: "I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the : longer I live, the more
convincing proofs I see of this truth: That God governs in the affairs of men.
And if a sparrow ·cannot fall to the ground without His notice, is it probable
that an empire can rise without His aid?. We have been assured, Sir, in the
Sacred Writings, that 'except the Lord build the House they labour in vain
that. b~ild it.' I firmly believe this; and I also believe that .without His concurring aid we shall succeed. in this political building no better than the builders
of Babel. We shall be divided by our little partial, local interests; our projects
will be confounded, and we ourselves shall become a reproach and a.byword down
to fu-~ure a,g,es, And what is worse, mankind may hereafter from this unfortunate
instance despair of establishing governments by human wisdom and leave. it to. ·
chance, war and. conquest." The power. of a great people is grounded in rever"
ence, good, charity, brotherly love and affection. Consider the divine something
in. the great friendships of fable and history, Hercules and Hy las, David · and
Jonathan, Pylades and Orestes,. Castor and Pollux, and D<i.mon and Pythias.
Contemplate the power of a few immortal · sentences vibrating with the compassionate wve of mankind to break the chains of despotism, free from slavery,
or establish justice. Masonry believes that the greatest good it can render is to
nourish and maintain this spiritual quality in our national life. It is our special
function, not only within ourselves, but within our young, to erect a strong
bulwark against the forces of hatred, materialism and bigotry. This is what
we are and should be engaged in doing. How?
"There is a story told
In Eastern ·tents, when autumn nights grow cold,
And round the fire Mongol shepherds sit,
With grave response listening unto it;
Once on the errands of his mercy bent,
Buddha, the holy and benevolent,
Met a fellow monster, huge and fierce of look,
Whose awful voice the hills and forest shook.
'O Son of Peace,' the giant cried, 'Thy fate
. Is sealed at last, and love shall yield to hate.'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

437

The unarmed Buddha, looking with no trace
Of fear or anger, in the monster's face,
In pity said: 'Poor friend, even thee I love/
Lo ! as he spake, the skytall terror sank
To handbreadth size; the huge abhorrence shrank
Into the form and fashion of a dove;
And where the thunder of its voice was heard,
Circling above him, sweetly sang the bird;
'Hate hath no harm for love,' so ran the song,
'And peace unweaponed conquers every wrong.' "
The quotation does not suggest that we should supinely relinquish principle.
The greatness of Masonry lies in the fact that it is founded in Truth and maintains its principles. It is evidenced by the fact that though natio~s rise and ~all,
and the greatest works of man crumble into dust, Masonry survives to contl?ue
its quest and inspire man with ideals of equality and liberty and hope of 1?1mortality. Its adherents have become illustrious because in times of necessity
they have undergone every "pain, peril" and "danger" to establish and protect
the opportunity of every man to serve the purpose of his earthly existence.
This is one of its principles-that man shall be privileged in his own way and
not in another's to serve his God, and to work forward toward that state of
perfection which will the better fit him to take his place in the life her~after.
If you please to put it in more prosaic words, that m_an sh~ll have the right. to
make of his life not a mere drab picture of material existence, but a thmg
beautiful, crowded with constructive achievement, full of compassion and kindness, a picture to be remembered with joy by friend and kin. To be still mo:e
practical, it is interesting to .observe from a survey of those who lead 1.n
enterprise in this country of ours what a great percentage embarked on their
prosent vocation as a matter of necessity and in their bar_e feet, .so to speak.
In this connection, let me make use of one further illustration. Several
years ago I was sitting, meditating on the beauty of a grove of trees sp;ead
out before my eyes. For some reason, I observed that each tree was entirely
different from every other. And my mind went back to boyhood days, when
I would cut a limb suitable to be shaped into a sled runner, and then search for
days, weeks and even months for another sufficien~~y similar to _be fashioned
to match the first. I could not resist the thought: How much hke man they.
are. Each has a different shape, different limbs, different form, yet each is a
delight to the eye as is the composite whole. How impossible and foolish it
would be to attempt to compress each majestic tree into a set mold and form."
Still more impossible it · is to seek to restrict man to a given pattern.
A corollary to the foregoing principle is the fact that one man cannot
wear the character vesture of another. He cannot have what he does not merit,
by his own labor and experience. He who would share with us the wages of
nourishment, inspiration and joy must become a laborer in the house. He cannot
take spiritual verities by force, nor attempt it without bringing down upon
himself catastrophic consequences. What he cannot do by force he cannot
accomplish by fraud or deceit. There is just one avenue--that by earnest
application and endeavor to divest himself of the vices and superfluities of life
and to invest himself with the charitable and true.
Man however was not created to live unto himself, but as a member of
society. 'The prin~iple applicable to the growth and development of his life
and character must be allowed to prevail with equal force with every other
member. We discover through Masonry the true basis of fellowship. We
learn that men "the high and the low, the rich and the poor,'' are all created
by the same almighty parent. We determine that one of. the. greatest. se;vic~s
one can render to his Maker was voiced by the same Beniamm Franklm m his
daily prayer, in these words: "0 ! Powerful Goodness! Bountiful Father I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Merciful Guide! Increase in me that wisdom which discovers my truest interest! Strengthen my resolutions to perform what that wisdom dictates!
Accept my kind offices to Thy other children as the only return in my power
for Thy continual favors to me!" Society so organized and governed rests
upon the cement of tolerance and justice. It extends to the individual the right
to be the master-workman of his own character, restrained only by the rule that
every other member shall have a similar privilege. Resting on such a foundation
classes and distinctions have no place, and bigotry and hatred are outlawed.
Trouble comes when men insist that the principle be applied for their benefit,
but refuse to apply it to themselves for the benefit of others.
As Masons, we are grateful and have a right to point with pride to the
part played by our brethren of former years, in the sanguinary struggle to
establish a government, the declared purpose of which was to protect these
inalienable rights with which man is endowed by his Creator. To effect such
a noble purpose, however, was not the work of a few years, but the culmination
of the labors of liberty-loving men over hundreds - yes, thousands of years.
We have enjoyed its blessings-perhaps at times unconscious of the toil," the
sacrifice, and the bloodshed it entailed. Is it possible that, because we have
not been denied its bounties and the beneficence of freedom, we have become
blind to its worth? Such a state of affairs is possible.
From these observations, it follows that the individual is not static. As a
Mason, he has been instructed in the progressive art. He must progress or go
. backward. As it is with the individual, so it is with society. For centuries
man has craved to be supplied with power in order to be relieved of drudgery.
Power has been given to him in abundance. It seemed as though his energies
were to be loosed for greater achievement in the mental field, the sciences,
philosophy, literature and the arts. But like the children of Israel, when being
delivered by Moses from the bondage of Egypt, we hear the plaint: "Would
to God we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt when we
sat by the flesh pots, and when we did eat bread to the full." The Israelites
went forward to safety and their destiny. Whether we go forward or back. ward will depend upon our devotion to the ideals which have brought us thus
far in our journey. It stands to reason that the genius which was about to
deliver man from the bonds of drudgery will also carry him forward to his
destiny, if we but have the fortitude to abide by those principles, which are as
eternal as the Deity himself.
We dare not, however, prophesy the future. We know not whether another
overturning must be endured before He comes whose right it is to reign. We
· have no way of forecasting whether ground won will be lost, to be retraced
at a future time with great tribulation and bleeding footsteps, or whether we shall
with faces toward the Light continue to go forward. Only this much do we
know-that some day, either now or later, the Spirit of Masonry-the Truthfinding expression in the lives and character of our Brethren will rise triumphant
to carry him forward to the place where justice and brotherly love prevail, and
know no envy, no hatred, no tyranny.

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
REPORT OF TRUSTEES

438

The Grand Secretary, on motion carried by unanimous vote,
was directed to cause the oration, together with the message of
the Grand Master and a summary of the proceedings of this
communication to be printed, and a copy sent to every Grand
Jurisdiction with which we are in fraternal accord and to all
Lodges of our jurisdiction.

43<)

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
We report herewith the condition and ope_ration of the Homes for the
fiscal ye..r ended July 31, 1935; and the list of residents as of August
30, 1935.
Immediately after the close of Grand Lodge in October, 1934, the
board organized as required by our ·1aw, as follows:
President, Charles M. Wollenberg (term expires 1938).
Vice-President, John Stewart Ross (1935).
Samuel E. Burke (1936).
·
Chas. Albert Adams (1937).
Earl Warren, Deputy Grand Master.
Rollie W. Miller, Senior Grand Warden.
James Thomas Fraser, Junior Grand Warden.

Rules and Regulations
One of the first matters which engaged the attention of the board
(other than the transaction of routine business) was a revisi~n of our rules
and regulations governing admission to. the Homes .. The ~>nmary ~urpo~e
was that they should be in such form as would make a d1ffere~ce m their
interpretation unlikely, and could be used by any ~odge to defimtel)_' determine whether or not a member or dependent relative could . be admitted. to
the Homes. It was also believed advisable that th~ practices and policy
with respect to outside relief should be formulated mto rules. .
.
,
In the report made in 1899 by the Trustees of the Mas~mc Widows
and Orphans' Home (of whom the Trustees of the M~somc Homes of
California are by the Constitution made the successors), 1t was stated that
a copy of the rules adopted by the Trustees ~as annexed to. the report a~d
made a part thereof "for the purpose of makmg the Fratermty more familiar with the rules of the Home." Not merely for tha.t purp~sfie, b ut .a~.wetll
also with the hope and desire that Grand Lodge will s?ec1 ca11Y m 1ca e
the policy which should be pursued by the Trustees. with respec~ to an!
rule which does not meet with its approval, we submit the followmg revision of the rules heretofore in force :
HOME }' QR AGED--RULES GOVERNING ADMISSION

To be eligible for admission to the Masonic Home for Aged the applicant must be:
(a) A Master Mason who for at least five years preceding the. dat~ of
application has been continuously a member m good standing m a
Lodge in this jurisdiction, or
(b) The wife of such a Master Mason, or
(c) The widow of one who was such a Master Mason at the time of
his decease.
Applicants must be in destitute circumstances, unable to earn a li".elihood because of age or permanent physical disability, and without relatives
who can be compelled by law to support them. It is not the purpose. of the
Home to relieve children of their moral and !~gal duty to care for t?e1r aged
parents. If there be children who cannot entirely support an. applicant and
he or she is 011 that account admitted to the Home, they will be expected
to aid. financially in maintaining the applicant in the Home to the full extent
of their ability.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

440

441

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
OUTSIDE RELIEF

Applicants must be of good character, of sound mind, of temperate
habits, and not addicted to the use of narcotics. They must be free from
contagious or communicable disease. They must be in sufficiently good
health not to require nursing or other personal attention.
Before entering the Home, and as a condition precedent to admission,
every applicant must transfer and convey to the Masonic Homes of California all property by him owned, or to which he may be or become
entitled. The transfer and conveyance shall be in such form as the Trustees
may require.
The Lodge must see that every applicant admitted to the Home is
furnished with suitable wearing apparel on admission and must agree to
keep such applicant decently and properly . clothed while a resident ·therein,
and to pay the necessary funeral expenses in case of death while a resident.
Each Lodge in the jurisdiction may have maintained at the Home for
Aged two residents without charge, and one additional resident for each
three hundred members or fraction thereof in excess of three hundred, on
the roll of the Lodge. For each resident in excess of the quota allowed a
charge will be made in an amount fixed from time to time by the Board of
Trustees.
HOME FOR CHILDREN-RULES GOVERNING ADMISSION

A child to be eligible for admission to the Masonic Home for Children
must be the child of a Master Mason of a Lodge in this jurisdiction:
. (a) Who has been a member in good standing continuously for not
less than five years next prior to application, or
(b) Who is in good standing at the date of application and who is
totally incapacitated, either mentally or physically, or
(c) Who is dead and was in good standing at the time of his decease.
The child must furthermore be in circumstances of need and dependency, so that the relief sought is necessary to procure for it those benefits
which are commonly recognized as the necessities of childhood. If there be
a surviving parent, he or she will be required to aid financially in maintaining the child in the Home to the full extent of his or her ability.
The child must be normal, or approximately normal. The Trustees will
exclude children who are mentally defective or who have shown tendencies
toward delinquency or whose physical condition in their judgment renders
them unfit for membership. The child must be old enough to attend the
public schools in the first grade. As a general thing, children over fourteen
will not be admitted, but the Trustees may receive children of older age in
exceptional cases if they think the circumstances justify . .
BOTH HOMES-RULES GOVERNING ADMISSION

Applications for admission to the Homes must come through and from
the Lodge.
The Trustees shall have the right to reject any application, even though
it seems to fall within the letter of the rules, if in their opinion the granting
of the same would result in advantage being taken of the fraternity. Evidence of membership having been taken with design to benefit from the
charity or under circumstances which rendered it probable that charitable
aid would be required shall be reason for rejecting an application.
Under such conditions, and subject to such rules and regulations as
may from time to time be made by the Trustees, any applicant who is a
member of a Lodge in this jurisdiction, or who is the wife, widow, mother;
child, or grandchild of any such member, or of any deceased member who
at the tirhe of his death is eligible for admission, and for whom no provision is hereinabove made, when in the sound judgment of the Trustees the
circumstances presented justify such action, may be admitted to the Homes
or receive outside relief.

Instead of admission to the Homes, outside relief may be granted in
cases where, in the opinion of the Trustees, applicants can be better or
more economically cared for outside the Homes.
Outside relief may be granted only to:
(a) Those eligible for admission to the Homes, or
(b) Those who are otherwise qualified but who are inadmissible by
reason of disease or physical or mental infirmity, or
. .
(c) Children who are otherwise qualified but who are under the m1111mum age for admission.
In determining the amount of outside relief consideration shall be
given to the possibility of aid from relatives who can be compelled by law
to contribute, as well as the possibility of securing aid from any other
sources, public or private.
It is not the policy to give outside relief for temporary needs, such
relief being the duty of the Lodge direct.
CONDITIONS OF CONTINUATION OF MEMBERSHIP OR RELIEF

Any applicant having been admitted to either Home under a misrepresentation or concealment of facts, or who does not reasonably comply
with the regulations established for their government, or whose conduct may
be detrimental to good order and discipline, or whose responsible relatives
fail to give proper cooperation, may in the discretion of the Trustees be
discharged therefrom.
All residents will be expected to conform to all rules and regulations,
and cheerfully to do such work and perform such duties as the Superintendents of the Homes may assign to them.
Parents or other responsible relatives of children in the Home for
Children are expected to recognize the undivided authority of t~e ~o?1e
over the child during his residence therein, and to cooperate fully m g1vmg
and securing observance of all its rules and regulations.
Whenever the circumstances of parents or responsible relatives improve so that they may be expected to resume care, the child will b.e discharged. Continuance of any child's membership beyond the age of sixteen
is contingent upon annual reappointment by the Trustees.
The Trustees will secure information periodically concerning the status
of each beneficiary of outside relief, and will modify or discontinue relief
as dictated by changing circumstances.
While much of this revision is simply the formulation as a rule of the
practices and policy which with the approval of Grand Lodge has been long
pursued, there are three important changes which we believe. should be
specifically called to the attention of Grand Lodge, together with the reasons therefor.
The first is with respect to the time a Master Mason must have been
continuou~ly a member in . good standing of a Lodge in this jurisdiction.
Originally the only requirement was for good standing in a Lod~e in this
jurisdiction at the time of the application (or in the case of a widow that
her husband must have been in good standing at the time of his death).
Some time thereafter the Board of Trustees adopted a rule requiring co'1tinuous membership for a period of at least five years; but later the period
was shortened to three years. The Trustees believe it advisable that we
should now return to the five-year requirement and for the following
reasons:
The attention of Grand Lodge has been heretofore called to the increased demands being made upon our Homes; and for the last two years

442

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

it has been more than ever apparent. It is due of course to two causes
closely related: first, an increase in the number of those in need of relief
because of the economic condition and consequent unemployment; and,
secondly, to the very natural disposition on the part of the Lodges to
request admission to the Home for those for whom under other circumstances the Lodges would themselves provide. In more than one instance
an application was received from one who could not be properly termed
an aged Mason, but for whom it seemed necessary to provide relief of a
permanent nature . .
Your Trustees have given long and serious thought to this problem
and have even considered the advisability of recommending that the Trustees be instructed by Grand Lodge to fix an age limit. There are, however,
many instances (a'nd they are becoming more frequent) where the applicants, although under the age Grand Lodge would probably instruct the
Trustees to fix, are nevertheless because of their age without employment.
Theirs is not merely a temporary unemployment because they will probably never again be able to become self-supporting; and some of these
applicants have held continuous membership in their Lodges for many
years in excess of our present requirement.
Your Trustees were therefore of the opinion that instead of fixing
an age limit it would be better to return to the five-year membership
requirement.
· The second of the changes to which we have referred excludes the
mother of a Master Mason from those who as a matter of right are eligible
for admission, and places her in · the same category as the grandchild of a
Master Mason who is dependent upon him for support. The question of
whether or not the mother of a Master Mason as such is entitled to admission to the Home has long been a debated question; and even your Trustees are not all in accord with the change from what has been for many
years the uniform policy of the Board. But all are agreed that there should
be some definite pronouncement by Grand Lodge in the form of an instruction to the Trustees which will definitely settle the question.
The last of the important changes is that which specifically gives the
Trustees the discretion which they have always exercised to administer the
rules so that their literal enforcement will not in the opinion of the Trustees defeat the evident purpose of their enactment; and that the Trustees
may at the same time protect the Homes and the Craft against imposition.
This discretion has apparently been exercised by every Board of Trustees
since 1898, when the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home adopted their rules, the second and seventeenth of which
read as follows: ·
"2. The Board of Trustees reserves the right to reject any person
nominated." (The nomination was by the Lodge.)
"17. The Board of Trustees may admit to the Home Masons, their
wives, widows or orphans, not covered by the foregoing regulations upon
such terms as they may deem best."
It simply enables the Trustees in the administration of this great
charity of Grand Lodge to have ever in mind the spirit, rather than the
letter, of the law. The Trustees are not all in accord in this matter and
again we ask Grand Lodge for its determination.
There is also a change in the rules governing admission to the Home
at Covina which dispenses with. the five-year membership requirement
where the father is in good standing at the date of the application but who
is totally incapacitated either mentally or physically, or who is dead and
was in good standing at the tiine of his decease. This is intended to cover
only extraordinary cases where in any event the Trustees would be disposed in the exercise of their discretion to admit the applicant even though

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

443

the five-year requirement were lacking. The membership of the father,
however, might have been for such a very short time that the admission of
the child might possibly be questioned as an abuse of the discretion vested
in the Trustees. It was therefore deemed advisable to make a rule covering
such cases, an example of which would be where the applicant was a child
whose father had been suddenly killed or totally incapacitated as the result
of an accident which had occurred perhaps only a few montjis, or even
weeks, after he had been made a Master Mason.
The rules with respect to outside relief, as has been intimated, effect
no change in the policy by which your Trustees have been governed.
They have learned from long experience that in many instances deserving Masons and their dependents who are in dire need are not physically or mentally eligible for admission to the Home and that the Lodges
of which they· are ~embers are unable to maintain them. Likewise in many
cases there are dependent children entitled to our care whose needs cannot
well be met in the Covina Home, and ·whom it is therefore desirable to
care for by the outside relief method. These include children in need of
special physical treatment, or those of nervous condition who do not thrive
as members of a large group, or older children who need special vocational
treatment not available at Covina. Modern social methods hold that poverty alone is not a sufficient reason to remove a child from its mother,
even to the best institution; and we have found in numerous instances that
children .can be well cared for with their mothers if . outside relief is given.
In such cases as we deem advisable, we shall, unless otherwise instructed
by Grand Lodge, continue the practice of caring for some of our wards by
outside placement.
Problems in Care of Aged and the Children
There is naturally a great contrast between the Home and the activities at Decoto, and that at Covina. The problems confronting the Trustees
in the caring for the aged and for the children differ widely.
At Decato, where we maintain our aged, our problem is to make the
last days of our brethren comfortable, to furnish them with those things
which will make life happier. It is our endeavor, by providing plain and
sim1Ple diet, recreation and diversions, by keeping alive interest among the
brethren. of our big family, to make a contented group of those who have
found it necessary to accept our Home.
We have endeavored to impress upon the members of our family at
Decato not only the agreement upon entering, to do those small things for
the benefit of the institution which their strength will permit them to do,
but also that if it is truly to be a home, they, as members of the family, are
obligated each to do his or her share.
The majority of our people have met this obligation cheerfully and, as
a result, are happy and contented in their surroundings. It is to be expected, however, that there will always be those who cannot adjust themselves to the conditions imposed by the necessity of maintaining order in a
·
large institution.
At Covina, our problem is quite different. There we are preparing
boys and girls to take the places that we now occupy. This means, as it
does in your home, the daily arising of new problems as the bodies and
minds of our children develop to maturity. We are proud of the results
here obtained.
At both Homes we have endeavored to keep up their physical condition and at the same time practice economy. Expenditures on buildings
and grounds have been kept at the minimum, yet our property has not
been allowed to deteriorate. Replacements of equipment have been made
only where absolutely required. In a year or two, however, we are going to

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

face increased expenditures both in the maintenance of buildings and
replacements of equipment.

possible disappointment. The Home disapproves expensive gifts; the parent or relative who can provide these should be applying that money · to
help support the child in the ·Home. The total value of Christmas gifts
which any child may receive from all sources outside the Home is limited
·
to $10.00; no birthday gift may cost more than $2.00.
9. Articles of clothing may not be given to children who are held
responsible for buying their own clothing with the proceeds of their earnings at the Home.
10. The Home reserves the right to censor all incoming and outgoing
mail of the children.

444

Relationship of Children With Friends and Relatives
For many years the contacts of children in the Home with their relatives and friends has been subject to but little restriction. Our experiem·e
has indica~ed that undivided responsibility is essential in the Home management, and that more careful regulation in these matters is desirable if
the best interests of the children are to be considered. In pursuance of this
thought, investigation was made as to the practices of all the other
Masonic Homes in the United States governing the visits made to the
children at the Homes, visits made by children away from the Homes,
gifts to children, etc. The information thus gained, together with our own
experience, led to the adoption by us of more precise regulations regarding
these matters. They are as follows:
1. The Home requires that it shall have full and undivided authority
so long as the child shall be in its care. Parents or responsible relatives
may talk with or write to the Superintendent concerning the child's progress or problems connected therewith; and matters thus brought up in a
proper way will receive careful consideration; but they will not be permitted to dictate or make demands regarding the manner in which the
Home shall care for their children.
2. Parents or relatives, with the approval of the Superintendent, may
visit their children, not oftener than once a week, at such hours as the
children may be free to receive such visits. The Home reserves the right
to limit or forbid the visits of any person.
Any person desiring to visit a child shall come first to the office for a
visitor's permit, and shall observe the directions thereon. If referred to a
child's residence building, the visitor shall report on arrival to the houseparent in charge. No visitor may go at any time to the sleeping roon;i·s of
children without securing special permission from the' houseparent immediately before such visit.
3. A child may not be taken from the Home premises by any person
without permission of the houseparent, and when so permitted to go must
be returned at snch time as directed.
4. Visiting relatives desiring to take meals with children may do so,
so far as the accommodations of the Home will permit, first securin~
tickets at the office at a charge of twenty-five cents per meal.
5. Leaves of absence. All visits of children to relatives or friends shall
be subject to the approval of the Superintendent, who will require satisfactory evidence that the place and circumstances of the visit are suitable
and proper. The maximum amount of time a child may spend away from
the Home in any one year is thirty days. Children may not be absent from
the Home during any vacations except the summer vacation. Week-end
visits to practicable distances may be allowed once in six weeks.
6. Requests for visits may be made either in person at the office or by
letter to the Superintendent, and should be made well in advance of the
time of the visit. Requests for visits should not be made through the
children or in letters to the children. All transportation expenses must be
paid by relatives in advance.
7. No money may be given directly to any child at any time. Money
intended for children's use must be left at the office, where it will be
placed to the child's credit and spent subject to the knowledge and approval of those in charge.
·
8. All gifts must be submitted for the approval of the houseparent
before being given to the child. It is better to secure this approval before
the gift is purchased and before the child is informed of it, thus avoiding

445

Responsibility of Lodges
From time to time, in our annual reports, we have called attention to
the indifference of Lodges in the matter of looking after children who
have been honorably dismissed from the Home. This is a matter that
should be brought definitely to the attention of the members of all Lodges.
We will cite two cases : In June, 1935, a boy, 17 years old, was graduated
from high school at Covina and dismissed from the Home. He returned to
his mother, who made a scant living as a clerk in a department store. The
boy is mentally keen and physically strong. The Trustees requested the
Master of the Lodge of which the boy's father was a member to advise the
members generally of the neces,:;ity of finding employment for him. Nothing whatever was done in this behalf other than to cause the lad's name to
be registered with the Masonic Employment Bureau. The boy is yet
unemployed. The Lodge has a membership of more than three hundred,
among whom we are loath to believe that not one of them could find gainful emplyment for the son of a deceased brother.
Another case is that of a boy who also was dismissed from the Home
by reasons of graduation arid returned to his Lodge. His mother is living
on public relief. The Master of the Lodge of which the boy's father had
been a member promptly appointed a committee to find employment. That
community was hard hit by hordes of idle men and women, and it was not
an easy matter to place this boy. However, the committee industriously
interviewed the membership and finally succeeded in securing employment
for him, and he is now happy as a self-supporting young man. We coinmend the energetic Masonry displayed by the Master of this Lodge and
his members.
Bequests
'The policy of your Board with relation to gifts and bequests is that in
addition to specific bequests for the endowment fund, all bequests to the
Masonic Homes of California, except those for a particular purpose, shall
be allocated to the endowment fund. Donations from eight bequests have
been received in the last fiscal year, all of which have been credited to the
endowment fund. They are as follows:
Estate of H. L. Harland, Sincerity Lodge No. 132....... :.... $158.02
Estate of Oliver C. Moore, Temple Lodge No. 14.............. 500.00
Estate of August F. Schleicher, King Solomon's Lodge
No. 260 .................................................................................... 250.00
Estate of Harry Seibel, Petaluma Lodge No. 180................ 300.00
Estate of Joseph D. Abrams, Fidelity Lodge No. 120 ...... 1,000.00
Estate of John Sinclair (by Les. Renaker) ......... :................. · 53.15
Estate of Peter Brown, Redondo Lodge No. 328................
21.54
Estate of William P. Jeffries, Southern California Lodge
No. 278 .................................................................................... 1,000.00
Total bequests for the year ........................................ $3,282.71 ·

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Scholarship Donations
The only contributions received this year for the benefit of the scholarship account (other than interest on previous bequests) were as follows:
Taft Lodge No. 516................................................................ ~ ...........$50.00
Mc Cloud Lodge No. 430 ...............................................................c•••• 25.00
Frank G. Watson ............................................ :................................... 136.00
The following graduates of the Home are participating in the benefits
of the scholarship fund:
Sidney Schwartz, West Gate Lodge No: 335; attending medical school.
Nancy Powell, Silver Gate Lodge No. 296; taking a course in business
training.
Martha Marks, Whittier Lodge No. 323; attending Knapp College of
Nursing, Santa Barbara.
Anita Bailey, Le Progres de !'Oceanic Lodge No. 371, who was graduated from the Home in June, 1934, has completed a course in secretarial
work, and is now gainfully employed.
Vaughn Taylor, Woodstock Lodge No. 491, was graduated from business college in the spring of 1935, and is now in steady employment.
Improvements at Home for Aged
In May of this year we caused to be installed at the Home · for Aged
three No. 2 · gasamatic burners in the ki.tchen, at a cost of $207.56, to
replace the oil burners. This not only is cleaner but has resulted in a fuel
expense saving for cooking.
Finances
Notwithstanding the increased cost of all supplies and foodstuffs in
the year just closed, our treasury is in good condition. At the close of the .
fiscal year ended July 31, 1934, the Homes had a cash balance of $24,000.00.
In September, 1934, we repaid to the endowment fund the sum of $25,000.00, which was reported to Grand Lodge in October last. Since then we
have repaid an additional $25,000.00. The amount yet due the endowment
fund is $175,000.00. The returns of the Lodges for the year ended July 31,
1935, give every indication that the revenues for the Homes for the coming
year will exceed last year, and that without any increase in the per capita
tax, a substantial payment can again soon be made in reimbursemept to
the endowment fund.
The cost of the operation of the Covina Home, including the farm
connected therewith, for the past ten years has averaged $88,000.00 a year;
the cost last year was a trifle over $82,000.00; this year the cost in round
figures was $86,000.00, which in fact is a decrease in the expense of operation, when we take into account the necessity of replacing the hot water
plant, replacements of carpets in several buildings, and an increase in the
number of surgical cases requiring operative care in outside hospitals.
The farm connected with the Home has always been a source of
expense, the average deficit for the last ten years being $3,530.00; and for
the last year this was reduced to $1,438.00. The farm operations include
ten acres of citrus fruit, a dairy, a piggery, and a poultry plant. We have
regarded the operation of the farm as worth while, because it furnishes an
outlet for the activities of the older boys, and also because it supplies the
children with a dependable quality of first grade milk.
Children can be cared for more cheaply than is being done at Covina,
but in counting cost, consideration must be given to the kind of care
afforded. We do not believe Masonry in California desires to do the cheapes~ job possible at our Covina Home. Investigation assures us that our
expenditures compare favorably with those of other institutions giving the
same grade of care.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

447

We have a system of paying older children for work done by them,
requiring them in turn to purchase their own clothing and incidentals from
their earnings. Some of the more industrious youngsters earn enough to
enable them to buy luxuries that would not be given to them in an ordinary orphanage. It takes a considerable amount of clerical service to keep
the accounts of this system. While there is no doubt of the great practical
value of this training, it is necessarily somewhat expensive to operate.
During the past year more than eight per cent of our expenditure has
been on the health program. Here is another item that can be done more
thoroughly or less thoroughly. While we have omitted some things that
might have been desired, on the whole the physical care of our children
has been much better than in the average institution. Thorough physical
examinations on entrance, followed by appropriate treatment, medical, surgical and nursing, bring remarkable improvements. Follow-up of our wards
after discharge shows that the benefits brought about in this way are
lasting.
At the Decato Home there has been an increased cost, due to the
advance of prices of foods generally.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG, President,
JoHN STEWART Ross, Vice-President,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
EARL WARREN,
ROLLIE W. MILLER,
JA!-IES T. FRASER, Trustees.

Report of Auditors

To the Board of Tru91ees, Masonic Homes of California:
In accordance with the authorization of the Finance Committee, we
have made a general audit and examination of the books of account of the
Masonic Homes of California, giving particular attention to a verification
of the balance sheet as at July 31, 1935. Sufficient examination .and testing
of detailed revenue and expense accounts was made as to satisfy ourselves
as to fhe correctness of the accounting. We present herewith the following
financial statements:
Statements of Accou1itability for Fimds and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
.Exhibit B: Balance Sheet-General Fund, July 31, 1935.
Schedule B-1: Summarized Statement of Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-2: Summarized Statement of Students' Loan Fund.
Schedule B-3: List of Securities,, Notes Receivable, and Insurance Policies-General Fund (2 pages).
Schedule B-4: Composition of Special Trust Funds and Residents'
Deposits.
Statements of Revenue and Expense and Operation
Exhibit C: Summary Statement of Revenue and Expense (general).
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Decato-less
sundry direct revenue received.
Schedule D-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in detail at Decato.
Exhibit E: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina-less
sundry direct revenue received.
Schedule E-1: Distribution of Operating Expense in detail at Covina.

449

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

COMMENTS
Securities, Notes Receivable and Real Estate, Etc.:
All of the general securities listed under Schedule B-3 have been
received by donation. The stated or book value represents the value placed
upon the securities at the time of donation. Where the security is unlisted
or closely held or of uncertain value, it has been entered at a nominal value
solely for purposes of record.
Notes receivable values represent the unpaid portion of notes receivable on hand. The letter "S'.' (Schedule B-3) indicates those notes secured
by real estate. Insurance policies, received mainly from residents of the
Homes, have been listed on the books at the face or value recoverable at
death of the insured, as a matter of record.
Securities contained within the Student Loan Fund (Schedule B-2)
are stated at cost, with the exception of the 100 shares of Masonic Temple
Association received by donat ion, which is valued at par on the books.
Approximately 40 parcels of real estate have been received by donation. These have increased during the past few years from a relatively
small number of parcels. Beginning A ugust 1, 1934, this property has been
set up on the books at the assessed value per tax bills, for record purposes.
The total assessed value amounts to $24,205.00, as per Exhibit B.
General:
A memorandum account has been opened in the general ledger which
records the amounts reported in the Annual Proceedings from 1912 to
1934 for account of the Building Fund tax plus additions for the current
year. Total collections are $1,155,143.75 and total expenditures for buildings, improvements, etc., are $2,244,961.29.
During the current fiscal year there was collected $24,689.08 as income
from interest and dividends on Endowment Fund cash and securities. Of
this amount $914.42 represents the portion of the premium recovered.
Under the method of accounting, Endowment bonds are recorded on the
books at cost, including premium, without annual deductions therefrom.
The amount of $914.42 is being transferred to the Ertdowment Fund after
the date of this report.
A consolidation of Masonic Homes funds, or consolidated balance
sheet, so-called, shows the following:
.
Values per Books
General Fund-Exhibit · B ....................................................$2,333,045.21
Students' Loan Fund-Schedule B-2................................
41,415.18
Special Trust Funds-Schedule B-4:
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund ..................................
28,800.00
1,496.01
Gloria Benjamin Fund ........................................................
Residents' deposits ........................................................... .
2,493.59

Exhibit A.
Secretary's Report
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1934:
·
In banks ····-···-····-···«...:. ... -., ................- .. ·~·->--···· ..-·,.····--······-····-···-$ 24,759.52
Petty cash funds, Decato and Covina.................................................... 1,000.00
Receipts
From revenue accounts :
From annual returns :
Home maintenance tax..........................$ 94,027.55
Home building tax.................................. 62,704.20
$25.00 Home tax .............................,........ 63,225.00 $219,956.75

448

Endowment fund interest and .dividends ........................
Interest on endowment fund note ....................................
General maintenance-credits
From bequests ........................................
534.16
From subsidiary accounts...................... 18,568.32
(Including revenue derived from
general fund securities, real estate sales, rentals, etc.)
Special advances Lodges for Decoto........................... .
Special advances Lodges for Covina ............................
State aid for Covina.............................. ,...........................
Outside . relief (not eligible for Home relief)reimbursed through Grand Lodge......................... .
Sundry farm sales and rent-Decoto.............:............
Farm produce sales-Covina..................................,.......
Miscellaneous-Decoto ....................................................
Miscellaneous-Covina ....................................................
Other sundry revenue ....................................................... .
Funeral expense advances-<:redits ................................
From other accounts :
Entertainment fund receipts-<:redits ..........................
Students' loan fund receipts-credits ............................
Collections, miscellaneous receivablesCovina .................................:.......................................... ..

24,689.08
10,105.00
19,102.48

2,600.00
3,524.23
3,652.32
6,342.09
154.41
2,437.09
48.20
150.05
51.18
4,399.20
5,019.59
2,626.52
493.74

Total receipts ........ :........................................................... :.......................$305,351.93
Total ............... ,...................... :......................c •• •• •••• ••• •• ••• $2,407,249.99
The total book value of cash and securities of the Endowment Fund
per books ($823,539.97) is set out in Exhibit B of the separate Endowment
Fund report.
Subject to the foregoing, we certify that, in our opinion, the attached
statements, with exception as to the stated value of securities on hand,
sundry real estate, and the actual value of the fixed properties at Decoto
and Covina, set forth the condition of the Masonic Homes of California at
July 31, 1935. From a general review and examination of the records, we
are of the opinion that all receipts and disbursements are properly accounted for.
Respectfully submitted,
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

Total to account for ...............c......................................................................$331,1.11.45

Disburseme11ts
Expense accounts:
Operating expense-Decoto (maintenance) ....c••••••• $101,232.10
Opera ting expense-Covina ( maih tenance) .............. 86,541.62
Interest endowment fund note...................................... 10,105.00
Outside relief .................................................................. 43,539.78
Outside care of children-Covina..............................
1,108.20
General maintenance-debits from
subsidiary accounts ................................................ 3,386.34
(Including taxes, interest, and expense paid
out re properties held; and sundry life in-

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA·

surance premiums paid re W. and 0. funds.)
Funeral expense--debits ············-·····-·---··------····-·--········ 4,164.36
Headstone expense ......................................................... .
259.26
Administrative and general expense :
Taxes ..................................................$ 1,891.96
Insurance ..·................................•....... 3,868.72
Field "investigation expense............ 2,711.00
Secretary's salary ( 3 months) ..... .
375.00
General office accounting
( 3 months) ................................. .
202.50
Reimbursement Grand Lodge ...... 1,350.00
Trustees' expense ............................
483.44
300.00
Auditing ............................................
266.50
Safe keeping of securities, etc .... .
140.11
Miscellaneous ................................. .
34.04
11,623.27
Federal check tax ..........................
Other accounts :
Entertainment fund disbursements :
Decoto ........................................................ 2,606.32
Covina ........................................................ 2,698.46
Students' loan fund disbursements-Covina ................
Payments account of endowment fundN ates payable ................................................................
Miscellaneous receivables-Covina ................................

5,304.78
2,012.52
50,000.00
494.71

Total disbursements ........................................................................ 319,771.94
Cash balance July 31, 1935 ····-··············'······-·······,····················'.··········-······-$ 11,339.51

Composition of Balance
Anglo California National Bank (commercial acct.) .. $
Security First National Bank of Los Angeles
(commercial account)·········································-···········
Anglo California National Bank (endowment
interest account)-·-········--·-·················································
Security First National Bank-Pasadena ........................
Petty cash funds, Decoto and Covina ................................

111.44
8,474.62
326.33
1,427.12
1,000.00

Total .................................................,..................................................$ 11,339.51

Properties : (at cost)
Land, buildings and equipmentDecoto ·············-·········'"·····-·················· 1,782,392.41
Land, buildings and equipmentCovina .................................................... 606,093.98
Land and improvementsCamp Tucker...................................... 23,096.00 2,411,582.39
(No depreciation computed)
Stores and Supplies:
Decoto .......................................................... 4,109.30
Covina .......................................................... 2,493.84

6,603.14

Total assets .................................................................................... 2,514,131.88
Liabilities
Notes payable-Due endowment fund ................................ 175,000.00
Due other funds :
Entertainment fund .............................. 5,671.49
Student loan fund ....................................
415.18
6,086.67
Total liabilities ................................................................................ 181,086.67
Excess of assets over liabilities ......................................................$2,333,045.21

Capital Account
Net worth balance: August 1, 1934, prior report. .............................. :....$2,266,561.92
Add:
Donated securities received during
current year .......................................................... 9,288.66
Donated real estate set up at assessed value ...... 24,205.00
Sundry adjustment (Covina) ..............................
61.50
Excess of revenue over expenses 1934~35 .......... 36,410.91
69,966.07

Total
Deduct:
Adjustment Camp Tucker real estate sold 1933
Adjustment automobiles fully depreciated or
disposed of ..........................................................

2,336,527.99
2,000.00
1,482.78

N~t worth balance: July 31, 1935

Exhibit B.

3,482.78
$2,333,045.21

Note: Refer to opening comment as to basis of valuation of securities, real
estate, etc.
Schedule B-1.

BALANCE SHEET--<iENERAL FUND
JULY 31,

451

1935

Assets
Cash:
In banks ....................................................$ 10,339.51
Revolving funds, Decato and Covina.. 1,000.00

11,339.51

Securities, real estate, etc. (donated):
General fund securities
(Schedule B-3) .:................................ 59,931.58
Real estate (assessed value)................ 24,205.00

84,136.58

Total ······-·····································································································-$10,976.27
Disbursed during the year ................................................................................$ 5,304.78

Sundry receivables-Covina ........................................ :.....

470.26

Balance, July 31, 1935....................................................•..........;........................$ 5,671.49

SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31, 1935

Balance, August 1, 1934 (Due from General Fund) ........... :............ :.........$ 5,956.68
Receipts during the year.................................................................................... 5,019.59

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNfA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

452

Schedule B-2.
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935

Balance, August 1, 1935:
r98.82
Cash .<?ue the General Fund)·-···············-········-···-······$
Securities ............................................................................ 41,000.00

$40,801.18

R~ceipts during the year:

Earnings on securities...................................................... 2,080.52
General contributions ····················································-····
546.00

2,626.52

Total -··············:·-···:·····················································-···-················$ 43,427.70
Disbursements during the year:
Educational purposes .............................................................................~..$ 2,012.52
Balance, July 31, 1935 ················-·······.···- ························;...............................$ 41,415.18
Composition of fund
Cash ··········-'···-··········-····-····························-··································:.......................$415.18
*Securities:
.
Bonds: (Market value $15,932.50)
5 $1,000.00 Sugar Pine Lumber Company
6% First Mortgage, due 1939L...$5,000.00
· 1,000.00 Yosemite Lumber Company
6% First Mortgage, due 1940........ 1,000.00
5
1,000.00 Broadway Department Stores, Inc
6% Sinking Fund Deb., due 1941.. 5,000.00
5
1,000.00 Blue Diamond Company
6% First Mortgage, due 1942...... 5,000.00
1,000.00 Los Angeles Railway Company
5
5% First Mortgage, due 1938...... 5,000.00
$21,000.00
Stocks: (Market Value $21,742.50)
100 Shares Masonic Temple Association................ 1,000.00
527 Shares Pacific Gas and Electric Co
6% Preferred .......................................... 14,000.00
250 Shares Southern California Edison Co.
6% Preferred .......................................... 5,000.00

20,000.00

Total ··-- ················································--········:······················-····-······$41,415.18
*Note: Included with the Students' Loan Fund are securities of $40,000'.00
belonging to "George and Laura Brigham Scholarship Fund."
·
t Note: No interest received on Sugar Pine Lumber Company bonds for several years.
Schedule B-3.
LIST OF SECURITIES, NOTES AND INSURANCE POLICIES
GENERAL FUND, JULY 31, 1935

Stocks: (Market Value-known-$1,382.80)
Shares
(donated)
1 California Prune & Apricot Growers' Ass'n..........$
3.67
25 Consolidated Metals Corporation..............................
25.00
4 Graton & Knight Co., Preferred.............................. 400.00.
10.00
10 Graton. & Knight Co..................................·-····-······-1 National Leather Co., Preferred...............·-··········- . 100.00
so:oo
5 National Leather Co......·-··································-····-····

453

*15 Kern County Building and Loan Capital Stock ...... 1,500.00
102 Transamerica Corporation .......................................... 650.00
6/10 Transamerica Corporation ..........................................
10.00
Acquired by donation 1934-35:
3.00
3 Daily News Corporation, Class C................
70.00
70 Lloyd Oil Corporation................................................:...
14 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 6% first pref ................. 350.00
7.00
7 Texon Oil and Land Co..---·-····-··-····-························
1.00
1 United Cigar Stores Co., Common..........-~ ...............
1.00 $3,180.67
1 United Cigar Stores Co., Class A--·-··'-·················-··
Bonds: (All donated 1934-35) (Market Value $2,005.00)
$500 Ambassador Hotel, first mortgage, sinking fund 6%..$ 215.00
1;soo Market Street Railway Co., first mortgage, sinking
fund, 7%, due 1940................,........................................... 1,500.00
500 Seventh & Hill Building, first mortgage 6Y,%,
due 1939 ................................................................................ 420.00 2,135.00
Building and loan certificates: (Donated) ( Market Value $3,442.17)
California Mutual Building & Loan Ass'n, shares............$ 500.00
California Mutual Building & Loan Ass'n
(claim $2,212.80) ...........................................,........................ 663.84
Columbia Building & Loan Ass'n (Liquidating) .............. 150.09
Fidelity Definite Term Certificate.......................................... 750.00
Fidelity Participating Certificate............................................ 250.00
San Jose Building & Loan Ass'n.....................................:...... 856.60
San Jose Pacific Building & Loan Ass'n ............................ 157.92 .
Acquired by donation 1934-35:
Southern California Building & Loan Ass'n........................ 800.00 4,128.45
. Notes and contracts receivable: (From donated property or notes)
J. B. and Esther Anthony
S 3/ 23/31......................, 2,834.88
John and Rosati Atkins, et ux
S 7/15/33 ...................... 1,392.45
Alfred T. and Minnie Bergstrom S 8/ 3/ 34...................... 1,100.00
Adelbert A. and Alto G. Brooks S 8/ 3/34...................... · 2,193.38
Morris and Lois M. Cooley
S 4/ 4/33...................... 497.88
A. B. Curtis
S 8/ 3/34......................
25.00
*Note: The market value of the above starred item is unknown and not included in total market value.
John G. and Anna G. Edwards S 3/ 27/34........~............... 122.89
Emilie Fleeger
S 9/ 7130........................ 1,114.57
Edgar B. and Eleanor Giangue SlO/ 1/ 33........................ 3,267.73
David E. and M. Frances Groo
9/ 22/28...................... 1,000.00
Kennan C. Herrick
.................. 3,650.00
James R. and Annie P. Hickman
2/27 /35...................... 834.39
Frank and Aileen A. Hill
S 41 5/35 ....................... 1,100.00
Geo. H . and Esther A. Hoag
S12/18/29...................... 2,050.00
H . W . and Leona C. Humphrey Sl0/ 28/32...................... 930.75
H. J. and Ida Johnston, et ux
S 5/ 1/29...................... 387.40
L. M. and Wilma Kamps
S 4/ 3/35...................... 939.47
Samuel and Clara J. Leask
1/15/33...._................ 2,175.00
G. A. and J. C. Livingston
S 6/23/34-····-········-···· 1,774.40
Mildred A. Logan
S SI 8/33...................... 2,103.05
Howard A. and Helen Miller
S 9/ 26/33...................... 290.00
Eldon M: Peck
S 1/ 20/34......- .............. 1,188.11
Wallace D. and Bernice Swanson S 2/19/31...................... 2,923.86 33,895.21
"S" indicates that notes are secured by real estate.

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Insurance policies: (Donated)
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. #30555452
147.00
Metropolitan Life Insuranc, Co.
30538768
102.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
30627500
90.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
22627 PM
500.00
Metropolitan Life Insuranc11 Co.
1015118
1,000.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
1366705
237.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.
44577
238.00
Equitable Fraternal Union
872
1,073.25
Hercules Life Ins. C-0. of Chicago 17865A
1,000.00
Homesteaders' Life Association
64312
1,000.00
The Phoenix Mutual Life Ins. Co. 284323
700.00
Western States Life Insurance Co. 58434
1,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Funcls
(Four policies $1,500 each and one $1,000)
Acquired by donation 1934-35:
Marin Mutual Benefit Association of Masons (W. E. White)
. (value not determined) ......................................................... .
1.00
New York Life Insurance Co. ( E. A. Asmus) $1,000--No. 611575 (borrowed $612.00) ......................................... .
1.00
New York Life Insurance Co. (E. A. Asmus) $1,000--No. 5475156 (borrowed $373.00) ........................................ ..
1.00
Prudential Insurance Co qf .i\merica (W. G. Benninger)
No. 1318191 (value not determined)..................................
1.00
The Southern Pacific · Co. (]. 0. Marshall) ........................ 1,500.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund', Burlingame, $400
(W. L. Scott) (value not determined) ............................ .
1.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund, Islam Temple
(Tom. Lockwood) .................................................................. 1,000.00 16,592.25
Grand Total ........................................................................................$59,931.58
Schedule B-4
COMPOSITION OF SPECIAL TRUST FUNDS AND RESIDENTS' DEPOSITS .
JULY 31, 1935
"John and Lena Luckenbach Funcf" (A special fund-endowed)
·
Portion of $60,000.00 bequest received to date ........................................$28,800.00
To be transferred from Enc!owment Fund bank accounts to
special designated fund as per terms of will-principal to
remain intact, interest only to be used.
Sundry Trust Funds :
Gloria Benjamin-Deposited in the San Francisco Bank (Special
account) ...................................,. .........................................:................. . 1,496.01
Eunice Botts-Account withdrawl]. by T. H. Botts........................... .
Residents' Deposits:
Cash on deposit in special bank acqount .....,.; ........... ,..............................$ 2,493.59
Exhibit C
SUMMARY STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENSE FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935
Revenue
Revenue from General Sources :
From annual returnsHome maintenance tax..........................$ 94,027.55
Home building tax.............................. 62,704.20
$25.00 Home tax.................................. 63,225.00 219,956.75

455

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Interest and dividends received from
Endowment Fund securities................
Interest Endowment Fund Note
(contra) ..............................................
General maintenance :
From General Fund bequests..............
534.16
From subsidiary accounts (including
revenue derived from General Fund
securities, real estate sales, rentals
etc, less expense $3,386.34) ................ 15,181.98
Outside relief (not eligible for Home
relief)-reimbursed through Grand
Lodge ......................................................
Funerals (excess of collections over
expenses) ........................................,.......

24,689.08
10,105.00

15,716.14

6,342.09
234.84

Total revenue ................... .':.............
Expense
Operation of Homes (Direct)
Excess operating expense over sundry
direct revenue-Decato (Exhibit D) 98,109.82
Excess operating expense over sundry
direct revenue-Covina (Exhibit E) 75,887.66

173,99i48

Outside Relief and Care:
Outside relief ............................................ 43,539.78
Outside care of children-Covina........ 1,108.20

44,647.98

Interest-Endowment Fund Note (Contra)
Administrative and General Expense :
Taxes ........................................................ ..
Insurance ....................................................
Field investigation expense..................... .
Secretary's salary, (3 months) ............ ..
General office accounting, ( 3 months) ..
Reimbursement Grand Lodge ..................
Trustees' expense .................................... ..
Auditing ..................................................... .
Safekeeping of securities, etc ................ .
Miscellaneous ........................................... .
Federal check tax ......................................
Headstone Expense........................................... .

277,043.90

10,105.00
1,891.96
3,868.72
2,711.00
375.00
202.50
1,350.00
483.44
300.00
266.50
140.11
34.04

11,623.27
259.26

Total expense ..................................... .

240,632.99

Excess of Revenue over Expense ................... .
Exhibit D

26,410.91

STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE-DECOTO LESS SUNDRY DIRECT
REVENUE RECEIVED FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935
Reven11e
*Operating Expense:
Maintenance ..........................................................................$53,141.78
Hospital ................................................................................ 12,979.91
Farm ...................................................................................... 5,031.71

45i

GRAND LODGE ·OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

456

Laundry ................................................................................ 3,795.48
General and administrative:
Salaries and wages.................................. 12,513.50
Expenses .................................................. 19,781.27
32,294.77
· (Reference: See Schedule D-1 for detailed
accounts in support thereof)
Total (Schedule D-1) ........................................................
Deduct:
Revenue : (Received direct by Decoto)
From General sources :
Special advances from subordinate Lodges
(for maintenance)........................................................ 2,600.00
From Operation of Farm, etc.:
Farm produce consumed........................ 6,331.22
Sundry farm rent and sales................
154.41
Miscellaneous ..........................................
. 48.20
6,533.83
Total revenue received direct....................

Farm Expense:
Salaries and ~ges....- ........................................
Tools and equipment.. ....................................... .
Seeds ······--··········-········-·····································-'··
Feed ············-····-···--·································'·············
Miscellaneous expense ........................................

1,247.50
314.57
69.13
2,899.10
501.41

107,243.65
Total .......... :·-····-··································
Laundry Expense:
Salaries and wages ........;................................ ;....
Miscellaneous expense........................ - .....••.......

5,031.71
2,674.50
1,120.98
3,795.48

Total

9,133.83

Excess of Operating Expense over Sundry· Direct Revenue ....................$98,109.82
*Note: Total operating expenses Decoto $107,243.65 above includes cash expenditures of $101,232.10 as per Exhibit A. The difference of $6,011.55
represents farm produce consumed less perpetual inventory adjustment
for stores issued.
Schedule D-1

General Expense:
Salaries and wages ..............................................
Other expenses :
Light, heat, power and water .................... 11,069.16
Plant repairs and maintenance.................. 1,908.49
Freight and express....................................
273.04
Office printing.................,............................
220.85
Replacements: Furniture and fixtures: .. ." 739.44
Telephone and telegraph............................
599.93
Miscellaneous expense ................................ · ·4,970.36

12,513.50

19,781.27

Total ......................................................

32,294.77

Grand Total operating expenses-Decoto ....

$107,243.65

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING · EXPENSES IN DETAIL AT DECOTO FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935
Expenses
Maintenance Expense
Food:
Groceries ................................ ~ ....................$ 7,254.26
Meats .............................................................. · 7,422.98
Fish ................................................................
724.44
Provisions, including cured meats............ 1,923.05
Fruit and vegetables.................................... 4,143.90
Butter, milk and eggs.............................. 9,754.99
Bakers' supplies............................................ 3,823.80
35,047.42

Kitchen and dining room:
Operating and miscellaneous expense...... 6,121.99
Salaries and wages........................................ 9,01L79
Clothing and sundry:
Dental ........................................................... .

-~~~~in~....::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Bedding ........................................................
Total ..................................................... .
Hospital E.-rpense :
Salaries and wages ..............................................
Miscellaneous expense.: ......................................
Total

973.00
851.71
435.74
700.13

Note: The above statement includes farm ·produce consumed and stores used
in addition to cash expenditures.
Exhibit E
STATEMENT OF DIRECT OPERATING EXPENSE---COVINA-LESS SUNDRY
DIRECT REVENUE RECEIVED FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935

·*Operating Expense:
Maintenance (care of children) ..............
Administrative expense..............................
Farm expense ............, ...•...............................

$ 73,376.01
8,471.43
9,630.46

(Reference: See Schedule E-1 for detailed accounts in support thereof.)
Total (Schedule E-1) ......................... .

15,133.78

91,477.9f

53,141.78

Deduct:
Revenue: (Received direct by Covina)
From general sources :
Special advances from subordinate
Lodges (for maintenance) .............,.. .3,524.23
State aid receipts .................................... 3,652.32
221.18
Miscellaneous ·····························-···········

12,979.91

*Note: Total operating expense Covina, $91,4.77~9 , above, include cash expenditures of $86,541.62 as per Exhibit A. Th difference of $4,936.28 represents farm produce consumed elss per etual inventory adjustment for
stores issued.
·

2,960.58

8,153.14
4,826.77

7,397.73

458

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDI:l\GS OF THE

From operation of farm, etc :
Farm produce consumed.......................... 5,605.37
Farm produce sold outside.................... 2,437.09
150.05
Miscellaneous ..........................................

8,192.51

Total revenue received direct....................

15.590.24

Excess of Operating Expense over Sundry Direct Revenue............_......$ 75,887.66
Schedule E-1
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSE IN DETAIL AT COVINA- FOR THE
FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935

Expenses
Food:
Meats ..............................................................$ 3,200.58
Fresh fruit and vegetables..........,............. 2,178.45
Canned goods................................................ 2,082.13.
Butter and cottage cheese........................ 1.268.15
Milk -----------··························-························ 3,947 .72
Eggs ----················-----•---·--······························ 1, 170.78
Baker supplies..................................:............. 1,730.24
Cereals ..........................................................
384.71
Other groceries............................................ 1,633.70
Outside meals................................................ 5,491.74 $ 23,088.20
Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries and wages.........................,.......... 4,739.51
Supplies ........................................................ 1,161.77
124.98
Equipment repairs and replacements ....

6,026.26

Clothing:
Ready made wearing apparel.................. 1,907.32
Repairs and cleaning.................................. 1,125.30
580.47
Drygoods and notions ................................

3,613.09

Laundry:
Salaries and wages ...................................... 1,665.58
706.24
Supplies ----·······-----······------····························
23.98
Equipment repairs and replacements......

~,395.80

Dormitories :
Salaries and wages ...................................... 9,462.22
946.52
Supplies ······--------------·········----·--------------········
182.03
Equipment' repair.s and replacements......

10,590.77

Hospital:
Doctors' and dentists' fees ....c•••••••••••••••••
Salaries and wages ......................................
Medical supplies and drugs ........................
Other supplies..............................................
Equipment repairs and replacements......
Outside hospital, x-rays, glasses, etc......

2,388.04
1,870.85
1,225.94
243.63
10.98
1,158.23

General-care of children :
School supplies..............................................
Tonsorial service.....:....................................
Toilet accessories and supplies..................

81.33
407.10
259.54

6,897.67

459

Miscellaneous .............................................. · 1,004.88
Domestic science cottage............:...............
437.15
Automobile expense....................................
644.61

2,834.61 .

General House and property expense :
Power plant :
Salaries and wages ..................................$ 1,290.45
Fuel oil......,................:................................ 1,488.80
Repairs al!d renewals.............................. 1,755.65

4,534.90

Repairs to buildings :
Salaries and wages.................................. 1,697.67
Supplies and expense................... ,........
816.69

2,514.36

Care of Grounds :
.
Salaries and · wages ....................,............. 1,294.88
Supplies and expense.:..............................
325.21

1,620.09

General :
Gas ----------··-·--······-----------------··················-····
Water ........................................................
Light ..........................................................
Automobile expense................................
Supplies and expense..............................
Equipment repairs and replacements ..

9,260.26

1,522.98
2,272.20
2,976.25
202.29
1,903.03
383.46

Total for care . of children................
Administrative Expense:
Salaries-Superintendent and office...................................... 4,781.13
Stationery and printing..............................................................
672.14
Postage ...,......................................................................................
562.03
Telephone and telegraph ............................................................
562.03
Traveling expense........................................................................
55.68
Automobile expense..................·.................................................. 1,127.38
318.71
Miscellaneous ----·············································'················------·-······
Freight and express....:.................................................................
156.03
Office cquipment.....................................c••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
236.25

73,376.01

Total administrative expense............................................
Farm
Dairy:
Salaries and wages.................................. 1,402.47
Feed ............................................................ 2,697.03
235.64
Supplies and expense..............................
Herd replacement......................................
402.00
4,737.14

8,471.43

Orchard:
Salaries and wages..................................
685.78
s .upplies and expense................................ 1,237.24

1,923.02

Poultry:
Salaries and wages ..................................
179.50
Feed ............................................................ 1,181.35
Supplies and expense..............................
3.75
138.12
Flock replaceni.ents~---..--··························

1,502.72

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Other Farm 'Expense:
Pig feed ..-'---·-··-··•·-·····-·-········-····:..........
Pig sty ·~e..........................................
Horse feed·..................................................
Farm equipment..:.....................................
Tractor fuel and expense........................
Sundry farm expense..............................
Pig replacements......................................
Sheep replacements..................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

393.28

105.06
10.00
234.50
175.24 ·
394.03

107.47
48.00

Total farm expense..................................................
Grand Total Operating Expenses-Cov.i na............~...............

1,467.58
9,630.46

$91,477.90
Note: Includes farm produce consumed and stores used in addition to cash
expenditures.
Endowment Fund
To the Endo~ent Board, Masonic Homes of California:
In accordance with the authorization of the Finance Committee, we
have audited the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the
Masonic Homes of California for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1935. The
following statements are presented herewith:
E~hibit A : Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit B : Statement of Composition of Fund (6 pages).
Exhibit C : Statement of Securities Redeemed and Sold.
Securities (Exhibit B):
All corporate stocks and irrigation bonds have been received by donation. Certain of the bonds, other than irrigation, have been acquired by
donation and are so marked by the letter "D" .under Exhibit B. In the case
of donated securities the stated or book value represents the value placed
upon the securities at time of donation. Where the value is· uncertain,
because of it being unlisted or a closely held security, entry is. made on the
books at a nominal $1.00 value for purposes of record. Bonds purchased are
recorded on the books at cost, including premium, without annual deductions therefrom. The total amount of premium is $19,138.17 and the portion
collected thereof during the current fiscal year and included in the income
account is $914.42. The amount of $914.42 is being transferred to the Endowment Fund and a reserve provided after the date of this report.
Additions through purchase or donation du.ring. the current fiscal y~ar
have been listed at the close ·of Exhibit B, for ready reference; and disposals
have been set out in detail in Exhibit C. During the fiscal year total securities have been purchased in amount $188,315.61, as per Exhibit B; and total
securities have been sold or redeemed in amount $116,680.63, as per Exhibit c.
.
.
Total market values obtainable as at July 31, 1935, have been noted in
the endowment fund summary at the end of Exhibit B.
The income account shows a total credit of $24,689.08 arising from
interest and dividends which was transferred to the Masonic Homes General
Fund, during the current fiscal year.
·
.
\Ve certify that the attached statements, in our opinion, set .f orth the
condition of the Permanent Endowment Fund as at July 31, 1935, with
exception as to the stated or book values of securities on hand, and that .a
proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RucKSTELL & LAND,
Certified Public Accountants,
By Fr.oYD T. WEBB.

461

Exhibit A
Secretary's Report-Endowment Fund
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1935
Cash on hand, August 1, 1934......- ..- :..............................................................$ 29,682.11
Receipts
·
Donations (from Lodges, etc., $52,625.23; other, $359.00) ..$ 52,984.23
Bequests -···········--·-·····-·---·······-··--···········--··········--·························· 2,282.71
Redemption of bonds ( for details see Exhibit C) ................ 109,925.00
Sale of stocks and bonds (for details see Exhibit C) ............ 6,755.63
Received on Masonic Homes note-····--·········--···············-········- 50,000.00
Total receipts ····--······-··-··········-···········-·-·········--·······-·······--·······-·········-$221,947.57
Total cash funds to account for .. ~ ..............:....................................................$251,629.68
· Disbursements
.
Bonds purchased (for details see Exhibit B, page 6) ............$188,315.61
Sundry expense-Check tax and collection charges.....:........
· 4.38
Total disbursements ......:...................:............................. ~...........................$188,319.99
Cash on hand, July 31, 1935.........;.....................................:............................$ 63,309.69

Note: Reports on endowment fund collections-No. 31 for $2,651.20, "N" for
$2.00, and No. 32 for $74.50 received during August, 1935, have been
included in the above statement.
Exhibit B
COMPOSITION OF ENDOWMENT FUND
JULY 31 , 1935 .
Cash (Sa~ings Accounts) :
Crocker First Federal Trust Company................................$
5.00
American Trust Company........................................................
5.00
Anglo California National Bank............................................48;304.07
Bank of America (Humboldt Branch)................................ . 5.00
Bank of America (French American Branch)....................
5.00
The San Francisco Bank-........................................................43,785.62
Total ................................:.......................................................:..............$92,109.69
Indudes John and Lena Luckenbach Fund (a special fundendowed) as per Exhibit A ..............................:..................................... 28,800.00
T otal ·......................................................................................................$63,309.(f}
Bonds (acquired prior to July 31, 1934) :

Book Value

$ ' l,000 Ashland City of, water 5% due 1959.................c••••••••••••••••••••••••••$ 1,000.00
9,000 Califor;ia Gas & Electric Corp., Unifying and Refunding
Mortgage, 5% due 1937.................................................................... 9,000.00
1,000 Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Railroad Co., 4y.;% due 1937
····-······················-················-··············---·-··-···:................:..,............- D
880.00
5,000 East Bay Municipal Utility D istrict, water, 5% due 1947........ 5,326.55
30,000 Golden Gate Bridge & Highway District, 4~% due 1968-69.. 29,827.63
500 Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. of Spokane, 1st Mortgage
500.00
Gold, 5% due 1936................................. =·:.::.:::::-·························-D

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1,500 Jonathan Club Building Co., 2nd Mortgage Leasehold Serial
Gold, 7% due 1952.......................................... ~·--·-·-······················D 1,500.00
5,000 Long Beach City High School District, 5% due 1944................ 5,417.65
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control District, Series No. 2, 5%
due 1950................................................................................................... 10,720.64
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water Works, Class H, Series No. 1,
5% due 1974.......................................................•.................................. 11,115.73
5,000 Los Angeles Railway Co., of California, 1st Mortgage Gold;
5% due 1938.................................... :..................................................... 5,000.00
1,000 Northern California Power Co., Convertible and Refunding
Mortgage, 5% due 1948...................................................................... 1,000.00
2,000 · Oroville Union High School District, County of Butte, Gold,
5% due 1936.......................................................................................... 2,076.42
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., General and Refunding Mortgage,
5% due 1942................................. ~....................................................... 5,000.00
2,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 1st and Refunding Mortgage,
Gold, 6% due 1941.. .......................................................................... D 2,000.00
1,000 Pacific Gas & Electric co., 1st and Refunding Mortgage,
Gold, 6% due 194L...............................................- ......................... D 1,070.00
17,000 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co., 1st Mo~tgage and Collateral Trust Sinking Fund, 5% due 1937............... :...................... 17,000.00
1,000 Pick Barth Holding Corp., Five Year Note, 6% due 1935.... D 1,000.00
2,000 . Richmond, City of, Municipal Improvement, 5% due 1949-52.. 2,000.00
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Sewer, 5% due 1945-47.... 10,000.00
35,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Retch Hetchy, 5%% due
1963 .•.......................................... :.... ,...................................................... 37,561.94
10,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Retch Hetchy, 5%%, due
1955 ········································································································ 10,706.00
21,000 San Francisco, City and County of, City Hall, 5% due 1939-60 21,000.00
30,000 San Francisco, City and County of, Water, 4Y,% due 1942.... 30,000.00
9,1377';1 Santa Barbara, City of, 4%o/o due 1936-44.................................. 9,137.50
1,000 Santa Barbara, City of, Municipal Improvements, Water,
· ·
4Y,% due 1948...................................................................................... 1,000.00
47,300 U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4%% due 1938.................................. 47,300.00
48,400 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 3%-4%% due 1945.................................. 48,400.00
100 University Masonic Temple Association, 2nd Mortgage (Reg100.00
istered), 6% due 1949...................................................................... D
3,125 Upland, City of, Municipal Improvement, 6% due 1935-42.. D 3,125.00
Irrigation Bonds: (Donated)
1,000 Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation District, First Issue No. 7,
6% due 1937 (Mkt. V. $160.00) ............................................,.. .... D 1,000.00
1,000 Imperial Irrigation District, Issue No. 4, 6% due 1938 (Mkt.
V. $710.00) .................:................................................................~ .......... D 1,000
l,000 Oroville Wyandotte Irrigation District, County of Butte, 6%
due 1953 (Mkt. V. $350.00) .......................................................... D 1,000.00
1,000 Pecos County Water Improvement District No. 1, State of
Texas, First Refunding Coupon, 6% due 1934 (Mkt. V.
$150.00) ................................................ ~ ........................................... D
1.00
1,000 Terra Bella Irrigation District, First Issue, 6% due 1945
(Mkt. V. $290.00) ............................................................................ D 1,000.00
1,000 West Okanogan Valley Irrigation District, Oroville, Wash1.00
ington, 6% due 1945..................................:..................................... D
Total ..................................................... ,..........................................$333,767.06

463

Stocks (all donated, acquired prior to July 31, 1934):
Shares
Book Value
5 Altadena Masonic Temple Building Assn., Ltd ...............................$
50.00
\
10 American Telephone and Telegraph Co............................................. 1,066.00
5 Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Pref.....................................................
500.00
10· Broad River Power Co., Pref .........................:..................................... 1,000.00
24 Calamba Sugar Estate.............:..............................................................
480.00
61 Calamba Sugar Estate, Pref ..................:.............................................. 1,220.00
9 California Packing Corporation............................................................
207.00
10 Central Indiana Power Co., Pref.........................................................
720.00
15 Central Public Service Co., Pref .................'··················'····················
825.00
14 Central States Power & Light Corp., Pref.........................................
728.00
5 Central & Southwestern Utilities Co., Pref.......................................
450.00
25 Colma Land Company............................................................................
25.00
2 Crocker First National Bank of San Francisco................................
200.00
10 Crown Willamette Paper Co., First Pref...........................................
520.00
5 Eastern Public Service Corp., Class A Pref.....................................
1.00
5 Galland Mercantile Laundry Co .............................................. ;............
160.00
16 Guggenheim & Co., First Pref............................................................. 1,312.00
20 Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co.....................................................
500.00
25 Hawaiian Sugar Co....................:............................................................
500.00
38 International Hydro Electric System..................................................
874.00
38/SOth International Hydro Electric System..............................................
8.36
2,329% Masonic Temple Assn. of California, Inc ...................................... 23,292.50
5 Mercantile American Realty Co., Pref...............................................
330.00
15 Oklahoma National Gas Corporation, Pref.......................................
431.25
5 Olympian Dredging Co....................................... .'...................................
500.00
42 Onomea Sugar Co... :...............................................................................
840.00
3 Orpheum Circuit, Inc., Pref.................................................................
48.00
316 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Pref. (6%) ............................................ 7,614.00
50 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Pref. (SY,%)........................................ 1,050.00
29 Pacific Lighting Corporation................................................................ 1,508.00
10 Peoples' Light & Power Corporation, Pref.......................................
1.00
28 Pineapple Holding Co., Ltd ....... c...........................................................
560.00
2 Public Service Co. of Oklahoma, Pref...............................................
200.00
10 S.chultze United Sc to $1 Stores, Inc., Pref.......................................
2.00
5 Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp., Pref ....................................~............
500.00
49 Socony Vacuum Corporation.................................................................. 1,225.00
2 Southern California :Edison Co., Pref.................................................
50.00
10 Splitdorf Electrical Company................................................................
1.00
4 Standard Oil Co. of Indiana...........................................,......................
100.00
240 Standard Oil Co. of California............................................................ 8,640.00
4 Standard Gas & Electric Co., $7.00 Prior Pref...............................
485.00
14 Standard Public Service Co., Pref.....................................................
1.00
15 Staley, A. E., Manufacturing Co., Pref............................................. 1,500.00
1 Sun Drug Co., The, Pref.:.....................................................................
1.00
2 Taft Masonic Temple Association......................... ~..............................
100.00
11 Telephone Investment Corporation......................................................
220.00
5 Tidewater Associated Oil Co., Pref.....................................................
500.00
5 United Stores Corporation...................................................... :.............
8.50
6 u·nited Stores Corporation, Pref ......................................... ,...............
141.00
20 Universal Chain Theatres Corporation..............................................
40.00
10 Visalia Building & Loan Association.................................................. 1,000.00
7 West Ohio Gas Co., Pref.......................................................................
644.00

"D" indicates bonds received by donation.
Total ...................................................................................:..............$62,879.61

464

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fraternal Building Certificates, Etc. (Donated. Payable upon death, or as
redeemed):
Cert.
3 Aahmes Te~ple Shrine Assn .................................@ 100 par $3.00
9 Al Maliakah Auditorium Co................................. @ 100 par 9.00
1 Masonic Temple Assn. of Sacramento..................@ 100 par 1.00
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2....................@ 20 par 1.00

465

Summary of Endowment Fund

(Memorandum) Market
Book
V allle
Value
Total Cash (Savings Accounts) ..............................................
$ 63,309.69
Total Bonds ....................................................................... :..........$553,514.14 522,332.67
Total Miscellaneous (including Masonic Homes note).:....
175,018.00
Total Stocks .................................................................................. 60,287.24 62,879.61

$823,539.97

Grand Total (as above) ..................................................... .
Total ....,..............................,............. _.................................................$
Insurance Policies:
$500.00 Policy, New York Life Insurance Co. (Clifford W. Richter)· (Premium paid by. insured) ...................................................:: ...$

14.00

Note: Refer editorial comment.
Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES REDEEMED AND SOLD

- 1.00

Notes:
Masonic Homes of California, Note, 5% ..................................:...............$175,000.00
Additions to Fund, 1934-1935:
Book Value
Bonds PurchaSed:
10,000 Beverly Hills, Water, 5% due 1947-48.... :.........$10,687.70
5,000 Bishop Union High School District, 5% due
1949 ...........................,................................................ 5,159.35
15,000 El Segundo School District, 5% due 1952-53.... 16,015.08
10,000 Glendale School District, 6% due 1940-41........ 10,727.80
5,000 Glendale Union High School District, 5% due
1962 ............................................................................ 5,311.35
15,000 Golden Gate Bridge · & Highway District,
4%% due 1959-67-71.............................................. 15,684.60
· 45,000 Los Angeles City High School District, 5%
due 1951-59-60-64 ............................................~ ....... 50,426.96
15,000 Los Angeles, City of, Electric Plant, 5% due
1952-61 ...................................................................... 16,546.47
5,000 Los Angeles, City of, Harbor, 4%% due 1960 5,471.55
5,000 Los Arige!es, City of, Sewer, 4%% due 1965.. . 5,512.05
10,000 Los Angeles, City of, Water, 4~% due 1965.. 10,254.00
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood Control, 5% due.
1959 ............................................................................ 10,509.20
15,000 Stockton, City of, Harbor, 47'2% due 1952-59.. 15,934.50
10,000 Temescal Water Co., First Mortgage 5% due
.
1960 ............................................... :............................ 10,075.00 $188,315.61

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED .JULY 31, 1935
Bonds Redeemed :
U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan 4}4%......................................$87,150.00
U. S. First Liberty Loan 4%% .................................... ., .... 11,700.00
City of Ashland, Water, 5% ..................................,............. 8,000.00
City of Santa Barbara 4.Yi%.............................................. 1,075.00
City and County of San Francisco, Municipal Railway, 5% .............................................................................. 1,000.00
Oroville Union f!igh School District 5%........................ 1,000.00 $109,925.00

Total Addi.tions, 1934-35.........................................,....,............;,.., $188,561!.61

Stocks and Bonds Sold:
Irrigation Bonds ;
Arizona, State of, Queen Creek Irrigation District..$
Donna Irrigation District, Hidalgo County.............. ..
Ochoco Irrigation District ............................................... .
Palo Verde Irrigation District... ................................... ..
Reclamation District No. 1660, County of Sutter ......
Stocks:
Shares
1 Baker, Hamilton & Pacific Company, Pref... .. $
7 Calwa Company ................................................... .
11 Continental Oil Co........... ,.................................... .
5 Coon, W. B., Company, Pref.)
15 Coon, W. B., Company, Com.) ........................
17 Deep Rock Oil Corporation, Pref .....................
12 Ewa Plantation Co.................................................
14 Honolulu Oil Corporation, Ltd.............:............ .
79 Los Angeles Investment Co................................ .
5 Oahu Sugar Co., Ltd.............................................
10 Pacific American Fisheries, . Inc .........................
47 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Coin.........................
9 Pantepec Oil Co. of Venezuela........................ ..
68 Pig'n Whistle Corp., PreL............................... .
5 Pure Oil Co., The...... ,.......................................... .
2 Realization Co. ..................................................... .
11 Shell Union Oil Corporation...................,......... .
15 Shenandoah Corporation, Pref ....................:......
6 Southern California Gas Corp., Pref .................
44 Southern California Edison Co................_, __ ,...
·4 United Linen Supply Co..., ....,...~.: ...................... .
8 Universal Consolidated Oil Co ...........................
15 Yosemite Portland Cement Corporation ........ ..

Grand Total Cash, Bonds, Other Securities, Etc ..................................... $823,539.97

Total proceeds fr~m redemption and· sales ..................·............

Donated:
Fraternal Building Certificates payable at death:
Cert.
1 Aahmes Temple Shrine Assn.,@ 50 par................
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund..........................................,.......
Receivers' Certificate on U. S. National Bank net
value $86~19~.................................................-.-........:........
Bond-San Diego First National Co., Mortgage and
Collateral Trust, 5 ~% Sinking Fund due 1942..........

1.00
1.00
1.00
250.00

253.00

200.00
458.80
599.91
232.48
730.00
18.95
14.71
210.50
174.00
47.82
572.84
277.54
337.81
148.07
119.59
716.27
12.61
41.77
39.34 .
1.42
112.30
264.38
636.00
703.56
25.84
41.45
17.67 $ 6,755.63
$116,680.63

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFbRNIA

466

467

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Superintendent-Decoto' Home
To the Board of Trustees:
I hereby present for your consideration my twenty-sixth annual report
as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Decoto for the year ending
August 31, 1935.
There has been the usual routine in the management of the Home,
without any special changes, during the year.
·
We have endeavored to maintain a social atmosphere in keeping with
the ideals of our fraternity and bring as large a measure of contentment
as possible into the daily lives of the members of our family who are
enjoying the care and protection of the Home.
Residents--At the beginning of the fiscal year, there were 368 residents. There were admitted during the year, 41 residents, making a total
of 409. Forty-five have passed away, and one returned to his Lodge. There
are now, at the Home, 363 residents, 190 men and 173 women. Of this
number, there are 31 married couples. Average age of the men, 74 years;
and of the women, 73 years.
·
Health-The general health of the home has been normal.
Hospital-There are now 50 of our members being cared for in our
hospital department where, with the facilities afforded, our physician and
nurses are able to give to those who are ill, every care and attention for
their comfort. Day and night nurses are in constant attendance.
Industrial-The number of residents who render assistance in the
general routine work has increased, and by their labors have been a great
help in the well-being of the Home. The Brethren have been particularly
us~ful by their services in the hospital, engine room, laundry, carpenter,
pamt and barber shops, care of ,garage, mail, passenger, express and freight
auto service, kitchen, pantry, dining rooms vegetable rooms storerooms
office work, library, club and reception r~oms, janitor wo;k, telephon~
switchboard, floral decorations, care of elevators, flower beds and lawns
watering trees, plants and shrubs, vegetable and berry gardens, operatio~
of stage, stereopticon and moving picture machines, poultry yards, and
many other light duties in a general way.
The women residents attend to the making, mending and marking of
all linen, sheets and pillow slips, tablecloths and napkins; also assist in the
preparing of fruit and vegetables, in the kitchen and dining rooms, wiping
of silver, changing table linen, diet kitchen, clerical work, attending telephone calls, showing visitors about the Home, care of music and reception
rooms, care of their rooms and general light household duties.
During the year, 16 rooms, the halls, floors, bath · and wash rooms of
the first floor of the Temple building have been painted, the beds enameled,
and the furniture varnished. The wainscoting and floors of nine rooms in
the hospital department have been painted, the beds and bedside tables
and other metal furniture enameled. All repairs of furniture, windows, doors,
locks and keys, and radios have been done by the Brethren of the Home.
Farm-As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been leased,
or on a cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of fruit, figs, berries and
nuts for table use.
·
The. fen~es and houses of the poultry ranch, the adjoining buildings,
and the interior of the barn, have been repaired and whitewashed. All this
work except the whitewashing was done by residents of the Home.
The return from the hay crop has been good this year. The garden
has supplied a variety of vegetables. The chicken ranch has supplied all the
eggs for table use, the surplus being preserved in waterglass.
·This year, 50 fig trees were planted on the north side of our family
orchard, 25 walnut trees were planted along the highway boundary fence

of the Home property, 30 pepper trees were planted on the western side
of the lower road leading up to the Home buildings. Also, many shrubs
were planted about the grounds, and a variety of flowers in the garden
beds.
Many repairs have been made on the fences of the Home property. A
large section of the boundary fences have been renewed, necssitating new
posts and fencing material.
Water-Our deep well pump continues to furnish a plentiful supply of
water for household, garden and irrigation purposes; also, for fir.e protection. Our reservoirs are full at all times.
· Library and Clubrooms-There are now about 6500 books on the
shelves of our main library and branches located in the several departments.
of the Home.
The Masonic Hill branch of the Alameda County Free Library continues to enable our family to obtain many of the latest books, and on
application to secure special ones. In addition, we are recipients, through
friends and members of the fraternity, of books, daily papers, magazines
and periodicals, which are placo;d on the tables in the hospital, library,
clubrooms and social halls.
Social Life-All holidays have been ob~erved with appropriate exercises. The specials are those which were held on New Year's E':'e, New
Year's Day, Lincoln's and Washington's birthday, Easter, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Hallowe'en, Thanksgiving and Christmas.
Many splendid programs, stage plays, band and orchestra concerts
have been provided during the year by visiting Lodges, Eastern Star
Chapters, and friends for the entertainment of the members of the. H ome;
the evening often closing with dancing. From time to time, entertainments
are prepared entirely by members of the Home, consisting of vocal and
instrumental music, readings, community singing, stage sketches, c~rds,
games and dancing. Tuesday evenings are devoted to. cards, and Frid~y
evenings to chorus practice. The Happy Hour Dancing Club holds. its
ml;etings every Monday evening. The croquet grounds are well patronized
during the day.
A reading class for the blind meets daily, in the reception room, at
which time the daily papers are read to them by one of the ladies of the
Home. A number of the members of the Home have radio sets · in their
rooms. This privilege is particularly appreciated by those w ho are blind,
and by those being cared for in the hospital department. The clubro?ms
and reception rooms also have radios, which may be enjoyed at any time,
day or evening. Every Sunday afternoon finds the residents of the Home
in the Assembly Hall for Sunday services; after which, a selected musical
program is given by the Home orchestra, or by visiting friends.
•
One of the outstanding pleasing events of the year was a party given
in the main dining room, by the members of the Home, in honor of Mrs.
Caroline A. Proctor, who had attained the age of 100 years· on August S,
1935 and Mrs. Mary A. Fanshaw, who has reached the age of 95 years
you~g. both being members. of the Home. At a time when over 300 residents of the Home were seated for their evening meal at 68 tables (each
table having lighted wax candles), these two young ladies were esco.rted
into the dining room by the Superintendent, and seated at a specially
decorated table at the far end of the main aisle. Their table was decorated
with trailing vines, ferns and flowers. A large birthday cake on their table
had the figures 100 and 95 outlined with lighted candles. After calling
attention to the object of the celebration, ice cream and cake was enjoyed
. by all. At the close of the evening meal, they received warm and hearty
congratulations from all those who were present.

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Arrangements have been made whereby members of the family, a few
at a time, may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest; also, an occasional visit to nearby Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters. During the year,
many trips w_e re made to Oakland, San Francisco, and towns in the vicinity
of the Home.
From time to time Masonic Degrees are conferred in our Temple by
the officers of visiting Lodges for the benefit of the Brethren of the Home.
During the year, Grand Master Randolph V. Whiting, officers and
members of the Grand Lodge, and many Brethren of California Lodges
and other jurisdictions have made visits to the Home, and have spent many
pleasant hours with us. The number of visits this year indicate an increasing interest in the welfare of the Home family.
,
I wish to extend my appreciation of the loyal services rerrdered by
the officers and employees throughout the year, and to express to the
Board of Trustees my sincere gratitude for the friendly advice and support
they have, at all times, given me.
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.
Visitations to Decato Home
September 16, 1934-Mrs. C. M. Bondtel and friends. Vocal and instrumental music.
·
September 22, 1934-Leo Peargaci, L. Pieracei, Q. Landi. Miscellaneous musical program.
September 29, 193~0akland Lodge No. 188. Musical and literary
program.
· October 7, 1934-Albert Pike Chapter No. 284, 0. E. S. Miscellaneous
program.
October 8, 1934-Annual visit of the officers and delegates of the
Grand L'odge.
.
October 13; "1934-Parnassus Chapter No. 269, 0. E. S. Musical program.
October 27, 1934.....:..Bob Gooding. Musical numbers on saxoohone.
October 28,. 1934-Puoils from Prof. Ebert's School ·of Music. San
Jose. Instrumental music.
November 9, 1934-Berkeley Women's City Club. Young women's
section. Stage play, "Big-Hearted Herbert."
·
.
Noyember . 16, 1934-Alameda Chapter No. 210, Order of De Molay.
Second Degree.
November 17, 1934-Amity Chapter No. 262, 0 . .E. S . .-Miscellaneous
program. ·
November 21, 1934-Alameda Lodge No. 167, and Ori~nt Chapter
No, 177, O. E. S. Lecture, "Trip to Holland." Musical program.
·
Nt>vember 24, 1934-Thanksgiving program by members of the Home.
Dancing.
. December 8, 1934-Assembly, Order of Rainbow for girls. Miscellaneous program.
·uecem.ber 16, 1934-Evangel Tabernacle Choir singing.
December 23, 1934-Christmas services in Assembly Hall.
December 25, 1934.....:..Christmas Carols. Distribution of presents.
December 31, 1934-New Year's Eve. Program by members of the
Home. Dancing.
January 13, 1935-Lodi Assembly Order of Rainbow for girls. Degree
work of the Order.
·
FebruarY, l, 1935-Charity Lodge No. 362. School orchestra.
February 3, 1935-Musical program given by members of the Home.
February 22, 1935-Washington's and Lincoln's Birthday program by
residents of the Home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

469

March· I, 1935-Entertainment given by pupils of the Decoto Grammar
School:
March 3, 1935-Evangel Tabernacle, San Jose. Chorus singing.
March 10, 1935-Argonaut Lodge No. 461. Stage play, "The Masqueraders."
March 12, 1935-Sequoia Lodge No. 349. First Degree.
March 17, 1'35-Pupils of Pi:of. Daniel O'Brien Studio, San Francisco.
Opera, "Faust."
.
March 17, 1935-Palo Alto Lodge No. 346. Visit to the Home.
March 20, 1935-Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463. Old-time musical program.
March 24, 1935-Parriassus Lodge No. 269, 0. E. S. Musical and literary program.
March 25, 1935-Mountain View Lodge N.o. 194. Third Degree.
March 28, 1935-Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Second Degree.
April 7, 1935-Brilliant Star Chapter No. 472, 0. E. S. Stage play, "Let
Us Be Gay."
April 14, 1935-Armstrong Business College, Oakland. Miscellaneous
program.
April 23, 1935-Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Second Degree.
April 26, 1935-Lakeshore Lodge No. · 551. Vaudeville entertainment.
April 28, 1935-Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38. Musical program.
April 21, 1935-Easter services given by members of the Home.
May 4, 1935-Fred Bischof and friends. Vau~eville entertainment.
May 5, 1935-Pupils from Prof. Ebert's Studio, San Jose. Instrumental
music.
May 7, 1935-Marjon Choral Society, Oakland. Vocal and instru-.
mental.
May 9, 1935-Fruitvale Chapter, Order· of De Molay. First Degree.
May 10, 1935-Charity Lodge No; 463. High School orchestra.
May 11, 1935-Lodges of the 29th Masonic District: Martinez No. 41,
Alamo No. 122, Antioch No. 175, Brentwood No. 345, Pittsburg No. 429
and Mount Diablo No. 448. Third Degree. · .
May 19, 1935-Monterey Lodge No. 217. Visitation to Home.
May 25, 1935-0ak Grove Lodge No. 215. Miscellaneous program.
Dancing.
May 20, 1935-Memorial. Day exercises. · Annual ·visit · to the Home
cemetery.
· ~. '
May 26, 1935-San Francisco Chapter, Order of De Molay. Mothers
Day ceremony.
·
·
June2, 1935-Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517. Miscellaneous program.
June 9, 1935-Presidio Lodge No. 354. Presidio Glee Club. "Musical
School Day Comedy."
·
June 14, 1935-Musical program by Home talent.
June 15, 1935-Seaport Lodge No. 550. Third Degree in the Temple.
Entertainment in Assembly Hall'for visiting ladies.
. ~·
June 22, 1935-Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. Vaudevitle entertainment.
June 25, 1935-Masters', Wardens' and Senior Deacons' ' Club, 39th
·
··
Masonic District. Miscellaneous program.
June 26, 1935-Alameda Chapter, Order of De Molay. First Degree.
June 29, 1935-Solano Lodge No. 229. Third Degree.
July 4, 1935-Patriotic exercises in Assembly Hall. Dancing.
July 28, 1935-Pyramid No. 1, A. 0. E. S. Band concert.
August 7, 1935-Brothers Club. West Gate Chapter No. 268, 0. E. S.
Minstrel show.
·
·

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

· August 10, 1935-Armstrong Business College Oakland. Musical and
literary entertainment.
'
August 11, 1935-La Fayette Lodge No. I26. Presentation of SO-year
gold button to Brother Harry B. Morris, a resident of the Home.
August I7, 1935-Annual visit of the East Bay Past Matrons' Association, accompanied by the v.,r orthy Grand Matron and the Worthy Grand
Patron.
•
August 24, I935-California New England Association. Visitation to
the Home.
·
·
August 3I, 1935-0akland Lodg~ No. I88. Musical and literary entertainment. Dancing.
Donations to Decoto Home
J. L. Burt, Oakland-I Cabinet Orthophone Victrola, electric motor type,
80 records.
Peter Olesen-I large armchair, 3 suits of clothing, I overcoat, 2 pairs of
shoes, etc.
Natobe Michael, Sculptor, San Francisco-Portrait of George Washington.
Daniel Carr, Oakland-IO vols. miscellaneous books.
·
J. H. Martin, Oakland-I package periodicals.
Lindsey Lodge No. 4I6-27 boxes oranges.
M. Hoffman Co., Oakland-IO lbs. candy.
E. 0. Massey, Vallejo-1 package of magazines.
East Bay Past Matrons' Association, Oakland-20 comforters, 66 table and
bureau scarfs, 33 hospital gowns, 30 nightshirts, 24 large home-made
cakes, 2449 glasses and jars of jelly and jam.
R. J. Barbey, San Leandro-400 iris plants.
Semper Fideles Chapter No. 135, 0. E. S.-35 jars jelly and jam.
Oakland Assembly No. 11, Order of Rainbow for girls-200 cookies.
Marshal~ Hotchkiss-I Sparks gas stove, I electric washer, I table, 6 chairs,
24 mtscellaneous books.
Unity Chapter No. 65, 0. E. S.-40 glasses of jelly and jam.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 2I5-Candy and cigars.
, Alice Broughton-48 miscellaneous books.
Samuel). Daly-I table, I writing desk, 2 rugs, I bureau, 6 chairs, 2 pedestals, I hat rack.
·
Coachella Lodge No. 471-35 lbs. Coachella dates.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296-I typewriter.
Oakland Lodge No. I88-I radio.
Borden's Creamery, Hayward-1 frozen pudding.
N. O. Slate, San Francisco-3 iron beds, I hall rack, I table, I set of
Chambers encyclopedia, 10 vols. Geographies.
Elmer W. Barnes-59 miscellaneous books, I3 garden tools.
Martinez Lodge No. 4I-I box of Christmas presents for residents of the
Home.
·
G. W. Ware, Hayward-4 boxes of apples.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gals. ripe olives.
John Whicher, San Francisco-3 suits of clothes, 2 pairs of shoes.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-5 gals. ripe olives.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-3 Ii oxes of oranges.
Decoto Bakery-I large Christmas cake.
Raymond P . Peppin-I large American Flag.
Hervey R. Lacy, Vallejo-I piano silk scarf.
c:;has. Albert Adams, San Francisco-25 vols. miscellaneous books.
Oakland Trlbune-3 yearly subscriptions to daily Tribune.
Aahmes Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S.-3 ivory billiard balls.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

471

Sheldon Spencer-I clock.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479-I50 cigars, 25 lbs. cand) .
R. 0. Tarr, Los Angeles-I portable adding machine.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home
Amt.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Lodge
No.
East Bay ........................ 489
10.00
Acorn ..............................494
$10.00
25.00
East Gate ........................290
Alameda ........................I67 .
10.00
Eel River ...................... I47
10.00
Alamo ............................122
5.00
El Cajon ........................576
2.50
Alcatraz ..........................244
25.00
El Centro ......................384
10.00
Alisa! ..............,...............321
5.00
El Dorado ...................... 26
5.00
Alpha ..............................431
10.00
Elmhurst ........................610
2.50
Alturas ..........................248
10.00
El Segundo ....................507
10.00
Amador .......................... 65
5.00
Eucalyptus ....................243
5.00
Amity ..............................370
10.00
2.50
Eureka ............................ I6
Apollo ............................396
10.00
12.50
Evergreen ..................... .259
Argonaut ........................46I
10.00
25.00
Excelsior ........................166
Argonne .................,........514
10.00
10.00
Fairmount ......................435
5.00
Ashlar ............................306
5.00
Fallbrook ......................31.7
Atascadero ....................493
5.00
Far West ........................673
5.00
Athens ............................228
5.00
Ferndale ........................193
10.00
25.00
Balder ...........,................393
25.00
Fidelity .......................... I20
Bay City .................... ~ ...526
10.00
Fillmore ..........................379
10.00
20.00
Bay V iew ........................401
Forest ............................ 66
2.50
Bear Mountain .............. 76
5.00
Fort Crook ....................575
5.00
Bell ·..................................483
2.50
5.00
Fortitude ........................624
Berkeley ........................363
10.00
Francis Drake ..............376
5.00
Blackmer ........................442
10.00
Franklin ........................143
5.00
15.00
Brooklyn ........................225
Fresno ............................247
IS.00
Buckeye .......................... I95
10.00
10.00
Friendship ......................2IO
Burlingame ....................400
10.00
Fruitvale ........................336
5.00
Cahuenga ......................SI3
7.50
5.00
Galt ................................267
Calaveras ...................... 78
5.00
5.00
George Washington......525
Caledonia . c.... ... . ...... ........486
5.00
Golden Gate .................. 30
I2.50
California ...................... I
40.00
5.00
Golden Rule ..................479
Callayomi ......................282
5.00
Gold Hill ........................ 32
5.00
Carquinez ......................337
10.00
Guardian ........................ 596
2.50
6.10
Charity ............................362
Hammonton ..................433
25.00
10.00
Charter Rock ................410
5.00
Hanford ........................279
Chico ..............................111
5.00
Hartley ..........................199
5.00
Clay ................................ lOI
10.00
Hawaiian ........................ 2I
25.00
Clinton ........................,... 119
10.00
Henry Clay .................... 95
5.00
10.00
Coalinga ........................387
Henry K~ox ..................662
5.00
5.00
Colusa ............................240
5.00
Henry Morse Stevens....54I
5.00
Confidence ......................203
IS.00
Hermann ..........:............. I27
Corinthian ...................... 9
10.00
Hesperian ......................264
10.00
Corona ...........:................324
7.50
5.00
Highland Park ..............382
Coronado ........................44I
5.00
5.00
Hill's Ferry ..... ~ ............236
Covenant ........................ 527
5.00
5.00
Hiram ............................ 48
5.00
Crescent .......................... 45
Hollenbeck ....................319
5.00
Crockett ........................139
25.00
Hollywood ....................355
10.00
2.50
Cupertino ......................510
5.00
Holtville ........................425
Curtis .............,................ I40
5.00
25.00
Honolulu ........................409
25.00
Doric ..............................2I6
10.00
Howard .......................... 37
Downey ..........................220
5.00
5.00
Humboldt ...................... 79
Dunsmuir ......................297
10.00
5.00
Illinoistown ............._. ...... 5 I
10.00
Durant ...........:................268

472

Lodge
No.
Ione ................................ 80
John P. Jarman..............669
Jewell ..............................374
Jonathan ........................545
Jubilee ............................604
Kauai ..............................589
Kaweah ..........................665
La Fayette ....................126
Lakeshore ......................551
Landmark ......................253
La Mesa ..........................407
La Parfaite Union ........ 17
Las Palmas ..................366
Laurel .................,..........245
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ....................371
Libertas ..........................466
Liberty ............................299
Live Oak ........................ 61
Lodi ................................256
Lompoc ..........................262
Long Beach ..................327
Los Angeles .................. 42
Los Gatos ......................292
Madera ............................280
Madison .......................... 23
Maricopa ........................434
Marin .............................. 191
Martinez ........................ 41
Mendocino ......................179
Midway .......................,..426
Military Service............570
Mill Valley ....................356
Mission ..........................169
Modesto ..........................675
Molino ............................ 150
Monterey ........................217
Morgan Hill ..................463
Mosaic ............................218
Mountain View ............194
Mount Moriah .............. 44
Natoma .......................... 64
Naval .............................. · 87
Needles ..........................326
Nevada ............................ 13
Nicolaus ........................129
Norwalk ........................315
Oak Grove ....................215
Oakland ---········'······---·····188
Oasis ......................:.......664
Ocean Park ....................369
Occidental ...................... 22
Ontario ..........................301
Oriental .......................... 144
Orland ...:........................265

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amt.
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
15.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
15.30
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
35.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
25.00
15.00

Lodge
No.
Oxnard ..........................431
Pacific ............................136
Pacific Grove ................331
Pajaro ...........~ ................110
Palisades .......,................637
Palo Alto ......................346
Palos Verdes ................389
Park ................................449
Parnassus· ......................388
Pasadena ........................272
Paso Robles ..................286
Paul Revere · ..................462
Perris :..............:..............411
Petaluma ........................ 180
Phoenix .....:.................... 178
Piedmont .........:..--'-..;.....521
Pinole ..............................353
Pittsburg ........................429
Plumas .......................... 60
Point Firmin ..................558
Point Loma ....................620
Pomona ..........................246
Presidio ..........................354
Reading ..........................254
Redondo ........................328 ·
Redwood City ..............168
Richmond ......................375
Rio Vista ....:...................208
Riverside ........................635
Rockridge ·················'····468
Roosevelt ........................500
Roseville ........................222
Russian River ................181
Sacramento .................... 40
Salinas ............................204
San Benito ....................211
San Bernardino ............348
San Diego ...................... 35
San Francisco ..........:...360
San Gorgonio ................668
San Jacinto ....................338
San Jose ..............., .......... 10
San Mateo ......................226
San Miguel ....................285
San Pedro ......................332
San Simeon ....................196
Santa Barbara ..............192
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Santa Lucia ....................302
Santa Rosa .................... 57
Seaport .......................... 550
Security ..........................581
Selma ..............................277
Semper Virens ...............552
Sequoia ..........................349

Amt.
15.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00.
25.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00 .
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
. 10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
9.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
5.00 .
5.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Silver Gate ....................~
Silver Trowel ................415
Silveyville ......................201
Sincerity ........................132
Sisson ..............................310
Snow Mountain ............271
Southern California......278
South Pasadena ............367
South San Francisco ... .212
South West .......c••••••••••••283
Speranza Italiana..........219
Standard ........................440
St. Helena ...................... 93
Starr King ....................344
Suisun ............................ 55
Sunnyvale ......................511
S. W. Hackett................574
Taft ................................516
Tehachapi ......................313
Tehama '.......................... 3
Temblor ..........................477
Texas .............................. 46

Amt.
12.50
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00 .
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge
N o.
Thousand Oaks .......:....478
Truckee ..........................200
Tuolumne ...................... 8
Union .............................. 58
Vacavi.lle .................•......134
Veritas ............................640
Vesper ----·----------------------· 84
Victorville ......................634
Victory ..........................474
Visalia ............................ 128
Washington ·--··········.-···· 20
Western Star ................ 2
White Pine ....................555
W illow Glen ..................676
Wilmington .................. 198
Winnedumah· ................287
Woodbridge .................. 131
Woodland ......................156
Woodstock ....................491
Yerba Buena ................403
Yolo ................................ 81
Yosemite .:...................... 99

Commandery
No.
Alameda .......................... 58
Auburn ............................ 52
Bakersfield .................... 39
Berkeley ........................ 42
Calvary .......................... 62
Chico .............................. 12
Colusa ............................ 24
Eureka ............................ 35
Fresno .•.......................... 29
Golden Gate .................. 16
Marysville ...................... 7
Mount Olivet ................ 20
Mt. Shasta ..................:... 32
Naval .............................. 19
Nevada ............................ 6

Comma11deries, K. T.
Comtnandery
N o.
Amt.
Oroville ... :...................... 5
$ 5.00
Pasadena ........................ 31
2.50
Red Bluff ...................... 17
5.00
Sacramento .................... 2
10.00
San Pedro .................•.... 60
5.00
San Francisco ................ 41
5.00
San Jose ........................... 10
5.00
San Luis Obispo ............ 27
5.00
Santa Cruz .................... 44
5.00
Santa Rosa .................... 14
12.50
Vacaville ........................ 38
5.00
W atsonville .................... 22
2.50
Whittier .......................... 51
5.00
Woodland ...................... 21
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Antioch .......................... 65
Chico .............................. 42
Coalinga ..............~...........114
Crown ............................ 72
Cyrus .............................. 15
Delta ..........................:... 27
Ferndale ........................ 78
Fidelity .......................... 96
Grass Valley .................. 18
Hanford .......................... 74
Howard .......................... 14
Humboldt ...................... 52

Chapters, R. A . M.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$10.00
Keystone ........................ 56
5.00
La Purissima ................104
5.00
M ill Valley ....................108
5.00
, Modesto .......................... 49
5.00
Oakland .......................... 36
2.50
Palo Alto ...................... 93
5.00
Petaluma ........................ 22
5.00
Plumas ............................ 107
5.00
Red Bluff ........................ 40
12.50
Redondo .......................... 101
10.00
Riverside ........................ 67
5.00
San Francisco ................ 1

473

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

Amt.
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00

474

,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chapter
No.
San Luis ........................ 62
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Siloam ········-·······---········- 37
Sonora ········-·--·····-·········· 2
South Pasadena..............112
Council
No.
Gateway .......................... 13
King Solomon's ............ 29
Pomona .......................... 21
Lodge
No.
California ...................... 10
Fresno ...•........................ 6
Oakland ···-···--··--·-·-···-···-· 2
Chapter
No.
Mercedes -···-·····---·····-·----126
Miguelito ---------·······-······.176
Mill Valley ....................219

Amt.
2.SO
2.SO
S.00
S.00
S.00

Chapter
No.
St. Helena --·--··-·-···--··-···- 63
Visalia ····--··-·----·---··-·----·- 44
Washington -···-···-·--··--··- 13
Wilmington ·-·---·-····-----··-141
Woodland -········---·---··-··· 46
Co11ni;ils, R . & S. M.
Amt.
Council
No.
$2.SO
Siskiyou .......................... 24
S.00
Valley ···--·--············--··-···-- 27
S.00
Lodges of Perfection
Amt.
Lodge
No.
$2S.OO
'Sacramento ···--·-····-··---·-· 4
2S.OO
San Francisco ··----·····--- 1
S,00
San Diego ·---····-············- 8
Chapters, 0. E. S.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$10.00
Mira Monte .................. 141
S.00
San Rafael... .......:........... 21S
10.00

Amt.
S.00
10.00
S.00
2.SO
S.00
Amt.
S.00
S.00

Amt.
12.SO
2S.OO
2S.OO
Amt.
S.00
10.00

liulwiduals and Miscella.neotM
Breckenridge, F . . J., Hollywood No. 3SS......................:............................,........$ 1.00
Burrows, Mr. and Mrs. Henry G., Coalinga.................................................... 20.0:J
East Bay Past Matrons' Association.................................................................:.. S0.00
Masters', Wardens' and Senior Deacons' Club, 39th District........................ 10.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association...............................................................:.... S.00
Pollack, Max, Pacific Lodge.......... ~.....:...............................................................:... 2.SO
San Gabriel Masonic Club...................................................................................... S.00
Scawmon, C. H., Los Gatos Lodge..................................:..................................... 1.00
Watson, Frank G................................................,...................................................... 10.00
Names o.f Residents-Decato He>me
Following is a complete list of residents of. the Decoto Home the date
of their admission, their respective ages, the name and numb~r of the
Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges, complete to
August 31, 193S.
MEN, 190. Average age, 74.48.
Na,.me
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Agtt
Akerly, James C...............July 26, '31
Live Oak ............ 61
Oakland ............74
Alderman, Alfred H ......... Oct. 6, '26 · Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ......73
Allen, Harry D ............... Apr. lS, '34 Park ......................449 San Francisco..6S
Allison, Thomas S ...........Jan. 23, '33 Golden Gate ........ 30 San Francisco..62
Alseth, Lars ......................Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ................40S Los Angeles......61
Anderson, Julius ............ Aug. 19, '30 King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco..91
Archer. Edward H ......... Mar. 2, '34 Landmark ............2S3 Esparto ...........;83
Asmus, Ernst A ............. Dec. 16, '34 Mill Valley..........3S6 Mill Valley ......6S
Atwood, Ira A.................Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley.. S76 El Cajon...........;74
Bader, Henry ................ Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco..71
Bailey, William J ........... Dec. 2S, '28 Callayomi ............282 Middletown ....86
Bang, Anders ..................Jan. 29, '30 Fresno ..................247 Fresno ............ 76
Barnes, Elmer W ...............July 7, '34 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara.... 66
Barnett, Joseph ................July 23, '33
Livingston ..........658 Livingston :.....77

Na·mc
Admitted
Battle, Joseph D ............... Dec, 9, '30
Beal, Charles L...............Feb. lS, '34
Beaver, Romanus H ....... Apr. 27, '3S
Beck, Herman H ........... Aug. 28, '24
Bell, John H ....................... May 1, '33
Benninger, Wm. G......... Mar. 27, '34
Bentley, Isam H ...............Jan. 31, '31
Bernstein, Jacob ..............June ~6, '24
Blankinship, J. W ...........June 16, '34
Bly, Carl D .........................July 7, '34
Boehm, Hiram J .............July 19, '31
Bonde, Hans P .................July 6, '32
Bush, Elmer E .................Jan. 13, '30
Camery, Ralph S ...............July S, '3S
Carden, Wm. L ............... Nov. 27, '30
Carey, Wm. F ...............Sept. 16, '31
Cartwright, Harry D .....May 2S, '3S
Casterline; Myron N ..... Nov. 16, '32
Chase, Willis S,.............. Mar. 19, '22
Closson, Harry J ............... May 4, '31
Cole, Geo. W ...................June 23, '33
Collins, Nelson W .........Sept. 12, '19
Corson, J oseph M ........... Dec. 30, '33
Crandall, Almeron ........Oct. 24, '34
DeWolfe, John W ...........July 12, '34
Dillon, Robert... ...............July 28, '32
Dineson, Jacob N ............. Nov. 1, '32
Dolan, John C.................Aug. 4, '31
Downs, Benj. F ...............June 28, '32
Ekman, Gustaf A .............May S, '3S
Engle, Wm. H ................. Dec.12, '31
E rnst, Cuno A .................Aug. 26, '32
Fender, Andrew J .............Dec. S, '30
Ferguson, Paris J ...........May 26, '34
Fish, Chas. E ..................... Apr..2, '30
Fisher, Homer C............. May 28, '32
Fitting, Hans H ............. May 27, '33
Fraiberger, Max ............ Sept. 12, '33
Franck, Isadore ..............Jan. 10, '16
Fraser, Garnet W ...........Oct. 19, '32
Garrett, Benj. G.............Mar. 24, '3S
Georges, Carl L. ...........:Sept. 29, '34
Gifford, Seymour C.......June 29, '31
Gilmartin, Thos. E .........Oct. 28, '34
Godfrey, James ..............Jan. 13, '32
Ge>odrich, Edward .......... Aug. 8, '31
Goodman, Wm. H ........... Oct. 20, '32
Gordon, Luther D ...........Feb. 12, '28
Grant, George L.................Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32
Grimshaw, Fredk. C.......June 24, '32
Halpin, Robt. L...............Oct. 23, '33
Hamilton, Hiram M .......Mar. lS, '32
Hamblin, Abraham L .........Jan. 8, '34
Harms, Herman ............ Mar. 16, '31

Lodge
No.
Stanislaus ............206
Hawaiian ............ 21
Olive Branch ......269
Nicolaus. .............. 129
Lomita ..................644
Hanford ..............279
Oakdale ................27S
Berkeley ..............363
Hartley ................ 199
Hollenbeck ..........319
Big Bear ..............617
Alisa! ....................321
Alturas ................248
Hill's Ferry..........236
Charter Rock ......410
San Pedro ..........332
l<'airmount ..........4.i5
Oceanside ............381
Turlock ................39S
Tuolumne ............ 8
San Benito ..........211
Calistoga ..............233
Valley .............:....135
Long Beach ........327
Santa Barbara......192
Liberty ................299
Live Oak ............ 61
Redlands ..............300
Silver Gate ..........296
Porterville ..........303
Pentalpha ............202
Tehama ................ 3
Northern Light....190
Sotoyome ............ 123
Vesper .................. 84
Janesville ............232
San Bernardino....348
Pacific .................. 136
La Parfaite.......... 17
California ............ 1
Consuelo ..............32S
Balder ..................393
San Joaquin ........ 19
Suisun .................. SS
Nevada ................ 13
Fresno ..................247
Fraternity ............399
Carquinez ............337
Georgetown ........ 2S
Apollo ..................396
Western Star........ 2
Silver Trowel ......41S
California ............ 1
South West ..........283
Acacia ..................438

47S

Town
Age
Modesto ..........7S
Honolulu ..........69
Tulare ..............77
Wh~atland ......81
Lomita ........:.....7S
Hanford ..........69
Oakdale ............7S
Berkeley ..........81
Lakeport ..........73
Los Angeles......75
P ine Knot ........72
Pleasanton ......72
A lturas ............73
. Newman ..........48
Berkeley ........ 69
San Pedro ........6S
San Francisco..70
Oceanside ........69
Turlock ............85
Tuolumne ........66
Hollister ..........85
Calistoga ..........73
Linden ..............78
Long Beach......81
Santa Barbara..82
Santa Clara ......83
Oakland ............73
Redlands ..........70
San Diego ......69
Porterville ......81
Los Angeles......6S
Sacramento ....72
Millville ............72
Healdsburg ......91
R ed Bluff ........83
Janesville ........62
S. Bernardino..86
San Francisco..69
San Francisco..87
San F rancisco..61
Escondido .0••. •••80
San Francisco..84
Stockton ..........79
Suisun ..............63
Nevada City ....67
Fresno ..............80
San Jose ..........81
Crockett ..........80
Georgetown ....73
Alameda ..........66
Shasta ..............65
L os Angeles ......62
San Francisco..82
National City....69
Los Angeles......82

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Harpster, Harry W ......... Nov. 5, '30
Harris, Elijah ········-··········July 6, '35
Harris, Louis .....................]an. 13~ '23
Haupt, Oscar ................. _June 28, '30
Hazard, Emil J ............... Aug, 10, '25
Heath, James H ................. Feb. 8, '35
Hedley, John .................... Dec. 16, '33
Henry, Albert P ............. Mar. 17, '34
Herndon, Edward M..... Mar. 19, '33
Hotchkiss, M. E.............June 11, '30
Hughes, Eugene F .........Mar. 11, '33
Hunn, George .................. Aug. 1, '34
Hyde, George ..................Dec. 22, '30
Hyde, Joseph H. ..............June 10, '34
Jack, David ......................June 1, '31
Jensen, James L ...............Mar. 2, '33
Johnson, Daniel F ........... Sept. 16, '29
Journal, Phillip S .............Mar. 6, '27
Keith, Herbert B ........... Nov. 17, '33
Kellogg, Irving M .............Dec. 2, '30
Kesner, James P ........... Nov.14, '23
Kimball, John C............. Mar. 27, '33
Kittridge, Chas. H ...........Nov. 4, '33
Knochenhauer, Herman July 21, '35
Kupfer, John A ............... Feb. 10, '34
Lagomarsino, G.............May 12, '22 .
Lange, Edmund W. R. ....May 20, '33
Laton, Edward L ............. Apr. 23, '32
Lee, Abraham ....................May 1, '30
Lehmann, August H ....... Dec. 14, '28
Lewis, Fredk. M .............June 10, '33
Libby, Charles F .............Dec. 18, '31
Lockwood, Tom ..............Feb. 13, '28
Lund, Andrew J ...........-Sept. 29, '27
Marsh, Charles F .............Oct. 10, '31
Marshall, Joseph 0 .........May 23, '35
Martin, Benj. R. ............ May 15, '24
Matson, Martin B ...........Dec. 15, '27
Matthews, Elbert C.........July 10, '35
McClain, Charles A. ........Jan. 26, '33
McDonald, Frank ........ Nov. 21, '26
McRae, Alexander ..........Oct. 20, '30
Merrill, Chas. H...............July 29, '30
Messe, George W ...........June 21, '34
Metcalf, C. D ..............- ...Apr. 19, '35
Meuser, Alfonso .......... Sept. 19, '26
Millisich, C. ........................ Oct. 5, '31
Millar, David S ................. Apr. 2, '32
Miller, George W .............Mar. 5, '34
Morris, Harry B ............. Nov. 28, '30
Morrison, Geo. D ...........Mar. 20, '30
Morrison, Wm. F ...........June 27, '32 ·
Murden, Robert J ........... Mar. 26, '28
Myers, Wm. P ...................Feb. 1, '32
Nannestad, Henrik ..........Mar. 8, '23

Lodge
No.
Tehachapi ............313
Pasadena ............272
Los Angeles.......... 42
Naval .................... 87
San Jose .............. 10
Santa Maria ........ 580
Golden Gate.......... 30
Jordan ..................654
Mountain View.... 194
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Phoenix ................ 178
Salinas ..................204
Mill Valley ..........356
Franklin ............... 143
McKinley ............347
Texas .................... 46
Dinuba ..................385
Sequoia ................349
Oriental ................ 144
Chula Vista ..........626
Nicolaus .............. 129
Mt. Moriah .......... 44
Hollenbeck ..........319
Humboldt ............ 79
Alisa! ....................321
Speranza Italiana 219
East Bay ..............489
La Fayette .......... 126
Pacific Grove ......331
Santa Monica ......307
Hawaiian .............. 21
Mission ................ 169
Pacific Grove ......136
San Joaquin ........ 19
South Gate ..........320
Union City .......... 58
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Eden ...................... 113
La Mesa................407
Mosaic ..................218
South Gate............320
Laurel ..................245
East Gate •...........290
Monterey ..............217
Redondo ..............328
Palo Alto ............346
Speranza Italiana 219
Southern Calif.....278
Oriental ................144
La Fayette .......... 126
Golden Gate ........358
Solano ..................229
Alcatraz ..............244
Las Palmas ..........366
Doric ....................216

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Tehachapi ........68
Pasadena ..........70
Los Angeles...... 59
Vallejo ..............72
San Jose............71
Ramona ............72
San Francisco..86 ·
Los Angeles......76
M'ntain View..73
Santa Cruz........72
S. Bernardino..82
Salinas ..............72
Mill Valley ......76
Courtland ........86
Richmond ........71
S. J. Bautista..73
Dinuba ..............84
Oakland ............84
San Francisco..72
Chula Vista ......80
Wheatland ......90
San Francisco..78
Los Angeles......71
Eureka ..............62
Pleasanton ......68
San Francisco..79
Berkeley ..........73
Sebastopol ........70
Pacific Grove ....86
Santa Monica ..76
Honolulu ..........77
San Francisco..76
San Francisco..83
Stockton ..........79
Los Angeles......72
Sacramento ......72
Santa Cruz........70
San Leandro ....78
La Mesa ............61
Livermore ........81
Los Angeles ......81
Willows ..........71
Los Angeles......74
Monterey ..........64
Redondo B'ch..71
Palo Alto ........81
San Francisco..71
Los Angeles......77
San Francisco..75 ·
Sebastopol ........71
Los Angeles......71
Vallejo ..............73
Oakland ............69
Fresno ··········--64
San Francisco..89

Name
Admitted
Nice, Harry W ..~.............July 11, '32
North, Edwin ·B................. Apr. 2, '29
Oates, Lewis D ................... Feb. 3, '34
Otto, Fred A .....................Feb. 23, '30
Owen, Wm. L;................ Aug.12, '22
Parker, David N .............Mar. 14, '33
Peairs, Joseph M.......L...Feb.11, '35
Peppin, Raymond C..-..... Mar. 14, '34
Peters, Charles R. ..........May 19, '35
Plowman, Alfred R.........Jan. 17, '30
Porter, Fred ..................Aug. 29, '33
Potter, Loyal A .................Jan. 21. '30
Quilty, Frank E .................Feb. 1, '33
Rawlings, Levi ................July 11, '33
Righetti, Robert ..............Mar. 9, '18
Roscoe, Thomas H .........Jan. 13, '32
Rummelsburg, Alex.......July 10, '33
Russell, George McC. ......Feb. 2, '34
Sangster, Donald ..............Oct. 4, '32
Schlichting, Martin........May 16, '35
Schmidt, Edward ............ Aug. 1, '32
Scott, Walter L.................Ap~·. 1, '34
Senestrari, J. T ............... Mar. 27, '33
Sessions, Chas. B.............Dec. 23, '33
Shaw, Rupert .................... N·ov. 4. '34
Smith, Glades ................Sept. 2, '31
Smith, Herbert W ...........Jan. 15, '34
Smith, Roland A. ..............Jan. 29, '27
Smith, William C. .......... Apr. 25, '28
Sniffen, Samuel T ...........Jan. 31, '33
Soulier, Joseph ...............• Feb. 18, '35
Standeford, Wm. B .......Nov. 12, '29
Starbuck, Henry F ......... Feb. 24, '32
Starkweather, R. E. ........May 28, '29
Stevens, Chas. D ...............Apr. 6, '32
Stewart, Wesley G......... Mar. 12, '32
Swaffield, Thomas W .......Feb. 4, '29
Swain, George ................ Nov. 29, '31
Swedberg, Eric ··-············Oct. 19, '29
. Thompson, John W .......Aug.11, '34
Taylor, George McC.......July 14, '25
Theiss, Henry D ...............Jan. 27, '34
Thomas, William E. .....:Apr. 27, '33
Travelli, Joseph ............ Sept. 24, '32
Trenschel, A. F ............... Sept. 18, '25
Trost, John H.................Mar. 15, '32
Tucker, Ira W ....,L .......... May 12, '33
U mbsen, Henry P ...........July 13, '35
Viles, Charleton H .........Oct. 24, '29
Waite, Fred ......................July 16, '35
Wallace, Robert G........J une 23, '34
Walbridge, Otis C...........Oct. 24, '33
Walker, Charles C...........Jan. 21, '30
Watkins, David K. .......... Nov. 29, '31
Weston, Frank ................Mar. 4, '33

Lodge
No.
Alhambra ............322
Vesper .................. 84
Clay .......................101
Lassen ...............~ ..149
Mission .....:..........169
Pasadena ..............272
~ ormal Heights ..632
·Golden West........455
Naval .................... 87
Consuelo ..............325
Hartley ................199
Union .................... 58
Friendship ............210
Northern Light....190
Pentalpha ............202
Oroville ................103
Oxnard .............,..341
Beverly Hills ......528
Mendocino ..........179
Seaport ................550
Golden Gate ........ 30
Burlingame ..........400
Monterey ..............217
Richmond ............375
Evergreen ............259
Georgetown ........ 25
McKinley ............347
Callayomi ............282
Oakland ................ 188
West Lake ..........392
Mt. Moriah .......... 44
Live Oak .............. 61
Jame-s A. Foshay 641
Corinthian ............ 9
Santa Rosa '"........ 57
Concord ................117
Apollo ..................396
Durant ..................268
Reading ................254
·Caledonia ............486
Excelsior ..............166
Washington ........ 20
San D iego ............ 35
Oakdale ................275
Live Oak ......:....... 61
Ferndale ..............193
San Jose .............. 10
California ............ 1
Abell ....................146
Delano ..................309
Petaluma ..............180
East Gate ............290
Palo Alto ............346
Paul Revere..........462
•St. Helena ............ 93

477
Town
Age
Alhambra ........69
Red Bluff ........78
Dutch Flat........73
Susanville ........69
San Francisco..76
Pasadena ..........88
San Diego ......72
San Francisco..60
Vallejo ..............89
Escondido ........82
Lakeport ..........76
Sacramento ......76
San Jose ..........82
Millville ............68
Los Angeles......83
Oroville ............73
Oxnard ............81
Beverly Hills....72
Mendocino ......79
San Francisco..62
San Francisco..67
Burlingame ......62
Monterey ..........71
San Francisco..84
R iverside ..........71
Georgetown· ....75
Richmond ........82
Middletown ....75
Oakland ............75
Los Angeles......80
San Francisco..79
Oakland ............68
Los Angeles......85
Marysville ......71
Santa Rosa........84
Sacramento ......61
Alameda ..........fr!
Berkeley ..........89
Redding ............80
Bakersfield ......70
San F rancisco..73
Sacramento ·......57
San Diego ........81
Oakland ............73
Oakland ............84
Ferndale ..........81
San Jose ..........81
San Francisco..68
Ukiah ................78
Delano ..............64
Petaluma ..........78
Los Angeles......69
Palo Alto ........84
San Francisco..63
St. Helena ......-75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

478

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Whitaker, George A.......Jan. 30, '32
White, Wm. E ................. Mar. 10, '35
Wigginton, James W ....,July 15, '29
Wilhelm, F. G...................Oct. 25, '27
Williams, Wm. J ...............May 8, '32
· Willard, Thomas .......... Aug. 23, '27
Wilson, Charles ............ Sept. 22, '32
Witcosky, John A. ..........Sept. 16, '30
Wood, Uriah S ...............Aug. 21, '31
Yarrington, James T ....... Feb. 26, '29
Young, Lars G................... Apr. 1, '23

Lodge
No.
Caledonia ............486
Marin ....................191
S. W. Hackett...... 574
La Parfaite Un .. 17
Fortitude ..............624
Petaluma .............. 180
Parnassus ..........:.388
Amity ....................370
Mount Oso ..........460
University ............394
Oak Grove ..........215

Town
Age
Bakersfield ......79
San Rafael ......79
San Diego ......78
San Francisco..81
Oakland ............63
Petaluma ..........74
San Francisco..66
San Francisco.. 56
Tracy ................77
Los Angeles ......73
Alameda ..........85

WOMEN, 173. Average age, 73.75.
Albrecht, Ruth R...............Jan. 5, '33 Selma ....................277 Selma ................79
Alden, Lena ......................Oct. 29, '33 Liberty ..................299 Santa Clara ....72
Anderson, Hilda C. ..........Oct. 28, '34 Crockett ................139 San Francisco..57
Archer, Phelia E ...............Mar. 2, '34 Landmark ........... .253 Esparto ............81
Armantage, Theresa A .....Jan. 5, '19 Needles ................326 Needles ............78
Atwood, Ida !...................Sept. 7, '31
El Cajon Valley.. 576 El Cajon ..........70
Ayers, Sarah A...............May 14, '32 Hanford ..............279 Hanford ..........76
Barte, Annabell E .............July 20, '32 Orland ................. .265 Orland ..............68
Bane, Florence A. ..........Nov. 13, '29
Rockridge ............468 Oakland ............70
Barnes, Elaine G...............July 7, '34 Liberty ..................299 Santa Clara ......Q5
Bartholomew, Helen S ... Mar. 21, '35 Mt. Jackson..........295 Guerneville ......i5
Barton, Annie N ............. Aug. 27, '33 Truckee ................200 Truckee ............83
Becker, Elizabeth A...........]an. 5, '31
Santa Ana ............241 Santa Ana ........78
Beebe, Annie L.................Mar. 1, '28 Porterville ..........303 Porterville ......84
Bell, Florence C...............July 30, '33 Standard ..............440 Oakland ............74
Bemis, Ellen J .................June 26, '29 Dinuba ..................385 Dinuba ..............85
Berge, Lilly B.................Sept. 30, '26 West Gate ............335 Los Angeles......81
Bernstein, Cornelia ........June 26, '24 Berkeley ..............363 Berkeley ..........76
Beuzeville, Marian C. ...... Aug. 5, '35
Long Beach..........327 Long Beach......59
Billings, Martha· V .........Apr. 30, '33
Drytown ..............174 Plymouth ........71
Blinn, Sophia W ...............Jan. 20, '30 Truckee ................200 Truckee ............75
Bolting, I. Louise............Dec. 29, '33
Silver Gate ..........296 San Diego ........76
Bradley, Nannie ............Apr. 30, '25 Oriental ············-- -144 San Francisco..67
Brassfield, Maggie E .......Feb. 11, '28
Santa Barbara..... .192 Santa Barbara..81
Broughton, Anne E .........Sept. 6, '34 Magnolia ..............242 Santa Barbara..79
Brown, Rosalind V .........Mar. 27, '24 Natoma ................ 64 . Folsom City......80
Brown, Lima C. .............. May 25, '34 Bethlehem ............453 San Francisco..79
Buzzo, Octavia ................June 26, '33
Natoma ................ 64 Folsom City......74
Carey, Laura E ............... Sept. 16, '31
San Pedro ............332 San Pedro ......64
Carlson, Laura L .............Feb. 10, '20 Excelsior ........;..... 166 San Francisco..72
Cash, Anna ........................July 7, '22
South Gate ..........320 Los Angeles......76
Cass, Mary E.....................July 7, '28
Sisson ..................310 Mt. Shasta........79
Cassidy, Lottie ................ May 30, '33
Silver Gate ..........296 San Diego ........74
Casterline, Mary A......... Apr..10, '34 Oceanside ............381 Oceanside ........62
Clyma, Laura A. ..............Sept. 1, '34 Enterprise ............ 70 Yuba City..........76
Coar, Lydia E ...................Feb. 11, '34 Alexander Graham Bell .......... 595 Los Angeles......83
Cohn, Sarah ......................Sept. 8, '22 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles......78
Collister, Mary L .............Jan. 19, '30 Vitruvius .............. 145 Bloomfield ........81
Cope, Ida L. ......................Nov. 19, '32
Charter Rock ......410 Berkeley ..........75
Copeland, Wilhelmina ....July 11, '32
Golden Gate ........ 30 San Francisco..62
Cowley, Cerita J ............. Sept. 18, '25 Berkeley ..............363 Berkeley ..........79
Coyne, Helen M ............. Nov. 27, '32 Union .................... 58 Sacramento .....:81

Name
Admitted
Crawley, Nellie G...........Dec. 19, '27
Crill, Flora A. ....................Dec. 1, '28
Crystal, Agnes ................ Nov. 20, '32
Davis, Fannie ····-···········-June 24, '34
Davis, Grace G.................July 25, '16
de Haven, Flora L.............Feb. 3, '35
Dickson, Alice W ...........June 11, '21
Drew, Minnie ..................Oct. 20, '33
Dunn, Annie C.................J une 22, '25
Edgar, Ida T ................... Apr. 21, '34
Elder, Ellena R .............Sept. 18,' '28
Ellis, Mildred A. ............ Mar. 30, '34
Everett, Charlotte ............ May 9, '33
Fanshawe, Mary E .........Oct. 22, '29
Felter, Eliza D .................July 24, '23
Felton, Mary M .................Oct. 3, '34
Ferguson, Hattie M .......May 25, '34
Ferguson, Ruth R........... May 26, '34
Fetrow, Dora L...............May 11, '35
Fitting, Alice M.•.............May 27, '33
Fortriede, Auguste ........ Apr. 24, '25
Foster, Nellie G...............June 21, '30
Garland, Susan C...........Aug. 18, '25
Gifford, Kathryn ............June 29, '31
Goodman, Orpheus O .....Oct. 20, '32
Gordon, Isabel C. ............ Feb. 12, '28
Grant, Hattie H .................Feb. 6, '22
Grant, Lillian A.................Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Margaret I.......Oct. 18, '32
Gregg, Letitia ....................Dec. 4, '32
Gregory, Emily ................June 6, '33
Halek, Albertine C.........Dec. 29, '32
Harris, Louise C. ............Feb. 19, '33
Hattersley, Emily K. .... Aug. 19; '33
Hazard, Marie ................ Aug. 10, '25
Heith, Catherine ..............Oct. 16, '10
Heitman, Evelyn S ...........Apr. 3, '33
Hibbard, Elizabeth ........Mar. 22, '30
Hill, Barbara M...............J uly 26, '27
Hodgson, Mary A ...........Apr. 19, '29
Honey, Alice ....................July 22, '34
Hooper, Susan ..................July 1, '35
Hughes, Laura H ........... Mar. 11, '33
Humaston, Isaphene ....Sept. 11, '24
Hutchinson, Sara ].........June 11, '34
Irvine, Adelaide H ........... Nov. 4, '31
Jack, Mary ........................June 1, '31
Jackson, May R.............Aug. 27, '25
James, Jennie L...............Nov. 19, '33
Jenkins, Mary E ............. May 21, '31
Johnson, Julia H ............. Aug. 23, '31
Johnson, Jane H ................Jan. 6, '34
Jones, Camilla T ...............Apr. 8, '34
Keenan, Effie ....................July 17, '33
Kellogg, Lillie F ...............Dec. 2, '30
Kelso, Katherine ............Apr. 26, '35

Lodge
N o.
Willits ..................365
Valley ..................135
So. San Fran.......212
Mt. Moriah .......... 44
Naval .................... 87
South Gate ..........320
Pacific ..................136
Unity ...................:368
Oroville ................103
Durant .................:268
Corinthian ............ 9
Mission ................169
Mt. Moriah .......... 44
Los Angeles............42
King Solomon's ..260
Mt. Davidson........481
Silver Gate ......,...296
Sotoyome ............123
Corinthian ............ 9
San Bernardino....348
Crockett ..............139
Berkeley ..............363
Consuelo ..............325
San J oaquin.......... 19
Fraternity ............399
Carquinez ............337
San Jose .............. 10
Georgetown ........ 25
Apollo ..................396
Durant ..................268
Concord ..............117
Victory ................474
Pacific ..................136
Henry Clay .......... 95
San Jose .............. 10
Fresno ············-···.247
Union .................... 58
Oakland ................188
Brooklyn ..............225
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Keystone ..............161
Sequoia ................349
Phoenix ................178
Mountain View....194
Liberty ..................299
Sacramento .......... 40
McKinley ............347
Lompoc ................262
Live Oak .............. 61
Durant ..................268
Patterson ..............488
Presidio ................354
Occidental ............ 22
Jewel ....................374
Chula Vista..........626
Redwood City......168

479
T own
Age
Willits ··········-··75
Linden ..............68
San Francisco..67
San Francisco..79
Vallejo ..............81
Los Angeles......72
San F rancisco..75
Glendale ..........75
Oroville ............88
Berkeley .:........75
Marysville ........76
San Francisco..73
San Francisco..73
Los Angeles ......95
San Francisco..73
San F rancisco..60
San Diego ........63
Healdsburg ......78
Marysville .........66
S. Bernardino..65
San F rancisco..58
Berkeley ..........72
Escondido ........86
Stockton ..........73
San J ose ..........81
Crockett ..........61
San J ose ..........62
Georgetown ....61
Alameda ..........55
Berkeley ..........79
Sacramento ......67
San F randsco..71
San F rancisco..60
Sutter Creek ....75
San Jose ..........65
Fresno ..............89
Sacramento ......79
Oaklanc;l ............78
Oakland ............72
Santa Rosa........86
Milton ..............76
Oakland ............85
S. Bernardino ..80
M'ntain View ..81
Santa Clara ......73
Sacramento ......86
Richmond ........68
Lompoc ............76
Oakland ............73
·Berkeley ..........65
Patterson ........65
San Francisco..69
San Francisco..65
San Francisco..58
Chula Vista ......79
Redwood ..........70

480
,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Kidd, Millie A ................. Aug. 21, '32
Kimball, Annette C. ........ Aug. 3, '32
Kimball, Camelia L....... Sept. 19, '26
Kimball, Lila May........ Mar. 27, '33
Knapp, Lizzie T ............... Aug. S, '33
Knight-White, Alda ........ Mar. 6, '34
Langworthy, Martha ......July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna .............. Aug. 27; '24
Lightner, Sarah J ............. Oct. 9, '28
Lillie, Amelia F ............... May 23, '32
Longfellow, Sarah J ..... Nov. lS, '31
Lindsley, Luella P ......... Aug. 16, '34
MacC!everty, Edna ........ Apr. 12, '34
Maddrill, Mary L.. .........Apr. lS, '32
Mann, Bertha M .............]une 10, '33
Mast, Frances C. ............ Aug. 31, '12
Martien, Alice ................ Aug. 31, '33 .
Martin, Arethusa G.......June 29, '32
Matthews, Louise L ......... Aug. 7, '22
McDowell, Alice M ....... Mar. 24, '32
McGuire, Mary ............. .July 14, '26
McLean, Lucy A ............. Nov. 28, '34
Mercer, Viola ..................Oct. 17, '34
Miller, Esther J ............... Mar. S, '34
Mills, Kate D ................. Mar. 21, '28
Moore, Mary S ................. May 9, '33
Newman, Susanna ............ June 4, '29
Nielson, Mary V ........... Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace F ...................July 4; '32
Nutter, Martha L. .......... Mar. 2S, '23
Pankow, Catherine ........ Apr. 29, '29
Parker, Calista A. .......... Mar. 14, '33
Peairs, Lillian W ............. Feb. 11, '3S
Peppin, Jennie M ........... Mar. 14, '34
Perry, Mary C................. May 12, '30
Peterson, Lucy B.............June 1, '3S
Phillips, Sarah J ............. Feb. 22, '32
Proctor, Caroline ..............May S, '30
Rackaby, Elizabeth ........ Mar. 29, '30
Rassette, Sarah B ...:.:..... Mar. 12, '31
Rickard, Jennie S ............. Dec. 7, '32
Richardson, Julia A ....... Mar. 13, '16
Rogers, Leonora ............. .Oct. 6, '2S
Root, Emma F ................... Dec. 2, '32
Roscoe, Nettie P .............]an. 13, '32
Russell, Elvira .H ...............Feb. 2, '34
Sandell, Selma S ............. Dec. 31, '31
Sawyer, Ella B ............... Sept. 18, '13
Schmidt, Ella M ............. Mar. 18, '34
Shearin, Eliza E ............. Mar. 16, '31
Smith, Catherine ····-····:...Dec. S, '34
Sniffen, Eugenia B ...........]an. 31, '33
Soale, Carl B ................... May lS, '32
Starbuck, Catherine ...... Feb. 24, '32
Stevens, Isabella A. .......... Apr. 6, '32

Lodge
No.
Amity ...............•....370
Enterprise ............ 70
San Francisco ...... 360
Mt. Moriah .......... 44
Sequoia ................349
California ............ 1
San Pedro ............332
Sincerity .............. 132
Starr King ..........344
Woodland ............ 1S6
Truckee ................200
Morning Star ...... 68
Jewel ....................374
Madison ................ 23
Naval .................... 87
Yosemite .............. 99
Chico .................... 11
Eden ··········-········113
Yount .................... 12
Alcatraz ..............244
Aicatraz ..............244
Excelsior .............. 166
Pasadena · ..............272
Oriental ................ 144
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Redwood City...... 168
Antioch ................ 17S
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Trinity ................ 27
East Gate ............290
Crockett .............. 139
Pasadena ..............272
Norman Heights .. 632
Golden West ........4SS
Mendocino ......... .179
Argonne .............. S14
Mission ...............:169
Pajaro .................. 110
Crockett .............. 139
San Francisco......360
Parnassus ............388
Live Oak .............. 61
King David's ......209
Occidental ............ 22
Oroville ................ 103
Beverly Hills ...... S28
Martinez .............. 41
Natoma ...............: 64
Charter Rock ..... .410
Pajaro .::...·-···-···.110
Hill's Ferry ....... .236
West Lake ............392
Corona ..................324
Jas. A. Foshay....641
Santa Rosa .......... S7

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
San Francisco .. 68
Yuba City ........73
San Francisco .. 70
San Francisco ..64
Oakland ............76
San Francisco.. 76
San Pedro ........65
Greenville ... :....84
San Francisco.. 7S
Woodland ........83
Truckee ............68
Stockton ..........69
San Francisco .. 6S
Grass Valley ....70
Vallejo ·:············67
Merced ............90
Chico ................82
San Leandro ....74
Napa ................80
Oakland ............ S9
Oakland ............ 81
San Francisco.. S8
Pasadena .......... 80
San Francisco .. 68
Santa Cruz .....,7S
Redwood ..........72
Antioch ............73
Santa Cruz ...... 74
Weaverville ....7S
Los Angeles ......80
San Francisco ..70
Pasadena ..........81
San Diego ......66
San Francisco .. S7
Mendocino ...... 68
San Francisco.. 66
San Francisco.. 71
Watsonville .... 100
San Francisco..77
San Francisco.. 77
San Francisco..80
Oakland ............8S
S. Luis Obispo .. 76 .
San Francisco..70
Oroville ............64
Beverly Hills .... 71
Martinez ..........69
Folsom City......8S
Berkeley ..........71
Watsonville .... 80
Newman ..........7S
Los Angeles ......79
Pasadena ..........78
Los Angeles ......64
Santa Rosa ..... .7R

Name
Admitted
Stevenson, Sarah ..c••••••••• June 30, '33
Stewart, Mary .....c.......... Mar. 12, '32
Surface, Emma .............. Aug. 19, '16
Teall, Lena ...................... Aug. 22, '32
Terrell, Cynthia E ......... Sept. lS, '27
Thomas, Ida .................. Nov. 23, '32
Thompson, Celia ............ Dec. 16, '33
Torr, Georgina R .............Jan. 14, '33
Walton, Ida M .................June 22, '2S
Waterhouse, Flora ........ Apr. 20, '29
Wegnori, Addie .............. Aug. S, '3S
Weigel, May L ............... Apr. 10, '32
West, Eva L ..................... Aug. 9,·'23
West, Henrietta .............. May 10, '30
White, Martha J ............... Oct. 2, '30
Williams, Lillias .............. May 8, '32
Wilson, Emeline K. ........ Dec. 12, '33
Withers, Phoebe ............ June 13, '27
Wyllie, Lillie E ............... May 29, '3S
Yarrington, Grace .......... Feb. 26, '29

Lodge
No.
California ............ 1
Concord ................ 117
Ione ...................... 80
Golden Gate ........ 30
Yosemite .............. 99
Bear Mountain ...... 76
Eden ..................... .113
Elmhurst ..............610
Oakland ................ 188
Oroville ................ 103
Phoenix ...........:... .178
Marin .................. 191
Mission ................ 169
Santa Rosa .......... S7
Natoma ................ 64
Fortitude .............. 624
Colusa ..................240
East Belt ..............391
Alcatraz ..............244
University ...........:394

481
Town
Age
San Francisco..91
Sacramento ......6S
lone ..................82
San Francisco..72
Merced ..............80
Angels Camp.... 66
San Leandro .... 64
Oakland ............69
Oakland ............76
Oroville ............73
S. Bernardino .. 89
San Rafael ...... 70
San Francisco..81
Santa Rosa ...... 83
Folsom City......83
Oakland ............64
Colusa ..............83
Tuolumne ........82
Oakland ............ S9
Los Angeles ...... 6S

Admitted during the year, Men, 24. Average age, 71.37.
Asmus, Ernest A ............. Dec. 16, '34 Mill Valley ..........3S6 Mill Valley ...... 6S
Beaver, Romanus H ....... Apr. 27, '3S Olive Branch ....... .269 . Tulare ............ 77
Camery, Ralph S ...............July S, '3S
Hill's Ferry ..........236 Newman ........ 48
Cartwright, Harry D ..... May 2S, '3S
Fairmount ............43S San Francisco..70
Crandall, Almeron· .......... Oct. 24, '34 Long Beach ..........327 Long Beach ......81
Ekman, Gustaf A ............. May S, '3S
Porterville .......... 303 Porterville ......81
Garrett, Benj. G............. Mar. 24, '3S Consuelo .............. 32S Escondido ........ 80
Georges, Carl L ............. Sept. 29, '34 Balder ..................393 San Francisco .. 84
Gilmartin, Thomas E ..... Oct. 28, '34 Suisun .................• SS Suisun .............. 63
Harris, Elijah ....................July 6, '3S
Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena ..........70
Heath, James H ................. Feb. 8, '3S
Santa Maria ........ S80 Ramona ............72
Knochenhauer, Herman.July 21, '3S
Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka ..............62
Marshall, Joseph O ......... May 23, '3S
Union City .......... S8 Sacramento ......72
Matthews, Elbert C.........July 10, '3S
La Mesa ..............407 La Mesa ..........67
McLean, Walter J ......... Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior .............. 166 San Francisco.. 66
Metcalf, C. D ................... Apr. 19, '3S
Redondo .............. 328 Redondo B'ch .. 71
Peairs, Joseph M ............. Feb. 11, '3S
Normal Heights .. 632 San Diego ........ 72
Peters, Charles R. .......... May 19, '3S Naval .................... 87 Vallejo ..............89
Schlichting, Martin ........ May 16, '34 Seaport ................ SSO San Francisco..62
Shaw, Rupert .................. Nov. 4, '34 Evergreen ............2S9 Riverside ..........71
Soulier, Joseph ................ Feb. 18, '3S Mt. Moriah .... :..... 44 San Francisco ..79
Umbsen, Henry P ...........July 13, '3S California ............ 1 San Francisco .. 68
Delano .................. 309 Delano ..............64
Waite, Fred .................... July 16, '3S
White, Wm. E ................. Mar. 10, '3S
Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ...... 79
Admitted during the 3•ear, T¥ omen, 17. Average age, 71.17.
Anderson, Hilda C......... Oct. 28, '34 Crockett ................ 139 San Francisco.. S7
Bartholomew, Helen S ... Mar. 21, '3S
Mt. Jackson..........29S Guerneville ...... 7S
Broughton, Anne E ......... Sept. 6, '34 Magnolia ..............242 Santa Barbara.. 79
Beuzeville, Marian C....... Aug. S, '3S Long Beach .......... 327 Long Beach ...... S9
Clyma, Laura A ............... Sept. l, '34 Enterprise ............ 70 Yuba City ........76
de Haven, Flora L ............. Feb. 3, '3S
South Gate ..........320 · Los Angeles ...... 72
Felton, Mary M ................. Oct. 3, '34 Mt. Davidson........481
San Francisco .. 60
Fetrow, Dora L. .............. May 11, '3S
Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ......66

Name

Admitted

Hooper, Susan ..........._...._July 1, '35
Kelso, Katherine .............. Apr. 26, '35
McLean, Lucy A ........... Nov. 28, '34
Mercer, Viola ..................Oct. 17, '34
Peairs, Lillian W ...........Feb. 11, '35
·Peterson, Lucy B.~ ...........June 1, '35 ·
Smith, Catherine .............. Dec. 5, '34
Wegnori, Addie ................ Aug. 5, '35
Wyllie, Lillie E ............... May 29, '35

Name

Lodge

No.

Sequoia ................349
Redwood City...... 168
Excelsior .............. 166
Pasadena ..............272
Normal Heights..632
Argonne .............. 514
Hill's Ferry ........236
Phoenix ................ 178
Alcatraz ..............244

Tonm

J onathan ............545
Excelsior .......... 166
Orland ..............265
San Pedro ........332
Hawaiian .......... 21
San Joaquin ...... 19
Welcome ..........255
Moneta ..............405
Marin ................191
Morgan Hill......463
So. San Fran.....212
So. San Fran.....212
Brooklyn .........225
Berkeley ..........363
La Mesa ........... .407
Acorn ..........:.....494
Sunset ................352
Van N uys ..........450
West Gate ........335
Bell ....................483
Phoenix ............178
Eden .................,113
Excelsior ..........166
Et Dorado ........ 26
Mt. Diablo..........448
Los Banos..........312
Redlands ............300
Pajaro .............. 110
Ione ................ :... 80
Santa Rosa ........ 57

Jan.
Oct.
May
Jan.
June
Nov.
Feb.
Oct.
Oct.
Apr.
May
Jan.
May
Mar.
June
Mar.
May
June
Dec.
Apr.
June
Oct.
July
Mar.
Dec.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
May
Oct.

Age

Oakland .....:......85
Redwood ..........70
San Francisco..58
Pasadena ..........80
San Diego ........66
San Francisco..66
Newman ..........75
S. Bernardino..89
Oakland ............59

Died during the year, Men, 30. A'verage age, 76.10.
AgcLodge
No.
Date

Ansley, James G...........73
Armstrong, George R. .. 81
Bane, Paul D .................70
Barker, Harry W ........:57
Barnes, Albert ..............89
Bidwell, Edward W .....75
Buckner, Andrew B .....78,
Bull, Clint M ...........·...... 57
Clemenson, Newton E ...77
. Cowan, John S ...............80
Crystal, William ............71
Dirks, J . A. C.................79
D odds, Thomas ............85
Gibbs, John W ...............74
Gleave, Samuel J ...........68
Hamlin, Fredk. S .........56
Hardage, James M .......94
Hathaway, John S .....- ..89
Herford, Wm. B ...........81
Hirlinger, Chas. M .......61
Hulsizer, John H ...........91
Martin, Henry W .........81
McLean, Walter J.........66
Miller, J ohn W .............88
Miller, Samuel C.........-88
Olesen, Peter ..................72
Risher, Chas. B .............70
Sill, George W ...............78
Spencer, Sheldon ..........86
Williams, Laurence E ...68

Colusa ................240
Parnassus ..........388
Tyrian ..............439
Board of Relief
Dunsmuir .........297
San J ose ............ 10
So. Pasadena ....367
Oroville ..........:.103
Acorn ................494
Liberty ..............299
Friendship ........210

Dec.
Oct.
Apr.
July
Oct.
June
July
Sept.
Sept.
Dec.
Nov.

Name

Buried at

10, '35 Decoto
5, '34 Decoto
29, '35 Decoto
12, '35 Deco to
4, '35 Decoto
21, '34 San Mateo Co.
4, '35 Lemoore
16, '34 Wichita, Kan.
4, '34 Salt Lake, U.
17, '35 Decoto
27, '35 Decoto
5, '35 San Mateo Co.
27, '35 Oakland
25, '35 Oakland
17, '35 Decato
10, '35 Oakland
2, '.35 Los Angeles·
19, '35 Glendale
27, '34 Decoto
24, '35 Decoto
11, '35 Decoto
16, '34 Oakland
26, '35 Decato
12, '35 Napa
9, '34 Decoto
13, '35 Decato
7, '35 Decoto
12, '35 Watsonville
27, '35 Salem, Ore.
24, '34 Santa Cruz

8, '34 Colusa
1, '34 Oakland
28, '35 Decato
4, '35 Oakland
23, '34 Decato
30, '35 Decato
11, '35 Detroit, Mich.
30, '34 Oroville
31, '34 Oakland
5, '34 San Mateo Co.
5, '34 Oakland

A_ge

Stevens, Mary H ...........79
Tate, Sarah A - ...............71
W alker, Emma 0 ...........76

Lodge

Date

N-0.

Golden State ....358
Brooklyn ..........225
Roseville .........222

Buried at

May
2, '35 Los Angeles
Dec. 11, '34 Oakland
Sept. 30, '34 Decoto

Departure during the year, I.
Age
Lodge
No.
Lacy, Hervey R. .........'.......~.58 Solano ,...............................229
· Name

Date
Apr.

19, '35

Outside Relief-Adults
Date Began

Died during the year, Women, 15. Average age, 79.33.
King Sol'm'n's..260 Oct. 28, 'J4 Oakland

Carpenter, Tillie C.......72
Cosner, Lydia C.............84
Dougherty, Lucy H .......74
Dryden, Sarah S ...........93
Gordon, Mary ].............86
Hollis, E lla A .................68
Kalfus, Sarah W ...........71
Kiesling, Caroline ........83
Leonard, Lois ................82
Meyer, Mary ..................80
Percival, Hannah D .......91
Quilty, Flora S ................80

483

GRAND
LODGE OF . CALIFORNIA
.
.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

482

Monthly
Allowance
Salina L. Dewey ........................California No. L .............$15.00
N ame

L odge

Aug. 4, 1932
Dec. 7, 1928 Mrs. J. J. Terry ........................Western Star No. 2.......... 25.00
Sept. 28, 1932 Arthur M. Stillwill ....................Washington No. 20............ 30.00
Feb. 28, 1931 Mary J. Wilgeroth.................... Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
July 28, 1932 George Watson ..........................San Diego No. 35..:·········.. 30.00
June 28, 1933 Sarah M. Watson ......................San Diego No. 35.............. 15.0.0
Mar. 28, 1933 James E. Briggs........................Canoga No. 611.................. 20.00
Mar. 28, 1933 Isabel M. Briggs........................Canoga No. 611...._.....:...... 20.00
May,
1929 Silas W. Williams....................Forbestown No. 50............ 30.00
Apr.,
1933 Benj . George Ross ......................Ione No. 80................:......... 15.00
Dec.,
1932 Ellen Nutting..............................Yolo No. 81........................ 30.00
Jan.,
1927 Rebecca A. Sherwood................Naval No. 87...................... 15.00
June,
1925 Frances M. Jack........................Chico No. 111.....:................ 30.00
Sept. 28, 1934 Madeline Torry ................c•••••••••Golden Gate No. 30............ 25.00
Apr. 28, 1935 Mary L. Kemp ............................Texas No. 46...................... 25.00
Dec. 28, 1934 Leon Jacobs ..................- ............Fidelity No. 120.................. 25.00
Dec. 28, 1934 Florence Jacobs ,.......................Fidelity No. 120.................. 25.00
Dec. 28, 1934 Lila B. Bystle.................;............Western Star No. 2.......... 25.00
Apr. 29, 1935 Percy Raymond and wife ........Illinoistown No. 51............ 20.00
Oct. 28, 1934 Mary Ellen Day........................Occidental No. 22.............. 15.00
Mar.,
1924 George W. Forsythe..................La Fayette ·No. 126............ 30.00
June,
1932 Mrs. Bert L. Whitehead..........Woodbridge No. 131.......... 15.00
Feb.,
1934 Del E leanor Connor..................Curtis No. 140.................... 20.00
Apr.,
1932 Minnie McFarlane ....................Franklin No. 143................ 15.00
Aug.,
1930 Kittie May White~ ....................Excelsior No. 166.............. 20.00
Aug.,
1932 F rank R. Ridell... .......................Redwood City No. 168...... 25.00
Sept.,
1932 Claude Willson ..........................Drytown No. 174................ 15.00
June,
1933 Martha L. Fortin........................Oakland No. 188................ 30.00
June,
1932 Ellis P. Moore and wife ............Santa Barbara No. 192 .... 30.00
Feb.,
1929 Adolph Isaac .............................. Doric No. 216...................... 30.00
Mar.,
1934 Lyman H . ·Barber and wife....Roseville No. 222................ 35.00
Nov.,
1932 Wm. M. Thomas and wife...... Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Nov.,
1932 Rudolf Oppenheim and wife....Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Nov.,
1932 Mrs. Prince L. Tople................ Santa Ana No. 241............ 15.00
Mrs. Iva B. Llewellyn..............Reading No. 254................ 30.00
Feb.,
1931
Dec.,
1930 James S. Smithson....................Reading No. 254.......:........ 20.00
June,
1929 James A. Bowen........ ~ ...............Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
Nov.,
1933 R ichard Burrows ...................... Penrhyn No. 258................ 25.00
July,
1932 Christian Dahl ..........................So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Feb.,
1927 Cora Lee Bennett......................So. California No. 278...... 25.00
Feb.,
1932 J. W illiam Rumbek ....................Mt. Jackson No. 295.......... 25.00
July,
1934 Ruby L. Bunger..........................Ontario No. 301.................. 25.00
Jan.,
1934 Lizzie Kingsley ..........................H ollenbeck No. 319 ............ 15.00
Nov.,
1923 Daniel R. Ballinger....................Needles No. 326.................. 20.00
Feb.,
1932 Chris D. Metcalf........................Redondo No. 328................ 10.00

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date Began
Dec.,
1931
Nov.,
1930
June,
1929
Feb.,
1933
Jan.,
1929
May,
1931
Feb.,
1933
Mar.,
1934
Sept.,
1931
Feb.,
1933
Oct.,
1925
Oct.,
1931
Dec.,
1933
July,
1934
Oct.,
1932
Jan. 28, 1935
June 28, 1934
May 28, 1935
Feb. 1, 1935
Oct. 5, 1934
Apr. 28, 1935
Apr. 28, 1935
Aug. 28, 1934
June,
1934
June,
1933
Dec.,
1929
Sept.,
1932
Mar.,
1929
June,
1933
Oct.,
1932
July,
1933
Feb.,
1933
July,
1931
Sept.,
1932
July,
1931
Dec.,
1930
Feb.,
1930
Sept.,
1926
June,
1933
Apr.,
1933
Apr.,
1934
Dec.,
1932
May,
1935
May,
1931
June,
1933
Oc;t.,
1931
Aug.,
1932
Jan.,
1933
July,
1927
Sept.,
1932

July,
July,
Apr.,

1931
1934
1931

Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Ella Y. Shanks............................Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
Margaret K. Williams..............Fruitvale No. 336...........;.... JO.OD
H. Truitt ....................................Fruitvale No. 336................ 30.00
Isaac I. Bories and wife..........Starr King No. 344............ 40.00
John M. Keeley..........................Sequoia No. 349.................. JO.OD
Theo. Wetzel and wife............_Presidio No. 354.................. SO.DO
Beulah M. Fitch...........:..............Hollywood No. 355............ 25.00
Clarence S. Biser and wife......San Francisco No. 360...... 22.50
Julia W. Allison..........................Las Palmas No. 366.......... 25.00
William Whiteside and wife... Amity No. 370.................... 30.00
Nathaniel Black ....................... Palos Verdes No. 389...... 30.00
Daniel deBarrows and wife......Balder No. 393.................... 25.00
George Wilson and wife..........Fraternity No. 399............ 40.00
Jos. A. Patton and wife............Charter Rock No. 410........ 50.00
Anna E. Curryer.......................Elysian No. 418................., 25.00
Robert F. Green....................,.....Curtis No. 140.................... 20.00
Francis C. Phillips....................Phoenix No. 178.................. 20.00
Oscar B. Lauff............................Marin No. 191.................... 25.00
Ida Evans ....................................Wilmington No. 198............10.00
Emma I. McManus....................Kirig Davids No. 209 ...... 20.00
Harvey R. Lacy..........................Solano No. 299.................... 25.00
Amanda G. Snyder.................... Lompoc No. 262.................. 15.00
Mrs. Wm. Huff.......................... Ocean Park No. 369.......... 15.00
Earl L. Howard and wife........ Elysian No. 418.................. 45.00
Lillian E. Mincey........................Upland No. 419......- .......... 25.00
John W. Moore and wife.......... Exeter No. 424.................... 30.00
Manford E. Tucker.................... Midway No. 426.................. 20.00
George F. Geibel........................Fairmount No. 435............ 30.00
James F. Price....:.......................Bellfiower No. 523.............. 15.00
Herbert J. Middlemist.............. Seal Rock No. 536.............. 30.00
Wm. H. Lipphard......................Utopia No. 537.................... 25.00
Albert H. Kimmeritz................Signal No. 543.................... 20.00
Robert E. Mims and wife........Citrol No. 656...................... 40.00
George H. Shapiro....................Oakland No. 188.................. 25.00
Robert A. Martin......................Eden No. 113........................ 25.00
Addie Cohn ................................Monterey No. 217..~ ........... 30.00
Clara Scott ................................So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Guy Fallai ..................................Silver Gate No. 296.......... 25.00
Sarah C. Stoudt..........................Emmanuel No. 318............ 10.00
Ida Schwartz .............................. Hesperian No. 264.............. 25.00
Sarah C. Vermilya....................Tehama No. 3...................... 20.00
Catherine E. Kenny....................Benicia No. 5...................... 25.00
Edgar L. Lewis..........................Hawaiian No. 21................ 15.00
William A. McLeod..................El Dorado No. 26.........:.... 30.00
John A. Lundey.......................... Yolo No. 81.......................... 30.00
Minnie J.. Fitzgerald .................. Sotoyome No. 123.............. 15.00
Emma Irish ................................Truckee No. 200.................. 25.00
Stella M. JewelL....................... Rio Vista No. 208.............. 25.00
Walter J. Smith.......................... Sissort No. 310.................... 25.00
Chas. H. Pfeiffer and wife ..... le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371 ............................ 50.00
Edward H. Silsby......................Palos Verdes No. 389........ 20.00
Jennie N. Hanlin........................Mt. Diablo No. 448............ 25.00
Martha J. Snyder......................Lassen No. 149.................... 20.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

485

Month/3•
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Date Began
Sept.,
1932 Mabel C. Gupton........................Reading No. 254................'.. 20.00.
Dec.,
1933 Alice C. Powell..........................Silver Gate No. 296.......... 10.00
June,
1933 Maud Tucker ............................Tehachapi No. 313.............. 25.00
Dec.,
1932 Rachael H. Van Nest... .............San Francisco No. 360...... 25.00
Dec.,
1932 . Albert P. Fonte and wife..........Libertas No. 466................ 45.00
Dec.,
1931 Mrs. David S. Gittings.............. East Bay No. 489.............. 25.00
Aug.,
1933 ' Arthur G. Cartwright................East San Diego No. 561.... 35.00
Sept.,
1933 Louis W. Hills............................Golden Rule No. 479.......... 30.00
Dec.,
1932 McCoy Fitzgerald ....................Reading No. 254.................. 15.00
Dec. 28, 1934 Mary W. Mackenzie..................Bay View No. 401.............. 15.00
Nov. 28, 19.!4 Frank Gould and wife.............. Charter Rock No. 410...... 25.00
Nov. 29, 1933 Mrs. Wm. Crilley......................Atascadero No. 493 ............ 25.00
Sept. 28, 1934 John Dunn .................................. Atascadero No. 493............ 30.00
June 28, 1935 C. A. Ryan..................................Baldwin Park No. 660...... 20.00
Jan. 28, 1935 Lionel Compeigne ...................... East San Diego No. 561.... 25.00

Monthly Total ............:.$2,797.50
Report of the Superintendent-Covina
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes:
I submit herewith my ninth annual report as superintendent of the
Covina Home. The United States Children's Bureau in its Handbook for
Children's Institutions, says: "The health, happiness, and efficiency of the
adult man and woman depend to a very large extent upon the type of
habits which they acquire from their training and experience in early life."
Less than twelve per cent of a child's time is spent in school; our responsibility in the Covina Home is to care for our children during t he remaining
eighty~eight per cent, and to give them the habits, training, and experience
that will make them healthy, happy, and efficient in the future.
A Human Relationship-The presence of every child in the Home has
a background of misfortune if not of tragedy. We must try to supply to
them the parental care and love which has been denied them from natural
sources. Ours must be a very human relationship to these our wards. A
sense of humor is necessary. We have a fifteen-year-old girl who formerly
had severe temper tantrums, which gradually she has overcome. A few
months ago, however, she became angered at some decision of her housemother, and burst out: "I don't care, I don't like you. I j ust hate you.
You're a mean old thing. You're a blankety blank, and if I dared, I'd fill in
the blanks, so I would." The housemother laughed and said, "I wish you
could see how funny that is, Mary." The tension was relaxed, the storm
was over, and before long Mary was in a much better mood. No "discipline" was administered ; it was apparent that the girl was sorry for her
outburst, and the housemother wisely allowed · the matter to be forgotten.
A girl of fourteen received correction from her housemother, but
resented it. A few days later the housemother received from the girl this
note: "Dearest Miss B, I am very sorry for what happened. You have been
as good to me as anyone could be. You have helped me w hen I didn't know
which way to turn. You have shown me the way to happiness when I was
face to face with sorrow. Who could ask for more than you have given me?
I will never forget you and I will always love you. When I get out into the
world I will use the things you taught me. And I will be glad that I had
such a good housemother." Surely a "perfect tribute," and an indication
that in this case at least Masonry has brought to a child some compensation
for the mother she has lost.

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

As They Look Back-From former children of the Home recently were
received two letters that express what "they feel toward the Home after
leaving it. The first is from a boy who came from Hope Lodge No. 234 at
the age of eleven, and remained until he graduated from the high school in
1933. This is what he says:
"When I graduated from the Home it was like being put in.t o a
strange world. I had no conception of what lay ahead. However, I. had
one great thought, 'Where there's a will there's a way.'"
He goes on to tell how he got his first job, in a box factory working ten
hours a day, how hard it seemed, how he stuck to it until the crew was laid
off, how he worked in a logging camp, at an airport, at putting up ice,
and then:
"I am now with the Southern Pacific at their shops here in Sacramento. I want to say that it was the work of the Masons here that got
this opportunity for me. During the two years I have been away
from the Home I have been into no trouble, I owe but few debts; and
I have supported myself all the way through. One would wonder how
a boy could get along so good in these hard times and just starting out
in life. I will tell you, it is because the wonderful training received in
· the Masonic Home is a rock foundation. It is with all sincerity that I
wish to thank the Masonic Home for all that it has done for -me and is
doing for my sister."
Then there is a letter from a girl who graduated and left the Home in
1927, after being here nine years. She begins by stating that the reason for
her letter is that she had heard it reported that she was inclined to disown
the Home as her alma mater. She goes on to say:
"When I come in contact with ·a nyone wearing a Masonic pin I
always introduce myself as one of their 'daughters,' and tell them how
grateful I am to that organization. I want to add that my husband
shares my feelings and is equally as proud where I was raised. I ·love
and cherish the memories of the days I spent there, not to mention the
gratitude that I find it hard to express in words. I consider it my
highest character reference and use it frequently pertaining to background. We will celebrate our eighth wedding anniversary July 25th.
I want to assure you that we are very happy. We live a most normal
life and consider ourselves about the luckiest two in the world to have
such a fine, sweet little boy. I do not believe it is possible for any
person to have a deeper feeling toward the Home than I have. I feel
greatly relieved having written this and · I want you to believe that
every word I have written is sincere."
·
Alumni-Among the alumni there has been an increasing interest in
the Home. During the year, in response to their requests, we issued a news
letter containing information about a large number of these former boys
and girls. During the summer a homecoming was held at Covina, attended
by many old ones, some of whom left the Home as far back as 1914.
The Home Community-Our job in the Home "is to take 175 children,
more or less-boys and girls, big and little-with varying backgrounds and
histories, with all sorts of mental equipments and dispositions and organize
this mis~ellaneous group into a functioning social unit, a pra~tical working
~om~umty. No.t only must we get them to live and work and play together
m this commumty, but we must keep them in right relationship with their
relatives, - allow proper intercourse and yet not allow this intercourse to
interfere with the child's development or his activities as a member of our
Home organization. Whatever happens, the community which is the
Covina Home must go forward in decency and order.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

487

Children and Relatives-During. the past year particular attention has
been given to the matter of the relationships of the children with their
relatives. In many cases relatives, following natural human impulses, had
fallen into ways that were not for the best interests of the children. Among
these were:
Visiting their children too often or too long.
Entering the private quarters of the children, without perm1ss1on.
Sympathizing with children in their complaints, or making remarks
which caused the children to question the authority of those in
charge.
Having children visit them in their homes where there were insufficient
accommodations or improper surroundings.
Killing the .fatted calf for visiting children, making them unhappy to
return to the Home.
Giving ~oney to children without permission or knowledge of those
in charge.
Giving children expensive or unsuitable presents.
Providing their children with nicer things than other children have.
Giving children articles which they are expected to earn by their work.
After consideration of these matters, the Trustees last February
adopted regulations governing contacts of children with their relatives.; and
I am glad to be able to report that the result has been a marked clarification
of this situation and a definite improvement in the relationship between
children's relatives and the children.
.
The Children's Money System-We have continued the plan heretofore
in use for several years, of paying the older children for much of their work
in the Home, and in turn requiring them to pay for their clothing and incidentals. Their wages are determined on a sliding scale, the variable quantities of which are their age and the quality of their work. Payments to
them average about $1.35 per week. Given to them without charge are
their board, room1 and medical care; everything else they must pay for.
They all have equal chances for employment and equal opportunities in
every way, at least as near as we can make it so, but they show surprising
differences in their earnings and financial status. Among them are rich
and poor, misers and beggars. We think that what they learn about money,
how to spend it, save it, give it, how to earn what they receive and not beg
it, makes this system well worth the considerable cost of maintaining it.
The Christmas Fund-The Christmas and Entertainment Fund, contributed at Christmas time by Lodges, other Masonic bodies, and individuals, is a great blessing to the children. It supplies_ them not only with
Christmas cheer, but also throughout the year brings to them happiness in
manifold forms. A fact which may not be generally known is that all the
special expense incident to the summer camp at Balboa is paid from this
fund. Candy is on hand every day -in the year, not in unlimited quantities,
but sufficient to supply this very real need of children. From this Fund
also we have been able to pay for the upkeep of the swimming pool. Those
who have contributed to the Fund may be assured that it is a direct gift to
the happiness of the children throughout the whole year.
Other Contributions-We wish also to mention the Mount Olive Lodge
Recreation Fund, which is ICept replenished by members of that Lodge,
and from which we have drawn during the year $97.32 for special party
refreshments, decorations, treats, dance music, etc.
The Masonic Digest has aided us generously during the past two
years by making available a number of free scholarships in the Mackay
Business College of Los Angeles, which have been most gladly utilized by
graduates of the Home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFuRN!A

488

489

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Camp Tucker-The children were taken to Camp Tucker on Balboa
Island on June 26th and remained there until August 28th. The Camp
was most successful, and the children left it with regret after two months
of swimming, boating, fishing, and freedom from those responsibilities
and regulations which must be theirs at Covina. One group gained on
an average of 6.6 pounds in weight in the two months. Aside from the
healthfulness of this vacation, it has wonderful value in satisfying the
natural longing of children for variety and change. Delightful as the
scene at Covina is, it would not be well for a child to be confined to it
continuously during the years of his membership in the Home. When they
come back from the Balboa Camp, the Covina Home looks good to them
again.
Letters to Graduates-This year again each boy or girl leaving the
Home by reason of graduation or age limit received from John Whicher,
Secretary of the Board, a personal . letter such as only he can write, conveying the congratulations and good wishes of the Trustees. It is needless to say that these letters were greatly appreciated.
Outside Care-The modern child-caring agency must have at its command facilities to meet the varying needs of many children. Institutional
·care is not always the answer. Some children of nervous temperament
do not thrive as members of a large gro.up. Special conditions of physical
disability sometimes require treatment not available at Covina. Occasionally there is a child with sex tendenc ies that dictate its speedy removal to
a foster home where there are no other children.
·
For one or another of these causes we have had under our supervision
during the past year 49 children belonging to 22 families. either in their
mothers' homes or in foster homes, their care being paid for from Outside
Relief funds. The supervision and management of these cases has been
carried on most ably as a part of the duty of Miss Catherine Noel, our
field worker.
JoHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent.
Visitations to Covina Home
September, 1934 :
9-Buena Park Lodge No. 357.
16-Vallee de France No. 329.
York Chapter, 0 . E. S. of South Gate.
23-Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482 of Los Angeles.
30-Triangle Lodge No. 548.
October, 1934 :
21-Southwest Maso nic Officers' Association, 88th Masonic District.
28-Canoga Lodge No. 611.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.
November, 1934:
.
11-Sierra Madre Lodge No. 40S.
25- Corona Lodge No. 324 of Pasadena.
December, 1934:
16-Mt. Olive Lodge visited the Home. Entertainment.
23-Huntington Park Chapter, Order of De Molay.
February, 1935:
10-EI Sereno Lodge No. 588. Entertainment.
17-General Board meeting.
March, 1935 :
3-Glassell Park Lodge No. 605.
10-Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.

17-South Park Lopge No. 563. Entertainment.
Sunset L~dge No. 352.
24-Fillmore Lodge No. 379.
Riverside Lodge No. 635.
28-Electa Auxiliary to Glendale Chapter, 0. E . S., .visited the H,rn1<"
to sew for the children.
31-Southern California Lodge No. 278.
Gardens Lodge No. 621.
April, 1935:
.
.
.
·1
9-Representatives of Grand Commandery K. T ., C:hapter and Counc1 ·
24-San Gabriel Chapter 0 . E. S. sewed for the children.
28-Composite Lodge No. 639.
Temple City Lodge No. 612 visited ahd brought a baseball team
. to play the Home boys.
28-Elysian Lodge No. 418.
May, 1935:
12-lonic Lodge No. 520.
Rialto Lodge No. 582.
Signal Lodge No. 543.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0 . E . S.
.
13-Social Club, of Whittier Chapter 0. E . S., sewed for the. children.
15-Social Club, Glen Erie Chapter No. 237, sewed for the children.
19-La Brea Lodge No ..650.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535.
21-Temple City Chapter, 0. E. S., sewed for the children.
.
22-Lexington Chapter 0. E. S., of El Monte sewed for the children.
26-Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.
Reseda Lodge No. 666.
June, 1935:
·
2-Sunnyside Lodge No. 577 of Los Angeles.
9-Moneta Lodge No. 405. Entertainment.
16-Vermont Square Lodge No. 515.
22-General Board Meeting.
23-Harding Lodge No. 584.
Lomita Lodge No. 644.
July, 1935:
21-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 visited Camp Tucker at Balboa.
Entertainments and Speakers, Covina Home
August, 1934:
.
12-C. H. DeMorest addressed the Sunday mornin~ devotio.nal service.
26-James D. Jamison addressed the Sunday mornmg service.
September, 1934:
.
.
. .
6-A vaudeville entertainment was given 111 the auditorium through the
kindness of Brother J. J. Strauss, Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415.
16-Eight reels of Mickey Mouse pictures were shown through the
kindness of Brother William Abrams of P asadena.
23-Mrs. Ford L. Canfield spoke at the Sunday morning service.
October, 1934:
21-Pacific Banjo Band of Redondo Beach gave a concert, throug h
courtesy of Redondo Beach L odge No. 328, and Southwest Officers' Association.
28-Musical program furnished by H ollenbeck Lodge No. 319. Band
concert by Jinniston Grotto Band; vocal numbers by Chas. N.
Soule.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

November, 1934:
11-Major General D. T. Quinlan of the United States Army was 11 ..
Sunday speaker.
18-Brother Ray Horton addressed the Sunday morning service.
25-Seven reels of Mickey· Mouse pictures were shown, through tlu·
kindness of Brother William Abrams.
December, 1934:
1-Mertice E. Taylor gave a program of readings and monologues.
6--Through the kindness of Mr. Frank Dolby, Monrovia manager of
·shell Oil Company, a Santa Claus and Christmas entertainment
was given.
16--Entertainment by Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506; songs by Dick Powell
· and a preview showing of Shirley Temple's picture, "Bright Eyes."
They planted an olive tree on the grounds.
21-By the annual courtesy of the Monrovia Lodge No. 308 and
Sojourner Lodge No. 607, the children were taken to a Christmas
party at the ~:fasonic Temple in Monrovia. A very interesting
program of an:mal acts and magic was given, followed by a Christmas tree with gifts for every child.
January, 1935:
27-Mr. C. H. DeMorest was the Sunday morning speaker.
February, 1935:
'
17-James T. Fraser, member of the Board of Trustees, of Eureka,
·spoke at the Sunday morning services.
29-Dr. Robert Miller and Mr. Elbert Griffith of Covina showed
motion pictures of the Grand Canyon and of Hawaii.
March, ,1935:
17-South Park Lodge No. 563 brought a fine entertainment with
orchestra, magician, vocal numbers, child dancers, cowgirl act, etc.
April, 1935:
19-Brother H. DeWaard of Pasadena furnished an orchestra foi- a
dance, with a number of De Molay boys as guests.
21-Easter services, with Gordon A. Whipple as speaker.
May, 1935:
19-Brother Howard B. Berry, Alexander Hamilton Lodge, speaker
at Sunday services.
26--Musical program by Santa Ana Lodge No. 241, Silver Cord Lodge
No. 505, and Jubilee Lodge No. 604.
June, 1935:
9-Entertainment by Moneta Lodge No. 405: Haywire Band, tap
dancing, vocal numbers.
IS-Shirley Richert, juvenile motion picture actress, made a personal
appearance at a showing of her latest picture.

Toasties; 1 case Grapenut Flakes, 49 ca~es Grapenuts, 60 cases miscella~eous
breakfast foods.
·
Balian, Mr. A.-Waffle iron for Girls' Domestic Science Cottage.
Bethel Chapter 0. E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
Bettina Chapter 0. E. S.-1 lot jams and jellies.
Buena Park Lodge-14 jars jams, jellies, and marmalade.
Bullock's Department Store-2 boxes Erector sets.
.
Burton, George J.-1 roll wire fencing, 1 lot fence P.osts, floor pamt.
California Past Presidents' Association of the Social Order of Beauceant-1 lot groceries, 25 bags candy, 1 lot jams and jellies, 25 table decorations.
Cartwright, Arthur-1 box sachets, pin cushions, and kitchen holders.
Childers, 0. S.-24 glasses jellies and james.
Coachella Lodge No. 476--2 boxes dates.
Composite Lodge Np. 639-large lot jams and jellies.
Corona Lodge No. 324--1 large lot jams, jellies and jarred fruits, and
miscellaneous foodstuffs.
· Coronado Lodge N·o. 441-$22.75 for purchase ?f floor ru~s.
.
Covina Lodge No. 334--120 tickets to 50th Anniversary, City of Covma.
Davis, E. B.-set of animal pictures.
Division of Fish and Game-1 venison.
Egg Merchants of Los Angeles through Produce Exchange of Los
Angeles-I case of eggs.
·
·
El Sereno Lodge No. 588-lot jams and jellies.
Etiwanda Poultry Plant-9 storage chicken feeders.
Farce, Mr. and Mrs. Charles-I box toys.
Fennerty, James-$6.00 for Treat Fund.
Ferran, J. B.-2 lugs avocados.
.
Fox Studio Masonic Employees-Christmas gifts for every Home ch1l?.
Fox Studio-IO books paper dolls, 1 box candy, photographs of Masonic
Home.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339-fru1t, cradle, 4 boudoir pillows, 9 dressed
dolts, · I box toys.
.
.
Fullerton· Lodge No. 339 Officcrs-2 buckets candy.
Ganther, C. F.-:-2 boxes persimmons.
. . ..
·Gardena Chapter 0. E . S. No. 372-1 lot jams and Jellies.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621-1 lot jams and jellies. .
The Golden State Company-I lot Shirley Temple pictun;s.
··· Harding Lodge· No. 584--1 lot jams and jellies.
··
Hayes, W. R.--4 ·quart 1ars jam.
Higham, Arthur and Scott Williams-I box toys.
Hillman, Mrs. 0. C.-3 jars jam.
Holle°nbeck Lodge No. 319-large lot jams and jellies, .candy,
case
cranberry sa,uce, honey, canned fruit, $3.44 for Christmas Fund.
Hollywood Assembly-I set dressed dolls, scrapbooks.
Hollywood. Lodge No. 355-5 cartons childrens' books, $10.00 for
re.d ecorating room. .
Houvener, H. L.-$1.00 for Treat Ftind.
Jasmine Chapter 0. ~- S.-homemade candy in boxes for each Home
child.
Johnson, Mrs. M. L._;_2 oil paintings.
Joyce, Mr. and Mrs. Horace-{) fruit cakes.
June, W. A.-lot of toys.
La Brea Lodge No. 650-lot jams and jellies.
Laggins, Smith W._.:..1 set crayons and water colors.
Lattin, Mrs. Alice-16 pints jam, 1 pint p:ckles, 2 pints fruits.

490

Donations to Masonic Home at Covina
"Adolph a·nd Louie"-2 boxes candy.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535-1 lot preserves.
Alhambra Lodge No. 322-$25.00 for Scholarship Fund.
Alhambra Commandery-1 stew pan, 1 set cups and saucers, 2 badminton racquets, 1 football.
·
Amber Circle, Hermosa Chapter, 0. E. S.--4 gifts to graduating senior
girls.
.
American Rite Bodies-$1.62 for Treat Fund.
. Ascot Aux;liary Sewing Club-2 woolen blankets and curtains for Ascot
Room in Girls' Building.
Baker, L. and F. C. Hawkins-16 cases Bran Flakes, 14 cases Post

491

493

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

Lee, Mr.-35 fruit jars, 45 fie.o·g raphic magazines.
-Lelivelt, Jack-box of baseballs.
Leshing, Mike-$20.00 for football tickets.
Loomis, Mrs. R. N.-1 phonograph, 50 records.
Los Angeles County Forestry Department-7 carcasses deer.
Los Angeles Soap Company-2 cases soap.
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-1 lot jams and jellies.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S.-2 five pound boxes of candy.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-1 box Christmas gifts.
McEwen, Duncan-15 volumes children's books.
McKinney, Mrs. D. H.-3 jars jam.
McLaglen, Victor-I lot beef and lamb.
Mercedes Chapter No. 732, 0. E. S.-$10.00 for Scholarship Fund.
Moneta Lodge No. 405-1 large lot. jams, jellies, foodstuffs, 1 trurk
load Christmas toys and gifts, $73.00 for Treat Fund.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506--$26.71 for curtains, $97.32 for Mt. Olive
Lodge Recreation Fund, 1 lot jams and foods, 1 lot Hallowe'en goods.
Oerter, E. J .-box of jams and jellies.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-1 pail olives.
Parker, L. D .-box of .clothes.
Pasadena Assembly No. 44-lot jams and jellies, 15 jig-saw puzzles.
Pentalpha Chapter 0 . E . S.-nuts, 2 lots jams and jellies.
Pasadena Play House-Tickets to sundry plays.
Peters, Carl-2 boxes candy bars, 8 boxes cocoa, 4 boxes bitter chocolate.
·
Petersen's Bakery- 1 lot pastry and cakes.
Pomona Lodge No. 246--3 boxes candy canes, $25.00 for Treat Fund.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-1 lot candy and nuts.
·
Rainbow Girls of San Mateo,.-1 lot funny papers, $12.50 to send Boy
Scout .to summer camp.
Rouch, Alva-1 box muscat raisins, 1 box plums.
Rownan, Mrs. M.-2-year file National Geographic Magazines.
San Gabriel Chapter 0. E . S.-1 lot jams, jellies, olives, lot magazines.
San Mateo Assembly No. 21-6 books comic strips, 2 books to color ,
$2.00 for Treat Fund, $12.50 to send Scouts to camp.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-1' lot jams and jellies, miscellaneous
foods tu ff s.
Save, Paul-Treat Fund, $25.00.
Selma Lodge No. 277-2 pairs hose, 1 box hankerchiefs, 2 boxes nuts.
·Selma Chapter No. 119 0. E. S.-1 box nuts, 3 boxes dried peaches.
Signal Lodge-3 blankets for room in Girls' Building.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296--$7.75 toward purchase of carpet.
Southern California Council No. 35-2 packages linen, including linen
such as towels, sheets, pillow cases, wash rags, 2 bedspr.eads, 1 electric
toaster for Domestic Science Cottage.
.
South Park Lodge No. 563-large lot jams and jellies, 12 games.
Southwest Masonic Officers' Association-I lot jams, jellies, fruits, and
foodstuffs; $8.25 for Treat Fund.
Southwick, T. S.-17 books.
Stanford, Mrs. W. E . -5 dressed dolls, 28 stuffed calico animals.
Starlight Club 0. E. S.~ dresser scarfs, 7 table runners.
Stegeman, Mrs. Louis-4 jars jam.'
Sunshine Club-1 box Christmas toys and gifts.
Taft Pyramid of the Sciots-1 package of toys.
Temple City Lodge No. 612-lot jams and jellies.
Thorne, Wm. G.-$1.00 for Christmas Fund.

Thompson, Mrs. M. W.-1 lot of fu nny papers.
Triangle Lodge No. 548-1 lot jams, jellies, 1 gal. pickles, 150 marbles.
Urban, Anton J .--box of jams, jellies, preserves.
Van Zandt, Mrs. J. K.-2 jars jam, 1 jar canned pears.
Vale, C. J.-2 boxes avocado pears.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329-F or Vallee de France room in Boys'
Building, repainting, new window shades, upholstering chairs, new floor
rug; 1 lot French pastries for all the children.
Vermont Square Lodge-1 lot jams and jellies.
Watson, Frank G.-1 Buick automobile.
Webster, Mrs. Rose--0 dresser scarfs, 2 table runners.
White, Homer C.-1 victrola, 1 lot r ecords.
Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. Elmer-13 tickets to Burton Holmes lecture.
Wilson Wes tern Sporting Goods Co.-3 basketballs, 7 footballs,
3 punching bags, 2 lots tennis halls, 1 tennis net, 5 pairs boxing gloves, I lot
·
used tennis racquets.
York Chapter No. 343 0. E. S. and Guardian Chapter 0 . E. S. No.
439-4 boxes clothing, 1 . bag shoes, 3 boxes games, books, 1 lot jam,
preserves.
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home
August 1, 1934, tci July 31, 1935

Lodge
No. Amt.
Acorn ................................ 494 $10.00
5.00
Alamo .............................. 122
5.00
Alisa! ..................................321
5.00
Alpha ................................ 431
Alta Loma ........................ 643 10.00
5.00
Amador ............................ 65
Argonaut .......................... 461 10.00
Argonne .......................... 514 10.00
5.00
Artesia .............................. 377
5.00
Ashlar ,............................. 306
5.00
Atascadero ...................... 493
5.00
Athens .............................. 228
Bay City .......................... 526 10.00
5.00
Bear Mountain ................ 76
2.50
Bell .................................... 483
5.00
Bellflower ........................ 523
Blackmer .......................... 442 10.00
5.00
Brawley ............................ 402
Burlingame ...................... 400 10.00
7.50
Cahuenga ........................ 513
5.00
Calaveras ........................ 78
5.00
Caledonia .......................... 486
5.00
Callayomi ........................ 282
Canoga .............................. 611 10.75
Carquinez ........................ 337 10.00
Center .............................. 465 10.00
6.10
Charity ............................ 362
Charter Rock .................. 410 10.00
5.00
Chico · ................................ 111
Chowchilla ........................ 485 10.00
5.00
Citro! ................................ 656
Clay· .....:............................ 101 10.00
Clinton :............................. 119 10.00

Lodge
No. Amt.
7.50
Corcoran .......................... 490
Coalinga ....,..................... 387 10.00
5.00
Confidence ........................ 203
Corinthian ........................ 9 10.00
9.50
Corona .............................. 324
Coronado .......................... 441
5.00
5.00
Covenant .......................... 527
Crescent ............................ 45
5.00
Crockett ............................ 139 25.00
2.50
Cupertino .......................... 510
5.00
Curtis ................................ 140
Downey ............................ 220
5.00
Dunsmuir .......................... 297 10.00
F.ast Bay .......................... 489 10.00
East Gate .......................... 290 25.00
Eel River .......................... 147 10.00
E l Cajon Valley ............ 576
2.50
El Centro .......................... 384 10.00
5.00
E ldorado .......................... 26
2.50
E lmhurst ...............;.......... 610
E l Segundo ...................... 507 10.00
2.50
Eureka .............................. 16
Evergreen ........................ 259 12.50
Fairmount ......................... 435 10.00
Ferndale .......................... 193 10.00
Fillmore ............................ 379 10.00
2.50
F orest .............................. 66
5.00
Fort Crook ...............~ ...... 575
5.00
F rancis Drake ...............: 376
5.00
F ranklin .......................... 143
Friendship ........................ 210 10.00
5.00 .
F ruitvale .......................... 336
5.00
Galt .................................... 267

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

494

495

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
George Washington ...... 525
Golden Gate .................... 30
Golden Rule ...................... 479
Gold Hill .......................... 32
Greenleaf .......................... 670
Guardian .......................... 596
Hammonton .................... 433
Hanford .......................... 279
Hartley ......................- .... 199
Hawaiian ........................ 21
Henry Knox .................. 662
Henry Morse Stephens .. 541
Hermann .......................... 127
Hesperian ...................... _ 264
Hills Ferry ...................... 236
Hiram ......:..................... - 43 .
Hollenbeck ...................... 319
Hollywood ...................... 355
Holtville .......................... 425
Honolulu .......................,.. 409
Howard ............................ 37
Illinoistown ...................... 51
John P. Jarman ...... :..... 669
Jubilee .............................. 604
Kauai ................................ 589
Ka weah ............................ 665
La Habra ........................ 659
Lakeshore ........................ 551
La Mesa ............................ 407
Landmark ........................ 253
La Parfaite .................... 17
Las Palmas ...................... 366
Laurel ................................ 245
Le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
Lexington ........................ 104
Libertas ............................ 466
Liberty ...... ~ ....................... 299
Lindsay ............................ 416
Live Oak .......................... 61
Lodi .................................. 256
Long Beach ..c................. 327
Los Angeles .................... 42
Madera ............................ 280
Madison ............................ 23
Maricopa .......................... 434
Marin ................................ 191
Mariposa .......................... 24
Martinez .......................... 41
Mendocino ........................ 179
Meridian .......................... 667
Midway ... ,........................ 426
Military Service .............. 570
Mill Valley ...................... 356
Mizpah ............... ,.............. 378
Molino .............................. 150

Amt.
5.00
12.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
25.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
9.44
10.00
5.00
25.00·
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
3.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
14.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00

Lodge
N'o. Amt.
Morieta .............................. 405
1.00
Monterey .......................... 217 · 5.00
Mountain View .............. 194
5.00
Needles ............................ 326
5.00
Nicolaus ............................ 129 10.00
Norwalk .......................... 315
5.00
Oak Grove ....................., 215
5.00
Oakland ............................ 188
2.50
·5.00
Oasis .. ,............................... 664
Occidental ........................ 22 20.00
Ontario ............................ 301
10.00
Orange Grove .................. 293 10.00
Oriental ............................ 144 25.00
Orland .............................. 265
15.00
Oxnard .............................. 341 15.00
Pacific Grove .................. 331
10.00
Pajaro .............................. 110 10.00
Palestine ...... .-................... 351
10.00
Palisades .......................... 637
5.00
Palos Verdes .................... 389 25.00
Pasadena :......................... 272 15.00
Paso Robles .................... 286
5.00
Penrhyn ............................ 258
5.00
Perris ...................... :......... 411
5.00
Phoenix ... ,...... ,........ ,......... 178
5.00
Piedmont ........................., 521
15.00
Pinole ................................ 353
5.00
Plumas ...............,.............. 60
2.50
Point Firmin .................... 558 10.00
Point Loma ...................... 620
5.00
Pomona ............................ .246 10.00
·Redondo ....-........................... 328 10.00
Redwood ........'..:... :......:.... 168 · 10.QO
Rio Vista ........................ 208 10.QO
Riverside .. ~ ............·......:...'. _635
2.50
Rockridge ,..............,.-:-....' 168 . 12.50
Roosevelt ..,,. ....,., .....,........, 500 . 2.50 .
Roseville .......................... 222 ., . 5.QO
Russian Ri~er .................... 181 . 5.00
Sacramento ...................... 4d 10.00
San Bernardino · .............. 348 10.00
San Diego ........................ 35 25.00
San Fernando .................. 343
5.00
San Francisco ...... -. ........... 360 12.50
San Gabriel .................... 546
5.00
San Gorgonio .............. :... 668 10.00
San Jacinto ....................., 338 10.00
San Mateo ...................... 226 10.00
San Miguel ............ :.. :.. :..: 285 10.00
San Pedro ........................ 332
5.00
San Simeon ...................... 196 10.00
Santa Ana ........................ 241
10.00
Santa Barbara ................ 192 10.00
Santa Cruz .....................~ 38 10.00
Santa Lucia .................... 302 10,.00

Lodge
No . . Amt.
Santa Rosa ....................... 57 12.50
5.00
Seaport .............................. 550
5.00
Selma ................................ 277
5.00
Semper Virens ................ 552
Sequoia ............................ 349 10.00
Silver Gate ...................... 296 · 12.50
Silver Trowel .................. 415 15.0,0
5.00
Sincerity .......................... 132
South Pasadena .............. 367 10.00
South San Francisco ...... 212 10.00
5.00
South West ...................... 283
5.00
Standard .......................... 440
5.00
St. Helena ........................ 93
5.00
Suisun ................................ 55
Sunnyvale ......................... 511 10.00
5.00
S. W. Hackett ................ 574.
5.00
Taft .................................. 516
Temblor ............................ 477 10.00
5.00
Temescal .......................... 314
5.00
Trinity .. ".......................... 27
5.00
Truckee ............................ 200
4.15
Tujunga ............................ 592
Unity ................................ 368 . 10.00
5.00
Vacaville .......................... 134
2.50
V eritas .............................. 640
5.00
Victorville ........................ 634
Victory .............................. 474 10.00
Visalia .............................. 128 10.00
Washington ...................... 20 10.00
West Gate ........................ 335 10.00
White Pine ...................... 555 10.00
2.50
Willow Glen .................. 676
2.50
Wilmington .................... 198
Winnedumah .................. 287 20.00
5.00
Woodland ........................ 156
5.00
Woodstock ...................... 491
5.00
Y erba Buena .................. 403
2.50
Yolo .................................. 81
5.00
Yosemite .......................... 99
Councils, R. & S. · M.
Council
No. Amt.
Pomona ............................ 21 $ 5.00
5.00
Siskiyou ............................ 24
5.00
Valley ................................ 27
Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Chico ................................ 42 $ 5.00
5.00
Coalinga .......................... 114
5.00
Crown .............................. 72
5.00
Cyrus ................................ 15
Dixon ................................ 48 10.00
5.00
Ferndale ............................ 78
5.00
Fidelity .............................. 96

Clwpter
No.
Hanford ............................ 74
Humboldt ........................ 52
Keystone .......................... 56
Plumas ........................., ..... .107
Redondo ............................ 101
Riverside .......................... 67
San Luis Obispo ..............' 62
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
Siloam .............................. 37
South Pasadena ................ 112
St. Helena ........................ 63
Visalia .............................. 44
Washington...................... 13
Wilmington ...................... 141
Woodland ........................ 46

Amt.
12.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00

Comman.del'ies K. T.
No. Amt.
Calvary ............................ 62 $ 5.00
Chico ................................ 12
5.00
Eureka .............................. 35
5.00
Los Angeles .................... 9 25.00
Marysville ........................ ?
5.00
Mt. Shasta ........................ 32
5.00
Naval ................................ 19
5.00
Oroville ............................ 5 10.00
Pasadena .......................... 31
5.00
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
2.50
San Pedro ........................ 60
2.50
Santa Cruz ...................... 44
2.50
Watsonville ...................... · 22
5.00
Whittier ............................ 5i 10.00
Woodland ........................ 21
5.00
Chapters, 0. E. S. .
Chapters
No. Amt.
Ione .................................... 283 $ 5.00
Jewel ................................ 238 10.00
Mercedes .......................... 126 10.00
5.00
Miguelita .......................... 176
Mill Valley ...................... 219 10.00
5.00
Mira Monte ...................... 141
San Rafael ...................... 215 10.00
Santa Clara ...................... 195 15.00
Wheatland ...................... 48 10.00
Miscellaneous
Blood, Arthur E ...........:...............$ 1.00
Breckenridge, Fred J................. 1.00
Comfort, Frederic B................... 2.50
Davidson, Thos. F....................... 1.00
Denser, Albert ............................ 1.00
Duncan, J. P ............................... 10.00
Gramercy, Mrs. Elby.................. 5.00
Hayward, S. M............................. 5.00
Hinthorn, G. F ....................... -.. 1.00
Hite, Ben ........................ :............. 1.00

496

Huntington Park Chapter Order De Molay__________________________ 5.00
Los Angeles Police Square
Club -----·--------·--------·----·------------- 10.00
Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies.. 5.00
O'Rielly, John----------------·------------- 2.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Assn.
of 0. E. S, _____________________:.......... 5.00

Sacrame~to Lodge of Perfection, A. & A. S. R.------·-·--··----- 12.50
San Diego Lodge of Perfection
Scottish Rite Bodies.----------·-· 25.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club________ 5.00
The Low Twelve Club._____________ 5.00
The Masonic DigesL-------·-··---· 5.00
Watson, Frank G-----------~-----'··: ..... 15.00

Quinlan, D. P·----··------·---------------·· 10.00
Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1935

Name

Lodge

Admitted

Lord, Robert ----~------------July 27, '29
Lounsbury, Harold ________Jan. 8, '35
Lounsbury, William ______ Jan. 8, '35
Mark, John ---------·--------·-Aug. 6, '29
Mau, Charles ·-------------·---June 17, '35
Maxwell, Allan A ..... March 4, '32
Maxwell, Martin ________March 4, '32
McKinnon, Jack ---·--··--·-Dec. 16, '24
McLean, Norman _________ _Jan. 20, '32
McNamara, Edward ______June 16, '35
Micheletti, Alfred __________Feb. 14, '32

BOYS-88

Name

Admitted

Athan, Byron ---------·--·---Dec. 29, '27
Baker, Kenneth _____________;Aug. 3, '28
Baker, Philip_____ ,, ___________ Aug. 3, '28
Bayer, Oscar ________________ Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy Charles...... Aug. 27, '33
Blair, Arthur ·--------··---Sept. 13, '31
Blair, James ----··-------..--.Sept. 13, '31
Blair, Theodore ----··--·--.Sept. 13, '31
Bounds, Edward ___________.Sept. 14, '31
Bounds, Wallace ________ Sept. 14, '31
Boyer, Clarence ____________ Oct. 15, '30
Breinin, Lawrence ________Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Robert ·----·---·----Dec. 8, '29
Brown, William ____________ Dec. 8, '29
Burgen, Fred _________ .._____ Aug. 23, '32
- Carroll, Charles .__________March 17, '28
Challacombe, William ____] une 22, '35
Clark, Harry S, _____, ________ May 28, '32
Colvin, James -------------···Dec. 8, '34
Cooksey, Jack E, ____________Aug. 27, '32
Countryman, Robert ____ Nov. 20, '30
Crawford, Robert H .....Nov. 1, '32
Cuniberti, Remo ____________ Nov.18, '28
Elliott, Willard ···--·------Sept. 18, '34
Ellis, Robert ··-····-··--;..... Sept. 27, '34
Falkenrath, John __________Jan. 21, '32
Firgins, Herbert ·---·----···Apr. 28, '32
Gee, James --···-----------------Oct. 26, '32
Corbett, William ............ Nov. 4, '28
Hayes, Vaughn ···---------June 16, '35
Helwig, Ben -----·------------Dec. 31, '34
Hocks, Russell --········----June 23, '27
Houtz, Laurence ·-----·--···Feb. 9, '35
Houtz, Walter ··--···---------Feb. 9, '35
Jewell, Donald ·----·------Sept. 12, '31
Jones, Paul Arthur... ...July 29, '34
Jones, Richard ··-·-··-------July 29, '34
Lidell, Ernest ---····----------·Aug. 29, '31
Lord, Edmund ................July 27, '29
Lord, Raymond --···-·-----July 27, '29
Lord, Richard ··-··-------------July 27, '29

Lodge

497

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Petaluma --------------180
Westlake ______________ 392
Westlake ______________392
Palestine ___ ,, _________351
Palestine ..............351
Maui --·-··-·-------·-----·472
Maui --------·--··--···-.472
Maui -------·-·--·---··.-472
Fullerton ______________339
Fullerton ---·--·-------339
Alhambra ____________ 322
San Bernardino....348
Los Angeles ·----- 42
Los Angeles ------ 42
Alhambra -----~-: ____322
Pentalpha ___________ .202
Jordan --·--·---·----·--·654
So. Calif. ___________.278
Bell --·-·--··---··--·-------483
North Star ------·- 91
Occidental ______ _'___ 22
Pentalpha _________...202
Speranza
Italiana __________ ..219
Euclid __ ,_______,, ______519

Location

Age

Petaluma _________J7
Los Angeles ....10
Los Angeles .... 13
Los Angeles ·--- 9
Los Angeles ·-·- 7
Kahului, T. H. 15
Kahului, T. H. 14
Kahului, T. H. 12
Fullerton ------·-·.13
Fullerton ---·-··-·J 5
Alhambra ··------14
S. Bernardino.JO
Los Angeles .... 9
Los Angeles ... J 1
Alhambra .......JS
Los Angeles .." 16
Los Angeles ··-- 9
Los Angeles ---· 8
Bell ----··----·····--··-11
Ft. Jones............14
San Francisco..16
Los Angeles ....11

San Francisco.. 15
Los Angeles ____}6
Downey ............ 6
Downey ---------------.220
Larchmont ·---------614 · Los Angeles .... 16
Monrovia ------------308 Monrovia .......... 14
Covenant ______________527
Los Angeles .... 16
Ontario __________ ,,____ 301
Ontario ............ 16
Monrovia ____________308
Monrovia ........ 6
Orange ___________ JS
Orange Grove ___.293
Grand Lodge ....
............................ 16
Alhambra ____________322 Alhambra ·-·----· 9
Alhambra ____________322 Alhambra ________IQ
Rio Vista _________ .208
Rio Vista ________ 15
Orange Grove ____293
Orange ----···-----11
Orange Grove ___.293
Orange -----·------12
Pasadena ___________.272 Pasadena _________,14
Golden West ________455
San Francisco.. 15
Golden West ________455
San Francisco .. 16
Golden West ........455
San Francisco.JO

Monroe, James -------·-·-·----Jan. 21, '31
Monroe, Preston______________Jan. 21, '31
Morgan, John ·-·--·------·---Mar. 2, '31
Morris, Thomas __________ ,, __July 1, '33
Myers, Harvey ,, __________Aug. 23, '32
Nelson, Alva Lee__________Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Calvin A. ____________Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Wesley ----·-·-------June 8, '34
Nix, Len Doran ------·-----Oct. 8, '33
Plaster, George ............ Aug. 23, '32
Prewett, Norman ..........Jan. 4, '28
Reynolds, Ivan ··-·------------May 7, '28
Richards, Albert D .........Apr. 20, '35
Richardson, Joseph ...... Nov. 18, '28
Riddell, Edwin --------·---··May 29, '30
Riddell, Robert -------···-···May 29, '30
Rogers, Gordon F ...........July 9, '35
Rowland, James ----·-·-----Aug. 1, '33
Rowland, George __________ Aug. · 1, '33
Runkle, Robert ____________June 15, '25
Sachau, William D, _______ _June 18, '35
Schwartz, Joseph _______ ... Apr. 27, '30
Short, Rafph .........:.......,Aug, 4, '28
Shultze, Frank ----··--·--·----Aug. 31, '34
Smith, Robert V ........... Sept. 4, '33
Taylor, Floyd S ....'..1, ___ ___ 0ct.19, '22
Thacker, Marvin __________June 18, '32
Van Kirk, Richard ........,.Dec. 30, '34
Van Kirk, Stanley....... _June 17, '35
Wagnon, Frank ..............Jan.12, '35
Wagnon, Joseph ............Jan. 12, '35
Wagnon, William ......... _Jan. 12, '35
Walline, Cleon ·---------------Jan. 31, '30
Walline, Harold ............Jan.31, '30
Watts, Jack Dean ..........Feb. 7, '32
Zahn, Jerome -·-·-··-----·---·-Oct. 19, '33

No.

Golden West ........455 ·
Yosemite .............. 99
Yosemite ___ ,, __ ,,_, ___ 99
Whittier ..............323
Mission -·-·-·--·------.169
Albert Pike ......484
Albert Pike ..........484
Sequoia --------·-·--·--349
Mount Moriah __ 44
Humboldt ·-·-·------· 79
Speranza
ltaliana ·-·-·-·----.219
Orland _________,,_______ 265

Location

Age

San Francisco.. 12
Merced ___________:11
Merced ---·--·-----14
Whittier _,, _______ JS
San Francisco.. 6
Los Angeles .... 10
Los Angeles ....12
Oakland .......... 15
San Francisco.. 10
Eureka ..............14

San Francisco..13
Orland ·-------·--·--12
Orland ..................265 Orland ..............11
Amity .-..·---------·-·-·-370 San Francisco.. 13
Silver Gate ,, ________2% San Diego _______.15
University ,, _______ ,__394. Los Angeles ...: 11
Montebello ______14·
Montebello ________ ..451
Montebello ________ _.451
Montebello ......11
Montebello ...... 6
Montebello ..........451
Los Angeles ....15
Hollenbeck ..........319
Los Angeles .... 16
South Park ·---------563
Sisson ________,,........310 Mt. Shasta ......17
Oakland ··------·-·J4
Live Oak-·----·----·-· 61
Monte Vista ________655
Long Beach ---· 9
Los Angeles ___J6
Golden State,_______ 357
Amity _,, ____________ ...370 San Francisco.. 14
Amity .... --------·--·····370 San Francisco..16
Los Angeles ___ JO
Valley Forge ...... 587
·Mariposa ------·---··-· 24 Mariposa -·-------- 8
Mariposa --·----------· 24 Mariposa .......... 11
Lompoc -------·-··--··.262 Lompoc ............16
Victory -----·---·---·..474 San Francisco.J2
Los Angeles ___.14
Los Angeles ·--·--·· 42
Sebastopol ........13
Lafayette ---·--·--·--·-126
Military Service..570 San Francisco.. 11
Fullerton ------··---·--339 Fullerton ..........13
Woodstock _________.491
Alameda ......... J6
San Jacinto ________ ..338
San Jacinto ....16
Golden City ,_______ 553
San Francisco.. 7
Golden City __________ssa. San Francisco.. 6
Shasta -------------· 7
Western Star ------ 2
Shasta ...,.......... 9
Western Star ...... 2
Shasta ··--·-·------· 8
Western Star -----· 2
Winnedumah _____.287 Bishop .............. 11
Bishop ...............13
Winnedumah ______287
American __________..475
Los Angeles .... 14
San Francisco ---.-360 San Francisco.. 11

GIRLS-71
]I.' ame

Admitted

Atamian, Maxine .......... Sept. 10, '34
Bailey, Georgia ____________.. Feb. 17, '31
Bailey, Haroldine _________ _June 22, '31
Bayer, Blanche F ........... Aug. 27, '33

Lodge

No.

Arlington ________ ....414
Redondo ----·-·-------328
Redondo ·-·-----------328
Palestine ..............351

Location

Age

Los Angeles ·____ ll
Redondo ·---------14
Redondo _________ J S
Los Angeles ___ JJ

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Bayer, Carol Jo.............. Aug. 27, '33
Benjamin, Gloria ····-····Mar. 9, '30
Bowser, Verna ............ _Sept. 9, '27
Brown, Virginia ............Dec. 8, '29
Casabian, Ruth ................Dec. 27, '34
Casabian, Marion ..........Dec. 27, '34
Clark, Dorothea ............June IS, '26
Clark, Frances ................June 15, '26
Clark, Phyletha ............June 15, '26
Clay, Betty Jo..................Feb. 12, '33
Clay, Billie Kathryn......Feb. 12, .'33
Colby, Maxine ................ Nov. 28, '29
Countryman, Barbara....Nov. 20, '30
Cox, Emily ;...................May 16, '26
Craig, Bonita ......:.........June 24, '34
Crawford, Marion June..Oct. 1, '32
Ellis, Fern .....;................Sept. 27, '34
Ernst, Gladys ................June 6, '31
Ernst, Marian ................Sept. 14, '31
Falkenrath, Frances ......Jan. 21, '32
Firgens, Margaret ........Apr. 28, '32
Gee, Ethel Jane................Oct. 26, '32
Germond, Dolly .............. Nov. 12, '24
Gorbett, Ruth ..................Nov. 4, '28
Hall, Rose ,.....................Sept. 23; '34
Hall, Ruth ...................... Sept. 23, '34
Hass, Dorothy ................Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Helen ....................Dec. 30, '33
Hass, Marion ..................Dec. 30, '33
Horr,. Margarite ............Jan. 27, '30
Jordan, Dorothy ............May 28, '27
Kahl, Patricia Claire.... Nov. 12, '32
Kahl, Pauline Lydia..,... Nov. 12, '32
Lewellen, Edna May......July 8, '34
Lewellen, Ida Belle........July 8, '34
Lewin, Rosetta ..............Aug. 23, '33
Mark, Elizabeth ............Aug. 6, '29
McCallum, Marg. A... Mar. 31, '35
McNamara, Anna ..........June 16, '35
Miller, Anna May.......... Apr. 29, '29
Miller, Ruth Ellen.......... Apr. 29, '29
Nelsen, Lillian .............. Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Ina May............ Oct. 23, '30
Osborn, Betty Jo............June 16, '34
Parberry, Alice ............Mar. 26, '31
Parberry, Catherine ...... Mar. 26, '31
Parberry, Phyllis ..........Mar. 26, '31
Plaster, Elizabeth .......... Aug. 23, '32
Primm, Maxine .............. Nov. 15, '28
Reynolds, Juliette ..........May 7, '28
Richards, Betty .............:Apr. 20, '35
Richter, Joan Jennie......Dec. 16, '33
Richter, Rose Mildred.... Dec. 16, '33
Schulte, Helen ................ Apr. 2, '25
Short, Beth Marie.......... Aug. 4, '28

lodge
No. Location
Age
Palestine ..............351 Los Angeles .... 11
Manchester .......... 585 Los Angeles ....13
Lexington ............ 104 El Monte ........18
Los Angeies ...... 42 Los Angeles .... 16
Sunset ·······-·········352 Los .Angeles .... 12
Sunset ··········-······352 Los Angeles ....15
So. Califomia......278 Los Angeles ... .12
So. California......278 . Los Angeles ....14
So. California......278 · Los Angeles .... 13
Bakersfield ..........224 Bakersfield ......14
Bakersfield ..........224 Bakersfield ....,.12
Covenant ..............527 Los Angeles ....14
Occidental ............ 22 San Francisco.. 14 ·
Center ..................465 Fresno ..............13
The Gardens........621 Los Angeles ....15
Pentalpha ............202 Los Angeles ....15
Downey ................220 Downey ............10
Yosemite ··-·········· 99 Merced ............ 15
Yosemite .............. 99 Merced .:..........17
Larchmont ..........614 Los Angeles ..•.11
Monrovia ............:ms Monrovia ........ 15
Covenant .............. 527 Los Angeles ....14
Pasadena ··--·.........272 Pasadena :.........16
Ontario ................301 Ontario :.•.:....-.14
El Segundo ........507 El Segundo ...... 13
El Segundo ..........507 El Segundo -~·-·· 9
San Francisco......360 San Francisco.. 15
San Francisco......360 San Fra~cisco .. 13
San Francisco......360 San Francisco .. f2
Military Service..570 San Francisco..12
Justice ..................549 San Francisco ..12
Chowchilla ..........485 Chowchilla ...... 15
Chowchilla ..........485 Chowchilla ......16.
Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ....10
Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles .... W
University ............394 Los Angeles .... 13
Whittier ..............323 Whittier .......... 17
Monte Vista ........655 Long Beach .... 9
Humboldt ............ 79 Eureka ..:...,.......12
Durant ..................268 Berkeley "··'····.14
Durant ..................268 Berkeley ...:...... 16
Las Palmas ..........266 F resno ..............16
Montebello ..........451
Montebello ...... 9
Montebello ..........451
Montebello ...... 15
Excelsior ............166 San Francisco.. 11
Excelsior ............166 San Francisco.. 8
Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco.. 9
South Park ........563 Los Angeles .... 8
Holtville ............:.425 Holtville .......... 14
Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ............ 16
Monte Vista ........655 Long Beach ....13
Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ....14
Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .... 16
Hermann ..............127 San Francisco.. 17
LaFayette ............126 Sebastopol ........ 14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Short, Dorothy Mae......Aug. 4, '28
Smith, Gwen. Dawn...... Sept. 4, '33
Tyler, Barbara ··········-···-Jan: 9, '26
Tyler, Dor:othy ............~Jan. 9, '26
Urban, Helen Eliz........... May 3, '34
Wall, Eleanor Jean........ Apr. 5, '32
Warren, Ruth ................Sept.11, '26
Washabaugh, Doris M ... Dec. 18, '32
White, Marjorie ............Jan. 18, '31
Willgeroth, Eleanora M .Feb. 25, '32
Willgeroth, Wilheimi.na ..Feb. 25, '32
Williams, Patricia B.....Aug. 28, '27

Lodge
No.
LaFayette ............126
Fullerton ..............339
Palo Alto ............346 ·
Palo Alto ............346
Park _....................449
Monrovia ....1.•• ••••308
Alhambra ............322
F. K. Shattuck....571
Fairmont :...- ....:...435
Hawaiian .............. 21
Hawaiian .............. 21
Downey ........:.......220

49Y
Location
Age
Sebastopol ........15
Fullerton .......... 10
Palo Alto ........13
Palo Alto ........ 17
San Francisco..12
Monrovia ........10
Alhambra ......:.17
Berkeley ..:.......12
San Francisco..13
Honolulu ..........12
Honolulu ;.......13
Downey ............15

Admitted to the Covina Home
August 1, 1934-July 31, 1935
BOYS-23
No. Location
N ame
Admitted Lodge
Challacombe, William.June 22, '35 Jordan ..................654 Los Angeles
Colvin, James ................Dec. 8, '34 Bell .................:......483 Bell
Elliott, Willard .............. Sept. 19, '34 Euclid .... :~: .............519 Los Angeles
Ellis, Robert ............:..:..Sept. 27, '34 Downey ................220 Downey
Hayes, Vaughn ······;····:.June 16, '35 Monrovia ............308 Monrovia
Helwig, Benjamin ........Dec. 31, '34 Orange Grove .:..293 Orange
Houtz, Lawrence ........_..Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ............322 Alhambra
Houtz, Walter ................ Feb. 9, '35 Alhambra ...........:322 Alhambra
Jones, Paul ...................;Sept. 1, '34 Orange Grove ....293 Orange
Jones Richard .............:Sept. 1, ·•34 Orange Grove ....293 'O range
Loun~bury; Harold ...~ ....Jan. 8, '35 Yosemite .............. 99 Merced
Lounsbury; William ....:.Jan. 8,"35 Yosemite ...........:.. 99 Merced
Mau Charles · ....~.....:·:...:]\.ine 17, '35 Mission .:.....:: ...:.:.169 San Francisco
McN ~mar a, Edward .::June 16, '35 Humboldt' .:..:.:..:.. 79 Eureka · · ·
Richards, Albert ·.:.:...... Apr. 201"35 Monte Vista ..:.::.:655· Long Beach
Rogers, 'Gordon -.........:'.::.July 9, '35 Valley Forge ·......587 · Los Angeles
Sachau, William .............JUJ).C 18, '35 Victory ., ..:..-......-471 Los Angeles
Schultze, Frank ............ Aug. 31, '34 Military Service..570 San Francisco
Van. Kirk, Richard ........D~c. 30, '34 Golden City ........553 San Francisco"·
Van Kirk, Stanley........Juite 17, '35 Golden City ........553 San Francisco
Wagnon, Frank .•.:..........Jan.12, '35 Western Star ...... 2 Shasta
Wagnon, Joseph ............Jan. 12, '35 Western Star ...... 2 Shasta
Wagnon, William ...,......Jan. 12, '35 Wes tern Star ...... 2 Shasta
GIRLS-9
Atamian, Maxine ......... :Sept. 10; '34 Arlington :....~ ......414
Casabian, ·Marion :........:Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ..................352
Casabian, Ruth ...............Dec. 27, '34 Sunset ..................352
Ellis, Fern ......................Sept. 27, '34 Downey ............:..220
Hall; Rose ....-................ Sep~. 23, '34 El Segundo ..........507
Hall, Ruth .............._. ..._Sept. 23, '34 El Segundo ..........507
McCallum, Margaret....Maf. 31, '35 Monte Vista ........655
McNamara, Anna ........June 16, '35 H umboldt ............ 79
Richards, Betty .:........~.Apr. 20, '35 Monte Vista .. :.....655

Los Angeles
Los Ang.eles
Los Angeles
Downey
El Segundo
El Segundo
Long Beach
Eureka
Long Beach

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Departed During the Year
August 1, 1934, to July 31, 1935
BOYS-13
Name
Admitted
Departed
Dearman, Walter .................. Dec. 18, '32 Returned to Lodge .............. Mar. 11, '35
Davis, Harold........................ Nov. 8, '32 Returned to mother ..............June 29, '35
Fasshauer, Jacob ..................June 12, '28 Returned to aunt ................. :Jan. 26, '35
Hall, .Henry Warren.............. Oct. 7, '32 Placed in outside care ........ June 23, '35
Lips, Wallace ............................Jan. 3, '33 Returned to father .............. Aug. 31, '34
Myers, Wilbur...................... Aug. 23, '32 Returned to father .............. Apr. 13,"'35
Nelson, Nels.................... ,.Nov. 27, '27 Returned to Lodge...............June 15, '35
Norell, Richard .................... Sept. 13, '31 Returned to mother ............ Sept. 11, '34
Richards, Langdon................ May 17, '30 Returned to mother ..............June 14, '35
Rouch, Herbie.......................... May 4, '26 Returned to father ..............June 17, '35
Rouch, Melvin.......................... May 4, '26 Returned to father ..............June 16, '35
Schwartz, Adolph ................ Apr. 27, '30 Returned to father.. ............ Dec. 31, '34
Simons, Teddy...................... Sept. 22, '26 Returned to father .............. May 12, '35
GIRLS-15
Name
Admitted
Departed
Burgen, Marie...................... Aug. 23, '32 Placed in outside care..........July 5, '35
Burton, Carol... ..................... Aug. 27, '33 Returned to mother ............ Sept. 13, '34
Davis, Georgiana.................... Nov. 8, '32 Returned to mother ..............June 29, '35
Ede, Thelma .......................... Aug. 24, '26 Returned to mother ..............June 15, '35
Eremin, Zenith ...................... Oct. 16, '27 Returned to mother ..............June 13, '35
Fahringer, Helen.................. Feb. 10, '29 Returned to mother ..............June 14, '35
Hildebrand, Marjorie ............ July 4, '32 Returned to father ..............June 17, '35
Jordan, Mildred.................... May 28, '27 Returned to mother ..............June 14, '35
Lips, Jani<:"e ................................ Jan. 3, '33 Returned to father .............. Aug. 31, '34
Mark, Martha ........................ Aug. 6, '29 Returned to Lodge .............. Aug. 26, '34
O'Connell, Alice.................. Nov. 18, '23 Returned to mother ............ Aug. 11, '34
Rouch, Doris ........................ Sept. 11, '31 Returned to father ................July 17, '35
Shaw, Lorraine;.....................Jan. 13, '23 Returned to mother.............. June 17, '35
Walline, Lois.......................... Jan. 31, '30 Returned to mother ..............June 16, '35
Williams, Irene.................... Aug. 28, '27 Returned to Lodge ................ Aug. 1, '34
Outside Relief-Children-By Trustees
Date
Began
Sept., 1932
Nov., 1933
Aug., 1928
June, 1931
Feb., 1931
July, 1933
Nov., 1930
July, 1934
Mai-., 1930
Apr., 1933
July, 1933
May, 1935
Feb., 1926
Nov., 1930
Aug., 1932

Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Geraldine Tripp........................... San Jose No. 10.......................,$20.00
Ruth E. Owen.............................. Vacaville No. 134.................... 25.00
John E. and Leota E. Wear ..... Excelsior No. 166.................... 25.00
Corrine C. and Dawn Cornett.Santa Ana No. 241... ............... 40.00
Audrey J. Llewellyn ................... Reading No. 254........................ 30.00
Harold J. Samson, Jr ................ Durant No. 268...............:.......... 15.00
Clifford A. Stewart... ................. Elsinore No. 289...................... 10.00
Arthur, Hugh, Paul and
Robert Hopkins ....................... Santa Paula No. 291................ 30.00
Ellsworth K. and
Cressie Wisler.......................... Porterville No. 303 .................. 30.00
Vaughn E. Hayes........................ Monrovia No. 308.................... 25.00
Donald H. Jarvis ........................ Dunsmuir No. 297............ :....... 25.00
Barbara and Edna Lasher......... San Pedro No. 332.............'.•... 30.00
Willard Chandler ......................... Alpha No. 431... ....................: .. 20.00
Bone (four children) ................. San Pedro No. 332 .................. 50.00
Delphine V. Beauchamp.............Fullerton No. 339...................... 20.00

Date Began
Aug., 1932
Feb., 1934
Feb., 1934
May, 1933
Mar., 1930 ·
Aug., 1930
Aug., 1931
Mar., 1932
May, 1927
Feb., 1933
Mar., 1933
Apr., 1928
June, 1929
Aug., 1934
Sept., 1928
Mar., 1932
Feb., 1934
Dec., 1931
Nov., 1933
Oct., 1930
Nov., 1925
Jan., 1927
Feb., 1927
June, 1933
Oct., 1931

501

Mo1ithly
Lodge
Allowanu
Name
Jacqueline M. Beauchamp .......... Fullerton No. 339...................... 20.00
Ruth 0. Doblough ....................... Sunset No. 352 .......................... 15.00
Grace M. Doblough .................... Sunset No. 352 .......................... 15.00
Ruth and Marion Casabian...... Sunset No. 352 ......................... .- 25.00
Edward De Nike........................ Presidio No. 354...................... 15.00
Walter and Mary Smith............ Ocean Park No. 369 ................ 10.00
Bibby (three children) ............... Ocean Park No. 369 ................ 38.41
Curtis M. Langford ................... Fraternity No. 399 .................. 20.00
Pearl 0. Vincent......................... Yerba Buena No. 403 .............. 10.00
Charles, Harold, Richard and
Olive Bowen............................. Arlington No. 414.................... 50.00
Lader (two children) ................. Schofield No. 443 ...................... 35.00
Phillips (three children) ........... Mt. Oso No. 460 ...................... 60.00
Abraham Ottenberg.................... Lincoln No. 470........................ 20.00
Troup (four children) ............... Golden Rule No. 479................ 20.00
Abraham S. Hitch....................... Point No. 503 ............................ 20.00
Maas (three children) ...............Cupertino No. 510.................... 60.00
Earl, Milton and
Eileen Locke.............................Ascot No. 538............................ 30.00
Robert and Wm. Reese .............. Sunnyside No. 577 .................... 30.00
;Manley P. Jones .......................... Compass No. 590...................... 20.00
Wm. and James Todd ................ Palisades No. 637.................... 15.00
Havlin (two children) ...............Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371 .................................. 30.00
Thomas McL: 'tarlisle............... Schofield No. 443 ...................... 20.00
Raymond Sherrer........................ Veteran No. 373........................ 15.00
Edmund B. Nutting .................... Evening Star No. 186............ 30.00
Edward and Norman Johnson.Point Firmin No. 558 .............. 30.00

Monthly total ...................................................................... :.: .......... ;.............$1,048.4:1

The report of the Trustees was approved, excepting those
portions relating to finance, which were referred to the Committee on Finance, and also excepting the report as to the
rules adopted by the Board, which were referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and consideration of
the rules was made special order for two o'clock Wednesday.
At that time the matter of policy as to rules adopted by the
Board was postponed for final consideration until the next
annual communication.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES
ENDOWMENT BOARD

The total amount of cash received from the brethren
and transmitted through the Lodges was ................$49,951.86
Received from bequests and insurance............................ 3,282.71
Received directly from individuals.................................... 1,098.25
Amount collected- by various Masonic bodies other
than Blue Lodges................- ...............................:........ 2,361.12

502

To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Board herewith pr~sents its third annual report, being for the period
between July 31, 1934, and October 3, 1935.

Total amount of cash from all sources credited
this year to Endowment Fund is ......................$56,693.94

The Board is now constituted as follows:
Term Expiring
October, 1935
Leon 0. Whitsell
Louis C. Drapeau
Arthur S. Crites
Eugene S. Elkus
George M. Donovan

Term Expiring
October, 1936·
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Judge Frank M. Smith
Edmund A. Lockett
Robert B. Gaylord
Thomas Flint

Term Expiring
October, 1937
Reynold E. Blight
David W. Schick
Harry F. White
Judge John F. Pullen

The officers of the Board are:
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Chairman
Robert B. Gaylord, Vice-Chairman

503

Frank M. Smith, Secretary
Wm. P. Filmer, Treasurer

Wm:. P. Jeffries was the chairman of the Board appointed by the Grand
Master and was the dynamic, moving force in the establishment of this Board
and in the successful conduct of its efforts and operations. By his untimely and
lamentable death on June 12, 1935, this Board sustained an irreparable loss and
the Masonic craft in this jurisdiction was deprived of an outstanding leader.
Brother Jeffries, after a long and honorable career of distinction in business,
civic and social affairs, and particularly in all the fields of Masonry, devoted the
larger part of his time and effort during the past three years to the cause of an
adequate Endowment Fund for the Masonic Homes of California. This crowning
effort of his life was characteristic of him because it was inspired and motivated
by his love of children and his soiicitud~ for the welfare of the aged; and expressed
itself in his continuous and enthusiastic efforts to help the Masons of'California
tu do something outstanding for the Masonic Homes for children and the aged.
Two days after his death your Board received a check for $1,000.00, the proceeds
of a policy carried by Brother Jeffries on his life for the benefit of the. Home·~.
He would not appeal to his brethren to do something for the Homes that he has
not done himself.
·
·
·
A solicitation for endowment funds during the month of May, 1935, was
authorized by the Grand Master, and the Board was diligent in connection therewith. A considerable amount of printed matter was distributed, a voluminous
amount of correspondence was had with Masters, Secretaries and Inspectors and
addresses were caused to be made in the Lodges of the jurisdiction. Joint meetings were held in some of the larger cities which were enthusiastic and well
attended. Meetings were held under the supervision of your Board in Los Angeles, Fresno, San Luis Obispo, Long Beach, San Bernardino, Oakland, Monrovia, Taft and other cities. Brother Jeffries, as chairman of the Board, attended
scores of meetings and in his forceful and·convincing manner presented the needs
of the Homes and the appeal for funds. He was ably assisted by various members
of the Board, although his is the credit for most of the time and effort required
by these meetings.
The Inspectors of the various districts have rendered faithful and valued
services to the Board and, with the officers and endowment committees of the
various Lodges, are entitled to the commendation of this Grand Lodge.

Included in the gifts received from Lodges are several gifts of money that
were made in lieu of sending flowers to the funeral of a deceased brother. Donations of this character are increasing year by year, and in the judgment of your
Board this is an appropriate and beautiful way of attesting grief or respect for
a decedent, by making his death productive of good through all the years to come.
During the year a gift was received from Lionel Campagne, of East San
Diego Lodge No. 561, of a $500.00 bond of the San Diego First National Company.
George]. Burton, of Southern California Lodge No. 278, conveyed to the
Masonic Homes of California his home property in Eagle Rock of a value of
about $4,000.00, subject to a trust deed in the sum of $1,850.00.
Brother John T. Golt of Manila Lodge No. 1 has conveyed three parcels of
property of an unknown value to the Endowment Fund.
The West Gate Low Twelve Club, formed by a group of members of West
Gate Lodge No. 335, have instituted a fund from which $250.00 is paid to the
family of any member in the event of his death, and two of the members, Abe
Blumenthal and Aaron C. Scher, have subscribed for membe·rship therein designating the Masonic Homes of California as the beneficiary of their subscriptions.
In the event any money from these subscriptions is paid into the Endowment
Fund, W,,est Gate Lodge will be given credit therefor.
Honor Roll Certificates
If the Grand Master sanctions the issuance of Honor Roll Certificates to
each of the Lodges collecting $2.00 or more per member, then such certificates
will be promptly prepared and delivered to the respective Lodges. The Lodges
who will be entitled. to such certificates are :
% of
Objective
Lodge
No.
Location
Lihue, Kauai, T. H.
190
1. Kauai ..............................................589
Hilo, T. H.
151
2. Kilauea ........................ - ..- ......... ,_330
San Diego
127
3. Point Loma .................................. 620
110
Kahului, Maui, T. fl.
4. Maui ····················-························.. 472
Los Angeles
106
5. Mount Olive .................................. 506
Los Angeles
106
6. Henry Knox ................................662
105
Redding
7. Redding ....- ....................................254
103
Guadalupe
8. Guadalupe ..............................- ......237
Los Angeles
9. Southland ........................- ............618
103
Orland
10. Orland ........................ :...................265
100
Fort Bidwell
100
11. North East ................................... 266
Porterville
12. Porterville ..................;.................303
100
100
13. Exeter ..............:............................ .424
Exeter
Blythe
100
14. Blythe ............................................473

The largest percentage was attained by Kauai Lodge No. 589 with a membership of 93, which contributed $354.50, or practically $4.00 a member. The
largest check received from any Lodge whose name appears on the Honor Roll
was from Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, which sent a contribution of $822.00, and
having 387 members. This was also the largest contribution sent in by any Lodge.

504 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is estimated that contributions were made by about 15 000 members. Of the
580 Lodges in this jurisdiction, 492 reported contributions ~nd 88 made no report
other than that some of the Lodges wrote to the committee that they could secure
no contributions.
This B~ard at the last. communication proposed that the Grand Lodge
ap~rove the issuance of annuity contracts by the Masonic Homes of California
which proposal was postponed for consideration until the annual communicatio~·
of 1935. Your Board is of the opinion that the proposal should be withdrawn
and this Board will not renew the proposal.
'
Permanent Endowment Fund

In the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California will be
found the report of the auditors authorized by the Finance Committee to audit
the accounts of the Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes, showing
a full and co~pl~te state~ent of the condition of said fund as of July 31, 1935.
The Auditors report shows the payments into the Endowment Fund made
prior to August 1, 1935, while the report of your Board includes all contributions
made prior to October 4, 1935, and for this reason there is a variance of $1,427.00
between our report and that of said auditors.
·
The composition of the Endowment Fund as of July 31, 1935, was as follows:
Total cash .............................................................................$ 63,309.69
Total bonds (book value) ................................................ 522,332.67
Total stocks (book value)................................................ 62,879.61
Total miscellaneous, including Masonic Homes note .. 175,018.00
$823,539.97
Cash contributions since Auditor's Report.................... · 1,427.00
$825,966.97
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund.....,............................ 28,800.00
Grand Total ................................................................$854,766.97
The cash reported on hand as of July 31st has been invested by the Finance
Committee since that date.
Endowment Board Expenses
An appropriation of $6,000.00 was made at the last communication for the
expenses of your Endowment Board, and the whole of said sum has been
expended as shown by the following account. The appropriation was not adequ~te to defray all the expenses incurred and contemplated by Brother Jeffries.
~s necessary to pay for clerical help, printing already executed, and possible
mc1dental expenses. When an appropriation is made for the activities of this
Boar~ duri~g ~he e~suing year, it should include about $500.00 to discharge the
unpaid obligations incurred by the committee during the current year The
Constitutio~ of Grand 1:-<>dge prohibits the use for expenses of any ~f the
moneys which are contributed to the Endowment Fund. The cost of raising
$56,693.94 <luring the ·current year amounts to about $6,500.00. The resultant
benefits accruing in the future from the efforts of this year in the way of gifts
and be~uests can not at present be appraised. Total receipts and expenses of the
Masonic Endowment Board for the current year were as follows:
Receipts
Balance shown by 1934 report .................................................... :.........$ 37.72
Appropriation by 1934 Grand Lodge.................................................. 6,000.00
Deposits of donations, miscellaneous items and refund from
San Francisco committee.............................................................. 669.31

!t

Total...............................................................................:.........$6,707.03

505

Disbursements
Donations forwarded to Grand Secretary with reports ..$ 634.22
Printing and supplies................................................................2,767.22
Postage, express, freight, telephone and telegraph.......... 939.54
Stenographic and clerical help~........ ...................................... 962.50
Frames, cuts and lithographing............................................ 64.99
Expense Executive Committee meeting in San Francisco, November, 1934...................................................... 164.59
Expense of meetings various cities...................................... 333.98
San Francisco committee (refunded $8.30) ...................... 800.00
Miscellaneous ( tax on checks, adv., etc.) ............................ 35.76
Total checks drawn from August 1, 1934, to
October 3, 1935, as per vouchers on file in
office of Grand Secretary..............................................$6,702.80
Cash in bank October 3, 1935..............................$

4.23

Unpaid bills estimated at $500.00.
Relative to Activities of the Board
The members of the Board have given consideration to the matter of the
appropriate and expedient future activities of the Endowment Board. It was the
belief of our late chairman that an annual solicitation of funds should be made
during some month of the year and that an active campaign for subscriptions
from the members should be made by the Lodges. Such campaigns were had, but
the results have not been satisfactory to your Board, and the continuation of that
method of raising funds is, in our opinion, undesirable. We do not see that
adequate results could be accomplished unless the campaign was in charge of a
person who possesses the dynamic energy and forceful personality and the
enthusiasm brought to this work by Brother Jeffries, and who could devote a
great amount of time to the work. The Grand Master may know of such a
.brother who would assume the task, but if not, then it would be better to discontinue this method of raising money. While we are deeply appreciative of the
gifts which have been received, and recognize the benevolence of our brethren
who have contributed, yet we find throughout the jurisdiction a widespread
apathy and in many quarters a decided opposition to campaigns or drives for
funds. Our correspondence and interviews with our brethren develop a surprising
dissatisfaction. During the current year few Lodges have received contributions
from any large percentage of their membership, and even in the case of the
fourteen Lodges which attained their quota, only about 60 per cent of the members of these Lodges contributed. Our opinion in this matter finds emphasis in
the fact that 153 Lodges reported 10 per cent or less of their quota, while 442
LDdges reported less than 50 per cent of their quota, that 88 Lodges made no
report and only 50 Lodges reported contributions of more than 50 per cent of
their quota.
Your Board is more firmly than ever impressed with the paramount importance of raising an adequate endowment fund for the Masonic Homes, and it
urges an earnest and continuous effort by all officers and members to secure
augmentations to the fund. The safety in the future years of the beneficiaries of
our bounty requires of us not only a deep syrrtpathy for the dependent aged and
helpless young, but a practical performance of our professions of Masonic
charity. The Endowment Board can be the leader in stimulating the hearts of
our brethren and in presenting the claims of our Homes before the entire membership. Bequests and other gifts can be secured and it is the function of your
Board to seek such gifts by appropriate means.

507

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

506 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

That we may have the assurance of a regular accretion to the Endowment
Fund, in addition to the results growing from efforts of this Board, and that the
burden of such accretions should be borne by the entire membership in the jurisdiction rather than as heretofore from the gifts of the faithful and active
minority, we respectfully and fraternally offer the following resolution:
"Resolved, that a per capita tax of fifty cents (50c) per member be levied
on the members of the subordinate Lodges of this grand jurisdiction, which tax
shall be payable annually by the members to the Sec~etaries of their respective
Lodges previous to or at the time of the payment of Lodge dues and that no
receipt be issued by any Lodge to any member until said per capita tax has first
been paid in full for the current year. That the said annual per capita tax · so
collected be remitted by the Secretaries monthly to the Grand Secretary for
payment by him into the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California."
We recommend that the foregoing resolution be referred to the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes. (This failed of adoption-Grand Secretary.)
·Appropriation
In order that your Board may function during the ensuing year it will be
necessary that funds be provided by this Grand Lodge for its expenses, since no
part of its expenditures may be taken from the Etidowment Fund or contributions thereto. Heretofore the expenses of your Board have amounted to more
than $6,000.00 per year, but if the methods of raising funds are altered as we
have suggested, then an appropriation of $4,000.00 should be sufficient to liquidate
the unpaid indebtedness of the Committee and to provide for its activities during
the year, and we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
"Resolved, that the sum of Four Thousand ($4,000.00). Dollars be and is
hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid to the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board for its expenses for the year· ending October
3, 1936."
Contributions
Total Cash From Lodges
August 1, 1934, to August 1, 1935....................................$48,529.86
Cash From Other Masonic Bodies
San Francisco Bodies, A. & A. S. R. ..............$ 412.00
Los Angeles Bodies, A. & A. S. R................... 569.50
California Bodies, A. & A. S. R ....................... 430.00
Al Malaikah Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S ......... 600.50
San Diego Commandery No. 25, K. T .............
35.00
Golden West Commandery No. 43, K. T .........
10.00
St. Bernard Commandery No. 23, K. T .........
25.00
10.00
Woodland Commandery No. 21, K. T .............
Southwestern Masonic Officers' Association,
Los Angeles ..................................................
27.12
Signet Chapter No. 57, R. A. M ....................... 100.00
Solano Chapter No. 43, R. A. M ....................... . 5.00.
The Masonic English Ritualists, Merlin W.
Drucquer, 742 Buena Vista Ave., Alameda, California ..........................................
50.00
12.00
Melrose Chapter No. 140, R. A. M ...:.............
Hanford Chapter No. 74, R. A. M ...................
50.00
25.00 2,361.12
Sutter Chapter No. 11, R. A. M .......................
Miscellaneous Cash Donations
Frank G. Watson, Grand Tyler........................$ 105.00
]\{rs. T. 0. Newson..................................~....,......
10.00
Dr. Austin J. Mummert............................:......... 900.00

Ralph M. Brock~..............................;···-·····-·······
Mrs. Emma M. Roseveri.. .........·-······················
A. J. Donaldson....................................................
t. C. Fortreide...........•........·..................................
Sir Francis Drake Hotel; San Francisco........

5.00
1.00
50.00
1.00
21.25 1,093.25

August Gerske, member Evans Lodge No.
524, Evanston, 111.; sent in by Burlingame. N~. 400 and included with their
contr1but1on ..................................................
Mrs. Mary E . Waistell (received af ter
8/1/35) ...........:..............................................

10.00
5.00

Bequests and Insurance
W. P . Jeffries, Southern California No. 278,
matured · insurance policy in favor of
Masonic Homes of California....................$1,000.00
Estate of Clara M. Abrams in memory of
her brother, Joseph D. Abrams................ 1,000.00
H. L. Harland, Sincerity Lodge No. 132.....,.. · 158.02
Oliver C. Moore, Temple Lodge No. 14........ 500.00
August F. Schleicher, King Solomon's Lodge
No. 260 .......................................................... 250.00
Harry Seibel, Petaluma Lodge ·No. 180........ 300.00
21.54 .
Estate of Eliza Brown, deceased......................
Estate of John Sinclair, dividend from F ir st
National Bank of Monterey Park.........--~---·
53.15 3,282.71
Total to August 1, 1935.....................~-----···········$55,266.94
Received between August 1, 1935, and October 4, 1935
From Lodges ..........:..~·················'·······--··············$1,422.00
From individuals ..................................................
5.00 1,427.00
Total to October 4, 1935........................ -............$56,693,94

REPORT OF LODGE CONTRIBUTIONS TO
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND
Objective
M emberPct.
Cash
N o.
Lodge
Location
ship
33
$440.00
1 California......................... San Francisco .................... 663
42
68.00
2 Western Star,.................. Shasta .................................. 80
45 .
400.QO
3 Tehama............................. Sacramento ........................ 439
17
53.50
5 Benicia.............................. Benicia ................................ 155
1
7.00
8 Tuolumne......................... Sonora ...........•...................... 226
17
111.25
9 Corinthian...........;.......•.... Marysville .......................... 319 ""
13
127.98
6
34.00
..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
53
148.00
13 N evada.............................. Nevada City ...................... 138
5
13.00
17
71.50
20
65.00
17 · La Parfaite.Union.......... San Francisco .................... 156
23
282.50
19 San Joaquin......................Stockton .............................. 619
44
459.50
20 Washington......................Sacramento ........................ 520
47
332.00
21 Hawaiian.......................... Honolulu, T. H ................. 353
7
127.00
22 Occidental.......: ................ San Francisco .................... 838
15
49.50
23 Madison......................,..... Grass Valley ...................... 163
39
122.00
24 Maripos~...........................Mariposa ········-·'-··············· 154

~~ ~~~~~-·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_"_"_"_"_"_~aa~! o-~~

~~~

~~ ~::.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.- ~~~~~: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

508

No.
26
30
32
35
· 37
38
40
41
42
44
45
50
55
56
57
58
60
61

64
66
68

76
79
80
81
84
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
113
119
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
136
139

140
141
143
144
145

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS O.F THE

MemberLodge
Locatio>i
ship
El Dorado........................ Placerville .......................... 178
Golden Gate......................San Francisco .................... 746
Gold Hill .......................... Lincoln ................................ 102
San Diego.........................San Diego .......................... 618
Howard............................. Yreka .................................. 217
Santa Cruz....................... Santa Cruz ........................ 323
Sacramento...................... Sacramento ........................ 556
Martinez.........................-.. Martinez .................,............ 216
Los Angeles..................... Los Angeles ........................ 762
Mount Moriah................. San Francisco .................... 457
Crescent............................ Crescent City .................... 128
Forbestown...................... Forbestown ........................ 53
Suisun................................Fairfield .............................. 144
Volcano............................. Volcano .....,........................ 29
Santa Rosa ....................... Santa Rosa ........................ 375
Union.................................Sacramento ........................ 527
Plumas.............................. Quincy .....,.......................... 103
Live Oak...........................Oakland .............................. 991
Natoma............................. Folsom City ........................ 117
Forest... ............................. Alleghany ............................ SO
Morriing Star...................Stockton .............................. 433
Bear Mountain.................Angels Camp ...................... 82
Humboldt......................... Eureka ................................ 369
lone,...................................Ione ...................................... 72
Yolo...................................Yolo ...................................... 62
Vesper....................~ ..........Red Bluff ............................ 182
St. Helena......................... St. Helena .......................... 96
Henry Clay .......................Sutter Creek ...................... 54
Hornitos............................Hornitos .............................. 77
Yosemite........................... Merced ................................ 229
Clay....................................Dutch Flat .......................... 62
Oroville.............................Oroville .............................. 247
Lexington......................... EI Monte ............................ 167
Arcata................................ Arcata ..............................:... 193
Pajaro...............................Watsonville ........................ 240
Eden...................................Sall Leandro ...................... 216
Clinton...............................lgo_........................................ 38
Fidelity..............................San Francisco .................... 622
Alamo............................:... Walnut Creek .................... 134
Sotoyome.......................... Healdsburg ........................ 178
Table Mountain............... Cherokee ............................ 91
Lafayette...........................Sebastopol .......................... 191
Hermann...........................San Francisco .................... 249
Visalia............................... Visalia .................................. 303
Nicolaus............................ Wheatland .......................... 93
W,ood~ridge....'................_Woodbridge ..........,............. 105
Smcenty............................Greenville ............................ 97
Vacaville...........................Vacaville ............................ 160
Pacific............................... San Francisco .................... 715
Crockett............................ San Francisco .................... 708
Curtis ................................ Cloverdale .......................... 72
Grafton............................. Knights Landing................ 65
Franklin............................Courtland ............................ 93
Oriental.............................San Francisco .................... 462
Vitruvius.......................... Bloomfield .......................... 89

Cash

Objective
Pct.

105.50
147.00
30.00
187.60
21.00
98.00
262.00
53.00
386.00
104.50
52.00
64.00
6.00
14.00
2.00
805.00
106.00
801.50
83.50
36.50
88.SO
34.50
6.25
2.00
14.SO
54.00
15.00
2.00
50.00
242.00
114.SO
205.00
54.SO
70.00
42.00
45.25
6.50
224.00
62.00
6.00
176.00
42.00
346.50
60.75
25.00
12.00
47.00
4.00
125.00
118.50
16.00
2.00
160.00
139.50
21.00

29
9
14
15
5
15
23
12
25
11
20
60
2
24
1

76
51
40
35
36

7
21
1
1
12
15
7
2
32
52
92
41
16
18
8
10
8
18
23
1
96
11
69
10
13
5
24
1
8
8
11
1
86
15
12

No.
147
150
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
17~

180
185
187
188
191
193
196
198
199
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
233
236
237
240
241
243
244
245

MemberLodge
Locatimi
ship
Eel River..........................Fortuna ................................ 176
Molino...............................Tehama ................................ 130
Excelsior...........................San Francisco .................... 560
Alameda............................Centerville .......................... 124
Redwood City.................. Redwood City .................... 296
Mission..............................San Francisco .................... 770
Elk Grove......................... Elk Grove .......................... 108
Drytown............................Plymouth ............................ 34
Antioch..............................Antioch ................................ 153
Phoenix.............................Sari Bernardino ..:............... 451
Mendocino........................Mendocino .......................... 150
Petaluma...........................Petaluma ............................ 290
Claiborne.......................... Point Arena ........................ 57
Keith..................................Gilroy ................................... 168
Oakland............................ Oakland .............................. 8~7
Marin................................ San Rafael .......................... 446
Ferndale.1..........................Ferndale .............................. 145
San Simeon........'.............. Cambria .............................. 101
Wilmington...................... Wilmington ........................ 311

~f~!~e~.ii~:::::::::::::::::::::::::t~~~~or.~ ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Pentalpha:.........................Los Angeles ........................ 641
Confidence........................ Castroville .......................... 29
Salinas...:...........................Salinas ................................ 269
Olivet.................................Corning ................................ 104
Stanislaus.....,................... Modesto .............................. 319
Anaheim............................ Anaheim .............................. 298
Rio Vista.......................... Rio Vista ............................ 90
King David's............:....... San Luis Obispo ................ 281
Friendship........................ San ] ose .............................. 535
South San Francisco...... San Francisco .................... 268
San Buenaventura.......... .Ventura .............................. 265
Oak Grove........................Alameda .............................. 598
Doric................................. San Francisco .................... 547
Monterey.......................... Monterey ............................ 155
Mosaic.............................. Livermore .......................... 131
Speranza Italiana............ San Francisco .................... 390
Downey.............................Downey ................................ 183
lnyo....................................Independence ...................... 77
Roseville........................... Roseville ............................ 268
Bakersfield........................Bakersfield .......................... 445
Brooklyn........................... Oakland .............................. 603
San Mateo.........................San Mateo ...................,...... 242
Athens............................... Davis .................................... 125
Solano.......................'.......... Vallejo ................................ 430
North Butte......................Gridley ................................ 110
Covelo................................Covelo .................................. 42
Calistoga...........................Calistoga .............................. 96
Hills Ferry.............,......... Newman .............................. 92
Guadalupe.........................Guadalupe .......................... 57
Colusa................................Colusa .................................. 156
Santa Ana ......................... Santa Ana .......................... 500
Eucalyptus.................:......Hayward ............................ 204
Alcatraz............................ Oakland .............................. 537
Laurel................................ Willows .............................. 185

509

Cash

Objective
Pct.

7.00
78.50
387.00
159.50 .
174.00
169.50
56.50
10.00
125.00
126.50
75.50
36.00
5.00
48.58
452.00
77.50
23.50
166.00
119.00
63.00
7.00
347.50
5.00
242.00
42.00
80.50
112.50
137.00
305.00
92.00
110.50
76.00
64.50
163.50
38.50
38.50
586.25
89.00
57.50
35.50
153.50
112.00
87.50
31.00
289.50
10.00
18.50
7.00
29.00
117.50
83.50
211.00
26.50
65.50
113.00

2
30
35
64
30
11
26
15
41
14
25
6
4
14
26
9
8
84
19
19
3

27
8
45
20
14
19

76
54
9
21
14
5
15
12
15
75
24
37
8
17
9
18
12
33
5

22
1
16
103

27
21

7
6
30

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No .

Lodge

Location

Membership

~ fu'§~~:_:: :: ~~~~ ; :; ;~ l~

il~ ~~~:~:~~;=/~71~~; ';;:;::~ t!!

~~~ Evergreen.........................Riverside ........................... : 516
King Solomon's .......... :.... San Francisco .................... 740
2625 . Lompoc.............................. Lompoc ································ 126
26 Orland ............................... Orland ....
110
~6~ North East........................Fort Bid~~j"j··:::::::::::::::::::::: 52
6 Galt- ..................................Galt
71
~~~ Durant.................... '........... Berke·i~·;··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1)39
Pasadena............. ,.............. Pasadena ............................ .555
273 Anchor .............................. Compton .............................. 314
275 Oakdale.............................Oakdale .............................. 116
277 Selma.................................Selma .................................. 166
278 Southern California........Los Angeles :....................... 642
279 Hanford .................. :......... Hanford .............................. 155
280 Madera-.....................- ..... Madera ................................ 170
281 Mount Shasta.................:.Anderson ............................ 62
28~ South West.......................National City .......:.............. 155
28 San MigueL. .................... San Miguel ........................ 71
286 Paso Robles ...................... Paso Robles ........................ 107
287 Wiruiedumah ....................Bishop ....................:............. 127
290 East Gate .......................... Los Angeles ........................ 808
291 Santa Paula...................... Santa Paula ........................ 284
292 Los Gatos ...........................Los Gatos .......................... :. 209
293 Orange Grove..................Orange ................................ 204
294 Traver...............................Kingsburg .......................... 106
296 Silver Gate ....................... San Diego ············-···· .. ······ 570
297 Dunsmuir...........,.............. Dunsmtiir ............................ 203
299 Liberty.............................. Santa Clara ........................ 233
300 Redlands ........................... Redlands .............................. 380
301 Ontario..............................Ontario ................................ 198
303 Porterville........................ Porterville ·············'············ 282
30~ Reedley .............................. Reedley :............................... 148

~~ ~:~t:r~:::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::~~~: :: :: : :: :: ::::: : : : :: : ~~~

308
309
310
312
313
314
315

Monrovia.......................... Monrovia ...............;............ 261
De!ano...............,............... Delano .................................. 169
Sisson_ .............•............... Mount Shasta .................... 63
Los Banos .......... ,.............. Los Banos .......................... 127
Tehachapi... ...................... Tehachapi ............................ 167
TemescaL ........................Corona ................................ 140
Norwalk............... :............ Norwalk .....,.......................: 123

319
320
321
322

Hollenbeck........................Los Angeles ........................ 1276
South Gate........................ Los Angeles ........................ 713
AlisaL. ............... :....... _..... Pleasanton .......................... 117
Alhambra..........................Alhambra ............................ 386

~ ~~ ~::r;~~j"_"_"_"_"_:_".".".".".".:".'.'.'.·.-.· ·.-.~-.: ~~::r.. :::::::::::::::: ::~:::::::::::: :: l ~~

Objective
Cash
Pct.
135.00
21
364.00
34
30.50
11
3.00
1
20.50
11
400.00
105
6.00
l
307:'70
55
.. 78.50
34
. 31.00
3
457.50
·31
207.50
82
220.40
100
104.00
100
9.00
6
309.50
24
53.00
5
121.75
19
56.50
24
8.00
1
557.50
43

7.00

2

62.50
4.50
75.00
21.00
13.00
2.00
183.50
19.00
69.50
16.00
65.00
154.50
63.00
44.00
40.00
142.50
568.50
13.50
13.00
38.00
56.00
100.00
43.50
162.50
243.50
17.00
17.00
84.00
26.00
120.00
181.45
81.00
. 135.00

18
4
24
15
6
1
11
4

17
4
30
14
15
9
5
39
100

5
4
11
10
30
34
64

73
6

7
27
18
5
13
35
18

MemberLodge
.
Location
ship
N o.
323 Whittier............................ Whittier .............................. 482
324 Corona ........ ,...................... Pasadena ............................ 562
325 Consuelo............................ Escondido ............................ 149
326 N eedles .....................:.. _.... N eedles ................................ 210
328 Redondo ............................ Redondo Beach .................. 246
329 Vallee de France.............. Los Angeles ........................ 132
330 Kilauea .............................. Hilo, T. H . ........................ 210
331 Pacific Grove................... Pacific Grove ...................... 165
332 San Pedro......................_.San Pedro ................:......... 510
·333 Alta ..............................,..... Bridgeport .......................... 41
334 Covina...... r -........ .............. Covina .................................. 227
335 West Gate ......................... Los Angeles ........................ 835
336 Fruitvale........................- .Oakland .............................. 752
337 Carquinez .., .......................Crockett .............................. 151
339 Fullerton ...........................Fullerton •............................. 414
341 Oxnard .............................. Qxnard ................................ 236
343 San Fernando................... San Fernando .................... 230
344 Starr Kin.g.. ,..............._.... San Francisco .................... 604
345 Brentwood........................ Brentwood .......................... 94
346 Palo Alto.......................... Palo Alto ............................ 476
347 McKinley.......................... Richmond ............................ 317
349 Sequoia...........................,.. Oakland .............................. 935
351 Palestine........................... Los Angeles ........................ 598
352 Sunset... ............................. Los Angeles ........................ ·454
353 Pinole................................ Hercules .............................. 139
354 Presidio.............................San Francisco .................... ·597
355 Hollywood.................. - ....Hollywood .......................... 1040
356 Mill Valley ............ - ......... Mill Valley .......................... 314
358 Golden State ..................... Los Angeles ........................ 879
360 San Francisco.................. San Francisco .................... 377
361 Fort Bragg....................... Fort Bragg ........................ 93
362 Charity .............................. Campbell .............................. 108
363 Berkeley ............................Berkeley .............................. 635
365 Willits ............................... Willits .................................. 138
366 Las Palmas....................... Fresno .................................. 653
367 South Pasadena ...... :........ South Pasadena .:................ 537
368 Unity .... - ............................Glendale .............................. 410
369 Ocean Park...................... Ocean Park ........................ 357
370 Amity................................. San Francisco .................... 496
371 le Progres de l'Oceanie.. Honolulu, T . H ................. 375
372 Gardena............................. Gardena .............................. 147
373 · Veteran............................. West Los Angeles ............ 182
374 JeweL ...............................San Francisco .................... 157
375 Richmond .......................... San Francisco .................... 607
376 Francis Drake .................. San Francisco .................... 185
377 Artesia.........................,.....Buena Park ........................ 90
378 Mizpah .............................. Los Angeles ........................ 428
379 Fillmore., .......................... Fillmore .............................. 162
380 Huntington Beach........... Huntington Beach ............ 258
381 Oceanside ..........................Oceanside ............................ 128
382 Highland Park.................Los Angeles ........................ 502
383 Orosi.. ................................ Orosi .................................... 93
384 El Centro.......................... El Centro ............................ 239
387 Coalinga .......................... ~.Coalinga .............................. 261
388 Parnasstis .......................... San Francisco ..................... 658

511
Objective
Cash
Pct.
18
170.00
4
46.00
26.00
9
192.50
46
2
11.00
42.00
16
151
644.50
38.00
12
70.50
7
49.00
60
24
110.00
19
311.50
145.50
10
45.00
15
24
202.00
20
94.00
121.25
26
122.50
10
30.25
16
39.50
4
46.80
7
212.10
11
35.00
3
105.50
12
14
40.00
14
171.25
19
395.56
68.50
10
192.50
11
200.00
27
14.00
.7
3.50
2
. 75.00
7
50.00
18
329.44
25
213.50
20
271.50
33
285.42
40
63.00
6
447.00
60
43.50
18
125.50
34
25.00
8
168.50
14
119.00
32
44.50
25
47.00
6
104.50
32
100.00
19
131.50
52
77.00
8
59.50
32
96.90
20
288.00
55
' 207.00
16

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MemberLodge
Location
ship
N o.
389 Palos Verdes ..................~.Long Beach ........................ SOS

~~~ ~!':~::t·.::::·.·.: ·.·.·.·.:::::·.:·.·.: ·.·.·.·~~~~:~e··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~
392
393
394
39S
396
399
400
401
403
404
40S
406
407
. 408
409
410
411

West Lake........................ Los Angeles ....................... .1023
Bat.der...;···························.San Francisco .................... S19
Umvers1ty......................... Los Angeles ........................ S60
Turlock............................. Turlock .............................. 16S
Apollo................................Alarneda .............................. 384
Fraternity......................... San Jose .............................. 390
Burlingame....................... Burlingame ........................ 421
Bay View ..........................Oakland .............................. 337
Yerba Buena.................... Oakland .............................. 401
Glendora........................... Glendora .............................. 104
Moneta...............................Los Angeles ........................ 712
Burbank............................ Burbank .............................. 240
La Mesa............................La Mesa .............................. 130
Sierra Madre................... Sierra Madre ...................... 84
Honolitlu........................... Honolulu, T . H . ................ 2SO
Charter Rock..........,......... Berkeley .............................. 43S
Perris.................................Perris .................................. 69

:~; ~!~:~~~·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::~f~e~~oe

1~~

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
414 Arlington:......................... Los Angeles ........................ 332
41S Silver TroweL................. Los Angeles ........................ 313
416 Lindsay..............................Lindsay ................................ 162
418 Elysiari.............................. Los Angeles ........................ 472
419 Upland...............................Upland ................................ 147
420 Kerman..............................Kerman ................................ SS
421 lnglewood.........................Inglewood .......................... 301
422 . Eagle Rock....................... Los Angeles ........................ 261

!~! ~~:~~·;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:t~~~·l·~-~..:::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
43S
436
437

Holtville............................ Holtville ........................... . 94
Midway............................. Taft ....................:.............. ::. 373
Chino Valley.................... Chino .................................. 59
San Dimas.............,.......... San Dimas .......................... 113
Pittsburg........................... Pittsburg .......................... 138
McCloud........................c•• McC!<:md ...........................::. 110
Alpha................................. Richmond ......................... 430
Hammonton..................... Hammonton .....................::: 63
Fairmount.........................San Francisco .................... 538
CJaremont......................... Claremont .......................... 107
Lancaster.......................... Lancaster ............................ 120

:~~ ~~~f!~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·t :n~~;e~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~~
0

. 440 Standard........................... Oakland .............................. 32S
441 Coronado...........................Coronado .......................... 174
442 · Blackmer...........................San Diego ............................ SOO
443 Schofield........................... Schofield Barracks ..........:: 214
444 Ca.rpi~teria ....................... Carpinteria .......................... 70
44S
1lsh1re............................ Los Angeles ........................ S46

f

1!~ TM~r~:~~!~::'.::::::::::::::::::::::~~~~~~c~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1~~

448
449

S13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

S12

ount D1ablo...................Concord ........................... 161
Park................................... San Francisco .................::: 484

Objectwe
Cash
Pct.
124.00
12
16.00
12
26.00
20
71S.2S
3S
218.SO
21
140.50
12
31.00
9
120.00
15
117.SO
lS
64.SO
8
42.00
6
14
111.76
10.00
s
13S.OO
10
148.00
30
7.00
3
82.00
so
127.00
25
240.QQ .
28
20.62
lS
S9.00
18
30.00
30
S6.00
8
121.00
19
7.SO
2
226.SO
24
63.00
21
1.00
1
12
71.00
119.SO
23
66.SO
20
324.00
100
29.00
lS
33
24S.7S
11.00
9
132.00
59
26.00
9
15S.76
7
220.25
26
16
20.00
82.SO
8
82.SO
39
79.SO
33
17.00
10
80.00
38
20
133.00
99.SO
29
102.SO
10
9S.2S
22
29.00
20
3S7.26
33
41.00
29
88.00
23
22
70.00
223.SO
23

MemberLodge
Location
ship
No.
4SO Van Nuys ..........................Van Nuys ............................ 2S9
4Sl Montebello........................Montebello .......................... 21S
452 San Pasqual......................Pasadena .............................. 382
4S3 Bethlehem......................... San Francisco .................... 3S9
4S4 Crocker............................. Daly City ............................ 2S8
45S Golden W est.....................San Francisco .................... 483
457 Ramona............................. Monterey Park .................. 21S
4S8 Henry S. Orme................ Los Angeles ........................ S43
4S9 Riverbank..........:.............. Riverbank ............................ 74
460 Mount Oso........................Tracy .................................. 190
461 Argonaut.........................:.San Francisco .................... 3S8
462 Paul Revere......................San Francisco .................... 547
463 Morgan Hill.....................Morgan Hill ............:......... 92
464 Alta Vista......................... San Francisco .................... 298
465 Center................................Fresno .................................. 339
466 Libertas............................. Bakersfield .......................... 248
467 Culver City....................... Culver City ........................ 220
468 Rockridge......................... Oakland ...........:.................. 366
470 Lincoln.............................. San Francisco .................... 293
471 Delta.................................. Stockton .............................. 287
472 Maui...................................Kahului, Maui, T. H......... 121
473 Blythe........... ~.................... Blythe .....................:............ 3S
474 Victory............... _ ............ San Francisco .................... 221
47S America.............................Los Angeles ........................ 357
476 Coachella...........................Coachella ............................ 82
477 Temblor.............................Fellows ........................:....... 128
478 Thousand Oaks................Berkeley .............................. 3SO
479 Golden Rule......................San Jose .............................. 332
480 Fellowship..................•..... Oakland .............................. 218
481 Mt. Davidson....................San Francisco .................... 325
482 Clarence F. Smith........... Los Angeles ........................ 269
483 Bell.....................................Bell ...................................... · 190
484 Albert Pike.......................Los Angeles ........................ 199
486 Caledonia.......................... Bakersfield .......................... 14S
487 Vallejo...............................Vallejo ................................ 243
489 East Bay............................Berkeley .............................. 270
490 Corcoran...........................Corcoran .............................. 79
491 Woodstock ........................Alameda .............................. 178
492 Garvanza...........................Los Angeles ........................ 178
493 Atascadero........................Atascadero .......................... S3
494 Acorn.................................Oakland .............................. 307
49S Lebanon.......:.....................San Francisco .................... 30S
497 Fremont............................ Oakland .............................. 271
498 Stockton............................ Stockton .....................: ........ 121
499 Capital City...................... Sacramento ........................ 1S8
500 Roosevelt.......................... San Francisco ......:............. lSl
SOI Westwood ......................... Westwood .......................... 187
S02 Harbor.............................. Richmond ............................ 148
S03 Point.................................:Richmond ............................ 106
S04 Seaside........,..................:.. Long Beach ........................ 286
506 Mount Olive.....................Los Angeles ..•..............:...... 387
S07 El Segundo....................... El Segundo ........................ 17S
SlO Cupertino.......................... Cupertino ...:........................ 82
512 Palms.................................Los Angeles ........................ 198
513 Cahuenga.......................... Los Angeles ........................ 302

Objective
Pct.
Cash
23
119.SO
3
lS.00
3
20.00
lS
108.SO
10
S0.00
12
llS.SO
'26
113.00
11
llS.SO
s
7.00
32
123.00
26
184.00
13
140.00
27
S0.00
36
214.00
19
125.00
S6
27S.3S
23
100.00
4
31.00
lS
87.50
2
9.SO
110
267.00
100
70.00
s
21.00
8
5S.OO
46
7S.Ol
24
61.2S
. 41.SO
6
lS
100.00
6
26.00
s
34.SO
22
120.00
20
77.00
28
110.00
30
88.00
20
96.SO
13
71.00
31
49.SO
6
21.00
11
37.7S
19
20.SO
29
177.00
6
37.00
s
28.00
11
27.00
23
71.39
17
Sl.00
3
14.00
4
12.00
29
61.50
7
42.SO
106
822.00
11
37.00
11
18.SO
16 .
64.70
s
32.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

514

No.
514
515
516
517
519
520
521
522
523
525
526
527
529
531
532
535
536
537
538
539
540
541
542
543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556

557

515

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MemberLodge
Location
ship
Argonne ............................ San Francisco .................... 347
Vermont Square.............. Los Angeles ........................ 343
Taft....................................Taft .................................... 166
Mount Vernon................. San Francisco .................... 212

g~~' __-_= '.~~~~1:::= : li

Bel!flower......................... Bellflower ............................ 161
George Washington........ San Francisco .................... 272
Bay City............................ '3art Francisco .................... 206
Covenant........................... Los Angeles ........................ 266
Loyalty...........................'... TJos Angeles ........................ 210
Alexandria........................San Francisco .................... 127
Smyrna..............................Ceres :................................... 51
Alexander Hamilton .......Los Angeles ........................ 130
Seal Rock. .........................San Francisco .................... 124

~!~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::ra: ~~~:;:: :::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Belvedere.......................... Los Angeles ........................ 207
Queen Beach.................... Long Beach ........................ 109
Henry Morse Stephens.. Berkeley .............................. 267
Lanker shim ...................... North Hollywood .............. 228
Signal................................ Long Beach ........................ 268
Glendale............................ Glendale .............................. 364
Jonathan............................San Francisco .................... 168
San GabrieL.....................San Gabriel ........................ 142

~;;:::~r~:::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::·¢~~~:~a_ :::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : 1~~

Justice................................ San Francisco .................... 163
Seaport.............................'.San Francisco .................... 174
Lakeshore......................... Oakland .............................. 187
Semper Virens.................Eureka ................................ 119
Golden City...................... San Francisco .................... 72
Educator ........................... San Francisco .................... 170

~f;}:.:'.~.~_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-.-.-_~~;fa~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::··::: 1~i

Hermosa........................... Hermosa Beach ..................
.. 157

558 Point Firmin.................... San Pedro .......................... 263
559 Craftsmen.........................Los Angeles ..................... . 194
560 Plymouth.......................... Oakland ..............-.............::. 178
561 East San Diego................ San Diego ........................ . 218
562 Pyramid............................ San Francisco ..................:. 159
563 ~outh. Park.......................Los Angeles ........................ 297
564 wooth1ll... ...........................Oakland .............................. 226
565
est Adams ..................... Los Angeles ........................ 212
566 James A. Garfield............Los Angeles ..................... . 135
567 Searchlight.......................Long Beach .................... .. 327
568 Park Boulevard............... Oakland .......................... :::: 202
569 ~~f.teau Thie~ry..............Oakland .............................. 165
570
11tary Service.............. San Francisco .............:...... 253
571 Francis K. ~hattuck. ...... Berkeky .............................. 174
572 ~~es Madison................ Los Angeles ........................ 157
573 S 1~rest............................Berkel~y .............................. 56
574
· . Hackett.................. San Diego ............................ 190

Objective
Pct.
Cash
38.50
6
16
110.75
8.00
. 2
152.00
36
86.00
16
160.90
26
30.05
7
15.50
4
52.00
16
30.00
6
40.00
10
69.90
13
62.06
15
28.00
11
4.00
4
121.25
47
46.00
19
190.50
22
109.50
24
107.00
26
8.00
4
70.56
13
70.50
15
115.00
21
127.00
17
14.00
4
67.50
24
7.00
4
117.50
56
15.00
5
43.00
12
19.50
5
72.50
30
8.00
.5
39.00
11
68.00
40
9
20.00
70.50
22
58.00
11
100.50
26
52.00
15
54.00
12
84.00
26
145.28
24
36.00
8
75.00
18
124.50
46
34.00
5 .
37.00
9
21.00
6 •
39.50
8
1.00
1
40
126.50
10
12.00
68.00
18

MemberN o.
Lodge
Locatio11
ship
575 Fort Crook........................Fall River Mills ................ 71
577 Sunnyside.....;................... Los Angeles ........................ 262
578 Progressive...................... Los Angeles ......:................. 249
579 Warren G. Harding........ North Sacramento ............ 135
580 Santa Maria..................... Ramona ....:.............----········· 50
581 Security.....,.......................Bakersfield .......................... 152
582 Rialto.................................Rialto .................................. 80
583 Wasco................................Wasco .................................. 100
584 Harding.....................,....... Los Angeles ........................ 156
585 Manchester.................~ .....Los Angeles ........................ 235
586 Garden Grove.................. Orange ................................ 101
587 Valley Forge.................... Los Angeles ........................ 198
588 El Sereno.......................... Los Angeles ........................ 125
589 Kauai... ..............................Lihue, Kauai, T. H........... 93
590 Compass............................P omona ................................ 140
591 Escalon:.............................Escalon ..'.............................. 66
592 Tujunga............................Tujunga .............................. 87
593 All States Lodge.............. Long Beach ........................ 272
594 Service...................•.......... Long Beach ........................ 296
595 AlexanderGrahamBell..Los Angeles ........................ 149
596 Guardian........................... South Gate .......................... 224
597 Truth...................:.............Los Angeles ........................ 94
598 Pearl Harbor................... Honolulu, T. H ................. 148
599 Carmelita.......................... Pasadena ............................ 162
600 Lynwood...........................Lynwood ............................,. 111
601 Grizzly.............................-Portola ................................ 83
602 Melrose............................. Los Angeles ........................ 132
603 Dimond..............................Oakland .............................. 188
604 ' ] ubilee ........ ;...................... Santa Ana .........................: 152
605 Glassell Park.................... Los Angeles ........................ 222
607 Sojourner ..........................Monrovia ............................ 101
608 Granada............................. Alhambra ............................ 248
609 Provident..........................Sacramento ........................ 125
610 Elmhurst... ........................Oakland .............................. 136.
611 Canoga.............................. Canoga Park ...................... 124
612 Temple City......................Temple City ........................ 83
613 Three Pillars....................Sacramento ........................ 128
616 Seal Beath ....:....,.............. Seal Beach .......................... 51
618 Southland..........................Los Angeles ........................ 189
619 Neptune............................. Long Beach ........................ 120
620 P oint Loma....................... San Diego ............................ 41
622 Atwater.............................Los Angeles ........................ 152
623 Menorah ............................ Los Angeles ........................ 242
624 Fortitude...........................Oakland .............................. 116
625 Angeles Mesa ...................Los Angeles ........................ 302
627 Lamanda Park................. Pasadena ............................ 112
628 Beacon of the W est ......... Los Angeles ........................ 95
629 Fairview............................Inglewood .......................... 77
630 lngleside............................San Francisco .................... 101
631 Benevolence......................Los Angeles ........................ 149
632 Normal Heights.............. San Diego .......................... 185
633 Poinsettia..........................Ventura .............................. 188
634 Victorville........................ Victorville .......................... 99
635 Riverside........................... Riverside ............................ 125
636 John Marshall.................. West Hollywood .............. 99

Objective
Cash
Per.
46.50
33
. 70.00
13
104.00
21
35.50
13
5.00
5
63.00
21
8.00
5
119.00
60
26
81.03
56.00
12
15.50
8
21.00
5
5.00
2
354.50
190
60.00
21
69.00
52
34.25
20
197.50
36
229.00
39
30.00
10
35.00
8
65.00
35
87.50
30
15
48.00
47.00
21
68.25
41
12.00
5
14.00
4
25.00
8
122.50
28
22.00
11
39.50
8
116.50
47
29.00
11
113.00
46
11.00
7
38.00
15
4.00
4
389.50
103
66.50
27
104.00
127
137.00
45
252.40
52
94.50
41
104.50
17
9.00
4
65.00
34
80.85
52
43.00
21
40.00
13
93.00
25
i 2.00
3
43.25
22
26
. 65.50
29.00
15

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR~IA

516

517

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
MemberL_odge
Location
· ship
N o.
637
638 Pahsades
I d" R ........................... Santa Monica ···················· 174
Cn tan . ock......................Berkeley .............................. 101
639 Vo~pos1te.........................Los Angeles ........................ 118
640
enta~.............................San Francisco .................... 73
641 ~!mteLs . Foshay............. Los Angeles ........................ 77
643 A FE
a oma
645
I ........................
.
. Long Beach ........................ 240
Pedro .......................... 120
646 M· · · l'rwm .................. San
.
H etr:° 1tan.................... Los Angeles ........................ 87
~~ Daw orne....................... Hawthorne ..........................· 56
.
180
649 Flamascus ..........................San Bernardino ··················
............................ Los Angeles ························ 187
650 L orence
B
a reaP.............................
Los Angeles ........................ 165
651 Men!
k
C 0 arV......................Menlo Park ........................ 70
~~~ Fresc.enta alley............. Montrose ............................ 102
ontana.............................Fontana .............................. 84
654 t>rdan....:······················'·...Los Angeles ........................ 144
~~~ Contf V1sta......................Long Beach ........................ 217
1tro ..·............................... Brea
135
657 . John
D S r
···:··-······························
658 L' . . P eckelS-......... San Diego .......................... 268
660 B1vingston
Id . P ...........:.............Livingston ... ....................... 66
a wm ark...................Baldwin Park
59
~~ ~alta................................. Los Angeles ....:::::::::::::::::::: 106
~nry Knox.....................Los Angeles ........................ 132
665
weah............................. Woodlake
49
666 ~esc~~...............................Reseda ......:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 69
667
er1 1an........................... G!endale
150
669 John P. Jarman................San Jo e ..............................
670 Greenleaf..........................Whitti:r .............................. 14980
672 L
B
..............................
674 Lagu;a . each.................. Laguna Beach .................... 53
os erntos..................... Long Beach
. 83
675 Modesto.............................Mod t0
························
676 w·11 GI
es
.............................. 111
L"~ 0 ~
en.....................Willow Glen ...................... 75
677
1 era Arts..................... Los Angeles ........................ 67
678 Altad
ena..........:................ Altadena .............................. 153

Objective
Cash
Pct.
192.53
55
11
22.00
150.00
64
48.00
33
22
34.00
50.00
10
31
75.00
28
49.00
78.52
70
11.00
3
3
12.00
262.50
80
23.00
16
27
55.00
11.00
7
26.50
9
39
170.00
3(00
11
51.00
10
76
100.00
8
10.00
14
30.50
106
281.00
63.00
64
55.00
40
16.00
5
19.50
. 11
21
63.00
12
13.00
80.00
48
56.50
25
2
3.00
116.50
87
4.00
1

The report ~as adopted excepting matters relating to policy
and finan~e, w~1ch were referred to those respective committees
and consideration of the proposition to eliminate the drive fo;
endowment and to levy a tax of fifty cents per member for
endowment were made special order for 2 o'clock Wednesday
afterno~n; at which time and after full discussion~ the recommend~tton of the Endowment Board to levy such tax failed of
adoption.
The report was ordered to be included in the Summary of
Proceedings.
At 4:35 Grand Lodge was called off until 10 o'clock Wednesday morning.

3Jn ~ranb JLobge
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 9, 1935.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Granq Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

RESO LUTION S AND PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
Resolutions objecting to changes in the floor work and to restore
the office of Grand Lecturer to its· former status were received from
representatives of Friendship Lodge No. 210, Military Service Lodge
No. 570, ~s Palmas Lodge No. 366, Liberty Lodge No. 299, Laurel
Lodge No. 245, Fraternity Lodge No. 399 and Phoenix Lodge No. 178,
all which were referred to the special committee on Report of Grand
Lecturer.
. Resolutions were received from C. E. Mallachowitz, Caledonia
Lodge No. 486, to eliminate the Home fee for affiliates; to limit the
tenure of office of the Grand Secretary; limiting the liability of Lodges
for relief ; providing for a salary for the Committee on Correspondence; to limit the salary of the Grand Secretary. All which were referred to appropriate committees. [Lost.]
.
Max A. Plumb, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, and others introduced the following :
Resolved, That the Grand Secretary shall, upon request of the Secretary of
a subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction, and the payment of the necessary cost
therefor, issue to a Past Master of said Lodge, a pocket-size certificate (approximately 4 inches by 2~ inches) on durable material and attract ively lettered,
certifying to the fact that such brother is a Past Master of a subordinate Lodge,
giving the name and the number of the Lodge and the period of such service,
said certificate to bear the seal of the Grand Lodge and the signature of the
Grand Secretary. [Carried.]

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General P urposes.
By George M. Donovan, Past Master of South Gate Lodge No.
320, the following:
Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that appropriate recognition in the form of a silver button of suitable design and size of the gold
button now being awarded for fifty years' membership as a Master Mason
shall be awarded for twenty-five years' membership as a Master Mason. The
regulations and requirements now governing the award of fi fty-year gold
buttons (save as to length of membership) to apply to the awarding of
twenty-five year silver buttons. [Lost.]

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General P urposes.
By William Penn Humphreys, Past Master of Occidental
Lodge No. 22, to amend section 1, article VI, of the Uniform

518

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Code of By-Laws, by adding after the word "Treasurer," on
line nine of said section, the following words:
·
Or shall deposit the same not less · frequently than monthly to the credit of
the Treasurer of the Lodge in some bank or trust company designated by the
Lodge, taking duplicate deposit tags or receipts therefor; one to be immediately
delivered to the Treasurer, the other to be kept by the Secretary as a voucher .

Referred to the Committees on Policy and Gen~ral Purposes and
Jurisprudence. Those committees subsequently reported recommending the adoption of .the resolution and thereupon Grand Lodge by
unanimous vote amended section 1, article 6, of the Uniform Code of
By-Laws as above set out.
By Brother Emil G. Wunner, Past Master of Presidio Lodge
No. 354, the following:
Resolved, That sedion 41-lst of the Constitution be amended to read as
follows: ·
1st-For every degree it shall have conferred during the year, the sum of
c·ne dollar ; and in addition thereto the sum of $25.00 for the use and benefit
of the building fund for the Masonic Homes of California for every candidate
of its own Lodge upon whom it shall have conferred the first degree and for
every member elected for affiliation or who joins in a petition to form a new
Lodge upon a <limit, or certificate of standing or withdrawal, from a Lodge of
a jurisdiction other than California, unless said member shall have heretofore
paid such contribution upon a former application, either for the degrees or
affiliation to a Lodge in this jurisdiction.
The contribution for the use and benefit of the building fund for · the
Masonic Homes shall be by the Lodge collected from the petitioners at the time
of the receipt of their p~ti tion and shall be transmitted to the Grand Secretary
on the first day of November, February, May and August of each year subsequent to the initiation of such petition; and immediately upon receipt thereof
the Grand Secretary shall pay the same over to the Treasurer to be by him held
subject to the order of the Trustees for the use and benefit of the building fund
for the Masonic Homes. When the amount thus collected and so held shall be
more than sufficient to provide for the retirement of indebtedness heertofore
incurred by the building fund for building construction purposes and for such
improvements as are then in progress or contemplated for the i~ediate futui'e
the surplus shall be paid by the Treasurer to the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund. [Lost.]

519

attention, not only of the new member, but of all attendit;g Lodge meeting.
[Lost.]

Referred to the Committee on .Policy and General Purposes.
By Chas. R. Cooper, Master of Presidio Lodge No. 354:
Resolved, That Grand Lodge make the necessary overtures to the Federal
Postal Department to the end that arrangements be _n~a?e for !he u.se by a.II
California post offices of a cancellation sta~p pu~hcizing Cahfo;ma Pubhc
Schools Week observance for a suitable period prior to and during the observance. [Lost.]

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Also by Brother Cooper, the following: .
Resolved That ail Master Masons be required to register with the Secr7tary of their' Blue Lodge all their affiliations, the prerequisite of membership
in which is good standing in a regular Blue Lodge. [Lost.]

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Howard S. Mcintire, Past Master of Union Lodge No. 58, the
following:
Resolved That section 112 of the Constitution be amended by inserting
after the pe/iod following the word "taken" and before the word "any," the
following:
. ·
Every newly made Master Mason shall. be r~quired to pass a satisfactory
examination in open Lodge upon his proficiency in the lecture of that degree
within six months after the date upon which he was raised. Ever.y .Master
Mason failing to do so shall not be entitled to ~ote, hold office or dimit from
his Lodge, or be permitted to petition or have his name pr~sented for ~7mber­
ship in any organization to which being a Master Mason 1s a prerequisite for
admission. [Lost.]

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Edward J. Kuechler, Master of Sacramento Lodge No. 40:
Resolved, That section 37c of the Constitution ·be amended by adding the
following:
.
d'
E I
A Lodge, a member of a Board of Relief havin~ as an.~ iunct. an mp oyment Bureau, shall be the sole judge as to whether 1t. part1c1pat~s in s~c.h. Employment Bureau or not and may enter up?n, or retire. from, its activ1ties at
will provided that having joined, it must give the const1tutent Lodges at least
sixt~ (60) days notice of its intention to withdraw. [Lost.]

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

Also by Brother Emil G. Wunner:

Also by Brother Kuechler :

Resolved, That the presentation of a "Certificate of Contribution to Masonic
Homes Building Fund," evidencing the fact that the new member has paid the
fee of $25.00 toward said fund, be made a compulsory part of the conferring
of degrees, to be presented to the new member at the stated meeting next following after he has received the third degree; and
That such certificate, to be issued by Grand Lodge, be worthy in appearance and contain such appropriate wording as may be determined upon after
clue consideration.
Ft,rthcr resolved, That an outline of a suggested plan and of language
to be used in the ceremony of presentation accompany this resolution to be
referred to the proper committee, but to be considered only as a suggestion as
to the manner in which the purposes contemplated mig~t be brought to the

Resolved, That · the following sections of the Constitution be amended to
read as follows :
Section 17, by adding the following:
.
The Grand Lecturer shall be elected from ~hree or more no~1.nees w.ho
shall be named by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes Jointly with
the Committee on Masonic Education, provided however that t~e first of such
elections shall be held at the session of Grand Lodge to be held in ~936 and that
during the interim the position shall be fil~ed by a ten:iporary appointment, such
appointee to be the selection of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
Ritual and Masonic Education. [Lost.]
.
Section 54, by inserting after the words " Grand Lodge" the following:
He shall prepare, subject to revision by and with the approval of the Com-

521

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mittee on Policy and Purposes brief lectures on Masonic subjects and deliver
same to the various Lodge he contacts. He shall also endeavor to answer all
questions propounded to him relative to Masonic history, practiCe and philosophy,
having as his assistants every Grand Lodge officer and committeeman. [Lost.]
Section 56, be amended by adding after the words "of the Lodges of his
district," the words "in ritualistic regulations and exemplification only." [Lost.]

and the particular . observance which a few years ago would have been deemed
worthy of special mention as an "outstanding success" was this year apparently
the rule rather than the exception. T o make special mention, therefore, of all
which deserve it would be impossible ; and to single out one or more would be
an unwise, if not unfair, discrimination. And so our review must. be of the
observance in general, with only such reference to that of any particular community as is necessary for the purpose of our report.
What we have said does not mean, of course, that the programs were everywhere of uniform excellence---nor even (we regret that we are compelled to say)
that there were not a few Lodges whose contribution to the general success was
not what it might have been. In passing we may say that in the records of our
committee there is a folder for each Lodge in which are filed its reports; and
it is extremely interesting, and also significant, to note the difference in the
reports from the same Lodge under different Masters.
. .
.
It may be said of the observance in general what was said m the following
excerpt from a newspaper account of a particular observance:

520

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Olof E. Anderson, Past Master of Fortitude Lodge No. 624, and
ten other brethren whose names are signed thereto, presented resolutions condemning communism and reaffirming the allegiance of the
Masonic fraternity in California to the Constitution of the United
States and the fundamental principles symbolized by its flag.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master of Jewel Lodge No.
374:
Resolved, That sections 37e and 37k of the Constitution be amended to read
as follows:
Sec. 37e. The members of the Board of Control shall be reimbursed for
the necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duty; such claims,
when approved by the Grand Master, shall be paid as provided in section ·30
hereof. [Carried.]
Sec. 37k. The members of the Board shall be reimbursed for their necessary expenses incurred in the performance of the duties appertaining to their
office; said claims, when approved by the Grand Master shall be paid as provided in section 30 hereof. [Carried.]

Referred to the Committee 0n Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK ON SIXTEENTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
SAN FRANCISCO, OCTOBER 8, 1935.
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge F. er A. M. of California:
Each year it becomes more difficult for our committee to convey to Grand
Lodge anything approaching the information every member of the Fraternity
should have with respect to the growth and development of Public Schools
Week and of the place the annual observance has come to occupy in. the educational and civic life of the Commonwealth.
The success of our latest observance may be perhaps indicated by the statement that it fully justified the expectations of Superintendent of Public Instruction Kersey when in the ·'Foreword" to the Bulletin of Suggestions issued to
the school people by the State Department of Public Education he said:
"The natural interest in a specially scheduled occasion such as Public
Schools Week provides an opportunity for the development of a long-term
program of activities designed to develop a better understanding of the
purposes and character of the modern educational program. It should eventuate a combination of effort on the part of those engaged in school service
and parents and other citizens interested in the welfare of education and
which will . prove a vital force in enhancing the service which the schools
may render to society."
Almost universally throughout the state the local observances this year in
both urban and rural communities were of the sort for which we have been continuously and constantly striving ever since the inauguration of the movement;

"Pronounced the most widely observed celebration since inception sixteen years ago by Masonic Orders, Public Schools Week, which began
Tuesday, ended last night with grand finales in nine meeting places.
"Addresses on educational affairs, pageants, exhibits of school work,
open-house classes for parental observation and co-ordinated activities participated in by service clubs, ninety local Masonic Lodges, the Board of
Education and civic groups characterized learning in the United States since
the landing of the Pilgrims."
There have been evolved-in many instances as the result of "trial and
error"-programs especially suited to the particular community in which the
observance is held; and this year there was an increased number of instances
where they were evidently designed not merely to furnish entertainment, but
more particularly to stimulate in the citizens of ·the community a desire to be
informed with respect to their schools; and to furnish them with that information.
.
In our report last year we gave as one of the probable reasons for the
then unprecedented success of the Fifteenth Annual Observance the willingness
of the local Committees of Arrangements to adopt programs which had proved
successful elsewhere, and to avail themselves of suggestions based on experience.
This was even more noticeable this year. There was not a single feature of which
favorable mention had been from time to time made in these reports that was
not included in some program ; and there were several comparatively small
communities which this year presented programs which have heretofore characterized observances in only large centers of population. The "Downtown
School" was the dominant feature of many programs. In some instances where
there was not sufficient space in a downtown building to accommodate an entire
class, the feature was presented in a modified form; but in every case it showed
pupils engaged in their regular school work in places other than their classrooms
and in either business or shopping districts.
Mention has been heretofore made of the distribution of printed or multigraphed matter which furnished short, concise answers to questions being asked
by parents and taxpayers with respect to the local situation. This very commendable procedure evidently continues; and it is interesting to note that the
questions are not confined to the curriculum and the cost of maintaining the
schools, but include those which might perhaps be said to concern only administrative matters, such as the size of classes.
.
Along the same line there was this year reported as one of the features
of an observance a "forum" which was designed to not only give the audience
information with respect to the schools, but to afford an opportunity to any who
desired it to express their own views with respect to school problems.

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Many of the programs presented this ·year commemorated the tercentenary
of the first secondary school in America . . This afforded an opportunity of very
· interestingly, and entertainingly as well, tracing the development of secondary
education from its beginning in the Boston Latin School with its restricted curriculum for a selected class to the modern high school with its all embracing
curriculum suited to the needs and capabilities of all the children of all the
people. The presentation in some instances was by appropriate addresses and in
others by the reproduction of scenes characterizing successive periods. In one
community there were four fifteen-minute programs presented by four different
. high schools, portraying scenes from the schools of 1635, 1735, 1835 and 1935;
and in another there was a reproduction of a typical classroom scene of the
Boston Latin School with a recitation in Latin from the text of Cicero.
The attendance at public meetings has now attained such proportions that
it is no longer an uncomm on thing to find in a report from a particular community some reference to the fact that the auditorium could not accommodate
the crowd which sought admission ; and in at least three instances this year it
was found necessary in response to a . popular demand to repeat the entire program for the benefit of those who could not gain admission to the auditorium
on its first presentation. But the aggregate of those constituting these audiences pales into insignificance in comparison with the multitudes who exhibit
their interest by visiting the schools. Open house in the schools with exhibits
of school work and the presentation of pupil programs, and particularly where
the visitors are afforded an opportunity to see the children engaged in their
regular work and to meet and talk with the principal and teachers, continues
to be the most popular feature of Public Schools week. It is certainly the most
valuable; because, a~· has been repeatedly pointed out, in no better way can
parents and taxpayers obtain first hand information with respect to their schools.
In connecti on with what has just been said, it will not be inappropriate, we
think, to here quote the, following from a newspaper clipping attached to one
of the reports :

as one in which only Masons are concerned, but as a community affair in which.
the entire community should participate. With that idea in mind we earnestly
recommended that the committee of arrangements for the local observance
should include representatives of all the civic bodies in the community, and
especially the American Legion, Parent-Teacher Associations and service clubs.
A striking evidence of the extent to which the observance is now regarded
as a community affair is furnished by one of the reports received this year,
from which it appears that the committee of arrangements was composed of
representatives of sixty-two different organizations-including, of course, the
Masonic Bodies, American Legion, Parent-Teacher Associations, the service
and women's clubs and the local Chamber of Commerce. In this conne~tion
mention should be made of the fine cooperation given our committee by the
State Chamber of Commerce which placed at our disposal during Public
Schools Week its allotted periods of time on the broadcasting stations; and it
appears that local committees were extended similar courtesies by ParentTeacher Associations, women's clubs and other organizations which have regular
allotments of radio ·time.
We have more than once pointed out that there are two factors primarily
responsible for the growth and development of Public Schools Week. One is
the active cooperation of the school people and the other the hearty and cordial
support received from newspapers and broadcasting stations.
The cooperation of the school people has been of inestimable value. As has
been heretofore reported to Grand Lodge, Public Schools Week has been
included among the educational activities with which the State Department of
Education maintains professional contact. This is accomplished through our
committee representing Grand Lodge. A special Bulletin of Suggestions to th(?
school people is issued each year by the Superintendent of Public Instruction ;
and mention has more than once been made in our reports of the splendid work
being done by the County Superintendents through their Rural Supervisors and
the teachers of the little district schools. Furthermore, there are several local
school systems throughout the State where the proper observance of Public
Schools Week has apparently come to be regarded as one of the r equirements
of successful school administration.
. Now, desi~able as this .in itself is, we must have in mind the possibility of
its developing into a situation which would defeat the end we have in view;
and it will not have been the fault of the school people, but of those upon whom
Grand Lodge has a right to rely for the furtherance of the movement it originated and continues to foster.
In Our recognition of the advisability, indeed necessity, of securing the coordinated action of the community, it was never intended, of course, that th e
Masters of our Lodges should be relieved of the responsibil ity primarily devolving upon them . . And it must be always remembered that the great value of
Public Schools Week is in the fact that it is fostered not by the school people,
·but by laymen. It is essentially a lay movement. To have it understood as only
an activity carried on by the school people would be no less objectionable than
it would be to have it regarded as an event in which only Masons are concerned.
.It is the province of the school people to determine the nature of, and to
furnish, the school programs to be presented; to provide exhibits of school
work; to receive visitors and to attend to matters of that sort. They should
not be expected (except in the very small communities where there is neither
a Masonic Lodge nor a civic organization of any sort) to arrange for, and
take entire charge of, an observance. Nor is it desirable that they should. That
is the duty of the .committee of arrangements of which organized Masonry
should always be the nucleus and which should include representatives of such
civic organizations as there are in the community; and if there are none, that
duty devolves upon the Master of the Lodge.

"To our School Leaders and Teachers:
"You showed us many interesting things about our schools during
Public Schools Week ; and your exhibits and programs attracted many
interested persons. There were quite a few faces missing, however-faces
of persons who do a lot of kicking and who, above all others, should turn
out during Public Schools Week to see how things are · done in the
schools. Maybe they'd learn something."
It will be remembered, of course, that while the observance of. Public
Schools Week in its inception was a Masonic event, its development has been
due to our insistence that it should not be so regarded-but as a community
affair in which the entire community would participate. From the very start
we sought the active cooperation of th ose who cherished the public school
system as we do. That cooperation, however, was not immediately forthcoming
-at least to the extent hoped for and which we felt we had a right to expect.
Even among the school people (with the exception of certain farseeing educators who at once sensed the importance of our movement and gave it their
active and enthusiastic support) there was an apathy that was difficult to understand, and even in some communities what seemed almost opposition on the part
of school trustees, but which was probably nothing more than an unwillingness
to give official sanction to an undertaking initiated by a fraternal organization.
In those early years our great concern· was lest it might not be understood
by the public and likewise, and particularly by the school people that the movement had not been instituted for the aggrandizement, either directly or indirectly, of the Masonic Fraternity, but only for the benefit of our public
schools. And we have ever · been insistent in impressing upon the masters of
our Lodges that the observance of Public Schools Week is not to be regarded
0

523

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

There was never contemplated, of course, the possibility of an observance
of Public Schools Week being held in any community in which the Lodge, if
there were one, would not have a part. And yet there were two very success ~ul observances hel? this year in which so far as appears from the reports
received by our committee the organized Masonry in the community did not
take the part naturally expected of it. Whether or not there was any reason
or even excuse, for this is beside the question. The crux of the situation i~
~h~~ there was a~ observance of Public Schools Week which was apparently
m1hated . a_nd ~arried to a successful conclusion by the school people without
any participation by those who are primarily charged by Grand Lodge with that
responsibility.
One of these observances was in a city in which there are several Lodges.·
1:he fact that they did not participate was apparently due to an unfortunate
difference of opinion between their representatives and the school people as to
the form the observance should take. One of the Masters reported that there
~re too many schools and they are too widely separated to attempt a program
m each as the. school people desired; and they all stated that no endeavor was
made to obtain the cooperation of civic organizations in the community because
the school ' people "preferred to handle their own arrangements:" Whatever
may have been the reason, there was no participation by the Lodges; and to
quote from one of. the reports: "the Masonic showing this year in ...................- ...
was very poor." The irony of the situation is disclosed in a statement in an
editorial in one of the local newspapers. In commending the observance the
writer said : "It (Public Schools Week) is an occasion sponsored by the
Masonic Lodges."
With respect to the second of ·the observances to which we are now referring, it may be said that even such information as we have of it did not
come in the usual manner-that is, through the reports made by the Lodges at
the request of t~e. Grand Master. Indeed, in a letter written by the Master of
the Lodge expla.mmg why he had made no report, he said that he had not been
able to give the matter the attention he should have . and "wished to report that
no special plans were made to observe this as other matters in nearby localities
interferred with the same." From this it would appear that no observance had
been held in th.a t community. It happened, however, that from another source
there had come to us information of a very successfuf observance which had
been . arranged by the school people as the result of a discussion at a faculty
··
meetmg.
We regret that we .cannot give to the program of this observ.ance the
attention. it deserves; because it was unique in that it ccmbined, through. a
prese~t~hon on the stage of the auditorium and an auxiliary platform, an oral
clescnptwn of the several departments of the school with an actual demonstration of the work being done, . otherwise possible only by vjsitirig the classrooms. The courses of study were explained in the form of a conversation between characters assumed by pupils representing the principal ·of .the
school and the parents of two prospective freshmen. Throughout the performance they remained seated on the platform which represented the principal's
office. After the principal had described the work being done in each department
there was a demonstration of it on the stage which represented the different
classrooms. While the classes were being changed, the auditorium was darkened
with only a spot light playing on the characters seated on the platform. The
demonstrations were made entertaining as well as instructive by the: introduction
of comedy features which did not, however, detract from the serious purpose of
the presentation.
·
Now both these observances carried out the purpose of Public Schools
Week and from that point of view are beyond criticism. But the point we .are

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

525

making is that in neither instance was there that participation by organized
Masonry which is essential; nor was the observance in either c.ase the community affair it should be.
Observances of this sort give no warrant for those· encomiums which have
been heaped upon the Fraternity since the institution of Public Schools Week.
One of the many received this year is contained in the following excerpt from
an editorial commending our observance :
"This is. being sponsored by the Grand Lodge of Masons of California
as one of its contributions to public welfare and citizenship training. It is
a worthy undertaking and one that c.annot fail to redound to the glory of
the Fraternity."
It may be that our apprehensions are not well founded. But the situation
seems to us so serious that because of the responsibility devolving upon our
committee as the agency of Grand Lodge through which our observance is fostered, we believe it our duty to call public attention to it ; and to sound a note
of warning.
One of the finest results of our annual observance is the editorial comment
with respect to education in general, and to their toe.al school systems in particular, which appears in the newspapers during Public Schools Week. Incidentally,
the expressions of opinion are not always laudatory; and this is as it should be.
If there is anything in any school system of which criticism may justly be made,
Public Schools Week is a good time to make reference to it; because it is then ·
that the attention of the public is focused on their public schools. And just as
destructive and designedly hostile criticism ls to be, by all friends of public
education, deplored and combated; so is constructive and intelligent crticism
to be encouraged and commended.
The observance of Public Schools Week is not intended as merely a
"ballyhoo" for our schools and for what they ·are doing everywhere and for the
manner in which it is being done. Its real purpose is admirably stated in the
fo llowing excerpt from an editorial in a newspaper which is notable for the
extraordinarily large amount of space which it each year devotes to the observance:
"The object of Public -Schools Week is primarily to enable the people
to become better acquainted with the public school system, to understand its
problems and to gain the information which will enable the citizens to improve upon the system. It is well to have a week when people are expected
to think about the public schools and to once more realize the tremendously
important part that they play in our national life. The schools can never
fulfill the high place they hold in the American scheme of things unless
the people keep in touch with them. T he farther away from the people the
schools ·may be removed, the more difficult it is for them to carry their
great responsibility adequately."
That our latest ·observance fulfilled its purpose there can be no doubt. And
notwithstanding what has been said in this report which may savor of criticism,
we desire that it be distinctly understood that we believe the success achieved
was very largely due this year, as heretofore, to the efficient and intelligent
manner in which the Masters, and other officers, of our Lodges and our Inspectors discharged the r esponsibility devolving upon them as the direct representative~ of Grand Lodge.

526

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

All of which is respectfully submitted,
ROBERT A. ODELL,
]OH N B. BEMAN,
MELVIN E. BOWMAN,
FREDERICK }OSEPH BRUDI,
L. E. CHENOWETH,
A. R. CLIFTON,
WILL
CRAWFORD,
PERCY R. DAVIS,

c.

DR.

w ALTER v. GOODFELLOW,

F. A . HENDERSON,
] . L. HOU SE,
FREDERICK F. MARTIN,
]AMES T . M ONTANO,
CHARLES E . TEACH,

Report adopted.

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
WALTER L. BACHRODT,
ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,
Roy W. CLoQD,
WILL CROCKET,
ELIAS E. ELLISON,
C. B URNHAM HERYFORD,
0. S . HUBBARD,
EINAR W. JACOBSEN,
GEORGE
JENSEN,
WESLEY
KERGAN,
EDW IN A . LEE,
WILLIAM G . PADEN,
LEWIS
SMITH,
VAUGHAN MACCAUGHEY.

c.
w.

w.

REPORT'S OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
Omnibus Report
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the following. trial
·
records, to-wit :
No. 810-From Paul Revere Lodge No. 462.
No. 827-From Bakersfield Lodge No. 224.
N·o. 838--From Parnassus Looge No. 388.
No. 839-From Monte Vista Lodge No. 655.
No. 844-From La Brea Lodge No. 650.
No. 847-From Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
No. 848--From Parnassus Looge No. 388.
No. 849-From Utopia Lodge No. 537.
No. 850-From Menorah Lodge· No. 623.
No. 851-From Crockett Lodge No. 139.
No. 852-From Crockett Lodge No. 139.
No.853-From West Adams Lodge No. 565.
No. 854-From Lamanda P ark Lodge No. 627.
No. 855-From Fairmount Lodge No. 435.
No. 856-From Mizpah Lodge No. 378.
Nu. 858--From Marin Lodge No. 191.
No. 859-From South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.
No. 860-From Magnolia Lodge No. 242.
No. 861-From Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528.
No. 862-From Granada Looge 'No. 608.
No. 863-From Westlake Lodge No. 392.
N:o. 864-From Woodland Lodge No. 156.
No. 865--From West Adams Lodge No. 565.
No. 866-From America Lodge N o. 475.
No. 867-From Sotoyome Lodge No. 123.
has carefully gone into each of said records and finds no serious errors or
irregularities and concludes that substantial justice has been done in each instance; offers the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved, That the findings and judgment in each of the above mentioned
cases be and the same are hereby approved.

Report adopted.

527

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred the petition for
restoration from F. A. ]., formerly ~ ·member of Palos Verdes L odge No. 38?,
tried by Southern California Lodge No. 278, and expelled by Grand Lodge m
1930 (Record No. 652), reports as follows:
Petitioner was convicted of obtaining $3,800 by fraud and deceit from a
Masonic Temple Association, of which he was a director and the treasurer.
Grand Lodge, in passing upon this case in 1930, declared that petitioner had
"violated every principle of honor and fair dealing," and approved the report
of this committee, which said "We know of no case in the eighty years of
California Masonry so flagrant in its elements of fraud and deceit."
Petitioner applied for restoration in 1933 and 1934, and each of such petitions was denied. This year he has again applied for restoration, but has not
presented any new evidence in support of his petition, which rests upon the
evidence presented in former years. All three of these petitions contain certain
serious misstatements of important facts bearing directly upon the merits of
his petition. For instance each petition states that petitioner was convicted on
one specification and acquitted on four; whereas, in truth and in fact, he was
convicted on four specifications and acquitted on but one; and that the least
serious of the specifications. There are also other misstatements which time
prevents being mentioned.
Every man owes the highest good faith to those whom he represents and
who repose trust and confidence in him. Especially in this case, when all concerned are Masons. It is impossible for any fair-minded person to read the
record in this case without raising his righteous indignation at the long continued and studied course of trickery and deceit practiced by petitioner upon
his Masonic brethren. The restoration of a man of such character would be a
grave injury to the decent and honorable Masons who compose the jurisdiction
of California.
We, therefore, offer th_e foll owing resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the petition for. restoration of F. A. ]., formerly a member
of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, F . & A. M., be and the same is hereby denied.

Report adopted.
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred trial record No. 845
from Lodi Lodge No. 256, begs leave to report as follows :
The accused, one H . F . E ., was charged with unmasonic conduct as supported by two specifications, the gist of which are that the accused knowingly
and wilfully failed and refused to obey a summons. The accused was acquitted
by the Trial Commission.
It appears from the undisputed evidence that the accused was appointed
by the Master of his Lodge to act upon a committee which, as a part of its
duty, was to prepare a report required by this Grand Lodge. The Master of the
Lodge repeatedly urged the chairman of this committee to have the committee
complete this report, but without success. F inally, and apparently in some
desperation, the Master issued a summons to the members of the committee,
commanding their attendance at a meeting. All members of the committee
responded except the accused.
While the accused is some sixty-seven years of age and appears to have
been suffering from neu(itis, no adequate reason or excuse was shown for his
refusal or failure to obey the mandate of the summons. The accused was able
to be up and about. He took a four hundred mile automobile trip two days
before the meeting, and while undoubtedly ailing and suffering pain, was able
to superintend ranch operations and call at the homes of others. No question
exists but that the accused could easily have communicated with the Master of
his Looge, who issued the summons. However, no effort was made so to do.

529

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

' GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We think the real answer to the matter may be found in the statement of the
accused to the Trial Commission in which he asserts: "I did not realize the
importance of the notice."
Under the circumstances here shown, we feel the finding of the Trial Commission to be unwarranted.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the finding of the Trial Commission of not guilty be and
the same hereby is changed to a finding of guilty and the penalty fixed at
reprimand.

Dinuba Lodge No. 385, Dinuba:
This Lodge, negotiating for the purchase of the Fraternal Hall building in
Dinuba, for which it agreed to convey three lots owned by the Lodge and give
back a trust deed for $12,000.00 bearing interest at 5% per annum. The building
was erected in 1925 at a cost of $35,000.00. The building is favorably located
·
for business purposes.
The financial statement submitted reflects :
Cash in Lodge treasury ........................................$2,500.00
Annual income from rent... ................................... 2,850.00
Annual expense :
Taxes ................................................................................ $ 657.50
300.00
Maintenance ................:..............:....................................
120.00
Insurance ..........................................................................
800.00
Interest and Principal....................................................

528

FRANK B. BELCHER,
OLIN L. BERRY,
WALTER F. HAAS,
CYRIL
MCCLEAN,
·WM. PENN HUMPHREYS,
ARTHUR W. BROUILLET,

w.

Committee.

Report adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINAN CING BUILDING
PROJECTS
To t.he M.'. w:. Grand Lodge .of California:
On June 12, 1935, your committee sustained a great loss by the untimely
death of Brother William Parish Jeffries, its chairman. His inestimable qualities
of leadership and cooperation, his excellent judgment and personal force, has
made its difficult for your committee to "carry on" as it would under the chairmanship of our beloved "Jeff."
During the year ending September 30, 1935, twelve Lodges or temple
associations, have conducted correspondenc·e with your committee. '
The comittee has reviewed the following projects:
Coachella Lodge, No. 476, situated at Coachella:
T?is L9d~e having a sum in e~cess of $500.00 of its funds on deposit in
the First National Bank of Coachella, which bank closed its· doors and a
conservator being ai>pointed by the Comptroller of the Currency of th~ United
States for the purpose of liquidation, pursuant to a plan for reorganization, the
Lodge requested permission to purchase stock in the reorganized bank from
its funds.
.
Under date of December 14, 1934, your committee recommended that the
Lodge content itself with its just proportion upon liquidation of the bank
refusing to permit the purchase of stock as requested. It was further suggested
that should the Lodge refuse to abide by the recommendation of the committee
the matter should be presented to the Grand Master for his decision.
'
Triangle Lodge, No. 548, Venice:
This Lodge was forced to vacate the premises in which it formerly met by
reason of the expiration of the term of its lease. The LOdge is the owner of
approximately $1,500.00 worth of lodge-room furniture. New and suitable
premises were found in a building located at the corner of Culver blvd. and
Vista Del Mar street, Venice.
Upon a request duly made by Triangle Lodge, your committee granted
permission for it to expend not to exceed $300.00 for the purpose of remodeling
the building so as to be able to utilize its furniture, said $300.00 to be deducted
from the first six months rent which the Lodge is to pay at th<; rate of $50.00
per month.

$1,877.50
On May 7, 1935, your committee granted permission for Dinuba Lodge
to purchase this building with the understanding that title thereto stand in the
name of the Lodge.
Walnut Creek Masonic Hall Association, Walnut Creek:
This is an incorporated associati~n in which Alamo Lodge No. 122 owns
1,180 shares of capital stock, which represents more than fifty per cent of the
outstanding shares. Permission was requested to authorize the purchase of .a
lot 40 ft. x 100 ft. adjoining the site upon which the present Masonic Temple
is situated.
In view of the facts that both the Walnut Creek Masonic Hall Association
and Alamo Lodge are free from any indebtedness whatever, your committee
granted this request for the purchase of the above mentioned lot for the sum
of $700.00, the funds therefor being on hand so that no indebtedness will be
created.
Dimond Lodge No. 603, Oakland:
This Lodge now meets in a hall located about five blocks from a piece
of property 80 ft. x 130 ft. upon which stands a church; which property is
owned by the Dimond Masonic Hall Association, fronting on Palmetto street,
between Champion and Boston streets, Oakland. The property upon which the
present meeting place is located was the subject matter of a condemnation proceeding wherein the proper.t y was condemned for use as an approach. to the
San Francisco-Oakland bridge. Dimond Lodge would therefore be compe!1ed
to seek a new meeting place, and would of necessity have to leave the immediate
locality which it serves. The association is incorporated, having issued non. interest bearing bonds with no maturity provision in the amount of $3,727.00,
having on hand $4,933.67 in cash.
.
Your committee having considered all the facts submitted, granted permission to the Dimond Masonic Hall Association authorizing it to make such
alterations as they may deem proper at a cost of not to exceed $4,200.00 upon
the premises which they now own.
Redlands Lodge No. 300, Redlands:
Your committee was requested to grant permission to Redlands Lodge to
expend $10,000.00 for the purpose of constructing an addition to the Masonic
Temple of Redlands to be used as a dining room. The Redlands Masonic
Temple Association owns the Masonic Temple, the same being free and clear of
any indebtedness. Redlands Lodge owns 16,000 shares which represents over
sixty per cent of outstanding stock; the remaining stock being held ·by the loc~I
Eastern Star Chapter, Royal Arch Chapter, Commandery of Knights Templar.
with but forty shares standing in the names of individuals. The Lodge has

530

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

consented to loan the Temple Association $3,000.00 at 3 per cent per annum; the
balance of the cost of this project is to be financed by · means of the sale of
four per cent interest-bearing stock. The property upon which the addition is
to be erected is now owned by' the Temple Association.
Permission was granted by your committee approving the afore-mentioned
request for. the reason that the financial statement submitted indicates that the
increase in rentals sought to be derived will enable this stock issue to be retired
within five years.
Crocker Lodge No. 454, Daly City:
The Masonic Temple here was seriously damaged ·by fire. Title to this
building is in the name of the Lodge. It is now desirous of erecting a new
building at a cost of $45,000.00, which it proposes to finance by means of a
bank loan · at six per cent per annum, to be repaid at the rate of $400.00 per
month from earnings of the building by way of rental income. This Lodge is in
excellent financial condition, having on hand September 3, 1935, $16,400.77 and
no liabilities. The estimated income from the new building will be sufficient
to pay cost of maintenance, taxes, insurance, interest and principal payments.
Brother William P . Filmer, member of your committee, met with the Crocker
Lodge committee and viewed the premises.
On September 20, 1935, this Lodge was given permission to erect a new
building in accordance with the aforesaid proposal.
Madison Lodge No. 23, Grass Valley:
On December 12, 1928, the meeting place and records of this Lodge were
destroyed by fire. Since then, the Lodge has purchased a building site at a cost
of $8,800.00. Permission for the construction of a new Masonic Temple was
sought from your committee.
The plan for financing the proposed project is as follows:
A corporation is to be formed in which the Lodge will be the owner of all
stock. Stock will be issued to the Lodge in exchange for the site now owned
by it. The Lodge will further purchase for cash from its funds an additional
$21,200.00 worth of stock, the balance to be financed by means of the sale of
bonds. The financial statement submitted showed in addition to the aforesaid
property that the Lodge owns $30,752.25 in liquid securities, in addition to being
the beneficiary of certain trusts, and having in excess of $5,000.00 cash on hand.
Your committee on September 23, 1935, granted the request for permission
to expend Lodge funds in accordance with the aforesaid plan.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, Anaheim :
Permission was granted for this Lodge to purchase three shares of stock
in the Anaheim Masonic Temple Association at $100.00 per share frotn a
member of the Lodge who was urgently in need of assistance.
Confidence Lodge No. 203, Castroville :
The building owned by this Lodge was erected before the civil war .. It is
at present in a rather unsafe condition. This project calls for enlarging the
present building whereby the present structure may be preserved, at a cost of
approximately $6,000.00.
.The Lodge has $3,500.00 in cash and government bonds, also $4,900.00 invested in building and loan associations which would be adequate security for
a loan for the balance required.
In the request for permission, Brother H. R. White, Worshipful Master
of Confidence Lodge, writes: ·
"The Lodge room, itself, is very precio~s to us for sentimental reasons
· and we wish to preserve it as it is."
Your committee has granted permission for Confidence Lodge to go forward
with its plans in accordance with its request.

531

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·Correspondence . was also had with Arcadia Lodge No. 547 situat~d . at
Arcadia and Caledonia Lodge situated at Bakersfield; however, no perm1sston
was gr~nted for the expenditure of any funds.
f h
Your committee has received full cooperation ~r?m all the offi~er~ C~n~
Lodges in their effort to comply with both . the sp.m~ and letter o. ~ e
stitution governing the investment of funds and bu1ldmg of Masomc emp1es.

°

HERBERT

c. GOLDMAN,

Acting Chairman.

WILLIAM P. FILMF..R,

Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Organ Solo: ''Liebestraume''.................................................................... Liszt

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The hour has arrived which affords us the privilege of payin~ a dmemo;~a!
tribute to those brethren who during .the p~st yeaSr have d~1~~ tto f t~e
celestial Lodge above and are now laboring with the upreme re 1 ec o
·
Since the 1934 Annual Communication, Grand Lodge has lo~t one
U mverse.
b
h
h d th Each of you desire to
hundred and seventy-seven mem ers t roug
ea ·
.
have a part in this memorial service, therefore please nse. riot made with
In memory and tribute to our brethren in that Temple
hands, eternal in the heavens.
Tell me not, in mournful numbers,
Life is but an empty dream!
For the soul is dead that slumbers,
And things are not what they seem.
Life is real ! Life is earnest !
And the grave is not its goal;
Dust thou art, to dust returnest,
Was not spoken of the soul.
Lives of great men all remind us
We can make our lives sublime,
And, departing, leave behind ~s
Fo.o tprints on the sands of time;Footprints, that perhaps anothe!-,
Sailing o'er life's solemn mam,
A forlorn and shipwrecked b~other,
Seeing, shall take heart agam.
Let us then be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate ;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.
when our departing time arrives may we be prepared to .welT~:~~~or:~t as a grim tyrant, but as a kind messenger se?t to translate us
come h' !
f t to that all perfect glorious and celestial Lodge above,
from t his tSmper ec G and Master of ;he Universe forever presides.
where t e upreme r
Brethren, be seated.
.
. .
I
ld h e
"In my Father's house are many mans10ns: 1f .1t were not so, wou
av
told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And 1f I go and prepare a place

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am,
there ye may be also."
Your Necrology Committee sorrowfully reports that since the last communication of Grand Lodge we have suffered the loss of one of our members;
Brother J. Karl Lobdell, whose friendly smile and generous service have
identified him at each session of Grand Lodge, gave up the battle of life on
June 14, 1935. The last few years have worn the physical and mental stran~s
of life's cords in many men to a thinness that could not stand the daily strain
and some have been taken from our ranks. Brother Lobdell was raised in
Wilshire Lodge Nb. 445, on July 13, 1914, and was the second Mason to be
· raised in the Lodge. He was appointed Junior Steward December 14, 1915.
In 1918 he was in France in the flying corps with the American Expeditionary
Forces. Desiring to render worthwhile Masonic ~ervice he inaugurated the
"Wilshire Lodge Bulletin" in October, 1920, and edited the same until January,
1923. He was Worshipful Master of his Lodge during the year 1923 and the
following year was a Director of the "Wilshire Lodge Building Corporation."
Brother Lobdell was also very active in the Scottish Rite in the Valley of Los
Angeles. In 1925 he was made a Knight Commander of the Court of Honor
and in 1929 was coroneted a 33° Mason; being the youngest Inspector General
Honorary to receive that degree in this State. From 1926 to 1930 he served on
the Masonic Educational Committee of Grand Lodge and from 1933 to the date
of his death was a member of the Necrology Committee. Able, congenial' and
conscientious whenever we meet we shall miss him.
"The curfew tolls the knell of parting day,
The lowing herd winds slowly o'er the lea,
The plowman homeward plods his weary way,
And leaves the world to darkness and to me.
Let not Ambition mock their useful toil,
Their homely joys and destiny obscure;
Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful smile
The short and simple annals of the· poor.
The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power,
And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave,
Await alike the inevitable hour;
The paths of glory lead but to the grave."
Grand Lodge has suffered a severe loss in the passing of Past Grand Master
David J. Reese; Past Master William P . Jeffries, the active and hard working
Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board and also Chairman of the
Committee of Finance and Chairman of the Committee on Financing Building
Projects. Also loyal and faithful Inspector Roderick G. Guyett. Close friends
and co-workers in their Masonic activities of Grand Lodge have been requested
by the Grand Master to give individual eulogies for each of these brethren
which will follow this general report.
From the reports submitted by the Secretaries of the constituent Lodges
we report the loss of the following Past Masters and it will be our endeavor
to briefly mention special Masonic activities · performed by certain of these
departed brethren :

Tuolomnc Lodge No. 8:
George N. Porter, Master of George Washington Lodge of Chinese camp
in 1904. Brother Porter affiliated with Tuolumne Lodge at the time
of the consolidation of George Washington Lodge with Tuolumne
Lodge. He died on October 21, 1934.
San lose Lodge No. 10:
William Russell, Master 1905, died March 10, 1935.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

533

Y 011nt Lodge No. 12 :
.
Earl Hilsinger Raymond, Master in 1904, died in 1933 but was not reported last year.
.
Fred Waldo Williams, Master 1900, Inspector several years.
Nevada Lodge No . 13 :
"ed N
b 28
William Gilbert Richards, Master in 1900 and 1901, d1
ovem er
•
Willi::· Edmund. Meservey, Master 1897, 1898 and 1899, died Decem_ber
30 1934. Br~ther Meservey was qver eighty years old at the time
of' his death and gave his whole life to M:isonry. He ~as Inspector
of the 13th District for many years and his last Masomc appearance
was on last Christmas morning ·a t Nevada Commandery. ·

Eureka Lodge No. 16:
b 20 1934
John Henderson Jeffreys, Master 1920, died Decem er ,
·
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17: .
Alfred Christian Gehret, Master m 1916, died April 16, 1935.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19:
.
- 934
William McPaque Simpson, Master 19~3, died September 8 , 1 ·
Isaac Henry Robinson, Master 1895, died October 10, 1934.
Perry Harris, Master in 1931, died March 20, 1935.
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21:
.
.
Edward Irwin Spalding, Master m 1900, died June 20, 1935.
Occidental Lodge No . 22 : .
.
· ·
b 24 1934
. Frederick William Gustave Moebus, Master 1893, died Septem er ,
·
This brother was the proud owner of a fifty-year button.
Albert Daniel Hoffman, Master 1925, died September 30, 1934.
Charles Henry Murphy, Master 1902, died February 15th, 1935.
Mariposa Lodge No. 24:
·
19 D" d
Hja!mar Kylberg, Master 1908, 1909 and 1910, Inspector about 19 . 1e
December 30, 1934.
11 1935
Lorenzo Adolphos ,Offield, Master 1919-1920, died January ,
·
El Dorado Lodge No. 26:
··
·
·
b 12 1934
~orge 'Charles Rolleri, Master 1917 and 1918; died Septem er
,
·
Golden Gate Lodge No . 30:
.
· 10 1934
· Charles Theodore White, Master 19~, died Se~tember ,
·
Robert Joseph Airey, Master 1906, died Januar,y 30, 1935.
\\r'iiliam Antoine Todd Agard, Master 1903, died July 19, 1935.
San Diego Lodge No. 35 :
35 B h · BlackJohn Keep Blackmer Master 1891; died January 29, 19 · rot e; El' T
mer was a violi~ maker and musician. ~e was a brothe~ o
1 ,·
Blackmer, a very prominent Mason durmg the l~te 80 s and 90 s.
Blackmer Lodge No. 442 is named in honor of Elt T . Blackmer.
Howard Lodge No. 37:
1910
1911 D" d
to
·
1e
Charles Hector Morrison, Master 1908 to 1909 and
October 17, 1934.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
.
Arthur Taylor ' Richardson, Master 1919, died January 25, 193 5·
Hiram Lodge No. 43:
f h Lod
t th
William Jefferson Moore, Past Master and Secretary o t e
ge a
e
time of his death, passed away on March 11, 1935.
Mount Moriah Lodge. No. 44 :
.
Clarence Erikson, Master 1908, died October 4, 1934.
Crescent Lodge No . 45:
J
12 h 1935
Drury White Rice, Master 1893-1895, _1904-1906. Died anuary t ,
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

534

535

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sa11ta Rosa Lodge No. 57:
John Tyler Campbell, Past Master, died February 25, 1935.
Forest Lodge No. 66:
Hugh Roderick McDougal, Master for three years, 1907, 1908 and 1909.
Died March 16, 1935. Brother McDougal was born in Garden of
Eden, Pictou County, Nova Scotia, on January 21, 1871. He located
at Alleghany, Sierra County, California, about 1895 and resided there
almost continuously until the date of his death. He was always active
in Masonic work and never happier than when engaged in work for
his Lodge.
E11ter/lrise Lodge No. 70 :
John Frank Gamsby, Master 1930, died September 8, 1934.
Calaveras Lodge No. 78 :
John William Deitz, Master three.years, 1907, 1908 and 1918, died October ·
2, 1934.
Yolo Lodge No. 81:
Daniel Francis Houx, Master 1897, died November 7, 1934.
Vesper Lodge No. 84 :
Otto Charles Combs, Master 1919, died July 15, 1935.
Naval Lodge No. 87:
John James Armstrong, Master 1901, died February 24, 1935.
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89:
William B. Palmstrom, Master 1911, died February 4, 1935.
St. H ele11a Lodge No. 93 :
John Hiram Allison, Master 1868 to 1872, died March 30, 1935.
Het1ry Clay Lodge No. 95:
Rod Dhu Smith, Master 1930 and 1931, died November 30, 1934.
Pajaro Lodge No. 110:
George Wellington Sill, Master 1891, died January 12, 1935.
COt1cord Lodge No. 117 :
George J. Harris, Master 1909, died August 15, 1934.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Herbert Spencer Bibbero, Master 1919, died November 20, 1934.
La Fayette Lodge No. 126 :
Louis V. H . Howell, Master 1889, again 1891 to 1892 and again 1895.
Died January 22, 1935.
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129:
Everett Edwin Boswell, Past Master, died September 2, 1935.
Augustus Riechers was Master in 1904-1905 and 1906 and he was Treasurer of his Lodge for twenty years. Died July 29, 1935.
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131:
Theodore Henry Beckman, Master 1899, died September 5, 1934.
Freeman Benjamin Mills, Master 1902, died June 3, 1935.
Curtis Lodge No. _140:
Elbert Elvin Gibbens, Master 1931, died February 27, 1935.
Abell Lodge No. 146:
Bertram Leon Cleland, Master 1910, died February 26, 1935.
Thomas Montana Cleland, Master 1905, died July 20, 1935.
Lasse11 Lodge No . 149 :
Jules Alexander, Past Master and fifty year Mason, died February 23,
1935.
Robert Brodie, Past Master of this Lodge, died July 2, 1935.
W oodlatld Lodge No. 156 :
·
John William McQuaid, Master 1911, died October 12th, 1934.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166:
George Robert Armstrong, Master 1889, died October 5, 1934.
Roderick George Guyett, Master 1905, died November 29, 1934. (A special
eulogy will be given for Brother Guyett.)

Alameda Lodge No. 167:
·
30 1935
Arnt Roe Gronley, Master 1924 and 1929, died January ,
·
M issio11 Lodge No . 169 :
John Hazlett Master 1913, died October 11, 1934.
Harry Everett Leland Master 1910, died January 6, 1935·
Eugene Bartlet Hallett, Master 1915, died February 26, 1935.

Peta~7ifia;odf~o~~~ 1~~:idgen, Master 1899, 19.00 and 1912H, dief Octobe~ 2;~

1934. He was the first Master of this Lodge.
e · a so serve
Secretary from 1920 to 1934.
.
Carl Sophus Plow, Master 1915, died Novemb~r 14, 1934.
He also
George Nelson Smith, Master 1903 and 1904, died June 16, 1935.
served as Secretary from 1909 to 1918.
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182:
d S
f Arbuckle Lodge
Samuel Alvah Pendleto~, Past ~aster an
ecretary o
for thirty years. Died April 10, 1935.

Keit~a;o:JeT~~~~;e=, Master 1888 and 1889, died February 21, 1935.
Nor them Light Lodge No. 190:
Frederick Dersch, Master 1891, died June 29th, 1935 ·
Sa11ta Barbara Lodge No. 192:
2 1934
Samuel John Heyl Master 1917, died September ,
·
Eugene Oscar Far~um, Master 1911, died October 14, 1934.
Truckee Lodge No. 200:
1934
John Sherritt Master 1898, died September 29,
·
Irving Franc{s Harvey, Master 1899, died December 17, 1934.

Silvey~~~i;~~~:a~· ~o;r~hall, Master 1912 and 1923, died Januar~ 1~, 1935.
F

Brother Marshall was also Past Inspector of the 31st District and
was also active in his Chapter and Commandery.

Salinas Lodge. No. 204:
·d F b
28 1935
Francis Alvin Abbott, Master 1895 and 1896, die
e ruary ,
·
Olivet Lodge No. 205 :
.
·
b 4 1934
William Edward Simpson, Master 1925, died Octo er ,
·
Sta11islaus Lodge No . 206:
1 Lod
N 275 in 1907
John Lewis Hennemouth was Master of Oakda e
ge o.
and 1908. Died December 9, 1934.
Sa11 Be11ito Lodge No. 211:
.
10 1934
George Wapple, Master 1888-1889, died September ,
·
South Sa11 Frat1eisco LodgehNo.M212t: 1896 and 1897 died February 15, 1935.
Adolph Frederick Fitsc en, as er
'
Sat1 Buenaventura Lo&ge No. 214:
34
James E. Reynolds, Master 1901, died September 1~ 19 . d" d November
D "d John Reese Master 1903-1904, Past Grand aster, 1e
av1lO, 1934. (A ~pecial eulogy will be given for Brother Reese.)
Doric Lodge No. 216:
5
Thomas Locker Hill, Master 1898, died June 10, 193 .
Mosaic Lodge No. 218:
·
b 20 1934
J hn Hodgson Wilson Master 1916, died N ovem er ,
·
J ~hn Henry Colldeweih, Master 1927, died April 14, 1935.
Speranza /'taliana Lodge No. 219:
6 1934
Dr. Emil Victor Lonigo, Master 1913, died August 1 ,
·
J11yo Lodge No. 221:
.
be 6 1934
·cecil F. MacFarlane, Master 1914, died Septem r '
.
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 :
934
John Henry Boetel, Master 1931, died September 29, 1 ·

536

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Solano Lodge No. 229:
· Alexander Donaldson, Master 1921 died December 2 1934.
John Frederick Walters; Mastet 1908, died 1935.
'
Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236:
Albert Lansing Yates served as Master of his Lodge in 1886 1887 1889
1~92 and 1897. He received his fifty year button on Febr~ary 3' 1932'
died January 9, 1935.
'
'
Lealand Harrrs Parker serv~d as Master of Hills Ferry Lodge 1908. 1909
1912, 1913 and 1914. Died February 6, 1935.
·
'
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237:
·
John Giacomazzi, Master in 1899, 1907 ancf.1908. Died September 13, 1934.
Alcatras Lodge No. 244:
William Kelley Sanborn, Master 1902, died May 24, 1935.
l.aurel Lodge No. 245:
John Hiram Graves, Master 1906 and 1907. Died May 25, 1935. Brother
~raves. was kn.own as one of the grand old men of Willows. During
his active business and political life he was active in many civic
matters, served his county as Auditor and Recorder for twelve years
~nd was Mayor ?f Willows for four years. He was always a leader
m fraternal affairs and was favorably known and loved throughout
Glenn County.
Pomona Lodge No. 246:
Thamar Jasper Noggle, Master 1922, died July 14, 1935,
Welcome Lodge No. 255: .·
Charles Roy Blakeley, Master 1916, died September 22, 1934.
Evergreen Lo<ige No. 259:
·
James Percy Robeson, Master 1913 and passed away November 26 1934
~rother. Robeson. was active in all the branches of Masonry in River~
side.. His Maso.me career covered a period of twenty-seven years of
c~nttr~uous service. an_d throughout denoted a sincere loyalty and realization _of th~ prmc1ples of our fraternity. His friends were legion
.
and a friendship made was never lost through any act of his.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260 :
Arthur Macdonald Blade, Master 1897, died August 19, 1934.
Edw.a rd Elmer Conn, Master 1910, died June 8, 1935. .
·Rolhn Mears Kelley, Master 1931, died June 21, 1935.
Galt Lodge No. 267:
Ralph Ellis Marsh, Master 1931, died July 1, 1935.
Durant Lodge No. 268 :
Edmund Davies Thomas, Master 1900, died March 17, 1935.
Anchor Lodge No. 273:
E. M. James, Master 1915, died March 6, 1935.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274:
Arthur W . Hawkins, Master 1914, died June 6," 1935.
Southern California Lodge No. 278:
·
William Par:ish Je".fries, Master 1899, died June 12, 1935. (A special
eulogy will be given for Brother Jeffries.)
Southwest Lodge No. 283:
Augustus Brooks !<imball, Master 1893 and 1894, died February 7, 1934.
James Hawes Wright, Master 1926, died September 27, 1934.
Maxwell Lodge No. 288:
Edwar~ Fl~nnagan, Master 1931, died September 20, 1934. His smile and
fnendlmess created for him a host of friends.
East Gate Lodge No. 290:
Luther L. Yates, Master 1918, died August 4, 1934.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

537

Los Gatos Lodge No. 292:
Richard Rundell Bell, Past Master, died January 24, 1935.
Henry James Grey, Past Master, died January 31, 1935.
Levy Asa Farwell, Past Master, · died February 11, 1935.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296:
Fred Cornelius Hyers, Master 1907, died January 11, 1935.
Porterville Lodge No. 303 :
Delmar Trowbridge Rewey, Master 1925, died December 28, 1934.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312:
John F. Muth, Master 1911, died March 29, 1935. This worthy brother
was Cbaplain of his Lodge for the years 1913 and 1915 to 1935.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313:
·
Louis Bernard Kessing, Master 1917, died December 5, 1934.
Dick Shackelford, Master 1898, died January 31 , 1935. Brother Shackelford was a charter member of Tehachapi Lodge; being one of the
pioneer Masons of that county. During those years he traveled many
miles in the mountain region with a horse and buggy in all kinds of
weather to. attend his Lodge meetings. He received his fifty year
button from Past Grand Master Wollenberg during his term as Gran;!
Master.
Emnu:muel Lodge No. 318:
William Edwin Walker, Master 1907 and 1908, died November 18, 1934.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 :
·
Jesse Stanley Cobb, Master of Elsinore Lodge in 1916, died October 18,
1934.
Brinton Blake Gregory, Master 1913, died November 21, 1934.
Jacob Blick Ginther, Master 1919, died March 21, 1935.
Clarence Hargan, Past Master and Secretary of Hollenbeck Lodge for a
number of years. Passed away suddenly October 6, 1935. This
brother had hoped to be with us today participating in this Communication of Grand Lodge.
So·u th Gate Lodge No. 320:
Frederick William Dunri, Master 1905, died February 15, 1935.
Frank Charles Wolf was the organizer of South Gate Lodge and its first
Worshipful Master. He served during the years 1894 and 1895. He
was also a Past Master .of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, having served
in the East during 1891. He died July 9, 1935.
Alisa/ Lodge No. 321 :
Henry Paul Mohr, Master 1904-1905,· died November 17, 1934.
Whittier Lodge No. 323:
Robert B. Way., Master 1895 and 1897. This brother was also a charter
member and the first Master of Valley Lodge No. 157 at Wilsonville,
Nebraska. The charter of this Lodge was granted April 9, 1897, over
the objection of William Jennings Bryan, which objection was raised
on the grounds that the Lodge had no Lodge Room. Meetings were
held on the open prairie in the full -of the moon. He was also a
charter member of Whittier Lodge. He died June 27, 1935.
Corona L odge No. 324:
Ernest Hea~h May, who died June 21, 1935, was a charter member and
Secretary of the organizing committee of this Lodge. He also served
as the first Secretary of Corona Lodge and was Master during the
years 1899, 1900 and 1901. Following his term as Master he was appointed and served as District Inspector for a short time. Brother
May was also one of the organizers of Pasadena Consistory and held
many offices, being honored with the rank of .Knight Commander of
the Court of Honor. He was a resident of Pasadena for fifty years,

538

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

was very active in banking circles and was of the old school. Inflexible in his business principles and friendly in all his human relationships.
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
Past Master William Spencer Skeel died July 27, 1935, having been a
Mason for a little over sixty years. He was a charter member of
Pine River Lodge of Wisconsin and served that Lodge as Master in
1882. He was the proud possessor of a fifty year Masonic button
presented .by the Grand Lodge of California.
Daniel Jacob Brownstein, who died October 11, 1934, served West Gate
Lodge faithfully and diligently in many Masonic offices for thirty-five
years. He was its Master in 1912. Born at Red Bluff, . California, on
January 3, 1870, he moved to Los Angeles in 1887 and in 1899 organized the well known manufacturing firm of Brownstein-Lewis
Company. Brother Brownstein was very active in the Scottish Rite
in the Valley of Los Angeles. He ably performed many important
dramatic parts in the Ritual of the Scottish Rite degrees. He received
merited recognitions of the Scottish Rite and was made a 33° Mason
on February 12, 1912.
McKinley Lodge No. 347:
Bertie Ernest Scoble was Master in 1925 and died January 2, 1935.
Brother Scoble was an outstanding ritualist and assisted the Inspector
of that District in teaching the Ritual.
Alfred Chichester Curtis was Master in 1930 and died March 5, 1935.
Sunset Lodge No. 352:
John Beaver Clark, Master 1905, died August 11, 1934.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355 :
George Lingo, Master 1908, died December, 1934.
Golden State Lodge No . 358 :
James Wallace McKellar, Master 1911, died July 21, 1935.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
Edward Clyde Forbes, Master 1918, died April 14, 1935.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367:
Charles H. Ritchie was a Past Master of Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
and demitted to South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 in December, 1928.
He died April 9, 1935.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369:
Charles Orlando Fish, Past Master of Tyrfan Lodge No. 286 of Dunnigan, California. Served his Lodge as Master for two or three years,
later affiliating with Ocean Park Lodge No. 369. He died September
18, 1934.
le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371:
Benjamin Hale Norton, Master 1896 and 1897, died April 20, 1935.
Veteran Lodge No. 373:
Clive X. Yeager, Master 1920, died January 29, 1935.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380:
Ed Wilson, Master 1930, died August 15, 1934.
Ed J. Mossinger, Master 1927, died October 16, 1934.
Spencer L. Blodget, Master 1912, died December 27, 1934.
Highlan4 Park Lodge No . 382:
William Rosswell Wilbur, Master 1930, died February 7, 1935.
El Centro Lodge No. 384:
Nont Jay Reid, Master 1916, died December 13, 1934.
· Charles Napier Perry, Master 1918, died April 20, 1935.
Burbank Lodge No . 406 :
Judge T. Shelton, Master 1915, died October 6, 1934.

539

La Mesa Lodge No. 407:
Charles William Hill, Master 1921, died August 14, 1934.
Sierra Madre Lodge No . 408:
William Joseph Lawless, Master 1912, died January 26, 1935.
Honolulu Lor!ge No . 409 :
Malcalm Macintyre, Master 1919, Inspector 1924, died August 24, 1934.
William Robson Foster, Master 1925, died July 26, 1935.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Albert Shaw Weston, Master 1925, died December 19, 1934.
Exeter Lodge No. 424 :
.
Richard H . Owen, Master 1916 and a charter member of this Lodge,
having transferred from Visalia Lodge No. 128. He died July 11,
1935.

Maricopa Lodge No. 434:
Robert Wesley McGill, Past Master, died October 8, 1934.
FairmoU1~t Lodge No. 435 :
Jerald Emmet Morrison, Master 1927, died March 17, 1935.
Henry Fellows Harwood, Master 1918, died June 3, 1935.
Tyrian Lodge No. 439:
Edward R. Pahre, Master 1926, died March 1, 1935.
Coronado Lodge No. 441:
• Mortimer Spencer Hewitt, Master 1921, died April 20, 1935.
Wilshire Lodge No. 445:
.
Jacob Karl Lobdell, Master 1923, died June 14, 1935.
Park Lodge No . 449:
Carl Adolph Allen, Master in 1921, died November 9, 1934.
Golden West Lodge No. 455 :
George Westley Middleton, Master 1925 and died ~ay. 13, 1935. Bro~er
Middleton was born in Durno, Scotland, and 1mm1grated to America
·s hortly prior to 1884. He lived in San Francisco for many y~ars. He
was a stone mason by trade and was employed on the City Hall,
State Building and Library Building in the City of San Francisco.
Argonoot Lodge No. 461 :
James William Strawn, Master in 1920, died September 18, 1934. Brother
Strawn was a charter member of this Lodge.
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463:
Covert Washington Irvin, Master 1921, died August 6, 1934.
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469 :
Henry E. Carnes, Master 1923, died March 6, 1935.
Albert Pike Lodge No. 484:
.
Roy Otto Padgett, Master in 1933. Brother Padgett was Deputy Chief of
Police of Los Angeles at the time of his death, July 6, 1935. He had
a very fine record in the Police Department of the City. He w~s
Captain of the Temple Guard of Al Malaika:h Temple and. was President of the Police Square Club of the Los Angeles Police Department. A host of friends sorely miss him.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486:
George Russell Grubb, Master 1931, died February 3, 1935.
Woodstock Lodge No. 491 :
This Lodge suffered the loss of its Master during the first year. After
being elected installed and serving only one month, Brother Charles
Wellington Bennett suffered a fatal heart attack and this . Lodge was
left without the leadership they had looked forward to with so much
anticipation. He was a member of Company B of the 8th California

540

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Volunteer Infantry during the Spanish American War and was State
~ommander of the Spanish American War Veteran's Association during the term of 1933-1934.
Atascadero Lodge No. 493:
William M. Crilley served this Lodge as Master from October 1920, to
.
January, 1923. He received the final call on . May 26, 1935.'
Riverdale Lodge No. 496:
As his year ~s Master was drawing to a close Brother Henry Ha.rrison
Tooker died November 3, 1934. His loss was keenly felt by the members of his Lodge.
Sunnyvale Lodge No. 511 :
George Max Wilhelmy, Master 1933, died October 22, 1934.
Argonne Lodge No. 514:
J. Hugh Wheeler, Master 1934, died July 19, 1935.
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517 :
George William Gresley Jackson, Master 1930, died September 22, 1934.
Ionic Lodge No. 520:
Elijah Michell Smuckler, Master 1930, died June 4, 1935.
Sunrise Lodge No. 522:
James Oren Capito,. served his Lodge as Master during 1922 and 1923.
He was the Chairman of the organization meeting for Sunrise Lodge·
served as its first Master an~ safely guided. it throul}"~ its early proq~
!ems. He served the Lodge m various official capacities and occupied
the office of Chaplain until 1931 when ill health caused him to give
up active service. He died April 12, 1935.
Smyrna Lodge No. 532:
Jesse L. Bulfinch served bis Lodge as Master during 1933 and 1934. He
died April 16, 1935.
Azure Lodge No. 533 :
Elliott Andrews Boyles served his Lodge as Master during 1929 and he
died October 31, 1934.
John Edward Jones, Jr., served this Lodge as Master during the year
1925. He died November 11, 1934.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539 :·
John Black McLarty, Master 1931, died February 2, 1935.
James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566:
Timon E. Owens, Master 1928, died January 3, 1935. He was a charter
member of this Lodge.
Valley Forge· Lodge No. 587:
Walter Franklin Rogers, Master 1933, died April 17, 1935.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607:
Albert Jay Walker served his Lodge as Master during the year 1925.
Later h.e ·became active in American Rite Masonry, particularly in
Monrovia Commandery. He died August 23, 1934.
Seal Beach Lodge No. 616:
John Matthews Ryan, Master 1925, died June 15, 1935.
Chula Vista Lodge No. 626:
Sidney Charles Baker, Master 1929, died October 25, 1934.
Oasis Lodge No. 664:
Nont Jonathon Reid, Master 1928 and 1929, died December ·13, 1934.
Brethren please note that this brother also served as Master for one
year for El Centro Lodge.
Reseda Lodge No. 666:
Frederick George Cooper, Master 1929, died February .25, 1935.

As we continue our Masonic labors we feel we should take to heart the
thoughts of Lincoln in his famous memorial address: "It is for us the living
rather to be here dedicated to the unfinished work which these to whom we
pay tribute have thus far so nobly advanced, and that from these honored
dead we take increased devotion for those principles for which they so .loyally
served."
·
To .be truly human is a real art. It is therefore proper to express here
the thoughts of that beloved Ambassador of Good-Will, Brother Will Rogers
of Claremore Lodge, Oklahoma, who lived his Masonr.y and taught all men
high and low to be unassuming, to be human and meet on the level. His close
friend had just been taken by death, so he wrote him, "I guess God needs
good men and He has to call them home when he needs them," he concludes
his letter thus: "And you will pop into some well-kept ranch-house over under
some cool shady trees and you'll be asked to have dinner and it'll be the
best one you ever had in your life. Well, when you are thanking the women
folks you jest tell the sweet-looking little old lady that you know her boy
back on an outfit you usta rep for and tell the daughters that you knew their
brother and if you see a cute little rascal running around there, kiss him for
me. Well, I can't write you any more, Charlie, the darn paper is all wet. It
must be raining in this old bunk-house. Of course, we are all just a hangin'
on hei:e as long as we can. I don't know why we hate to go, we know it's
better there. Maybe it's because we haven't done anything that will live after
we're gone."
Brethren: It is true that great men never feel they have accomplished
much, it is we, who remain, who realize the great value of their service after
they are gone.
"Grant us Thy peace upon our homeward way, .
With Thee began, with Thee shall end the day.
Guard Thou the lips from sin, the hearts from shame,
That in this Temple have called upon Thy name."-AMEN.
OAKLEY K. MORTON,
EZRA DECOTO,
EDWARD HENRY MARTIN,
GEORGE F. WELLS.
Vocal Solo : "Songs My Mother Taught Me," Dvorak, by Benjamin Liederman, tenor, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.

541

In Memoriam David J. Reese
By Frank M. W ise
"To live in hearts we leave ·behind is n~t to die."
Thirty-two years ago there came to this Grand Lodge a Master of a constituent Lodge of this grand jurisdiction, a young man who was destined to
become one of the outstanding figures in Masonry in California; one whose
splendid record is indelibly recounted in the annals of Masonry, the memory
of which is dear to the hearts of the thousands of Masons of this S.tateDavid John Reese, our fifty-eighth Grand Master.
After thirty-one consecutive years of unselfish and devoted service to .the
craft and to this grand -body, Dave, as he was familiarly known to his
thousands of friends and brothers, has been called from labor to refreshment,
and we miss his cordial greeting and his hearty hand clasp.
David John Reese was born of good Welsh stock at Gold Hill, Nevada,
on August 22, 1871. The family moved to Sonoma county, California, in
1884, where Brother Reese received his education. At the age of nineteen he·
became a school teacher and taught for many years in the schools of Sonoma
and Ventura counties.
Shortly after moving to Ventura in 1900, Brother Reese ·became the
owner, editor and publisher of the Ventura Free Press, and for twenty-nine

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

years continued to publish one of the leading newspapers of the State. He
was a member of the executive comrpittee of the California Press Association
from 1907 to the time of his passing.
Public service engrossed much of Brother Reese's attention throughout his
career. An indefatigable worker, capable and conscientious in every undertaking, it is little wonder that he was most active in the community life of his
home city, Ventura, where he served at various periods as Postmaster,
member of the Board of Freeholders, member of the City Council and Mayor,
Secretary of the Chamber of Commerce, and President of the City Planning
Commission. For sixteen years, under three Governors, he served the State
of California as Civil Service Commissioner. He was a District Governor of
Rotary for California-Nevada District and later became a Director of Rotary
International.
Brother Reese was raised a Master Mason in Santa Paula Lodge No. 291,
April 27, 1897. His active interest in Masonry was contemporaneous with his
membership. He served his mother Lodge as Senior Deacon, Junior and Senior
Warden. In 1901 he affiliated with San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, serving
as Senior Warden in 1902 and Master in 1903-1904.
In Grand Lodge Brother Reese served as Junior Grand Deacon in 1910;
Grand Standard Bearer, 1915-16-17; Junior Grand Warden, 1921-22; Senior
Grand Warden, 1922-23; Deputy Grand Master, 1923-24; Grand Master, 192425. For eighteen years, 1904 to 1922, he was Inspector of the District comprising the Lodges of Santa Barbara and Ventura counties. In 1917 he
formed, in that District, the first Masonic Officers' Association in California.
In 1926 he was appointed chairman of the Board of Control, which position
he held to the time of his death. His splendid accomplishments as head of this
·board, in the administering of the problems of relief and employment are well
known, not only to the brethren of this jurisdiction,' but also throughout the
length and ·breadth of this land.
In the allied Masonic bodies, Brother Reese served as Grand Master of
the Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters, in 1920; Grand High Priest of
the Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons of California, in 1928. He was a
member of the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies, Ventura Commandery Knights
Templar, and Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine.
·
During Dave's year as Grand Master he traveled more than 40,000 miles
on Masonic business. He visited most of the remote as well as centrally
located Lodges of our jurisdiction, endearing himself to the brethren by his
sympathetic understanding, inspiring sincerity, and gentle humor. Many of
the recommendations made by him are now familiar regulations of this Grand
Lodge. It was he who recommended the formation of the Committee on
Necrology, to do honor to our distinguished brethren gone before. It was
Dave who recommended the formation of the Committee on History, whose
excellent work will doubtless culminate in the publishing of the Masonic
History of California. It was on his recommendation that the pleasing custom
of providing aprons for our Past Grand Masters was adopted.
Such, my brethren of the Grand Lodge, is a brief summary of the life and
activities of our beloved friend and ·b rother. What an impressive record of
distinguished and loyal service to Masonry ana to hi~ fellow citizens! It was
a privilege and an honor to have known Dave Reese. Masonry in California
is the richer for his life, devoted as it was to the practice · of Masonic ideas
and ideals. Dave loved Masonry. It was ever in his thought and a vital part
of his life. He was never happier than when rendering some service to the
craft or to a needy brother. He was truly a craft Mason, a man among men.
· In his annual message as Grand Master, he paraphrazed Thomas R. Marshall
as follows: "My retirement is not a demotion to the ranks, because I have
never risen above them." How Dave lived is a cherished memory, and probably is best expressed in his own words in his beautiful poem "Let me walk
in the road ·by the side of a friend."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

543

'Tis only a half truth the poet has sung,
Of the house by the side of the way;
Our Master had neither a house nor a home,
But He walked with the crowd day by day,
And I think when I read of the poet's desire,
That a house by the road would be good·;
But service is found in its tenderest form,
When we walk with the crowd in the road.
So I say, let me walk with the men in the road,
Let me seek out the burdens that crush ;
Let me speak a kind word of good cheer to the weak
Who are falling behind in the rush.
There are wounds to be healed, there are breaks we must mend.
There's a cup of cold water to give;
And the man in the road by the ·side of his friend
Is the man who has .learned how to live.
Then tell me no more of the house by the road ;
There's only one place I can live:
It's there with the men who are toiling along
Who are needing the cheer I can give.
It is pleasant to live in the house by the way
And befriend, as the poet has said
But the Master is bidding us, "Bear ye their load,
For your rest waiteth yonder ahead."
I could not remain in the house ·by the road,
And watch as the toilers go on,
Their faces beclouded with pain and with sin,
So burdened their strength nearly gone.
I'll go to their side, I'll speak in good cheer,
I'll help them to carry their load,
And I'll smile at the man in the house by the way
As I walk with the crowd in the road.
Out there in the road that goes by the house,
When the poet is singing his song,
I'll walk and I'll work, midst the heat of the day,
And I'll help falling brothers along;
Too busy to live in the house by the way,
Too happy for such an abode.
And my heart sings its praise to the Master above
Who is helping me serve in the road.
String quartette: "All Through the Night," old Welsh air. (A special
arrangement by the grand organist.)
First violin Max Amsterdam, Jewel Lodge No. 374; second violin, Chas.
G. Hoffman, O~iental Lodge No. 74, Spokane, Wash.; viola~director, Waldemar O. 'E. . Lind, lewel Lodge No. 374; cello, Anton Tobias, Jewel Lodge
No. 374.
I n Memoriam Roderick G. Guyett
By John D. M,urphey
In keeping with one of the oldest traditions of th!s Grand Lo?ge, an hour
is set aside each year, dedicated to the commemoration of the hves a~d activities of those of its membership whose life span on earth has terminated
by their having lieen called to take on immortality in "that house not built by
han.ds, eternal in the heavens."

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THi,:
. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In this solemn hour we are profoundly moved by the contemplation of the
memories of the friends and brothers whose names are now enrolled on the
pages of . the B_ook of Pa~t Performance. To them we pay inadequate but
well merited tribute, and m this ·solemn ceremony bid those of yesterday a
last farewell.
A poet, whose name I know not, has said:
Farewell. That word has broken hearts,
And blinded eyes with tears ;
Farewell. One stays and one departs,
Between them roll the years.
Good-bye. That word makes faces pale,
And fills the soul with fears;
Good-bye. Two words that wring a wail
Which flutters down the years.
Adieu. Such is the word for us ;
'Tis more than word, 'tis prayer.
They do not part who do part thiis,
For God is everywhere.
It is my privilege at this time, at the instance of the Most Worshipful
Gran? Master, to be the mouth-piece of this grand body to express, in a brief
and inadequate manner I realize, our appreciation of the splendid service to
Masons o.f this State, of Roderick George Guyett, who for nearly thirty years
~erv~ th~s Gran_d Lodge as Inspector in several of its Masonic districts. My
mve~ttgat10n satisfies me that Brother Guyett has to his credit the longest
service .of any Inspector in this jurisdiction, and that in that service he was
ever faithful and loyal in upholding and furthering the fundamental tenets of
our great fraternity.
Roderick Guyett was born in May, 1866, at Montpelier, Vermont. His
pare~ts we_re Peter Guyett," a French Canadian, and Margaret Mitchell Guyett,
of his native State. Before reaching the age of twelve his parents had both
passed from the realms of worldly cares and responsibilities and Rod was
left to be the architect of his own future and fortune. He im~igrated at the
age ~f t~elve to Ames, Iowa, with friends, and there received such schooling
as his circumstances permitted him to obtain. While yet in his teens he
removed to Dubuque, Iowa, where he engaged in railroad work with the
Chicago, Milwaukee & . St. Paul railroad, and remained in this service in the
passenger department until 1892, when he again "moved with the c·ourse of
Empire" westward, and arrived in San Francisco with the Union Pacific
Railroad company where, at 1 Montgomery street, the site of the old Masonic
Temple, he held responsible railroad positions until 19041 when he entered the
general insurance fiel_d, where he remained engaged in his chosen life work until
his demise on November 29, 1934.
. In 1895 he married Etta J . Dwight, of Chicago. There was born of this union in 1896 one daughter, Margaret Clara, who bears the · name of her
maternal and paternal grandmothers. In addition to his wife and daughter .
t~ere survives him one -brother, David L. Guyett, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, who:
hke Rod, has always taken an active interest in all things appertaining to the
Masonic Fraternity.
Rod was raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason in Excelsior
Lodge ·No. 166 on October 10, 1898, and w~s thereafter rapidly advanced
through the intermediate places and stations until he was installed Worshipful
~faster in 1905. His outstanding administration as Master of the ·Lodge so
impressed the the:i Grand Lecturer, W. H. Edwards, that in the following
year he was appointed Inspector of the, 53rd Masonic District and continue<!
h~s ~ervices in . the capacity of Inspector throughout the remaining years of
his life, as I hav·e before stated, being a period in excess of twenty-nine years .
and leaving a record of accomplishment both in length of time and efficienc;

545

as an inspiration and guide to any one who wishes to emulate his outstanding
service to this great fraternal brotherhood. For when all is said and done, the
Inspectors constitute the backbone of the Masonic organization not only in
their State but also in the field of Masonic activities generally. In view of
the stupendous amount of work and responsibility now imposed upon the
Most Worshipful Grand Master in this jurisdiction, it is inevitable that he
shall depend in a large-and indeed in a progressively larger measure as the
Institution expands, upon the knowledge, cooperation and loyal support of his
Inspectors, who do in fact, if not in name, fill an office that is only second
in importance to that of the Grand Master.
In ·this field Rod was a worker and a doer, and as we all well know, he
performed the tasks that were assigned to him, whatever they might be, with
a smile and with a vigor that was never satisfied short of actual accomplishment. The . membershii>· for the past thirty years of successive Grand Lodge
Communications will remember that in his intercourse with them his life was
the embodiment of the sentiment expressed in the lines:
"Stop a minute and say 'Hello'
As down Life's road you smoothly go,
For a pleasant word and a cheery smile
Will shorten the road by many a mile
For some poor brother who is going slow.
So, stop a minute and say 'Hello'."
Rod, we will all miss you. Your cheery smile, your cordial hand-shake,
will recur in fond recollection as the years pass on, and we bespeak for you
that peace eternal that should flow as a reward for a life dedicated to the
dissemination of good-will and happiness among those who enjoyed your ·
acquaintance and friendship during your brief-too brief-sojourn here on
earth among us.
. Song: "Recessional," (Kipling) DeKoven, Brother Liederman.
Eulogy on William Parrish Jeffries
By William Rhodes Hervey
It is appropriate that we should pause from our labors an hour to testify
our regard for a master workman and to pay tribute to his slerling character
as a man and as a Mason. The sense of our duty in this respect is emphasized by the activity in this Grand Lodge of our deceased brother and the
high place he held in our counsels.
Were it not for the philosophic teachings of Masonry and our common
belief in the immortality of the soul we would find no consolation to assuage
our sorrow, but we as Masons know that after the fitful day of life our
brother has not dissolved into night and nothingness. He has entered with a
sincere welcome into the Grand Lodge above.
. We learn from General Pike that there is nothing new to be said of
death, which is the end of the cares ·and joys of life, of its calamities and
victories. It is a rest when the work of the day is past and nature provides
a peaceful sleep. Death is the silence after the brief ticking of the clock, the
star going out and the light shining no more. It is the great change before
which we stand appalled and mystified.
Brother Jeffries accepted the philosophy of Masonry as the philosophy
of his life and, without illusions and without dread, he manfully strove to
accomplish in his lifetime, whether brief or long, the maximum of good for
his family, his Lodge, his neighbor and humanity. Although he had much yet
to do, he was not surprised by death and laid him down peacefully, leaving
no worthless memories or poignant regrets. His was a good fight with a
strong arm and a sharp blade, but ever with the singing birds in his heart
and a b_it of a prayer on his lips. He has passed, as we too shall pass, but

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

has left a monument of shining deeds and honorable endeavors. His memory
will be cherished by his brethren so long as any who knew him survive.
Brother Jeffries was born at Mount Sterling, Kentucky, November 8,
1870, and died at Los Angeles, California, June 12, 1935, from a heart attack
following a, tonsil operation. His early years were spent on the farm and
attending the country schools during the winter terms. At the age of seventeen he came to Los Angeles with his parents and entered high school, supporting himself by carrying and selling newspapers. For a time he drove a
two-mule street car and then worked for four years in the office of the City
Engineer. In 1895 he organized a printing firm which he developed into one
of the largest printing and engraving establishments in the west. Because of
his ability, industry and sound judgment he early impressed his strong personality upon leaders in the business world and rapidly gained an enviable
place in business and financial affairs. At the time of his death he was
president of several important corporations and was a director in many others.
He was a valued trustee of the Hollenbeck Old People's Home and for seven
years president of the Jonathan Club and active in the Chamber of Commerce,
Community Chest and other civic bodies. His assistance was eagerly sought
·
by religious, charitable and civic organizations.
Having started from scratch as a poor boy and with but little education,
except that which he acquired after becoming a grown man and by his own
diligent efforts, and without any social or other influence to back him, he
made for himself a aistinguished career as a man, a patriot, a citizen and a
business executive.
Brother Jeffries was raised in Southern California Lodge No. 278 in
1894 and became its Worshipful Master in 1899. In 1903 he was High Priest
of Signet Chapter No. 57, R. A. M., and in 1908 he was Eminent Commander
of Los Angeles Commandery No. 9, K. T . He was Potentate of Al Malaikah
Temple of the Shrine in 1909. He received the degrees of the Scottish Rite
in 1903, was made a Knight Commander of the Court of Honor in 1913 and
coroneted a thirty-third degree Mason in 1917. He was active in the ritualistic
and other work of the Rite. He first attended Grand Lodge in 1898 and
missed attending only two annual communications in a period of thirty-seven
years. For fifteen years he was chairman of the Finance Committee of the
Grand Lodge, and for the last three years has been chairman of the Endowment Board of the Masonic Homes of California. He was a prudent, wise
and invaluable member of the Finance Committee, and he threw himself with
unremitting vigor into the work of securing an adequate endowment fund for
our Masonic Homes. He combined a sense of right and justice with a spirit
of brotherhood and a tender solicitude for our orphans and dependent aged.
He left an indelible imprint of his strong character, business ability and
fraternal kindness upon every field of Masonry fo which he labored.
The domestic life of our brother was ideal in its peace and loveliness.
He married a beautiful young society girl belonging to one of the prominent
families of Southern California, Lora .Hubbell, and there was born to them
three boys and two girls. He is survived by his wife, three sons and a
daughter. In his home life he was ever an affectionate husband and an indulgent and sympathetic father. He raised his children to take an honorable
place in life.
"Be thou faithful unto death and I will give thee a crown of life." The
outstanding characteristic of Brother Jeffries was his loyalty to his friends.
He had a rare genius for friendship and a deep understanding of the heart
of his friends. His manners were bluff, hearty and spirited, and at times
he may have seemed gruff or imperious, but beneath the outer seeming there
was a staunch heart overftow.i ng with sympathy, kindness and affection. He
never let a friend down. This quality of loyalty also extended to his family,
his church, his Masonry, his country, and to those things which he .believed

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

547

to be just and right and true. No riches or honors or adulation caused him
to lose his humility or his sense of kinship with humanity.
The example ·of our dear dead brother is worthy of our emulation, and
his life work rests upon us as a benediction.
"Weep for Adonis; he is dead."
String quartette: Largo, from the "New World" symphony, by Dvorak.
Benediction: Grand Chaplain.
Song: "Taps," by Custance. Trumpet obbligato by Victor C. Kress, Jr.,
Fairmount Lodge No. 435.

At 12 :SO Grand Lodge was called off until 2 o'clock.

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3Jn ~ranb 1Lobge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Wednes~ay, October 9, 1935.

Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, U. C. BERKELEY CLUBHOUSE
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
There has been made and placed in the hands of the Finance Committee
of Grand Lodge for review an audit of the books of the Masonic Club of
the University of California, Inc. That audit the Trustees make a part of
their report to Grand Lodge.
The activities of our student body at Berkeley relate tne Masonic Club
House at the University more intimately than ever before to campus affairs.
We have registered this semester at the Club House two hundred and fifty
men and two hundred and eighty-seven women, . with the number increasing
as the college year advances. Following the largest enrollment of students
ever registered at the State University; the Club membership has this year
been honored with a number of imp0rtant official student p0sitions. Among
others, we note the most notable and important p0st of student affairs on the
campus, the President of the Associated Students of the University of California, the Chairman of the Student Welfare Committee, and the Yell Leader.
A new activity, inaugurated this semester at the Club House, is a Tuesday luncheon, served to the membership. The food is wholesome and ample,
and served at a figure which .covers the entire cost of the service. Since the
inaugural of the plan, an average of more than one hundred and fifty men
and women have been meeting around the tables during this weekly luncheon
period.
The large basement, really a ground floor of the building, has never been
satisfactorily utilized. Four times, since it was completed, all the Lodges of
Berkeley have united in using the place on the occasion of a dinner to the
M. W. Grand Master. Otherwise it has been idle, with the exception of a
comparatively small area occupied by the furnace and heating plant. Recently,
on application by the men, a space has been set aside by the Trustees for a
men's "Recreation Room," set off by a substantial partition for that purpose.
The men have purchased a billiard table and the equipment necessary for its
use and a few other minor articles. At a very small cost to the Trustees, this
improvement will add greatly desired quarters for the exclusive use of
the men.
Operations of the Club House for the fiscal year ending September 30,
1935, resulted in a net loss of $570.31, after charging $546.13 for repairs and
replacements to maintenance and expense. The total amount expended for
repairs and replacements during the year under review was $2,135.96. Of this
amowit $1 ,589.83 was withdrawn from depreciation and insurance fund (maintained as a separate savings bank account), and the balance, $546.13, as above
noted, charged to maintenance expense.
Ample fire insurance is carried on the Club House, furniture, fixtures and
equipment in the sum of $73,573. Workmen's compensation and public liability
insurance are also carried.

GRAND LODGiE OF CALIFORNIA

549

During the year the building has received extraordinary attention, the
first since its erection more than ten years ago. As a result, it is in· as good
condition today as it was when completed. The furniture and fixtures were
also cleaned and, thoroughly renovated, likewise the first attention of that
character since the first installation. •
.
The appropriation of Grand Lodge one year ago for the support of the
Club House was $6,000, a very material reduction over the amount granted
in previous years. In view of the expenses made necessary by the general
overhauling of building and furnishings just referred to, and reflected in the
audit, and the excess of maintenance expense over income, the Trustees ask
· a recommendation from the Finance Committee for a slightly increased appropriation from Grand Lodge for the next fiscal year-an increase of onehalf cent per member will prove ample, we feel, with close application and
continuance of the same economical management that has been maintained in
the past. A carefully prepared and estimated budget has been placed in the
hands of the Finance Committee covering this matter.
We cannot close this report without again referring to the wonderful
mana~ement of the affairs of the Club Hous_e, financial and otherwise, given
by Mrs. J. H. Quinn, the Hostess at · the Club House. She has won the
affection and esteem of our great student body, and receives from them a
devoted cooperation in keeping the building and its contents in most excellent
condition. The students regard the Club House in every sense as a · real home,
and take pride in maintaining it as such.
Fraternally submitted,
TRUSTEES 0}' THE MASONIC CLUB OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, INC.
WILLIAM H. WASTE, President
MILTON T . FARMER, Secretary
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS, P.G.M.
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, P.G.M.
WILLIAM P. FILMER, P.G.M.
JOHN D. MURPHEY, P.G.M.
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN, P.G.M.
WILLIAM B. HERMS
.
WALDO ·F. POSTEL

Adopted, except the request for funds, which was referred to
the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF DIRECTORS, U. C. LOS ANGELES
CLUBHOUSE
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University of California at Los Angeles, fraternally submit their report for the year ending
September 30, 1935. ·
The financial condition is reflected by the rep0rt of Brother Reynold E.
Blight, certified public accountant, which is annexed hereto and made a part
hereof. We, however, direct attention to the following items:
First: We have previously rep0rted a 60 per cent recovery on a building fund balance in the United States National Bank which was there
deposited when that institution was closed. During the past year, another
10 per cent dividend has been received, making a 70 per cent r~covery. The
remaining 30 per cent is very much in doubt.
Second: It has been necessary to make rather extensive repairs to our
building this year, although our purpose is to so handle such work that
it will not require unduly large expenditures in any one year.

sso

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

With respect to the budget for the coming year, our estimate is as follows: Fo,r salaries, service charges, supplies, taxes, insurance, depreciation,
and miscellaneous, $7,990.
Early in the year, the Most Worshipful Grand Master appointed Brother
G. Ellsworth Meyer to the place on the •Board made vacant by the death of
our beloved member, Brother Dan J. Brownstein. In addition, he reappointed
four other members whose terms expired in May, so, with this exception, the
Board remains as last year, to wit:
Past Grand Masters John Stewart Ross, Will H. Fischer, Dana R. Weller;
Brothers Frank X. Pfaffinger, Chas. H. Dodds, Elmer E. Beckman, Marco R.
Newmark, Walter L. Berger, Thomas B. Buchan, William S. McFadden, C. H.
Robison, Clyde C. Shoemaker, G. Ellsworth Meyer, Ira F. Thompson, Ben G.
Wright.
The past year has been one of the most active in the history of the Club.
The affairs conducted were many and varied, with 26,000 visits being made
by affiliated students. The study room was visited nearly 4,000 times, a record
which we believe you will be as proud of as we are.
The University of California at Los Angeles has the largest enrollment
this fall it has ever experienced, and we are looking forward to an even
greater use of the Club House facilities.
We recommend that such provision be made for support and maintenance
during the year 193S-36 as will be adequate for that purpose.
BEN G. WRIGHT, Vice-Chairman.

Adopted, except request for funds, which was referred to Committee on Finance.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Herewith the · Committee of Returns presents its annual report.

It is more comforting than that of last y~ar, and we are not of those
who have no hope. We can not say prosperity has returned, but we can say
there is less loss.
The present membership is 129,326, and the net loss 1s 3,00S; only·
seventy-five per cent of what it was last year.
The hope lies in the fact that more degree~ were conferred in 193S than
during last year. There was an increase in the number of affiliates and in
restorations. But there was also an increase m the number of withdrawals
and of deaths. Over the toll of the -Grim Reaper we have no control. There
has been a decrease in the number of those who have been suspended, and of
those who have had dues remitted.
While the report is not too cheerful, it is at least not so doleful as that
of last year.
The Lodges have had an opportunity to weed out the weaker members,
those who would not make a sacrifice to hold their membership. It is to be
hoped they will be replaced by strong and vigorous Masons. We hope. The
man without hope is dead.
Following is a list of Lodges with the amounts due from each:

551

Report of Committee on Returns,
. August 1, 1934 to July 31, 1935
Name or Lodge

1
2

California ..................
Wes tern Star ......... .
3 Tehama ......................
S Benicia ........................
8 Tuolumne ..... _...........
9 Corinthian ................
10 San Jose ....................
12 Yount ........................
13 Nevada ......................
14 Temple .................... ..
16 Eureka ........................
17 La Parfaite ..............
18 Mountain Shade .... ..
19 San Joaquin ............
20 W ashi.i:igton ..............
21 Hawauan ..................
22 Occidental ..................
23 Madison ....................
24 Mariposa ..................
2S Georgetown
26 E l Dorado ................
27 Trinity ..................... .
30 Golden Gate
32 Gold Hill ..................
33 Ophir .: ........................
3S San Diego ............... .
37 Howard .................... ..
38 Santa Cruz ............ ..
40 Sacramento ..............
41 Martinez .....................
42 Los Angeles ..............
43 Hiram ........................
44 Mount Moriah ....... .
4S Crescent City ......... .
46 Texas ........................
SO Forbestown ..........._.
Sl Illinoistown ..............
SS Suisun ........................
S6 Volcano ......................
S7 Santa Rosa ..............
S8 Union ........................
S9 Gravel Range ............
60 Plumas ....., ................
6 1 Live Oak ..................
64 ·Natoma .................... ..
6S Amador ......................
66 Forest ........................
68 Morning Star ............
70 · Enterprise ................
76 Bear Mountain ........
78 Calaveras ...........- .....
79 Humboldt ..................
80 Ione ............................
81 Yolo ............................
84 Vesper ........................
87 Naval ..........................
89 Rose's Bar ................
91 North Star ............ :.. .
93 St. Helena ............... .

General
~'und

$309.00
42.SO
241.00
77.SO
103.00
163.SO
230.SO
136.00
77.00
63.00
101.00
79.00
28.00
302.SO
268.SO
181.SO
416.SO
98.SO
92.50
2S.SO
92.00
SS.SO
370.SO
S2.00
22.00
306.SO
106.SO
148.SO
263.00
111.50
386.SO
21.00
229.SO
71.50
22.SO
32.SO
36.00
71.50
14.SO
206.SO
269.00
17.SO
S8.SO
S37.00
62.00
37.00
24.SO
218.00
121.SO
Sl.00
49.SO
179.00
40.00
31.00
89.SO
330.SO
22.00
23.00
44.SO

Home
Maintenance

Home
Bulldlng

$442.SO
S9.2S
32S.SO
1132S
141.00
222.7S
308.2S
184.SO
96.00
84.00
139.50
114.00
24.00
41925
380.25 .
257.25
58425
122.25
1132S
33.7S
124.SO
63.75
527.2S
75.00
30.00

$29S.OO
39.SO
217.00
75.SO
94.00
148.50
205.50
123.00
64.00
56.00
93.00
76.00
16.00
279.50
2S3.SO
171.50
389.50
81.50
75.50
22.SO
83.00
42.SO
351.SO
50.00
20.00
283.SO
9S.SO
141.SO
251.00
102.SO
338.SO
21.00
221.50
63.SO
22.SO
26.50
36.00
68.SO
14.SO
178.SO
2S8.00
13.SO
49.50
47S.OO
58.00
3S.OO
24.50
20S.OO
110.SO
39.00
41.SO
176.00
34.00
3000
8S.SO
286.50
19.00
23.00
41.50

42525
14325
212.25
376.50
153.75

507.75
31.50
332.25
95.25
33.7S
39.75
S4.00
102.75
21.7S
267.7S
387.00
20.2S

7425
712.50
87.00
S2.SO
36.75
307.SO
165.75
58.SO
62.2S
264.00
51.00
45.00
1282S
429.75
28.SO
34.SO
62.25

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

$12S.OO
2S.OO
200.00

$1,171.50
166.25
983.50
266.2S
438.00
659.75

100.00
12S.OO
225.00
12S.OO
lS0.00
7S.OO
75.00
2S.OO
lS0.00
17S.OO
17S.OO .
12S.OO
2SO.OO
75.00
12S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
75.00
17S.OO
50.00
22S.OO
100.00
100.00
100.00
50.00
400.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
250.00
125.00
25.00
75.00
600.00
2S.OO
200.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
375.00
2S.OO
25.00

96925
568.50
387.00
278.00
408.50
294.00
218.00
l,176.2S
1,077.25

735.25
1,640.25

37725
406.2S
131.7S
374.SO
236.7S
l ,424.2S
177.00
122.00
1,240.25
445.25
602.25
990.SO
417.75
l,632.7S
73.50
833.25
330.2S
78.7S
148.7S
126.00
267.75
50.7S
902.7S
1,039.00
76.2S
257.25
2,324.50
207.00
149.SO
8S.7S
930.50
497.7S
273.50
203.2S
644.00
200.00
106.00
353.25
1,421.75
94.50
80.SO
173.2S

Name of Lodge

95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
119
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
. 132
134
135
'136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

552

Henry Clay --··-------·-Hornitos ········-··-·--·····
Yosemite ....................
Clay
Oroville ....................
Lexington ..................
.Arcata ----------------········
Pajaro ........................
Chico ··············-·······---Summit ·-·----------------···
Eden
Concord
Clinton .......................
Fidelity ......................
Alamo ·---·-·---··----········
Sotoyome ·---·-----···-·-··
Table Mountain ........
LaFayette ..................
Hermann ....................
Visalia ..... _.................
Nicolaus
Woodbridge ..............
Sincerity ······--········--·Vacaville ....................
Valley
Pacific ---------------·······-·
Crockett ·....................
Curtis ........................,
Grafton ......................
Franklin .....................
Oriental ····················
Vitruvius ...................
Abell ··························
Eel River ..................
Lassen ........................
Molino .......................
Woodland ..................
Keystone ....................
Harmony ·············.·····
Excelsior ....................
Alameda
Redwood City ..........
Mission •.....................
Elk Grove ................
Drytown ···-·-··············
Antioch ......................
Phoenix ....................
Mendocino ..................
Petaluma ....................
Russian River
Arbuckle ....................
Clear Lake ................
Sierra Valley ............
Claiborne ··········--······
Evening Star ............
Keith ··························
Oakland .....................
Northern Light ........
Marin ........................
Santa Barbara ····-·-·
Ferndale ----················
Mountain View ........
eOOOOeH•OH•oo•ooOeoooooooo

•OOoHOOOOOOooooOOooooo••o

OOOoOoooooooooHOOO•

~--·--··············

oooooOooooooooOOOOOOHOO

······~·-···········

General
~'und

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

26.00
48.00
121.50
28.50
138.50
79.00
100.50
136.00
164.00
19.00
113.00
124.50
16.50
294.50
66.00
86.50
54.00
106.50
121.00
174.00
47.50
66.00
48.50
83.00
34.50
348.00
336.00
34.00
36.50
48.00
232.00
53.00
84.00
89.50
91.50
57.00
114.50
14.50
9.50
275.00
68.50
135.00
372.00
60.50
12.50
83.00
223.50
71.00
144.00
59.00
38.00
17.50
19.50
29.00
26.00
79.00
448.00
37.00
245.00
108.50
74.50
117.00

39.00
61.50
167.25
42.75
186.75
112.50
141.75
180.00
232.50
28.50
160.50
182.25
24.75
425.25
96.00
122.25
67.50
140.25
172.50
214.50
62.25
78.00
68.25
115.50
51.75
498.00
486.00
45.00
44.25
67.50
331.50
64.50
118.50
128.25
126.75
85.50
167.25
21.75
11.25
384.00
98.25
201.00
520.50
77.25
18.75
111.00
302.25
102.00
201.00
78.00
49.50
26.25
29.25
42.00
36.00
108.00
615.00
54.00
321.00
161.25
104.25
144.00

26.00
41.00
111.50
28.50
124.50
75.00
94.50
120.00
155.00
19.00
107.00
121.50
16.50
283.50
64.00
81.50
45.00
93.50
115.00
143.00
41.50
52.00
45.50
77.00
34.50
332.00
324.00
30.00
29.50
45.00
221.00
43.00
79.00
85.50
84.50
57.00
111.50
14.50
7.50
256.00
65.50
134.00
347.00
51.50
12.50
74.00
201.50
68.00
134.00
52.00
33.00
17.50
19.50
28.00
24.00
72.00
410.00
36.00
214.00
107.50
69.50
96.00

$25.00
Home Tax

25.00
100.00
150.00
25.00
50.00
150.00
100.00
75.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
25.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
300.00
50.00
125.00
25.00
50.00
125.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
25.00
175.00
50.00
50.00
200.00
100.00
75.00
250.00
25.00
100.00
75.00
25.00

100.00
325.00
25.00
275.00
75.00
25.00
150.00

Total

91.00
175.50
500.25
99.75
599.75
291.50
386.75
586.00
651.50
66.50
455.50
453.25
57.75
1,103.25
251.00
315.25
241.50
465.25
483.50
831.50
201.25
321.00
187.25
325.50
120.75
1,303.00
1,246.00
159.00
135.25
185.50
859.50 .
260.50
281.50
303.25
327.75
199.50
418.25
50.75
28.25
1,090.00
282.25
520.00 .
1,439.50
289.25
43.75
343.00
977.25
266.00
579.00
264.00
145.50
61.25
68.25
99.00
86.00
359.00
1,798.00
152.00
1,055.00
.152.z5
273.25
507.00

Name of Lodge

195 Buckeye -----·······-------196 San Simeon ..............
198 Wilmington ····---------199 Hartley
200 Truckee ······-------------201 Silveyville --------------202 Pentalpha ···············-··
203 Confidence ..................
204 Salinas ........................
205 Olivet
206 Stanislaus ..................
207 Anaheim ········----------208 Rio Vista ..................
209 King Davids ............
210 Friendship ..................
211 San Benito ................
212 So. San Francisco....
214 San Buenaventura ..
215 Oak Grove ................
216 Doric ...........................
217 Monterey ..................
218 Mosaic ........................
219 Speranza Italiana ....
220 Downey ...................-.
221 Inyo ················--··········
222 Roseville ....................
224 Bakersfield ················
225 Brooklyn .....................
226 San Mateo ................
228 Athens ........................
229 Solano ........................
230 North Butte ............
231 Covelo .................______
232 Janesville ..................
233 Calistoga ...~ ................
234 Hope ............................
235 Surprise Valley ......
236 Hills Ferry ................
237 Guadalupe ..................
240 Colusa ........................
241 Santa Ana ................
242 Magnolia ....................
243 Eucalyptus ................
244 Alcatraz ••••0•••····--·····
245 Laurel ························
246 Pomona ......................
247 Fresno ........................
248 Alturas ·--··-···············
250 Adin ............................
253 Landmark ..................
254 Reading ......................
255 Welcome ....................
256 Lodi ...................................
258 Penryn ...... ,.._. ..............
259 Evergreen ..................
260 King Solomon's ......
261 Tuscan ........................
262 Lompoc ......................
264 Hesperian ..................
265 Orland ........................
266 North East ................
'/,67 Galt .............................
••••H••••••••••••••••

•••••ooo•OOOW.OOHOOOOOO

General
~'und

56.00
50.00
160.00
108.00
55.00
73.50
321.00
13.50
144.50
61.50
183.00
144.50
49.50
172.00
277.00
80.50
128.00
128.50
301.00
272.50
84.50
64.00
211.50
100.00
44.50
137.50
217.50
291.00
129.00
58.00
218.00
53.00
26.00
38.50
42.50
37.50
37.50
43.50
. 27.00
89.50
236.00
117.00
104.50
263.50
92.00
173.00
297.00
90.50
27.50
44.50
98.50
62.50
153.00
55.50
249.00
358.00
42.50
65.00
130.00
53.50
26.00
33.00

Home
Maintenance

75.00
70.50
210.00
121.50
78.00
98.25
444.00
20.25
197.25
69.75
238.50
200.25
63.75
210.00
382.50
105.75
192.00
170.25
420.00
365.25
102.75
91.50
284.25
138.00
56.25
186.75
299.25
418.50
165.00
81.00
295.50 •
75.00
28.50
50.25
54.75
51.75
50.25
62.25
40.50
114.75
324.00 .
160.50
149.25
378.75
129.00
232.50
399.00
104.25
35.25
66.75
132.75
80.25
207.00
78.75
351.00
529.50
63.75
88.50
168.00
77.25
39.00
48.00

553

Home
Building

$25.00
Home Tax

50.00
47.00
140.00
81.00
52.00
65.50
296.00
13.50
131.50
46.50
159.00
133.50
42.50
140.00
255.00
70.50
128.00
113.50
280.00
243.50
68.50
61.00
189.50
92.00
37.50
124.50
199.50
279.00
110.00
54.00
197.00
50.00
19.00
33.50
36.50
34.50
33.50
41.50
27.00
76.50
216.00
107.00
99.50
252.50
86.00
155.00
266.00
69.50
23.50
44.50
88.50
53.50
138.00
52.50
234.00
353.00
42.50
59.00
112.00
51.50
26.00
32.00

75.00
25.00
150.00
225.00
75.00
200.00
125.00
100.00
225.00
125.00
100.00
275.00
250.00
150.00
150.00
250.00
275.00
125.00
25.00
150.00
125.00
75.00
125.00
200.00
100.00
175.00
25.00
200.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
125.00
225.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
225.00
250.00
125.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
150.00
25.00
100.00
50.00
75.00
150.00
25.00
25.00

Total

256.00
192.50
660.00
535.50
185.00
312.25
1,261.00
47.25
598.25
277.75
805.50
603.25
255.75
797.00
1,164.50
406.75
448.00
562.25
1,251.00
1,156.25
380.75
241.50
835.25
455.00
213.25
573.75
916.25
1.088.50
579.00
218.00
910.50
203.00
148.50
147.25
183.75
148.75
171.25
172.25
94.50
405.75
1,001.00
484.50
428.25
969.75
357.00
785.50
1,212.00
389.25
186.25
155.75
394.75
271.25
648.00
211.75
934.00
1,290.50
14'3.75
287.50
560.00
207.25 .
91.00
138.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

554

General

268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280

281
282
283
285
286

287

288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326

327

328
329
330

j31
332
333

Name of Lodge

~'und

Durant ·················-·····
Olive Branch ............
Snow Mountain
Pasadena ---···--·-······-·-Anchor ........................
Arroyo ........................
Oakdale -··········-·--···-·
Selma ..................·........
So. California ..........
Hanford ................. ..
Madera ..................... .
Mount Shasta ..........
Callayomi ..................
South West ··········--·San Miguel ................
Paso Robles ..............
Winnedumah ............
Maxwell -··················Elsinore ......................
East Gate ..................
Santa Paula ..............
Los Gatos ····--·-········-·
Orange Grove ......... .
Traver ........................
Mt. Jackson ..............
Silver Gate ................
Dunsmuir ..................
Liberty ..................... .
Redlands ....................
Ontario ......................
Santa Lucia ..............
Porterville ................
Reedley ····--···············Azusa ~--········· ··· ····· ··---·
Ashlar ........................
Santa Monica ............
Monrovia ..................
Delano .........................
Sisson ........................
Los Banos .................,
Tehachapi ..................
Temescal ..................
Norwalk ....................
Sanger .........................
Fallbrook ..................
Emmanuel ..................
Hollenbeck ................
South Gate ................
Alisal .........................•
Alhambra ..................
Whittier ................... .
Corona ····-······-···········Consuelo ·····- ······-······
Needles ......................
Long Beach ..............
Redondo ....................
Vallee de France ......
Kilauea ......................
Pacific Grove ........... .
San Pedro ..................
Alta ............................

315.00
102.50
15.50 .
257.00
138.00
49.50
63.00
77.50
303.00
69.50
90.50
28.00
29.00
86.50
33.00
56.50
91.50
32.00
61.50
441.00
142.50
108.00
97.50
50.00
65.00
300.00
106.00
123.50
174.50
103.50
55.50
157.50
77.50
89.50
91.50
136.50
133.00
90.00
37.00
63.50
86.00
68.50
61.00
83.50
37.00
43.00
641.50
329.50
57.00
194.00
244.00
262.50
76.00
103.50
. 267.00
107.00
62.50
105.50
77.50
256.50
27.50

Home
Maintenance

Building

Home

456.00
137.25
21.75
367.50
193.50
59.25
82,50
116.25
426.00
98.25
123.75
40.50
42.00
105.75
45.00
78.75
87.75
43.50
65.25
589.50
200.25
148.50.
141.75
72.00
94.50
394.50
145.50
168.75
251.25
137.25
. 74.25
210.75
108.75
125.25
117.75.
198.75
178.50
126.00
46.50
89.25
115.50
93.75
87.00
108.75
46.50
55.50
890.25
476.25
78.00
277.50
337.50
368.25
100.50
149.25
396.00
153.00
93.75
153.75
108.75
360.75
29.25

304.00
91.50
14.50
245.00
129.00
39.50
55.00
77.50
284.00
65.50
82.50
27.00
28.00
70.50
30.00
52.50
58.50
29.00
43.50
393.00
133.50
99.00
94.50
48.00
63.00
263.00
97.00
112.50
167.50
91.50
49.50
140.50
72.50
83.50
78.50
132.50
119.00
84.00
31.00
59.50
77.00
62.50
58.00
72.50
31.-00
37.00
593.50
317.50
52.00
185.00
225.00
245.50
67.00
99.50
264.00
102.00
62.50
102.50
72.50
240.50
19.50

GRAND · LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
Home Tax

100.00
75.00
25.00
150.00
125.00
125.00
150.00
225.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
175.00
25.00
50.00.
250.00
25.00
175.00
425.00
150.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
450.00
75.00
175.00
75.00
125.00
50.00
150.00
25.00
75.00
175.00
100.00
100.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
125.00
- 50.00
25.00
150.00
50.00
75.00
425.00
175.00
75.00
175.00
125.00
150.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
175.00
75.00

Totttl

1,175.00
406.lb
76.iS

1,019.50
585.50
273.25
350.50
271.25
1,238.00
308.25
396.75
95.50
124.00
437.75
133.00
237.75
487.75
129.50
345.25
1,848.50
626.25
430.50
408.75
170.00
247.50
1,407.50
423.50
579.75
668.25
457.25
229.25
658.75
283.75
373.25
462.75
567.75
530.50
350.00
189.50
262.25
403.50
274.75
231.00
414.75
164.50
210.50
2,550.25
1,298.25
262.00
831.50
931.50
1.026.25
343.50
377.25
977.00
387.00
218.75
411)5
333.75
1,032.75
151.25

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Building

334 . Covina ........................
115.50
335 West Gate ..................
417.00
336 Fruitvale ....................
360.00
337 Carquinez ................
74.50
338 San Jacinto ..............
51.50
339 Fullerton ·---·-···········-··
187.00
341 Oxnard -·--··-···············
121.00
343 San Fernando ..........
120.00
344 Starr King ................
292.00
345 Brentwood ................
45.50
.346 Palo Alto ..................
232.50
347 ·McKinley ..................
150.50
348 San Bernardino ........
220.50
349 Sequoia ......................
458.00
351 P alestine ....................
302.00
352 Sunset ........................
228.50
61.50
353 Pinole ........................
354 Presidio ....................
296.00
355 Hollywood ................
454.50
356 Mill Valley ................
150.00
357 Buena Park ..............
60.00
358 Golden State ............
439.00
359 Loyalton ....................
41.00
360 San Francisco ..........
187.00
361 Fort Bragg ..............
50.50
362 Charity ......................
52.50
274.00
363 Berkeley ....................
365 Willits ....................:.
75.50
366 Las Palmas ................
342.50
367 So. Pasadena
255.50
368 Unity .........................
191.00
369 Ocean Park ..............
166.50
370 Amity ........................
242.00
371 le Progres de l'Oceanie 190.00
372 Gardena· ....................
72.00
373 Veteran ......................
97.50
374 Jewel ..........................
71.50
318.50
375 Richmond ................
376 Francis Drake .........•
97.00
377 Artesia ......................
42.00
378 Mizpah ......................
216.50
379 Fillmore ....................
85.00
380 Huntington Beach....
131.00
381 Oceanside ..................
63.50
382 Highland Park ........
253.50
383 Orosi ..........................
46.00
384 E l Centro ..................
118.50
99.00
385 Dinuba ......................
387 Coalinga ....................
142.00
388 Parnassus ..................
345.00
389 Palos Verdes ............
240.00
390 Imperial ....................
31.00
391 East Belt ..................
31.00
392 West Lake ................
543.50
393 Balder ........................
283.50
394 University ................
277.50
395 Turlock ....................
87.50
396 Apollo ........................
195.00
397 Rising Light ............
253.50
399 Fraternity ..................
209.00
400 Burlingame ................
206.50
401 Bay View ................
175.50
402 Brawley ....................
77.50

168.75
562.50
507.00
111.75
65.25
270.00
171.00
165.00
424.50
65.25
232.25
210.75
312.75
649.50
427.50
320.25
89.25
421.50
612.75
219.00
88.50
619.50
49.50
264.00
68.25
74.25
388.50
95.25
464.25
363.75
273.00
233.25
355.50
261.00
103.50
129.75
104.25
443.25
124.50
61.50
302.25
118.50
183.00
92.25
353.25
66.00
162.75
129.00
192.00
472.50
331.50
42.00
46.50
731.25
378.75
393.75
117.75
276.00
337.50
292.50
290.25
242.25
95.25

112.50
375.00
338.00
74.50
43.50
180.00
114.00
110.00
283.00
43.50
215.50
140.50
208.50
433.00
285.00
213.50
59.50
281.00
408.50
146.00
59.00
413.00
33.00
176.00
45.50
49.50
259.00
63.50
309.50
242.50
182.00
155.50
237.00
174.00
69.00
86.50
69.50
295.50
83.00
41.00
201.50
79.00
122.00
61.50
235.50
44.00
108.50
86.00
128.00
315.00
221.00
28.00
31.00
487.50
252.50
262.50
78.50
184.00
225.00
195.00
193.50
161.50
63.50

Name or Lodge

Honie

555
$25.00
Home Tax

25.00
400.00
275.00
50.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
25.00
50.00
100.00
150.00
250.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
125.00
450.00
50.00
50.00
250.00
75.00
75.00
50.00
25.00
100.00
100.00
375.00
150.00
.100.00
125.00
25.00
150.00
50.00
125.00
225.00
150.00
150.00
50.00
100.00
25.00
175.00
125.00
125.00
175.00
275.00
150.00
25.00
575.00
225.00
100.00
75.00
100.00
175.00
175.00
125.00
75.00
150.00

Total

421.75
1,754.SU
l,480.0li
260.75
210.25
712.00
481.00
495.00
1,074.50
179.25
821.25
601.75
891.75
1,790.50
1,114.50
887.25
260.25
1,123.50
1,925.75
565.00
263.50
1,721.50
198.50
702.00
214.25
201.2'5
1,021.50
334.25
1,491.25
1,011.75
746.00
680.25
859.50
775.00
294.50
438.75
245.25
1,282.25
454.50
144.50
870.25
332.50
535.00
242.25
1,017.25
156.00
514.75
439.00
637.00
1,407.50
942.50
126.00
108.50
2.337.25
1,139.75
1,033.75
358.75
755.00
990.50
871.50
815.25
654.25
386.25

GRAND· LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

556
Name or Lodge

403 Yerba Buena ............
404 Glendora ....................
405 Moneta ......................
406 Burbank ......................
407 La Mesa ....................
408 Sierra Madre ..........
409 Honolulu ....................
410 Charter Rock ..........
411 Perris ........................
412 Calexico ........................
413 Waucoba ....................
414 Arlington ...................
41S Silver Trowel ..........
416 Lindsay ......................
417 Clovis ............................
418 Elysian ···············-·····
419 Upland ........................
420 Kerman ...............-.......
421 Inglewood ··········•·····
422 Eagle Rock ................
423 York ··························
424 Exeter ························
42S Holtville ....., ..............
426 Midway ......................
427 Chino Valley ............
428 San Dimas ................
429 Pittsburg .....,..............
430 McCloud ....................
431 Alpha ..........................
433 Hammonton ············
434 Maricopa ..................
43S Fairmount · ................
436 Claremont ..................
437 . Lancaster ..................
438 Acacia .....................,..
439 Tyrian ........................
440 Standard ....................
441 Coronado ..................
442 Blackmer ...................
443 Schofield ....................
444 Carpinteria ................
44S Wilshire ....................
446 La Puente ..................
447 Torrance ....................
448 Mt. Diablo ................
449 Park ............................
4SO Van Nuys ..................
4Sl Montebello ················
4S2 San Pasqual ............
4S3 Bethlehem .................
454 Crocker ......................
4SS Golden West ............
4S7 Ramona ····················
4S8 Henry S. Orme..........
4S9 Riverbank ................
460 Mount Oso ................
461 Argonaut ·············-···
462 Paul Revere ..............
463 Morgan Hill
464 Alta Vista ................
46S Center ························
466 Libertas ......................
467 Culver City ..............

General
Fw1d

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

224.50
55.00
365.50
125.50
75.50
37.50
117.50
213.50
42.00
78.50
29.SO
164.SO
1S2.00
81.00
12S.SO
230.SO
7S.OO
30.00
1S4.SO
127.SO
113.00
78.SO
S0.00
193.00
31.50
S8.SO
88.00
62.00
210.50
37.00
88.00
260.00
48.00
60.00
40.50
S6.00
127.00
96.SO
271.SO
128.00
38.SO
292.SO
36.SO
126.SO
86.SO
241.00
128.00
116.SO
198.SO
17S.SO
lSS.00
250.00
100.00
2S2.SO
38.SO
118.00
172.00
264.00
50.00
167.SO
178.00
133.SO
103.00

290.25
78.00
474.75
158.25
86.25
53.25
174.75
306.75
51.00
108.7S
3S.2S
221.2S
204.00
109.SO
1S6.7S
317.2S
lOS.00
37.SO
218.2S
174.7S
124.50
110.2S
69.00
2SO.SO
42.7S
80.2S
100.SO
78.00
303.7S
46.SO
121.50
38S.SO
72.00
81.00
S3.2S
76.SO
180.00
1Z3.7S
3S0.2S
144.00
S0.2S
3S9.25
S0.2S
143.2S
l 14.7S
336.00
183.00
1S0.7S
267.7S
249.7S
184.SO
3SS.50
14S.SO
323.2S
S3.2S
138.00
234.00
38S.SO
69.00
21S.2S
240.00
183.7S
138.00

193.50
52.00
316.50
105.50
57.50
35.50
116.50
204.50
34.00
72.SO
23.SO
147.SO
136.00
73.00
104.SO
211.50
70.00
2S.OO
14S.SO
116.SO
83.00
73.SO
46.00
167.00
28.SO
S3.SO
67.00
52.00
202.SO
31.00
81.00
2S7.00
48.00
S4.00
3S.SO
Sl.00
120.00
82.SO
233.SO
96.00
33.SO
239.SO
33.SO
9S.SO
76.SO
224.00
122.00
100.SO
178.SO
166.SO
123.00
237.00
97.00
21S.SO
3S.SO
92.00
1S6.00
2S7.00
46.00
143.SO
160.00
122.SO
92.00

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

275.00
50.00
425.00
200.00
175.00
50.00
25.00
125.00
100.00
S0.00
S0.00
200.00
lS0.00
100.00
200.00
200.00
7S.OO
S0.00
100.00
12S.OO
2SO.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
17S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
2S.OO

983.25
235.00
1,581.75
589.75
39425
176.25
433.75
849.75
227.00
309.7S
138.2S
733.2S
642.00
363.SO
S86.7S
9S9.2S
32S.OO
142.SO
618.25
S43.7S
S70.SO
287.2S
21S.OO
760.SO
127.7S
242.2S
430.SO
267.00
791.7S
164.50
36S.SO
927.SO
168.00
295.00
204.2S
208.SO
S27.00
402.7S
l,1SS.2S
668.00
. 172.2S
l,491.2S
14S2S
61S.2S
402.7S
901.00
S08.00
S67.7S
794.7S
716.7S
762.SO
967.SO
367.SO
1,141.25
1S2.2S
S73.00
762.00
981.SO
190.00
726.2S
703,00
489.7S
433.00

100.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
100.00
300.00
300.00
S0.00
600.00
2S.OO
2SO.OO
12S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
200.00
lS0.00
12S.OO
300.00
12S.OO
2S.OO
3SO.OO
2S.OO
22S.OO
200.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
200.00
12S.OO
S0.00
100.00

Name ol Lodge

468 Rockridge ..................
469 Yorba Linda
470 Lincoln .....,......::::::::::::
471 Delta
472 Maui ............................
473 Blythe ......................0.
474 Victory ...........................
475 America ··-·······--········
476 Coachella ........................
477 Temblor ···········-·······
478 Thousand Oaks ........
479 Golden Rule ..............
480 Fellowship ....................
481 Mt. Davidson ............
482 Clarence F. Smith....
483 Bell ..............................
484 Albert Pike ..............
48S Chowchilla ....................
486 Caledonia •..........•......
487 Vallejo · •.....................
488 Patterson· ············--···
489 East Bay ..................
490 Corcoran ..............._...
491 Woodstock ···········•·····
492 Garvanza ..................
493 Atascadero ················
494 Acorn ........................
49S Lebanon ·····--·············
496 Riverdale ··················
497 Fremont ····················
498 Stockton ....................
499 Capital City ..............
soo Roosevelt ....................
SOl Westwood •0•••··········
S02 Harbor ......................
S03 Point ..........................
S04 Seaside ......... ............
sos Silver Cord ..............
506 Mount Olive ............
S07 El Segundo ..............
S08 Joppa ..........................
S09 Benjamin Franklin
SlO Cupertino ··················
511 Sunnyvale .................
Sl2 Palms ........................
Sl3 Cahuenga ·················•
S14 Argonne ....................
SlS Vermont Square ......
516 Taft ····························
Sl7 Mount Vernon
Sl8 La Jolla ....................
S19 -Euclid ........................
S20 Ionic ............................
S21 Piedmont ...................
522 Sunrise ........................
S23 Bellflower .................
S24 Catalina Island ........
S2S George Washington
S26 Bay City ....................
S27 Covenant ....................
S28 Beverly Hills ............
S29 Loyalty ········--······-····
S30 Sun Garden ..............
oooou •ou • -•••••••• •••••

~

General
-Fund

Home
MalnteDJlllce

Home
Building .

199.00
57.50
139.50
148.50
74.50
17.50
119.00
212.00
46.00
63.00
163.SO
202.00
lll.00
160.SO
117.00
86.SO
lSS.SO
31.00
79.SO
132.SO
37.00
144.SO
41.SO
90.00
93.00
32.00
1S9.SO
162.SO
28.00
1S4.00
68.SO
96.SO
72.SO
106.SO
79.00
S2.00
140.00
120.SO
302.00
92.00
36.SO
106.00
38.00
63.00
97.00
153.SO
166.SO
192.00
103.00
113.00
77.SO
114.00
161.00
108.00
8S.OO
90.SO
S8.00
1S9.00
lOS.SO
138.SO
104.00
13S.50
192.SO

253.50
86.25
209.25
213.75
92.25
26.25
162.00
253.50
60.00
90.00
227.2S
2S6.SO
1S6.00
230.2S
162.00
120.7S
143.2S
42.00
104.2S
1702S
Sl.00
197.2S
S7.7S
118.50
126.00
39.00
22S.7S
219.7S
33.00
207.00
86.2S
119.2S
104.2S
138.75
. 106.SO
73.SO
199.SO
1S3.7S
289.SO
127.SO
36.7S
lS0.00
S7.00
8S.SO
132.00
189.7S
248.2S
240.00
121.SO
1S4.SO
9S.2S
144.00
190.SO
lSl.50
112.SO
111.7S
78.00
202.SO
149.2S
182.2S
139.SO
147.7S
2Sl.2S

169.00
57.50
139.50
142.50
61.50
17.50
108.00
169.00
40.00
60.00
lSl.50
171.00
104.00
1S3.SO
108.00
80.SO
9S.SO
28.00
69.50
113.SO
34.00
131.50
38.SO
79.00
84.00
26.00
lS0.50
146.50
22.00
138.00
S7.SO
79.SO
69.SO
92.SO
71.00
49.00
133.00
102.SO
193.00
8S.OO
24.SO
100.00
38.00
S7.00
88.00
126.SO
165.SO
160.00
81.00
103.00
63.SO
96.00
127.00
101.00
7S.OO
74.SO
S2.00
13S.OO
99.SO
121.50
93.00
. 98.SO
167.SO

557
$25.00

Home Tax

Total

325.00
.........

946.50
201.25
488.25
554.75
353.25
61.25
489.00
1,034.50
171.00 .
238.00
642.2S
879.SO
446.00
619.2S
S12.00
362.7S
944.2S
126.00
328.2S
S91.2S
147.00
S98.2S
162.7S
387.SO
378.00
147.00
S85.7S
6S3.7S
133.00
624.00
287.2S
44S.2S
271.2S
387.7S
3S6.SO
199.SO
S97.50
626.75
1,784.SO
329.SO
222.75
381.00
133.00
230.SO
392.00
769.7S
580.25
917.00
sos.so
44S.SO
386.2S
S04.00
. 803.SO
43S.SO
372.SO
401.7S
238.00
646.SO
404.2S
642.ZS
486.50
706.7S
886.2S

so:oo

125.00
100.00
400.00
25.00
2S.OO
100.00
2SO.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
125.00
7S.OO
SS0.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
175.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
S0.00
S0.00
12S.OO
S0.00
12S.OO
7S.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
100.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
. 2S0.00
1,000.0()
.2s.oo
12S.OO
2S.OO

2s:oo

7S.OO
300.00
32S.OO
200.00
7S.OO
lS0.00
150.00
32S.OO
7S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
S0.00
lS0.00
S0.00
200.00
lS0.00
32S.OO
27S.OO

Name of Lodge

General
Fund

531 Alexandria ................
64.SO
532 Smyrna ................... .
29.50
533 Azure ....................... .
113.SO
534 Forest Hill ................
S8.00
535 ·Alexander Hamilton
73.SO
536 Seal Rock ................. .
98.50
537 Utopia ....................... .
217.00
538 Ascot ..........................
121.SO
539 Belvedere ..:.............. .
100.00
540 Queen Beach ........... .
S2.00
541 H. M. Stephens ....... .
14S.OO
124.00
542 Lankershim ............. .
13S.SO
543 ·Signal ···············-·······
544 Glendale ....................
182.SO
545 Jonathan ................... .
72.SO
546 San Gabriel ..............
78.00
547 Arcadia ..................... .
44.00
548 Triangle ................... .
S8.SO
549 Justice ........................
91.00
550 Seaport ......................
102.00
551 Lakeshore ............... .
100.SO
552 Semper Virens
S8.SO
553 Golden City ..............
37.00
90.SO
554 Educator ................... .
555 White Pine ..............
S6.00
556 Fairfax ..................... .
S6.00
64.00
557 Hermosa ................... .
140.00
558 Pt. Firmin ............... .
559 Craftsmen ............... .
104.SO
560 Plymouth ..................
99.SO
561 East San Diego ........
130.00
562 Pyramid ....................
77.00
167.SO
563 South Park ..............
121.50
564 Foothill ................... ~..
118.50
565 West Adams ............
566 James A. Garfield ... .
68.SO
567 Searchlight ................
167.00
116.50
568 Park Blvd .................
103.00
569 Chateau Thierry ......
142.SO
570 Military Service ..... .
571 Francis K. Shattuck
87.SO
92.00
572 James Madison ........
573 Hillcrest ....................
26.00
9S.OO
574 S. W. Hackett... ...... .
34.00
57S Fort Crook ............. .
41.00
576 El Cajon Valley......
141.50
577 Sunnyside ..................
578 Progressive ............... .
130.00
579 Warren G. Harding
81.SO
43.00
S80 Santa Maria ........... .
92.50
581 Security ..................... .
46.SO
S82 Rialto ........................
S83 ·Wasco ......................
6S.50
S84 Harding ................... .
93.SO
128.00
585 Manchester ............. .
S86 Garden Grove ......... .
S8.00
115.00
587 Valley Forge
70.00
588 El Sereno ................. .
589 Kauai ........................
56.SO
S90 Compass ....................
7S.SO
591 Escalon ...................... . 49.00
592 Tujunga ................... .
S3.SO
136.SO
593 All States ................. .

Home
Maintenance

Building

Home

89.25
36.7S
149.2S
72.00
90.75
95.2S
297.00
1S6.7S
133.50
78.00
199.50
165.00
191.25
243.7S
104.25
99.00
61.50 .
6S.2S
114.00
129.00
137.25
83.25
46.50
113.25
70.50
7S.OO
87.00
189.00
137.25
131.25
159.00
llS.50
21S.25
158.ZS
147.75
99.7S
240.00
147.75
124.50
180.75
123.7S
115.SO
39.00
136.SO
46.SO
48.00
176.25
171.00
101.25
37.50
123.75
S9.2S
77.ZS
104.25
16S.OO
69.00
139.SO
88.50
69.7S
92.2S
52.SO
S9.25
19S.7S

59.SO
24.SO
99.SO
48.00
60.SO
63.SO
198.00
104.SO
89.00
52.00
133.00
110.00
127.SO
162.SO
69.50
66.00
41.00
43.SO
76.00
86.00
91.SO
SS.SO
31.00
75.SO
47.00
S0.00
S8.00
126.00
91.50
87.SO
106.00
77.00
143.SO
lOS.SO
98.50
66.SO
160.00
98.SO
83.00
120.SO
82.SO
77.00
26.00
91.00
31.00
32.00
117.SO
114.00
67.SO
2S.OO
82.SO
39.SO
51.SO
69.SO
110.00
46.00
93.00
59.00
46.50
61.SO
3S.OO
39.SO
130.SO

5S9

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

558

$25.00
Home Tax

50.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
IS0.00
300.00
200.00
150.00
100.00
IS0.00
100.00
75.00
200.00
2S.OO
100.00
100.00
100.00
12S.OO
150.00
7S.oo
2S.OO
50.•
lSO.
50.
50.0
50.00
200.00
100.00
100.00
200.00
22S.OO
lS0.00
150.00
S0.00
17S.OO
175.00
200.00
S0.00
lS0.00
7S.oo
25.00
75.00
225.00
100.00
12S.OO
200.00
100.00
7S.OO
175.00
250.00
17S.OO
100.00
175.00
S0.00
75.00
17S.OO
50.00
150.00
50.00

General
Total

263.25
165.75
462.25
2S3.00
374.75
5S7.25
912.00
532.75
422.SO
182.00
627.SO
499.00
S29.2S
788.7S
271.25
343.00
246.50
'267.2S
406.00
467.00
404.25
222.2S
164.50
429.25
223.50
231.00
2S9.00
6SS.OO
433.ZS
418.ZS
59S.OO
269.50
7Sl.2S
S35.2S
514.75
234.75
617.00
S37.7S
48S.50
643.75
343.7S
434.50
91.00
397.50
136.SO
196.0Q
660.25
51S.OO
37S.2S
30S.50
.398.7S
220.2S
369.25
517.ZS
S78.00
273.00
S22.50
267.50
247.75
404.2S
311.50
302.25
S12.7S

Name of Lodge

Service ......................
Alexander G. Bell ... .
Guardian ..................
Truth ....................... .
Pearl Harbor ..........
Carmelita ................. .
Lynwood ................... .
Grizzly ..................... .
Melrose ..................... .
Dimond ....................
Jubilee ....... ,................
605 Glassell Park ......... .
607 Sojourner ................. .
608 Granada ....................
609 Provident ..................
610 Elmhurst ................... .
611 Canoga ..................... .
612 Temple City ..............
613 Three Pillars ..........
614 Larchmont ................
615 Hemet ........................
616 Seal Beach ............... .
617 Big Bear ................... .
618 Southland ............... .
619 Neptune ..................... .
620 Point Loma ..............
621 The Gardens ........... .
622 Atwater ....................
623 Menorah ................... .
624 Fortitude ..................
62S Angeles Mesa ..........
626 Chula Vista ...........~ ..
627 Lamanda Park ....... .
628 Beacon of West......
629 Fairview ................... .
630 Ingleside ....................
631 Benevolence
632 No_rmal .Heights ......
633 Pomsettta ..................
634 Victorville ................
63S Riverside ..................
636 John Marshall
637 Palisades ....................
638 Indian Rock ···-·······
639 Composite ..................
640 Veritas ..................... .
641 James A. Foshay ......
642 La Cumbre ............... .
643 Alta Loma ............... .
644 Lomita ....................... .
645 A. F. E. Irwin......... .
646 Metropolitan
647 Hawthorne ................
648 Damascus ................. .
649 Florence ................... .
6SO La Brea ................... .
651 Menlo Park ..............
6S2 Crescenta Valley ... .
653 Fontana ....................
6S4 Jordan ....................... .
6SS Monte Vista
656 Citro! ......................... .
6S7 J ohn D. Spreckels,...

S94
595
S96
597
S98
599
600
601
602
603
604

Fund

Home
Maintenance

149.50
73.50
149.SO
44.SO
100.00
9S.OO
60.00
50.SO
88.00
111.00
90.SO
123.00
41.00
139.00
67.SO
72.00
61.00
S4.SO
84.00
96.00
3S.OO
29.SO
24.00
126.SO
61.00
49.00
111.50
8S.SO
161.00
67.SO
162.SO
64.00
62.SO
68.SO
54.00
S6.SO
127.00
102.50
138.00
6S.SO
101.00
51.00 .
80.SO
61.SO
93.SO
39.SO
48.00
37.SO
138.SO
60.00
71.00
46.00
27.50
112.SO
102.00
103.SO
29.SO
56.00
38.SO
83.SO
130.00
69.SO
148.SO

210.7S
99.7S
1S3.7S
6S.2S
111.00
118.50
76.SO
62.25
99.00
136.SO
108.7S
162.00
61.50
189.00
92.2S
94.SO
82.50
S7.7S
91.50
126.00
52.50
30.7S
24.00
13S.75
88.SO
S7.00
128.2S
107.25
172.50
87.75
219.75
88.50
72.75
75.75
66.00
7S.7S
118.SO
126.75
lS0.00
72.7S
96.00
72.00
116.2S
7S.7S
90.7S
S3.25
57.00
50.2S
173.25
72.00
91.50
64.SO
38.2S
131.25
132.00
119.2S
44.25
72.00
S7.7S
104.2S
159.00
101.2S
191.ZS

Home
Building

140.SO
66.50
102.SO
43.SO
74.00
79.00
Sl.00
41.50
66.00
91.00
72.SO
108.00
41.00
126.00
61.SO
63.00
5S.OO
38.SO
61.00
84.00
3S.OO
20.SO
16.00
90.50
59.00
38.00
8S.50
71.50
llS.00
58.SO
146.SO
59.00
48.50
50.50
44.00
50.SO
79.00
84.SO
100.00
48.50
64.00
48.00
77.SO

so.so

60.SO
3S.SO
38.00
33.SO
llS.SO
48.00
61.00
43.00
2S.SO
87.SO
88.00
79.SO
29.SO
48.00
38.SO
69.SO
106.00
67.SO
127.SO

$25.00
Home Tax

100.00
S0.00
4SO.OO
200.00
150.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
12S.OO
17S.OO
200.00
7S.OO
100.00
S0.00
7S.OO
S0.00
125.00
175.00
100.00
7S.OO
75.00
300.00
2S.OO
12S.OO
22S.OO
100.00·
4SO.OO
. 50.00
lS0.00
S0.00
S0.00
100.00
7S.OO
25.00
475.00
lS0.00
4SO.OO
lS0.00
4SO.OO
S0.00
100.00
7S.OO
275.00
25.00
S0.00
75.00
175.00
100.00
12S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
22S.OO
175.00
27S.OO
S0.00
100.00
27S.OO
2SO.OO

Total

600.7S
289.7S
8SS.7S
1S3.2S
485.00
442.SO
262.SO
229.ZS
378.00
S13.SO
471.7S
468.00
143.SO
5S4.00
271.2S
304.SO
248.SO
27S.75
411.SO
406.00
122.SO
1SS.7S
139.00
6S2.7S
233.SO
269.00
550.2S
364.ZS
898.SO
263.7S
678.7S
261.SO
233.7S
294.7S
239.00
207.7S
799.SO
463.7S
838.00
336.7S
711.00
221.00
374.2S
262.7S
Sl9.7S
153.2S
193.00
196.ZS
602.ZS
280.00
348.SO
178.SO
116.2S
5S6.2S
497.00
S77.2S
103.2S
226.00
134.7S
3S7.2S
670.00
238.2S
717.ZS

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name of Lodge

658
659
660
661
662
663
664
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672

Livingston ................
La Habra ..................
Baldwin Park ......... .
Malta ..........................
H~~ry Knox ............
OJa1 .....•......................

Oasis ......................... .
Kaweah ..................... .
Reseda ....................... .
Meridian ................. .
San Gorgonio ......... .
John P. Jarman ........
Greenleaf ..................
San Clemente ..........
Laguna Beach ..........
673 Far West ..................
674 Los Cerritos ........... .
675 Modesto ....................
676 Willow Glen ............
677 . Liberal Arts ............. .
678 Altadena ................... .
U. D. Canby's Cross ......
U. D. Carmel ................. .

General
~' und

40.50
57.00
32.50
54.00
119.50
27.50
40.00
35.50
43.00
89.50
48.00
55.00
96.00
14.50
25.50
88.00
53.50
78.00
41.50
42.00
84.50
24.00
20.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

48.75
81.00
42.75
79.50
122.25

32.50
54.00
28.50
53:00
81.50
22.50
36.00
24.50
34.00
75.50
35.00
46.00
72.00
14.50
22.50
62.00
39.50
58.00
35.50
31.00
69.50
11.00
13.50

33.75
54.00

36.75
51.00
113.25
52.50
69.00
108.00
21.75

33.75
93.00
59.25
87.00
53.25
46.50
10'4.25
16.50
20.25

----

$25. 00

Home Tax

Total

50.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
425.00
25.00
75.00
100.00
100.00
125.00
125.00
125.00
275.00

171.75
217.00
153.75
211.50
748.25
108.75
205.00
196.75
228.00
403.25
260.50
295.00
551.00
50.75
106.75
493.00
302.25
348.00
205.25
219.50
483.25
176.50
129.25

25.00
250.00
150.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
225.00
125.00
75.00

Totals ................................$68,546.00 $92,260.50 $61,507.00 $66,800.00 $289,113.50
ROBERT
]ACOJI

E. ALLAN,

M. BASHOR,

s.

]OHN
COREY,
LoYs T. NEWTON,
PERCY S. KING,
FRANK A. BARTLETT,
}AMES S. BLAINE,

Report adopted.

Committtt.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC EDUCATION
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Education considered that conditions were
not opportune for active work among the Lodges during the past year and
has therefore confined its attention to formulating a plan for such work based
on the different conditions now prevailing from those which existed ·when the
original plan was adopted some eleven years ago.
The plan as herein offered is by no means as extensive as the former one
unde~ wh!ch a considerable effort was put forth, but your committee believes
that 1f this present suggestion is pursued, it will be once again an initial step
productive of considerable good.
It Vl'.ill be recalled and m~y be ob.served from the records of Grand Lodge
t?at durmg the years that this committee furnished material along educational
Imes to the Lodges that there was a large amount thereof which was then
used and which, in the opinion of this committee, could still be advantageously made use of. Your committee feels that at least some of this material
is of such a character as not to be laid aside or lost through nonuse and
therefore believes that at least certain portions thereof should be re-edited
and published in adequate form and made available for the use of the Lodges
and members.
Your committee therefore recommends the following plan of procedure
and recommends its adoption:

\

561

. 1. That Grand Lodge at this communication authorize and direct the
Grand Master to appoint a committee of not less than five members, and it
shall be the duty of such committee during the forthcoming year to collect
and peruse all the literature relating to Masonic subjects heretofore issued
or made use of by the Committee on Masonic Education of this Grand Lodge
in the past: That such committee shall from said literature cull out the
non-essentials and consolidate the remaining portions that may in the opinion
of such committee be advisable for use by the Lodges and their members and
particularly new members; that · when such committee shall have prepared its
proposed publication of such material, the same shall be presented to the
Grand Master for approval; that if and when such proposed publication,
or parts thereof, shall have been approved by the Grand Master, that such
portions so approved shall be published by Grand Lodge through the Grand
Secretary, and such publication shall remain in the custody of the Grand
Secretary; that such Lodges, or members, as desire to · procure such publication may obtain it from the Grand Secretary upon payment to him of
the price therefor to be determined by him.
.
2. That the committee above referred to shall at the time of presenting
the material above mentioned present such suggestions as it deems advisable
for .the use thereof ; but such suggestions shall not be considered exclusive and
Lodges procuring such publication may use it in such manner as they con- .
sider most appropriate to the particular Lodges.
3. That the committee above referred to shall after the above-mentioned
publication is published, cooperate with the Grand Lecturer, Inspectors and
Masters to the end that as wide a use as possible be made of such publication, having especial reference, however, to new members.
It will be observed from the foregoing suggestions that the use of the
publication above referred to is wholly voluntary on the part of the Lodges
and thus will form some basis upon which Grand Lodge at future sessions
may pass upon the value of the material offered. Your committee feels, however, that if and . when such publication has been published, the Lodges
through the Inspectors shall be apprised of its contents and character and
should wherever deemed advisable, be urged to try it for a period of time.
Your committee feels, as it has several times heretofore remarked, that
sources of information, such as the publication above referred to, if made
available to candidates as they are receiving the degrees, will in a large
measure increase the interest of such candidates in the work and the Institution generally. Similarly as to those who have already completed their work
and who may be interested, the existence of such a publication and its availability will offer them an opportunity to satisfy such interest.
For many years our jurisdiction was in the forefront in the matter of
educational work, and the general principle upon which it was pursued was
and is that a more extensive knowledge of something in which men are interested will necessarily increase and maintain that interest. If a beginning
is again to be made, your committee feels that it might as well be done at
this time as later, and in view of the simplicity of the plan above suggested,
we consider that there is everything to be gained and nothing to lose by
the authorization of the work above mentioned at this time.

[Recommendation lost.]
IRVING MAGNES, Chairman
RALPH E. HOYT
A. HEBER WINDER

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

562

. · PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as follows:
We previously reported that one of the most numerous of the clandestine
organizations · operating in California was the Rito Nacional Mexicano. At
one ti~e they had twenty Lodges and Chapters operating in our State. Some
very important developments have occurred which have reduced the number
of Lodges operating under that Rite to a negligible number. When we first
contacted that Rite we found that Samuel W. Kelly was the Deputy Grand
Master for California, and under his regime great activity and interest was
developed. However, Mr. Kelly died in 1931, and for a while his wife
Josephine Kelly, took over the administration of the Rite. However, she wa;
shortly s~cceede~ by one Cristobal Aguillon of Calexico. He was a very
capable, infi~ential and educated gentleman, teaching . English in a normal
school in Mexicali, and sought to stimulate the waning interest in the Lodges
due to the depression and the removal of Kelly. However, he became dissatisfied with the organization and the character of Masonry which it was
attempting to inculcate and for a time harbored the idea of organizing a
separate Mexican Grand Lodge in California. He expected to do this under
the impression that the prest.ige of such an organizadon would secure for him
and for his Rite recognition by our Grand Lodge,
When he found that this could not be and that the members of his
various. Lodges would have to apply as individuals to our regular Lodges if
they wished to become members, he seems .to have abandoned all interest in
the Mexican Rite and resigned from it and surrendered not only his office, but
his membership as well. He then joined the Mexican Scottish Rite, being
accepted in the Mexicali Lodge of Perfection. He then became very active in
inducing his former brethren of the various Lodges of the Rito Nacional in
the Imperial valley and in San Diego county to join the Scottish Rite Bodies
operating in Mexicali. This apparently they did and we now find that all of
the formerly existing Lodges in San Diego and Imperial counties have surrendered their charters and been disbanded; so that there are not now
operating in either San Diego, Imperial or Orange counties any of the Rito
N acional Lodges.
.
Y'fe are !nformed that there are four Lodges of the Rito Nacional operating in the city of Los Angeles, they being Marcabah Lodge No. 90 Hiram
Abiff, Patria, and Urania. The latter Lodge is composed entirely of' women.
We have previously reported that this Mexican Rite permitted the conferring
of degrees upon women, and that, while men were permitted to visit during
stated meeting, there was strict segregation of the sexes during the conferring of degrees. We are informed that these four Lodges meet in a hall
at 128 North Main street, Los Angeles.
. W,e ~ave be~~ unable to get ~ny information regarding the activity of
this Rite in the cities of San Joaquin valley or in the c6ast cities of San Luis
Obispo, Santa Barbara and Ventura. There · has been a great exodus of
Mexicans from California generally in the last two or three years and, of
course, this has had its effect in destroying most of the least favorably
situated Mexican Lodges.
· W,e h.ave received vague inform.ation that a Mexican Grand Lodge
operating in Texas has a charter or 1s about to issue a charter to form a
group of Mexicans in Southern California. We have some informative leads
on this subject which we would like to follow up and get the exact facts.
There is a Mexican social organization formed and meeting in the city
of Los Angeles composed of Mexican Masons of various Mexican Grand
Lodges. This club is known as Resureccion No. 1. It is organized for the
purpose of stimulating interest among Spanish-speaking Masons in obtaining

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

563

recogmt1on from our Grand Lodge for some sort of Mexican Masonic
organization. Their membership is small as yet, but they are growing.
The two Lodges of Rito Nacional Mexicano held meetings in San Francisco. Renacimiento Lodge No. 59, of which Rodolfo Giron is Master, Helario
Dias, Secretary, met at 1419 Howard street, and Sebastian Lerdo, De Tejada
Lodge No. 73 of which Jesus Sanchez is Master, and Ramon G. Vallejo is
Secretary, met at 538 Hayes street, San Francisco.
.
About ten disgruntled members of the above two Lodges applied for and
received a charter from De La· Muy Resp. Gran Logia Mexicana del Estado de
Texas, Incorporated (Scottish Rite).
.
The charter to organize was granted to one Romero,, for Portola Lodge
No. 29. The Lodge has not yet functioned.
We also previously reported the activities of the Grand Lodge Benito
Juarez with its See at Torreon, State of Coahuila. They had at one time
three actively working Lodges in Southern California. They also made an
attempt to secure recognition by our G rand Lodge, but failing in this, these
three Lodges surrendered their charters in 1933. We learn, however, that the
. Grand Lodge Benito Juarez was not satisfied with the previous effort made, and
again in 1934 chartered a subordinate Lodge named "Nirvana" and this Lodge
was operated in the city of Los Angeles for about six months. Its failure to
attract to itself members of the Mexican colony and the general conditions,
forced it to surrender its charter some time in the later part of 1934. We now
find that there are no Lodges of this Rite operating in California.
We have previously reported that the Filipino residents of California had
organized a so-called Masonic Grand LOdge known as "Caballeros de Demas
Alang, Inc." We reported that this Grand Lodge maintained headquarters at
839 Kearny street, San Francisco, and was organized December 14, 1920. They
had subordinate Lodges in Roseville, Salinas, Stockton, and at one time one in
El Centro. For a while there was much enthusiasm among the Filipinos for this
work and they rnain.tained annual communications. However, there has been .a
great exodus of Filipino residents from California, due to the new political
status which our country has granted the Philippine Islands, and we are unable
to learn of any open activity of this Grand Lodge or its subordinate bodies.
Further investigation, however, may disclose the continuance of their work, as
it was undoubtedly very enthusiastic and carried on with a great deal of interest
on the part of the members.
.
The two negro Grand Lodges are still operating. The. Most Worshipful
Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge has in operation nine subordinate Lodges and they
are tr'\intaining but feeble interest and accomplishing little as an organization.
A recent factional row which came to the ~ttention of the Superior ·Court . of
Los Angeles county has further depleted their ranks· and it is very -doubtful :if
they will be able to hold together very much longer.
The other negro organization called "The Most Worshipful Sovereign
Grand Lodge of F. & A. M." has, we are informed, approximately .forty subordinate Lodges, but we have not been able to learn how far internal dissension
has affected the solidarity or their activity.
The Co-Masonic bodies have revived considerably. They are regaining
much of their former activity, and while they are receiving a reduced number
of applications, the Lodges are being maintained largely by contributions from
the better situated members. We do not know that any of the Lodges operating
in Southern California have given up their charters, and there is much activity
in these Lodges around the Bay district.
A peculiar circumstance coming to our knowledge was that orie of their
Lodges known as "Unity No. 459" met recently in the Scottish Rite Temple at
Oakland. The Scottish Rite Bodies of Oakland have taken the necessary action
in this connection.
With the return of improved economic conditions we sense an increased
interest among the various clandestine groups. We think a Committee on

564 .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Clandest.ine Masonry .should _be continued for the purpose of information, and,
as occasion may reqmre, for suggesting proper action by our "Grand Lodge.

Masonic experiences have not been committed to writing and we most respectfully urge the Masters of the Lodges to immediately appoint some willing and
competent member who will undertake the very important task of interviewing
and obtaining for our files the interesting facts and details of the lives of all
fifty year members. If this material is made available to the .committee without
unreasonable delay we may be able to use some of it in the forthcoming
publication.
·
The History Corrunittee recently addressed a letter to many of the Lodges
requesting certain information with respect to the naming of the several Lodges
-we desire the full story in detail ·of all facts surrounding the naming of the
Lodges. The reasons for so naming your Lodge-what other names, if any,
were proposed and why rejected-what was the controlling factor in giving
your Lodge the name it now bears. The committee will appreciate prompt replies.
We again desire to urge upon the Lodges the advisibility of placing in
scrap-book for·m all current and early material contained in local newspapers
and publications pertaining to Masonic activities and Masons, within your respective communities.
These scrap-books, properly prepared and kept, will furnish to future
members an interesting cross-section of past activities in the Lodge, will be a
valuable source of instructive information and will also materially assist the
local or Grand Lodge Historian in the preparation at some future time of a
supplemental history of the Lodge and of its members.
We again call to the attention of the older Lodges, which are at present
housed in wooden structures, the vital necessity of providing fire-proof repositories to properly and safely prptect their precious records. During the past
few years several Lodges have lost by fi re their old records which can never
be replaced and we believe that ordinary prudence would dictate the necessity
for more adequate protection.
The work of collecting and preserving the facts and data of Masonic
.activities is, in the very nature of things never fully completed-what we do
today becomes history tomorrow-it is a never-ending process.
The majority of your committee feels that .i t is highly desirable that this
committee be continued for the coming year. It will thus afford to the Craft an
agency of Grand Lodge which will continue the work of research and will
undoubtedly result in the discovery of additional new facts and interesting
· stories. This new material can be made available by the committee to the
Masons throughout the jurisdiction through the medium of our Masonic magazines and papers and will afford to Masonic speakers a very welcome supply of
available information.
During the entire period of this committee's existence-to be more specific,
since 1927-the members of the committee have at all times financed their personal activities and have never considered it desirable nor proper to call upon
Grand Lodge for any appropriation for that purpose. Therefore, we feel that
the work of this committee can be continued in the same manner in the future
withm1t the nec;essity for financial outlay by Grand Lodge.
Your committee respectfully recommends that the Committee on Masonic
History be continued during the coming year.
At the 1933 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge your committee .was
authorized to enter into a contract with the H. S. Crocker Company, Ltd., to
publish and deliver the History of Masonry in California in sets of three
volumes, at the delivered price of $12.00 per set, payments to be made as
follows : $3.00 accompanying . the subscription and $3.00 per volume upon
delivery.
An intensive campaign by letter and other publicizing material was carried
on during that year.
At the last Annual Communication; your committee reported that sufficient
subscriptions had not been received to warrant the p®lication under the
contract.
·

WILLIAM A. SCHREIDER,
HARRY W. BEATTY,
]OHN ALPERS,

Committee.

Report adopted and committee continued.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the followin&r
report:
.
During the ~st year your Committee on History has diligently pursued
its r~sea~c~ work in an earnest endeavor to more fully complete the interesting
and inspmng story of Masonry in California.
.
We are pleased to report that through our work this year we have obtained
much valuable ~teri~l .a~d well authenticated facts depicting the personal business a~d Masonic act1v1t1es of many of California's distinguished and colorful
Masomc characters. We have also bee·n able through careful checking and res~arch to prove the truth or falsity of many facts which have long been considered as well settled and beyond controversy.
Much time has been consumed by your committee during the last year in
an attempt to remove from the borderline between fact and fiction many circumstances which heretofore have defied our every effort to place them in their
proper c~te~ory. We are pleased to report that real progress has been made
al?ng this line. T~is is .partic~larly _gratifying for the reason that your comm1tt~e at the. ve'!' inception of its work, determined to include within the forthco~ing pubh_cat1on ~nly those facts and circumstances which we could fully
verify.. f'.anc1ful sto~1es expertly. dres~ed up with spectacular romance may prove
entertain~ng and dehghtful reading with which to while away ah idle hour, but
we c;once1ve that the Masons of California desire a history which shall in every
detail truthfully tell the full story of the wonderful characters who held high
the.ba~ne~ of Masonry in the state and helped make our Craft what it is today;
Within the past three months we have come into possession ·of some valuable ..
~ource i;iaterial h~ving to do with the lives and activities of severaf exceedingly
inte.resh~g Masonic characters, such as Abel Sterns, the first Mason to come to
California and who acted as the confidential agent of the American government
prior to Ameri.can oc~upation in 1846 ; also Sam Brannan, who, beyond question,
was the most mterestmg and spectacular character that ever walked across the
~ottled pages ?f California. history; and that distinguished public spirited
pioneer, John Bidwell, who played a most conspicuous part in the early political
industrial and agricultural life of the state.
'
Through this source material and the wealth of facts contained therein we
are able to paint a true picture of every phase of their lives from the c;adle
to the grave.
·
We have. ~l~o secured additional data and information having to do with
the early act1V1hes of many of our historically important Lodges which will
enable u~ to correctly interpret many notations contained ·in their minutes which
up to this year have not only ~reatly puzzled the committee but, without proper
~ckground, would haye remained entirely meaningless. We have recently been
given access to many important manuscripts, letters and other documents which
?eretofore have be~n inadvertei;tly overlooked and which will materially assist
in the final completion of our history. We have also received from Lodge committees the life histories of many of our fifty year Masons. There are, however
several hundred fifty year members of California Lodges whose personal and

565

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

566

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Immediately following the adjournment of Grand Lodge we procured from
the Crocker Company an extension of the time limit for the receipt of initial
subscriptions. . That time limit has expired. Up to date we have received 324
subscription~, being far short of the 2,000 subscriptions required under the
contract.
Your committee is satisfied that the great body of the Craft throughout the
state earnestly desires the publication of our history as soon as practical.
··
We fully appreciate the financial difficulties which members of the Craft
have experienced during the past few years and we feel satisfied that one of the
contributing factors to their failure to subscribe in- sufficient numbers to warrant
immediate publication has been their feeling of financial inability.
In adopting the sales plan by printed matter and letters your committee was
hopeful that our efforts would meet with success without the necessity of any
great expense on the part of Grand Lodge in personal solicitation or otherwise.
This plan did not result in the success which we had originally anticipated.
We feel that if and when our history is published and distributed it will be
an inspiration to the entire membership throughout the state and will be in. strumental in building up in the minds of non-members a more wholesome good
opinion of a fraternity, the members of which have from the earliest period of
American occupation played a leading part in the development and progress of
our truly great commonwealth.
We feel that for the Craft to receive the maximum benefit from this publication, it is highly necessary and essential that said publication be in sufficient
numbers of sets to guarantee a widespread distribution throughout the state.
Your committee has no pride of opinion with respect to the sales plan heretofore adopted.
·During the past few months in an effort to devise practical ways and means
to justify immediate publication, we have held numerous conferences with
numerous interested members of Grand Lodge and others and we have rather
reluctantly reached the conclusion that under all of the circumstances above
detailed, it would be the part of wisdom to further investigate, and if possible
to arrive at a more feasible and economic plan for the publication and distribution of what we are pleased to characterize as the glorious history of Masonry
in 'California.
· Therefore, we most · respectfully recommend that the incoming Grand
Master be authorized to appoint a committee of three to investigate and if
. possible, work out a more feasible and economic plan for the publication and
distribution of our hi'story.
.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption: ·
· First: That 'the incoming Grand Master be instructed and empowered to
ai>iioint ·a coniinitee of three to investigate" and work out a ·more feasible and
economic plan for the publication and distribution· o f the History of Masonry
in California, said committee to report at the next annual communication of
Grand Lodge.
·
Second: That the Committee on Masonic History be continued during the
ensuing year.
Dated at San Francisco, California, this ninth day of October, 1935.
LEON 0 . WHITSELL,

w.

. i

MARK
SAWRIE,
ROSCOE L. CLARK,
ALBERT Ross,
CHAS. HAAS,
D AVID T ULLOCK,
CHAS. INGRAM,

Committee.

The report and recommendations were adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on accounts: in acco rdance with Constitutional requirements, met at the Grand Secretary's office on ~he las.t Saturday of ~ach month
to audit all bills demands and claims, etc., agamst this Most Worsh1pf~l Gr~nd,
Lodge· and pass~d such demands, bills and claims that were found to be m or er.
PAU L NATH AN ,
OTTO G. FREYERM UTH,
ANDREW BURKE,
M AX J. M ERTENS,
CHAS. H. TEUBERT,

Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIAT ION
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The following is a summary of the . receipts and disburseemnts of ~he
Masonic Temple Association of , California, Inc., for the fiscal year endmg
September 30, 1935 :
RECEIPTS

···'·c··4···:Js6:so....$ 8?-·971 .52
From ~~~~~:t ··~~~;;;~~-·-b~~i~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 3,398.50
.. )

October 1, 1934, ~alance on hand ( cash and securities

"

interest' and dividends, securities.................................. 3,721.12
refund on taxes.....·-···-······--····-.-:.................:....................
~~~·~~
premium sale of bonds.................................................... 1, ·
repairs for tenants' account........................ :...................
600.00
sale old motors..................................................................
40.00

50,044.07
$133,015.59

DISBU RSEMENTS

I::~~;;:;:~i;~~~;~;; :::: :::: : ::::::: : := ~:~~!!
$

Salaries ···-·············-···············~·-····-·······················-········-················ 11,~~:~~
In~~rance ·-···················- ································································· 4,663.43
D1v1dends ······················--···································-·························
100.00 $ 30,836.09
Notes payable .............................................................................. _ _ __
Balance on hand September 30, 1935 (cash and securities) ....................$102,179.50
W I LLIAM P . FILMER, President
F. C. R UPPEL, S ecretary

Report adopted.
At 5 :i'S o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 o'clock
Thursday morning.

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jn ~ranb JLobgt
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 10, 1935.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

erally throughout the county have advised against such reductions, fearing that
the lowering of fees tends to cheapen our fraternity and to lower the high
standard of membership which has always been maintained. A survey of
by-law changes in this particular for the past three years shows that a large
number of the Lodges have reduced their initiation fees and yet no evil effect
therefrom is noticeable. The reductions are, we believe, in consonance with
the times and as conditions change for the better so will the Lodges restore
their tables of fees. High or low fees, we feel that the fraternity will maintain
the standard of membership by which it has been characterized from the earliest
times.
ARTHUR JOEL,
THEODORE T. SPURGEON,
ARREN
LIBBY,
JULIUS GABRIEL,

· The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

MEETING PLACE OF GRAND LODGE
The following resolution was presented by Russell C. Horstmann,
Rudolph Jenny and Olof E. Anderson:
Resolved'. That th~ Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge for the year
1936 be held m the City of Oakland.

Adopted by a five-sixths vote..

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
. Your Committ~e on By-Laws has had before it the resolutions of the
va;1o~s Lodges providing for changes in their by-laws. We have classified the
prmc1pal changes affected by these resolutions and they are substantially as
follows:
·
D

· · ·. .
Number of Resolutions
ecreasmg m1tJatJon fees to $35.00..................:................................... 1
to 50.00...................................................... 21
To amounts above 50.00...................................................._ 6
28

~cep~ing ?olidays from stated meetings....................:....................... _

Ch ang~ng t1~e of stated. meetings..............................................................
De angm_g p ace of meetmgs.....·-····-··········--····-········-····--··········--···

iFi~~~~~?gd~~:i~~i~~:::i~:~~:::::::::::::'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::

feduci~g affi~~ti~n fees. ... _:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
ncreasmg a hation fees .................................................._···············-··········

21
9
8
8
3
2
2
2

Total resolutions..........................................................................
83
All of the resolutions are in order and comply with the law and as they
have been approved by the Grand Master during the year we recommend their
approval by Grand Lodge.
Yo~r com~ittee has ~Isa had submitted to it the by-laws of two Lodges
under dispensation, Canby s Cross located at Tukelake, Siskiyou County; and
Car.me!, located at Carmel. These have been examined and have been found to
be m prope~ form and subst~nti~lly to. conform to the Uniform Code of ByLaws prescribed by the Constitution. Mmor discrepancies have been pointed out
to the officers of th~ Lodges and will be corrected at the first meeting possible.
We recommend their approval.
O~viously the most important change effected by these resolutions is the
reduct10n of fees for the degrees in the various Lodges. Grand Masters gen-

569

w

E.

Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Reference to page six of the printed report of the Grand Secretary discloses that there have been two Lodges working by virtue of dispensation issued
by the Grand Master, as follows:
Canby's Cross Lodge, Tulelake, Siskiyou County; dispensation April 24,
1935.
Carmel Lodge, City of Carmel, Monterey County; dispensation May 15,
1935.
There is no occasion for detailing the names of the members of the respective Lodges since these names appear as a matter of record in the Grand Secretary's report.
·
In passing it is worthy of note that this is the first time since 1930 that the
Grand Lodge of California has been called upon to consider petitions for
charters.
Your committee has . carefully examined the records, reports and exhibits
and the results have been satisfactory. There have been certain minor matters
which have been cheerfully corrected. Your committee has taken the liberty of
offering what it deemed to be helpful suggestions for the future guidance of the
officers of these Lodges, which suggestions were received in the spirit in which
they were offered. While the time of operation under dispensation in each
instance has necessarily been limited, nevertheless there is every evidence of that
ability on the part of the officers of these Lodges which promises well for a
. successful future.
The Worshipful Master of Canby's Cross Lodge has previously served
another Lodge in a similar capacity. It is obvious that he is ably supported by
a competent and enthusiastic group of men who are a credit to the community
wherein they reside.
The three principal officers of Carmel Lodge are Past Masters, whose
previous experience gives ample assurance that the affairs of this Lodge will
be conducted with due order and propriety.
In the absence of Brother Chester Baumgartner, Inspector of the 4th
District, your committee is indebted to Brother Chas. S. Baldwin, Inspector of
the 7th District, for much pertinent information with regard to the activities
of Canby's Cross Lodge.
.
, We are likewise indebted to Brother Chas. K. Tuttle, Inspector of the 56th
District, who has been unusually active in the preliminary work of Carmel
Lodge.
Your committee is more than pleased to note the splendid cooperation and
manifestation of real Masonry displayed in so timely a manner by the brethren

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

570

of existing Lodges, who have in innumerable ways given evidence of their
approval.
• In eac~ case th~ _new Lodge is clear of debt; the representatives have given
your committee positive assurance that there will be rio assumption of untoward
financial obligations; the sources of population are such as to justify the belief
that there will be in these Lodges a natural and normal growth.
·
Our Constitution (section ·73) contains, in part, a provision that our Grand
Master '!nay in cases of manifest propriety grant a dispensation. This, our Most
Worshipful Grand Master has · in each instance seen fit to do: It would seem
that the ~ecord of these two Lodges is an indication of his sound judgment in
the premises.
·
I~ rec?mmen~ing that the' charters be issued to these new Lodges, your
committee 1s particularly pleased to report that careful consideration has been
given to the subject of personnel and personal qualifications, not only of the
·
officers, but of the members.
Obviously the usual conside'ration must be given to questions of finance
territorial location and possibilities, ritualistic perfection of the proposed officer~
and the other conventional questions. But, these all fail, and a Lodge finds
small excuse for its existence if its members are not animated by a sincere
desire to be of real service to themselves and to their community by practicing
out of the Lodge those great moral duties which are inculcated in it.
LEE T. MULLEN,
HENRY EISSLER,
]OHN R. MOORE,
LEo V. YouNGWORTH,
SIDNEY J. BABCOCK,
Committee.

Report adopted and charters ordered issued.

REPORT OF THE RITUAL COMMITTEE
To th e M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

We, the Committee on Ritual, submit the following report:
The Ritual Committee has spared no effort to put into successful operation
the .action adopted by Grand Lodge in 1934 relative to ritualistic instruction.
The Grand Lecturer, in his report, has detailed the work of the committee
as its members have traveled throughout the length and breadth of the jurisdiction. The time given to the work, the number of sessions held with Inspectors
and the economy with which the plan has been administered, need no further
comment here.
During the course of the year many suggestions for ritual changes have
been presented to the committee by officers of Lodges, by Inspectors and by the
committee members. All these suggestions have received careful consideration
but no change in the language of the three degrees has been adopted by the
·
present committee.
In the interest of clarification of meaning and of simplification in performance some rearrangement in parts of the floor work of the three degrees has
been worke? out. This rearrangement has been studied over a period of many
months until now a final arrangement has been perfected for the coming year.
The floor work of all degrees has been imparted to the Inspectors in schools
of instruction. The floor work of the third degree (which is the portion most
affected) was exemplified for all the members of Grand Lodge on Wednesday
evening, October 9, 1935, by officers of California Lodge No. I. The work as
exemplified is to be effective immediately. No further rearrangement will be
made during the coming year.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

571

:we therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption: That
the present plan of ritualistic instruction be continued for the ensuing year.
LESLIE E. Wooo, .
SIDNEY K. LEHMAN,
LLOYD E. WILSON.

The report, including the resolution, was adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LECTURER'S
REPORT
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

The committe to whom the report of the Grand Lecturer was referred begs
leave to submit the following :
The report which · the Grand Lecturer ·presented covers his stewardship for
the last twelve months. Realizing the short period that he has held this office,
and the vast amount of work which he has accomplished, we cannot help but
marvel at his achievements.
The high standard of proficiency achieved by the various Lodges in the
ritualistic work is visible evidence, not only to the skill and ability of the Grand
Lecturer, but of the generous cooperation of the Assistant Grand Lecturers and
the Inspectors.
We note with great satisfaction that each lnspectorial District in the
jurisdiction (except those in the Hawaiian Islands) has been .instructed in the
ritual from two to five times during the year. We heartily commend these
Assistant Grand Lecturers, Oscar L. Harris, Lloyd E. Wilson, Chester .. H .
Warlow and Sidney K. Lehman, for their untiring efforts and the assistance
·
they have given the Inspectors.
No one can question but that the ritual is the very foundation or' our
Masonic structure, and that from it emanates the principles of our Order. We
must maintain its perfection. We heartily concur in the idea of the ritual being
perpetuated through a Grand Lecturer and four Assistants.
Under this method of teaching the ritual, more schools of instruction are
held, and smaller attendance at the meetings means more individual instruction
and greater proficiency acquired by the officers.
Criticism has been offered that only officers are instructed in the ritual
under this revised plan. We see no reason why any Brother interested in
learning the ritual· should not attend the schools of instruction.
No changes have' been made in the ritual, ·b ut a few changes have been
. made in the floor work. Commendations and criticisms o.£ these changes have
bee? recei".ed. Progress and development can come only .!Ji.rqµg-1}, trial and expenmentat10n. We feel that these changes are entitled to a fai; ,trial and that
beneficial results are bound to come. However, 'we recommend that no further
changes be made during the coming year.
We feel that much of the success of this plan has been due to the valuable
assistance rendered by Past Grand Master Dana R. \Veller. His long service
on the Ritual Committee, and his thorough understanding of the work, has
cleared the skies and made a difficult task more easily performed.
We are happy to note that the condition of the Lodges is improving and
that dues are coming in more readily, also, that more time is being devoted to
fellowship and education.
·
It is gratifying to find the Officers' Associations functioning smoothly and
the officers becoming better informed in law and procedure.
We commend the Grand Lecturer in his method of propounding questions
to the Masters and Wardens-elect to ascertain their knowledge of the Constitution .and Regulations governing their Lodges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

572

We sincerely commend the Grand Lecturer in his admonition "that we
should endeavor to act with the greatest dignity and decorum" at all public
ceremonies. A Masonic burial is a sacred duty, and should be performed with
· dignity, reverence and respect. It is well that a brother amply qualified should
discharge this important trust.
The Grand Lecturer and his Assistant Grand Lecturers journeyed more
than seventeen thousand miles during the year at a total cost of less than
$1,800.00. We congratulate them on the saving to Grand Lodge of more than
$5,000.00 over the old plan.
Our Grand Lectu~r has made many Lodge visitations this year, installing
the officers, presenting fifty year buttons, and giving educational talks. His
forcible manner, his kindly advice and counsel, and his loyalty to his trust have
·
endeared him in the hearts of those fortunate enough to know him.
J. LYNN GooDE,
OAKLEY K. MORTON,
HARRY A. HARPER,
Committee.

Report adopted.

573

Jn ~ranb l.ob\le
AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday, October, 10, 1935.
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Emergency Relief

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining cost of transportation for one person from the Jocation of each Lodge in the jurisdiction to the
place of meeting of Grand Lodge and return, and of reporting such cost of
transportation as the sum due to the officers or representatives in attendance
from each Lodge, as well as grand officers, Past Grand Masters, chairmen
and members of standing committees and Inspectors, for their necessary expenditures to and from Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged
this duty. Transportation allowance is fixed by the Constitution at twice the
single first-class one-way fare, plus sleeper charges where necessary.
This committee desires to express its appreciation to the Anglo-California
Bank for the courtesy extended through Brother Louis Sutter, Past Master of
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, in making it possible for us to have the necessary
cash and tellers available to cash transportation checks on Friday, immediately
· following the election of the Junior Grand Warden.
Following is a statement of the amount necessary:
Grand Lodge Officers...........................................$ 427.44
Past Grand Masters............................................
265.42
Committees ··- ····································--··················
578.30
Grand Lecturers and Inspectors........................ 1,994.68
Representatives .................................................... 13,172.06
TotaL..............:...................................$16,437.90
Respectfully submitted,
JoHN H. McGEHEE,
F. E. SNIDECOR,
JOSEPH BLOCK,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
FRANK W. PLANT,
OTTO L. ZEUS,
Committee.

Adopted.
At 11 :45 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p. m.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which had been ref erred as unfinished business from the annual communication of 1934 the resolution of Wesley W. Kergan, to amend section 90 of the Constitution, by adding
thereto the following :
"Where reimbursement is expected, no relief should he extended beyond
the amount authorized by the Lodge or the jurisdiction to which the applicant
belongs, except where an emergency exists, and in e~ergency c~ses complete
and immediate notice of the emergency, together with an estimate of the
amount necessary to relieve, should be sent such Lodge or jurisdiction for its
information or approval."
Respectfully reports that inasmuch as the adoption of the proposed amendment would entail an amendment to several other sections of the Constitution,
we recommend that the matter be postponed until the next annual communication.

Adopted.
Advance Notice of Proposed Legislation
Your Committee on Policy .and General Purposes has also considered the
unfinished business from last ·year, to-wit: The resolution presented by Brother
·. George M. Donovan that a synopsis of the Grand .Master's Message and of
any resolutions to be presented for action by Grand Lodge be sent to every constituent Lodge in ample time to enable the Lodges to discuss such matters prior
to the annual communication, and recommend that the resolution be not adopted,
as being impossible of practical application.

The report failed of adoption. Thereupon Brother Donovan
moved that a special committee of three be appointed to present a new
resolution Friday morning covering the subject matter; the motion
carried.
Duties of Grand Lecturer
Your committee has also considered the resolution introduced by Brother
Kuechler to amend sections 17, 54, and 56 of the Constitution, all relating to
the duties of the Grand Lecturer, and recommend that the proposed amendments be not adopted.

Report adopted.

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA

Publicizing Public Schools Week

that such tenure of office would not conduce to the best service, and recommends
that the same be not adopted.

We have also given consideration to the resolution of Brother Cooper in
which it is proposed that Qr and Lodge . request the Federal P ostal Depart~ent
to provide a special cancellation stamp, publicizing California· Public Schools
Week Observance, and recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

Grand Lodge concurred in the report.
Amendment to By-Laws
We have also considered the resolution of Brother William Penn Humphreys, in which it is proposed to amend section I, article VI, of the Uniform
Code of By-Laws, recommending that the same be adopted.

Grand Lodge concurred in the report, and it was then referred to
the Committee on Jurisprudence, which committee aubsequently reported thereon, recommending the adoption of the proposed amendment, and it was adopted by unanimous vote~
Silver Buttons for 25-Y ear Members
Y ~ur Committee on P.olicy and General Purposes recommends that the
resolution of Brother Donovan to provide a silver button to Masons who have
held membership for twenty-five years, be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Participation of Lodges in Employment Service
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the proposed amendment to section . 37c, presented by Brother Kuechler which resolution provides that a Lodge being a member of a Board of Relief shall be the
sole judge as to whether it shall participate in an employment service, and
recommend that the resolution be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Examination in Lecture of Third Degree
Your Co~mittee on Policy and General Purposes has given consideration
to the resolution of Brother Howard S. Mcintire, which provides that every
newly made ~faster ~ason. shall be required to pass an examination in open
Lodge as to ~1s pro~<;tency m t~e lecture of that degree within six months after
the date of his rece1vmg the third degree, and recommend that the resolution -be
not adopted.

· Report was adopted.
Masonic Education
. Your Committee on Policy and. General Purposes has given careful consideration to the report of the Committee on Masonic Education wherein it is
recommended that a special committee be appointed to collate 'and publish a
part of all the literature relating to Masonic subjects heretofore issued or made
use of by the Committee on Masonic Education and recommend that the
suggestion of the Committee on Education be not ~dopted.

Report adopted.
Tenure of Office of Grand Secretary
· Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
resolution of Brother Mallachowitz that the Grand Secretary be elected for a
term of four years and to be ineligible for a second term, and is of the opinion

575

The report was adopted.
Limitation of Relief
Your conunittee has considered the resolution of Brother Mallachowitz,
reading as follows :
"That wherever in the Constitution relief is mentioned, in sections 90, 163
and others, the clause 'insofar as it may do so without serious injury to itself/
be added."
Section 90 of our Constitution now provides that "Each Lodge shall see
to it, even if it require all of its funds and property, that the needy brethren
of its own membership and neighborhood are not suffered to want or to be made
a burden to others." This is a drastic provision of our law and probably
should be amended, as indicated by the resolution of Brother Mallachowitz, btit
we are · of the opinion that this entire subject should be considered in conneetion
with the resolution of Brother Wesley Kergan at the next annual communication, and we so recommend.

The report was adopted.
Pocket Certificate for Past Masters
Your .Conunittee on Policy and General Purposes is in hearty accord with
the resolution of Max A. Plumb and others that a pocket-size certificate be
issued to Past Masters of this jurisdiction, and recommend the adoption of the
resolution.

The report and resolution were adopted.
Allocation of $25 Home Fee to Building Fund
With regard to the resolution of Brother Wunner, in which it is proposed
to amend subdivision 1st of section 41 of the Constitution, by allocating the
.$25.00 Home fee to the Building fund of the Masonic Hom~s, your Com111ittee
on Policy and General Purposes recommends that the resolution be not adopted.

The report was adopted.
Ritual for Presentation of Home Fee Certificate
We have also given consideration to the resolution of Brother Wunner pro~
viding that the certificate now given to initiates as evidence of the payment of
the $25.00 Home fee be made a compulsory part of the conferring of the third
degree, and providing a ritual therefor, and recommend that the resolution be
not adopted.

Report was adopted.
Shorter Roll Call
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred · to it
the resolution propoaed by the Cirand Secretary to shorten the roll-call by
· amending section 22 of thr ( 1>11"tltutlon, to provide that each Lodge represented
by a Master, Warden, Put Ma.trr or Representative duly elected, shall be
entitled to one vote. Thl1 ii 11 mnttrr which in our opinion should be carefully
considered by the I. xll(el of the Jurl1dictlon, and we therefore recommend that
consideration of the 11ro1111 ••cl 1111wndm~nt be postponed until the next annual
communication.
·

· Adopted.
R11l1t1 atlon of Other Affiliations
Your Commlttre on 1'0111 1mcl I i1•111•111I Purposes has al~o considered the
resolution of Brothrr I 1H1JH 1, 11mvhllnl( tlu1t nil Master Masons of this juris.-

577

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dic!ion h<: r~quired. to re~ister with. the Secretary of their respective Lodges all
their affihat1ons with allied Masomc bodies, and recommend that the same be
not adopted. .

88 of the Constitution, which permits a Lodge in its discretion to appropriate
from its funds any amount for a testimonial for its retiring Master, the Lodge
may as such a testimonial purchase for him a life membership in the Lodge.
In the opinion of the committee these rulings, as above recited, are correct, and
we recommend their approval.
In connection with the purchase of life membership testimonials, we, however, emphasize the necessity under section 129 of the Constitution for the
transfer by the Lodge from its general fund to its life membership fund of the
amount required in its case for the purchase of a life membership, and the
necessity for the inclusion of that amount in its life membership investments
which are permanently retained, and which are not subject to use for charity or
other general purposes, even in an emergency. We also suggest the inadvisability of such a practice on the part of any Lodge whose membership is
limited, or whose sources of income for general purposes are either restricted ot
subject to demands which in time of financial stringency render adequate
financing difficult. In the case of a small Lodge an . undue percentage of its
members may be transferred to the life membership class, and frequently the
returns from investments of the life membership fund are inadequate to cover.
a proper proportion of general expense; for the same reason the purchase of an
tindue number of life mem!Jerships for retiring Masters may prove embarrassing to a Lodge whose finances, either ordinarily or in time of emergency, require
careful administration.

576

Grand Lodge concurred.
Communism
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has given careful consideration to the resolution presented by the Masters and Wardens of the East
. Bay Lodges relative to communism. We heartily commend and endorse the
matters contained therein, but are of opinion that it would be impolitic for
the Grand Lodge to go on public record in matters that might be construed
as be!ng politically partisan. Last year this Grand Lodge adopted resolutions
pledgmg the Masons and Masonry of this jurisdiction to fealty to government
and we feel that a reaffirmation in the language of the proposed resolution i~
unnecessary. We therefore recommend that the resolution be not made o{
record.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
WILLIAM A . SHERMAN,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
WILL H . FISCHER,
WILLIAM H. WASTE,
FRANK W. MIXTER,
]AMES B . GIST,
CHAS. W. BURDICK,
]AMES E. GALE,

The report was adopted.

· Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Duties of Committee on Accounts
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred the resolution
proposing to amend sections 37e and 37k of the Constitution recommend the
adoption of the resolution. .
'

The report was adopted and sections 37e and 37k of the Constitution were amended as presented by unanimous vote.
Decisions of Grand Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred that part of the
Grand Master's Message referring to decisions rendered by the Grand Master
has had the same under consideration and reports as follows:
'
Decisions numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17 and 18, and 19.
We find each of them to be in accord with our Masonic law and recommend
their approval.

Report adopted.
Remission of Dues

In Decision 12 the Grand Master rules that under section 128 of the Constitution, a Lodge has no power by amendment to its by-laws resolutions or
otherwise, to remit the dues of any of its members for any stat~d period, or in
advance, except as to one who has been a member of a Lodge in good standing
in t~is jurisdiction for a period of forty years or more, but that it may annually
remit the accru~ dues of those of its members who render special service to
the Lodge, or who are unable to pay them. He further holds that under section

Report adopted.
Forty-Year Memben
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, with the approval of the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes, proposes and recommends the following amendment to the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, to-wit:
Amend Section No. 128 thereof by substituting the following for the
language now contained in said section immediately following the word "filing,"
at the end of the third sentence of said section:
. "No Lodge shall remit the dues of its members or any of them for any
stated period or in advance ; but it may annually remit the accrued dues of those
of its members who render special service for the Lodge or who are unable to
pay them. Provided, nevertheless, that by special resolution, applicable only to
the particular member involved, a Lodge may, in advance or otherwise, remit
the dues of any member who shall have been a member in good standing in this
jurisdiction for forty years or more, and who in the sound judgment of the
Lodge, should, by reason of some misfortune, inability or other good cause, be
exempt from the payment of dues. No Lodge shall levy any extra assessment
on its members."

The report was adopted and section 128 of the Constitution
was amended by a five-sixths vote.
Acacia Lodge No. 438
Your Committee on Jurisprudence approved decision No. 19, as set out in
the Message of the Grand Master. That decision related to the J>Uspension of
the Master and the arrest of · the charter of Acacia Lodge No. 438. We recommend that the matter of the arrest of the charter and the suspension of the
Master be referred to a special committee of three to be appointed by the incoming Grand Master, which committee shall investigate all the facts, reconcile
the warring factions in the Lodge if possible, and report its findings and conclusions to the Grand Master ; that the Grand Master be empowered to continue the charter under arrest or to surrender it again to the Lodge and to
reinstate the Master, if in his judgment such should be done.

Report was adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commercial Activities of Lodges
The Committee on Jurisprudence has had referred to it a resolution from
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, contained in the proceedings
of the Grand Lodge of California, for the year 1932, on page 323 thereof,
referring to commercial activities of Lodges, and requesting this committee to
prepare the necessary legislation whereby the policy expressed in that resolution
should be made effective. This resolution having again been called to our attention, we now propose the following amendment to the Constitution :
That section 127 of the Constitution be amended by inserting therein after
the se!1tence concluding with the words, "however worthy it may be," the
following:
·
"Nor shall any Lodge sponsor, or by resolution or otherwise sanction or
permit the use of the name of the Lodge in connection with, or for the pur~ose
of furthering any financial undertaking, or commercial venture whether for
profit or not, which shall not have been approved by the Grand Master, nor
shall any member of any Lodge be permitted to do so except in his individual
capacity, and without the use of the name of the Lodge."
We recommend the adoption of the foregoing amendment.

Dispensations Issued
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the records of the issuance of dispensations for various purposes and approval of resolutions establishing life memberships ·by the Grand Master, and find same to be in
accordance with our law.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master in that
respect be approved.

578

Report of the committee was adopted, and section 127 of the
Constitution was amended as above set out by a five-sixths vote.
Purchase of Photographs of Past Masters
The Most Worshipful Grand Master ruled that a Lodge was without power
to use any Lodge funds wherewith to purchase photographs of portraits of its
Past Masters '.'to be placed in a fireproof safe to be used in the event the
originals were lost," and that the cost of the same "should be supplied if at all
· '
by individual contributions."
'
. The ruling was based upon a decision of Grand Master Preston, (1896), in
which he held, Grand Lodge approving, that "Lodge funds cannot be used to
purchase jewels for retiring officers, or to purchase portraits of such officers
to ornament the wall on a Lodge room."
Since the ruling in 1896, the Constitution of the Grand Lodge has been
amended to permit the use of Lodge funds in payment of the "necessary expenses" of the Lodge, and in "any amount for the purchase of a testimonial
for the retiring Master."
·
We think a reasonable construction of the Constitution will permit of the
purchase from its general fund of photographs of Past Masters, in order that
such photographs may be put in a safe' place for preservation. Such would not
be 1issimilar to the purchase of appropriate books of record, or of a photostatic copy of the same, if deemed necessary and desirable, for the proper
perpetuation of the history of the Lodge. It might reasonably be construed in
aid of an appropriate "testimonial" to the retired Masters.
As long as an expense incurred by a Lodge is reasonably necessary to the
proper performance of its duty as an instrumentality of Free Masonry, we
think, under existing Constitutional provisions, such expense may not be subjected to interdiction. If the Lodge deemed the expenditures for the photographs in question reasonably necessary for the proper perpetuation of its
Masonic re<."ords,. which we must assume it did so conclude, we feel that we
may not merely as a matter of Masonic law, overrule such conclusion.
Furthermore, we cannot say that the Lodge would not be reasonably engaged in "promoting fraternal intercourse" to provide its archives with the
photographs referred to. Such being the case, under section 89 of the Constitution, the 20 per cent social fund would be available, and therefore to do
the thing referred to in the Grand Master's ruling, the Lodge would not be
driven to the necessity of securing '"individual contdbutions."
We recommend that decision No. 7 be not approved.

Report was adopted.

579

Report was adopted.
Dispensations to Act on Rejected Applicants
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred decision No. 11
of the Grand Master, reports as follows:
Under section 43, subdivision 4th, the Grand Master has power to grant
dispensations to .receive and act upon the petitions of rejected applicants for the
degrees, within less than the twelve months prescribed in section 97 under the
regulations provided in section 106. The Grand Master has no authority to
issue a dispensation to reballot upon the petition on which the candidate has
been rejected; a new petition must be filed.
The Grand Master ruled that he had exercised 'the discretion with which
he was vested only when there was good reason to believe that a mistake had
been made, or other extraordinary circumstances existed, and that a showing
should be made to the Grand Master of the reason for granting the dispensation.
· In this we believe the Grand Master acted within the power granted him.
]OHN D. MURPHEY, Chairman.
BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
GEORGE L. ]ONES,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
JoaN STEWART Ross,
OAKLEY K. MORTON,
HAROLD W. CONKLIN,
ALDEN AMES,
Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Control is pleased to submit the annual report of its
activities during the Masonic year.
· Before doing so, however, it wishes to call to the attention of our Brethren
the irreparable loss that has been sustained, by Masonry in general and the
Board of Control in particular, in the passing of the Board's be!Oved Chairman,
counsellor and self-sacrificing friend, Brother David J. Reese. His guiding
spirit seems to ·be with us in our deliberations and the excellent procedure
originated during his regime is being continued. Time cannot eradicate the
fond love and veneration which remains in our hearts for him.
His i:>ersonality and ability were recognized nationally as well as locally.
Brother Lewis E. Smith, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska
and President of the Masonic Relief Association of the United States and
Canada, wrote from Omaha, Neb.:
"M.'. w:. Brother Reese made a wonderful impression at our meeting
in Cincinnati. I do not know of any man who ever attended just one of
our association meetings, who created such a fine impression, and who won
the admiration of so many of the brethren, as did Brother Reese."

580

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother E. E. Axtell, Secretary of the Masonic Relief Association of the
United States and Canada, wrote from Buffalo, N. Y.:
"The late lamented Brother David J. Reese practically stole the Convention two years ago, both by his lovable personality and the magnificent
paper he read covering the formation and activities of your Board, and I
assure you that we all felt a deep personal loss in his passing."
"God's finger touched him, and he slept."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

581

East Bay Masonic Board of Relief ................•.................$ 430.14
Los Angeles Masonic Board of Relief.. .......................... 120.75
San Francisco Masonic Board of Relief.. ....................... . 436.00
61.75
Cupertino Lodge No. 510 Board of Relief... ................ .
50.00
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 572 Board of Relief ........... .

The Board also suffered a severe loss in the passing of Brother Auguste F.
Brinkman shortly after his appointment. There was every indication that he
would have ·been a very valuable acquisition to the Board.
Brother Frank Tade, of Sacramento Lodge No. 40, Sacramento, was appointed by the Most Worshipful Grand Master, to replace Brother Brinlanan.
Brother Tade has already shown an unusual aptitude for the work and will be
a wise counsellor in our deliberations.
There has been a splendid cooperation with the Board of Control by the
Boards of Relief and the individual Lodges, and this has brought about a
decided reduction not only in the number of cases but also in the number of
cases of an apparently uncollectible nature that it has been necessary to refer
t-0 the Board; very valuable suggestions and assistance have also been rendered by Secretaries of the Boards of Relief and Lodges. There has been
better understanding and more friendly contact between the Board of Control
of our Grand Lodge and the leaders in · relief work in other jurisdictions,
brought about mainly ·by the representative of our Board of Control attending
the convention of the Masonic Relief Association of the United States and
Canada, in 1933.
The final result has been that the Grand Lodge of California is being
called upon for a decreased amount for reimbursements each year notwithstanding the fact that the Boards of Relief and Lodges have maintained the
real spirit of Masonry in handling their various requests for relief.
New Cases
There were only fifteen new cases reported to the Board of Control this ·
year for action, while a number of cases are still carried forward from previous years.
Reimbursements
The amount that the Grand Lodge has been called upon to reimburse Lodges
and Boards of Relief for assistance rendered for which no reimbursement has
been made by foreign jurisdictions, is shown below:
Reimbursements by Grand Lodge
1924 ........................................................................$14,854.64
1925 ···········································-··························· 16,568.12
1926 ·················•··-··············-··············--··-···············-· 10,494.26
1927 ----·-···············-----------·--------·--··············-------------- 10,366.93
Board of Control began its service ·
1928 ------------------------··--------··--·------------------·--------------$10,214.29
1929 ·------------·--------········································---------- 7,551.54
1930 ································-··--·---············--------·------·--· 6,881.67
1931 ··············----·------------------·-------·--------····-------·------ 6,486.72
1932 -----------------------···-------·-··········------·-·------------------ 4,428.68
1933 ......................................................................... 2,091.67
1934 ··················----·················································· 1,796. 01
Your Board of Control has considered the requests for reimbursement presented ·by the respective Lodges and Boards of Relief and has recommended to
the Finance Committee the granting of the following reimbursements:

$10,800.00
Boards of Relief
The practice is being conducted by each Board of Relief of having- an
annual audit of its accounts made by a certified accountant or its own auditor
with the approval of the Board of Control. Reports made on Board of Contr'ol
forms, supported by these audits, have been promptly filed by the Boards of
Relief. The following review of the operations of the respective Boards of
Relief covering the twelve months ending July Jl, 1935, is based upon the
reports of the boa.rd officers and the audits mentioned:
~ Alameda: Board . of Relief is composed of Masters of the three Lodges
and meets _monthly. _N o. salaries are paid. No per capita assessment during

582

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the year. No funerals were conducted by the Lodges of board. No funds
advanced for funerals.
Balance on hand last rq>ort....- ................_..........................................................$ 62.23
Receipts During the Year
California Lodge ........................................._ ........,..:.............~............$· 2.50
2.50
Total receipts and balance............................................................$
Disbursements

583

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ..i,;....•_ ................................. :._•.••$ 25.03
Other Lodges in the United States.......................... 280.00
Repayment to Grand Lodge of California.............. 2.50
Funerals ........................................................................ 50.00 $357.53

64.73

· Salaries ........................:...;......................................................$900.00 ·
Miscellaneous ........................................................................ 18.28 918.28

Fcir Relief:
Funerals Committee Services..............................................:.....$ 1.00
Telegraph ...................................................................................... 1.64

0

Total disbursements ...................................................................... 1,275.81

Total disbursements........................................................................

2.64

Balance on hand J uly 31, 1935 ........................;······--···--·..···········--···--··--..·•--········-$ 480.52

Balance on hand July 31, 1935...:...............................:................................. _......$

62.09

Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of members of four Lodges and
meets monthly.
No paid employees. Treasurer's bond is in the sum of $500.00.
No funerals were conducted by the Lodges.

Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior Wardens
of four Lodges and meets quarterly.
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives $12.50 per month.
The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500 each.
No funerals were conducted by Lodges, under auspices of Board.
Balance on hand last report.........................'.....................................- .................$ 39.61
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ........................,.......................................................$178.30
Other Lodges in the United States.................................................... 229.60
Interest ..........................................................................~.........................
.20
408.10
Total receipts and balance............................................................$ 447.71
Disbu1·sements
For Relief:
Other Lodges in the Unit~d States ...........,................$229.60 $229.60
Salaries .....~ ............................................................................ 150.00
Miscellaneous ........................................................................ 16.74

Balance on hand last report..................:................,.........................................,..$3,682.53

Receipts During the Year
Other Lodges in the United States....................................................$ 75.00
Interest on bonds......................................:......................._................ 90.00

165.00

Total receipts and balance............................................................$3,847.53

Disbursements
For Relief :
Other Lodges in the United States............................................$109.63
Miscellaneous ........................................................................................ 28.05
Total disbursements ................................................................

137.68

Balance on hand July 31, 1935............................................................................$3,709.85

166.74

Total disbursements ......................................................................

396.34

Balance on hand July 31, 1935...........~ ................................................................$

51.37

Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
Lodges and meets monthly.
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives $75.00 per month.
The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $1,000. Fidelity insurance and compensation also carried.
One funeral was conducted by the Lodges. No funds advanced for funerals,
although under auspices of ·board.
Balance on hand last report.. ..................................................:............................,$ 472.54
Receipts Durfog the Year
Grand Lodge of California..................................................................$ 5.50
California Lodge .................................................................................. 19.92
Other Lodges in the United States.................................................... 268.12
Funeral Reimbursements .................................................................... 50.00
Grand Lodge advances refunded by Lodges or individuals........ 2.50
Lodges and supporting bodies............................................................ 937.75 1,283.79
Total receipts and balance on hand ............................................$1,756.33

Long Beach: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens of each
Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year produced
$2,422.81.
There are two paid employees, the Secretary, who receives $150 per month,
and assistant, $15. The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500
each. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Advance for funerals $220. Amount refunded by Lodges and individuals,
$1,982.02.
Balance on hand last report ...................................................................................$1.J(il.48

Receipts Dt4ring the Year
Grand Lodge of California...............~ .............................'...............$
15.00
California Lodges .....................................................................:........ 323.62
Other Lodges in the United States................................................ 1,610.00
Foreign Lodges ................................................................:.................
48.40
Funeral reimbursements .................................................................. 208.00
Local Lodges-per capita ................................................................ 2,422.81
Interest on deposits.........................................._..................................
22.42

4,650.25

Total receipts and balance on hand............................................$6,012.73

584

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oakland and Berkeley: Board of Relief is composed of members from each
Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year yielded
$5,144.89.
There . are two paid employees (permanent), a Secretary at a salary of
$2,012.50 per annum; assistant secretary, $600. The Treasurer js bonded in the
sum of $2,000. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile
is used.
Funerals were conducted at a cost of $993. Funds advanced for funerals,
$1,557. Funeral reimbursements, $792.
·
Balance on hand last report ..·....c••••• •••••c•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••~ •••••••• •••••• : ••••• $12,063.23

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ....:......... :·............. ~..... :.............. ~ $ 248.62
Other Lodges in the United States.................... :. 1,656.50
Foreign Lodges ........... :...:......................................
48.40
Funerals ·················· ·······················.-············----~······· 220.00 $2,173.52
Salaries .............................................................................$1,810.00
Rent ...............................•.................................................. 180.00
Miscellaneous ··········'······················································· 242.51

2,232 ..51

Total disbursements ......,.............................:............ :...................... 4,406.03
Balance on hand July 31, 1935·.................~----~-----·············· ·································-$1,606:70
Los Angeles: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
·
and meets monthly.
There are three paid employees, a Secretary at a salary of $250 per month,
a typist or clerk at a salary of $100 per month, and a field rrian at a salary of
$175 per month. The Secretary and the Treasurer are bonded · in the sum of
$2,000 each. Fidelity insurance and carrier, and compensation and .auto insµrance
are carried . One automobile is used.
Amount expended for Funerals Committee services, $2,539.85
Balance on hand last report ...............................................................,................$ 8,208.03
Receipts per capita assessment-Bush Estate, etc......................................... 13,664.47

Receipts D11ring the Year
Grand Lodge of California ...................................... ~ .........:........$ 659.10
California Lodges .......................................................................... 8,728.87
Other Lodges in the United States ............................................ 20,416.03
Foreign Lodges ................................................................................ 1,511.96

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California............... :0••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•• $ 442.50
California Lodges .......................................................................... 7,164.57
Other Lodges in the United States.............................................. 6,355.58
Foreign Lodges ·•······················.···············.········································ 1,175.9.1
F1meral reimbursements ....,......................................................... . 792.00
Individual reimbursements .......................................................... 1,393.04
Grand Lodge advances refunded by Lodges or individuals
28.00
Local Lodges per capita ...•......................................,............ ,........ 5,144.89
Interest ...............................................................................,,............
282.85
Transfer Fund Masonic Employment Service........................ 1,000.00
Miscellaneous ................................................................................
48.29
.

.

23,827.63

Total receipts and balance......................... c..••. ... .. ••••••••...... .... ••.. $35,890.86

31,315.96

Total ·receipts and balance ......... :...... :.....:....."···::... :...........:::.:'. .:$53, 188A6
Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ............................,...............$ 8,440.77
Other Lodges in the United States .............. 20,639.11
Foreign Lodges ................................................ 1,471.28
Funeral Committee services............................ 2,539.85
Unclassified 'relief ............................................
64.75 $33,155.76
Salaries ....•,, ........,................, ....... ,.... ,........ ,...............$ 7,6_
96.20
Rent ...... :........,............................................................
845.00
Insurance and bond ....:·····--······································
43.60
Telephone and telegraph..........................................
601.42
·Postage ......................................................................
330.57
Printing and stationery and office supplies .... _..
250.71
Typewriter inspection-repairs ..........................
.)(J.47
Auto expense ............................................................
547.08
Travel ........................................................................
37.60
Field Representative expense................................
43:76
Audit ..........................................................................
100.00
Furniture and equipment........................................
47.90
Federal excise tax--checks....................................
17.04
Miscellaneous ...........................•.................................
341.87
Clearing House reports............................................
169.15

585

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ............................................$8,623.25
Other Lodges in the United States ................ 6,174.61
Foreign Lodges ·····'············································ 1,113.38
Funerals ............:................................................. 993.00
Contributed to employment service................ 900.00
Funerals Committee services............................ 564.00 $18,368.24
Salaries ........................................................................$3,687.95
Rent .......................:...................................................... 300.00
lnsural1ce and bond.................................................... 107.92
Telephone and telegraph........................................... 247.87
Postage .....................................:..................................
46.43
Printing and stationery..............................................
30.54
Office supplies .......•............................................ :.......
32.34
Auto expense .............................................................. 268.68
Travel ..........................................................................
17.71
Audit .................................................. ,.........................
55.00
Christmas donations ..................................................
17.50
Federal excise tax-checks......................................
11.38
Miscellaneous ........................................................ :.....
61.32

4,884.64

Total disbursements ................................................ ::.................. 23,252.88
Balance on hand July 31, 1935...........:......................................•.............·:.... .'.... $12,637.98

11,108.37

Total disbursements ............o•··········u·· = =·--····················· 44,264~13

Balance on hand July 31, 1935.....:.........'. ...........:............................... ::...............$ 8,924.33

Pasadena: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and mec::tings are held as called.
'
·
.There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receive~ a salary of $75 per

586

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $500. Auto insurance is carried.
One automobile is used.
One funeral was conducted at a cost of $130.00.
Balance on hand last report....- ...............;.................;.. .......................................$ 599.81

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California .............................................................$ 180.00
California Lodges .............................................................................. 194.99
Other Lodges in the United States.............................................. 1,285.00
Individual reimbursements ............................................................ 1,053.40

2,713.39

Total receipts and balance............................................................$3,313JI

Disbursetnents

909.09

Total disbursements .................................................................... 2,669.08
Balance on hand July 31, 1935............................................................................$ .644.12
Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge and
meets at call of President.
There are no paid employees. No funds were advanced for funerals.
Balance on hand last report .....,............. ,........................................- ........................$46.19

Receipts During the Year
$46.19

Disbursements
For Relief .................................................................................................................... 13.56
Balance on hand August 20, 1935 ............................................................................$32.63
Sacramento: Board of Relief is composed ~f three members from each
Lodge.
There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives a salary of $45 per
month. The Secretary is bonded in the sum of $500.
Funerals were conducted by the Funeral Committee. Funds advanced for
funerals, $672.48. Amount refunded, $637.17.
Balance on hand last report ................................................................................. .$2,298.27

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California .................................................,............$ 335.85
California Lodges ..........................................................................•... 224.00
Other Lodges in the United States ............................·-··················· 338.50
18.75
Interest ................................................................................................
Funeral reimbursements .................................................................. 637.17
55.70
Individual reimbursements ............................................................. .

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ·········~········································$450.00
· Other Lodges in the United States........................ 324.45
Foreign Lodges ........................................................ 86.50
Funerals ...........:.......................................................... 509.48
Funerals Committee services................................ 163.00
Individuals-Donations ...........:............................ 132.00 $1,665.43
Salaries ·--·····-····-······························-···············-·············$540.00
Miscellarieous ...........................................................:........ 169.06

709.06

Total disbursements .................................................................... 2,374.49
Balance July 31, 1935 .............................................:...........:..................................$1,533.75
San Bernardino,: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and meets monthly.
There are no paid employees. No funerals were conducted during the
year.
Balance 'on hand last report ......................................................................................$28.52
Receipts Dl'ring the Year
Individual reimbursements-San Bernardino Co. S. B .......................$39.04 39.04

For Relief:
California Lodges .............................;....................$ 224.99
Other Lodges in the United States ...................... 1,405.00
Funerals ...................................................... :........... 130.00 $1,759.99
Salaries .......... ~ ................................................................$ 900.00
10.00
Audit ....................................•...........................................
.84
Christmas donations ..................................................... .
1.75
Miscellaneous-Secretary bond ..................................

587

Total receipts and balance....:..........................................................,$67.56
Disburseme11ts
For Relief:
Individuals-Donations ......................................................... :............$62:1)9
Total disbursements........................................................................... 62.09
Balance on hand July 31, 1935........................... ·-··································--····-~ .....$ 5.47
San Diego: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge and
meets monthly.
·
There is one paid employee, the Secretary, who receives a salary of $975
per year. Fidelity insurance and carrie'r is· carried. One automobile is used.
Funerals were conducted at a cost of $501.58. Amount refunded, $597.52.
Balance on hand last report................................................................._...............$ 963.67
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ..............................................................................$2,420.28
Other Lodges in the United States................................................ 2,922.92
Foreign Lodges ................................................. :................................
17.33
Funeral reimbursements .................................................................. 597.52
Individual reimbursements ..............................................................
4.35
5,962.40
Total receipts and balance....................................................... - ...$6,926.07
·
Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ······-··-···········--··-··· .................$ 521.58
Other Lodges in the United States .................... 2,973.24
Foreign ·Lodges ···········-······················'··········"·....
5.00
Funerals ...........................'. ......................c••: .....:....... 501.58 $4,001.40
Salaries ............................................................................$ 975.00
Rent .................................. ;............................................... 150.00
Miscellaneous .................................................................. 251.46

1,376.46

1,609.97

Total disbursements .. :............:.............•.'.:... _: .........:.......:.......:.....$5,377.86

Total receipts and balance ............................................................$3,908.24

Balanc;e on hand July 31, 1935.....................·-································-.-·················$1,548.21

·588

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative
of each Lodge, and meets monthly.
There are two paid employees, a Secretary, who receives a salary 'of $250
per month, and a typist or clerk, who receives $40 per month. The Treasurer
and Se:retary are bonded in the sum of $2,000 each. Fidelity insurance and
carrier, and compensation insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Balance on hand last report... .............................:...................................,.....:.....$ 8,010.55

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California............................................................$ 685.00
California Lodges ....................................................................:....... 5,246.51
Olher Lodges in the United States............................................•. 4,424.89
Foreign Lodges ............................................................................... 125.71
Assistance from Lodges, interest, etc......................................... 5,940.52

589

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ........." ....;.......................................$ 85.00
Other Lodges in the United States.......................... 685.00
Foreign Lodges ............................................ :............... 5.00
Funerals ...................... _................................................ 200.00 $975.00
Salaries . c••••••••; ....................................:.,. ........., .... ................ . $600.00
Telephone ·and telegrap.h.....................,.............................. 2.81
Audit ...................................................................................... 10.00
Miscellaneous ...................................................................... 13.38
.76
Bank Tax ...................:.................. ~...................... .................

626.95

Total disbursements .................................................................... 1,601.95
16,422.63

Balance on hand July 31, 1935.......................................................................,....$ .893.99

Total receipts and balance........:.......................:.......::................$24,433.18
Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and holds three meetings per month.

Disbursements
For Relief:
· California Lodges ..........:....................... .'..........'.$5,555.93
Other Lodges in the United States................ 4,546.49
Foreign Lodges .... :............................................. 130.00
Repayment to Grand Lodge of California.... 200.00
Contributed to Employment Service.............. 1,000.00 $11,432.42
"Salaries ........................................................................~,480.00
Rent .............................................:................................ 360.00
-Miscellaneous .............................................................. 1,038.56

There is one paid employee, a Secretary, who receives $195 per annum. The
Secretary and Treasurer are •bonded in the amount of $500 each.
Funerals were condv.cted at a cost of $312.7S. Amount refunded, $123.93.
Balance on hand last report.. ............................................................:.................$ 536.85

Receipts During the Year
4,878.56

Total disbursements ...........................................:........................ 16,310.98
Balance on hand ju!y 31, 1935
. ................:................~................~..........:.,..........l . 8,12~.20

.

California Lodges ........................,.:.................................................$ 35.80
Other Lodges in the United States.......................:........................ 738.97
Funeral reimbursements .................................................................. 123.93
Individual reimbursements ..............................................................
7.00
Dance .................................................................................................... 554.00

1,459.70

Total receipts and balance............................................................$1,996.51
San Jose: Board of Relief is . composed of Masters and Wardens of five
Lodges and pieets quarterly. Per capita assessment during the year yielded
$557.69.
. ..
.
There .is ~ne paid employee, the secretary: who · receives a· sal~r·; of $50.00
per month; · The Secretary and Treasurer are bonded in the amount of $500 each.
, Auto insurance is carried. One .automobile is used.

Disbursements
For Relief:
California Lodges ........ ,...........................................$ 10.00
Other Lodges in the United States..............:......... 702.58
Funerals ...................................................................... 70.00
Funerals Committee services-flowers................ 242.78

Funerals were conducted at a cost of $200. Amount refunded, $200.
Balance on hand last report. .............;........................... :.....................................$ 822.70

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ............................................................,•..................$160.00
Other Lodges in the United States.................................................... 680.10
Foreign Lodges .................................................................................... 10.00 ·
Funerals .................................................................................................. 200.00
Per Capita Tax........:............................................................................. 557.69
Miscellaneous ........................................................................................ 36.21
Interest .................................................................................................... 29.24 1,673.24
. Tota~ receipts and balance........................'.··············:....................~,49,5.94

Salaries ...............................................................:..............$195.00
Telephone and telegraph.................................................. 7.20
Postage ................................................................................. 58.75
Printing and stationery.................................................... 74.98
Office supplies-Masonic cemetery expense................ 32.45
Audit .................................................................................... 10.00
F ield Representative expense.......................................... 130.00
Federal excise tax-checks.:............................................
.92
Miscellaneous .................................................................... 3.33

512.63

Total disbursements ...................................................................... 1,537.99
Balance on hand July 31, 1935...........,...............................:..................................$ 458.52

~

.....

.....

q'
w

'c<

0.

0

I)>

::r

0

0

8

!U

SU

....

0.

Cl. C:

~SU
oq c:

t;" ~

Er~
(1):

:

:

('D

il

'tj

g

z 0
Pl z

~~ > g

I':"' I':"'!

~~Ul

;l

,•

JJ

z - t::Iz"'
,Pl
-

""PIPIC:

;:; ~~ ~·

• 0
Iii !U <! ~ 171 !"

> 171·

.,.

::io

ZP!Z!:JP!()

;p.

.....

8

tn

'-l

.....

N
0

N

~

i

bbi:!~~

0

i.o

.....
~

00000

..... 00

1

i ! l l

1 ;

°'
00
tn

'(,.,
'D

;!!:

~8

· N '1
0\0

iii~[ ~k

11

"':

;-

('D

"I1';' ~ ::io 171 0

:

(1):

~!
.....

~

:

: : : :

:

I! li

:

11

0.;
Ul !

i . i 5. e.c::: !i
;;- !

I)>

'0.'.:. oq8.

~I:'"'

8. ;;·

~~

., 0

-

~ =:.: n;·

tT

.....

-·

0

t"D

oC.

I)>

'r": 'g.~ s

"' t:I

g.~
~ 5•

I)>

::S UI

o""-

0. 0

en

8
(b 0
D!
I)> oq
o I

°

~ tt.~ ~ :::!.

"rj

.,0
S?Q ~

;:;..·

(n

--

t:;j

I

"'

a

(1)

8

(1)

"'

.,c:

tT

u;·

Cl.

~

.,s.

-·(,/'J

-· ::s ..... ('D Pl

...,

::r'"10l"DSU

() "O "O ., Ul

;;;-

;:;

~

~

.

~"'"
;::

ti

(1)

n

C:::i

~

s

~

(n

~
::i
n

g"

·~

~

.....
~
'D

tno

'-lo

'DO

tn 'D
.,,. 00

!
I

r
i

;-

S' i

l

o..:
Ul

"'
(1):

::i:
;::;.·:

::i
0.

I)>

~-

(1):

(1)

E Et- "'
;;i

::i oq .

., ~I:'"'
:. 8.
0

2.05
60.7

40.9

$

2.71
40.1

23.9

24.8

54.9

81

$

100

1.90

$

$

10. 70

888

13il

~
2.52

374
514

874

28.32
$1689.12
$ ~T3. 79
384.67

50.00

5.00

2,181
2,625

~
$
3.01

$1~00.00

$1800.00

$

100

3.10

629

242
387

11.45
$1950.55
$ 384.67
234.12
750

60.00

3.00
49.20

$13o5. U9 ·$1584.00
1 s,1.00
180.00
60.80
62.90

$1800.00

$1800.00

Long ·Beach
1934
1935

o0 (1)

sus;

:

~ g:. g.3.
~·

n
~ '<

:

i oq

0

(1)

-·SU

3 n

0

't

~

8

.....
N

~

:

n

&.

I)>

(1)

(Jq

8.

::r
· I:'"'

(b
I)>

-

"'
0

....

(1)

(1)

8
3
tT

0

-

(1)

'8
"'0.

3

·o

n

"'

~

::io
(1)

0

-

SU

43.5

99
167
~
$ 5.18

.96
$1378.26
$ 927.88
(C) 1457.03
326

$

None

7.03

199

66
133

.26
$1399.60
$1457.03
(d) 1015.85
204

41.90
82.00
1.38
6.56
7.50

42.05
22.75
15.00
37.50

$1260.00

7.50
1.30
$ 958.42

270.50

$ 679.12

$1260.00

100.00
$1907.41

$ 600.00
984.91
222.50

Sacramento
1934
1935

~·

s·n
er
0.

"'

~
q

I)>

i

l:

en

<
(1)

!] •

~

0

.0.~ ...,

:

':

:

·~

:

::

fbq
i · ~ en·"'
~ i . c: ~
~

~

~

iC:JUSU

:

! :::?. s. [fl

c...

('D"'

0..

!:

n

o
rb" o~
0.. ::::3 ('D

:

ti

~

~
.....

o

a
~('D

.!!
n
w 0

S:U

to
...,

""""...,

(d) $178.95 or this is In a closed bank. Actual cash on hand, $836.90.
Banta Monica reorganized its service and all expenses are borne by Board of Relief. No record
or placements.
Stockton carries all expense in Board of Relief. Reports 44 applications and 27 positions
secured.

1,701
2,339
4,040
2.90
$

6.24
$ 987.20
$ 553.32
374.45
336
39.95
$1457.45
$ 649. 77
553.32
224

1 360 55
1,197.12
(&) '753.'67 (b) 1.077.82
$11,682.46 $12,098.24
$ 184.07 $282.3'7
84.13
282.37
5,881
4,806

8.50

11.00

442.61
32.20
25.00
104.15

35:00

$ 808.33

8.33

$ 800.00

34.00
15.00

$1325.00

$1361.00

li.00

$ 800.00
130.00
425.00

$ 6,899.85
952.50
1,368.86
129.02
328.49
59.58
25.00
60.00

$11,900.00

8,900.00

$ 3,000.00

San Diego
1934
1935

$ 750.00
90.00
32.15
90.00
6.25
1.56

$ 6,665. 10
960.00
1,339.18

$11,'f8iiT6

30.76

8,900.00

50.00

$ 2,800.00

Los Angeles
1934
1935

::l

The report was adopted excepting matters calling for appropriations, which were referred to the Committee
on Finance.

•Includes $900.00 transferred to Board of Relief and $575.00 for auto.
t Includes $1,000.00 transferred to Board of Relief.
(a) Includes $487.97 for bulletins and publicity
(b) Includes $805.41 for bulletins and publicity.·
(c) $298.24 or this is In a closed bank. Actual cash on band, $1,158. 79.

$

ii69

354
1115
450
934
~
$
2.87
1379
543

im-

t1085.25
$4990.44
$ 325.10
467.48
1469

*1625.97
$5466.20
$ 162.23
325. 10
2497

$2742.35
300.00
236.24
208.93
323.08
21.87
55.00
17.72
5.62
$3947.08
$ 474. 78
767. 70
2677

--- ---

23 .82
38. 76
$5132.82

21.34
13.03
$5629.07
$3180.00
180.00
200.00
300.00
50.04
31.42

$4240.00

$3975.00

Disbursements

900.00

$1600.00
2,570.24

$1600.00
2644. 70
350.00
1000.00

$2788.70
300.00
228.35
145. 71
302.63
24.84
50.00

840.00
1000.00

Salaries •••. • •••••••••••• $3180.00
180.00
Rent ••. •.. •.•.•••.•••••
Telephone and Telegraph ••••
250.00
300.00
Automobile Service .••••••••
26.48
Printing and Postage .••••••
42.22
O!lice Supplies . •••••••••••
Audit ••.••••.•••••••••••
Travel •. • ••••..• •• ••••••
Salaries and Expenses
(San Pedro omce) •.•••••
Miscellaneous • • • • • • • • • • • • •
39. 52
. Total Disbursements .•••••••• $4018.22
Cash Bal. Beginning or Period $ 518.00
Cash Balance End or Period..
474.78
Applications Reeeived.......
2130
Positions Secured .•••••••••
Permanent • • • • • • • • • • • • •
1061
1526
Temporary • • • • • . • • • • • • •
Total •.••••••• .••••• ~
Cost per Unit............. $
1.55
Percentage of Expense
49.7
Borne by Grand Lodge ••••

$2400.00
975.00
1000.00

East Bay
1934
1935

For Fiscal Years Ending July 31st, 1934 and 1935
$2000.00

San Francisco
1934
1935

0

;;-:i:'O"'
rnnfDl<C)

0.. t/l

~e!_~o~?.

oc:o. <'l>l:lPI'"
::r-~ ...... :;;· ~o

..,,o ~;f38'
o ...... ~cn..., on

0 ::i c: 3
::ti ft§-?~
"::ti

~ZO>-i"'rll

a

0 I)>
-·
0.

I:'"'

3
~

....

(1) 0
.,

(1)

(1)

~

~

to

I)>

.... I)>

on
::r ::::

FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT OF MASONIC EMPLOYMENT SERVICE

Grand Lodge .••••••••• ••••
Local Lodges ••••••••••••••
Other Masonic Bodies.......
Board or Relief............
Endowments ••••••••••••••
Interest .• . ...•••.•••••••
Miscellaneous ••••••••••••
Total Receipts..........

Receipts
From

"'
c:

q'

E.

0to

>

n

§
(1)

-a r

::io
(1)
'O
"'

to

I)>

~

"l

.....

'D

<n

z
....
>

~

0

"l

t"
....

~

"l

0

i:'l

t:l
t"
0
t:l
Cl

z

Cl
i:d

>

~

Pl

...,

0

r.n

Cl

z

....

t:l

i:'l
i:'l

(')

0

"d

tn
'D
0

592

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to submit the following report·
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
Your 'committee has examined the reports of the Board of Control on Reimbursement of Boards of Relief, and Masonic Employment Service. The
report is complete and displays the great amount of care the Board has exercised,
and the tremend-0us amount of work that it has done. We have nothing but
words of commendation for the work of this committee. It is saving the Grand
Lodge money.
The report of the Board recommends reimbursements to Boaras of Relid~
as follows :
·
·
San Francisco Board of Relief.. ..........................................$ 436.00
Los Angeles Board of Relief............................................. . 120.75
East Bay Board of Relief... ..............................................:.. 430.14
Cupertino Lodge No. 510......................................................
61.75
Laguna Beach Lodge No. 572.............................:..............
50.00
Total...............................:...............:....................$1,098.64
We offer t·he following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolt'ed, That the sum of $1,098.64 be and is hereby appropriated from th,·
funds of Grand Lodge to reimburse Boards of Relief and the two Lodges in tllt'
amounts as set out above.
Masonic Employment Service
Your committee, upon the recommendation of the Board of Control, offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $10,800.00 be and is hereby appropriated from the
funds of Grand Lodge, to be divided into the following donations to assist in
maintaining Employment Bureaus:
San Francisco Employment Service................................$ 2,400.00
East Bay Employment Service........................................ 2,400.00
Los Angeles Employment Service.................................... 3,300.00
San Diego Employment Service................:................... _..
800.00
Long Beach Employment Service.................................... 1,500.00
Sacramento Employment Service....................................
400.00
Total.. .................:..............................................$10,800.00
Reports of Grand Officers
The reports of the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary have been examined by this committee. The reports of both of these efficient officers display
great care and ability in handling the business of Grand Lodge. Your committee
has nothing but words of comme£Jdation and appreciation for their splendid
work.
The Grand Treasurer is performing a service for this grand body that
little attention has been given to, and yet it is of great importance. The service
referred to is the investment of the funds of Grand Lodge in various securities.
Grand Lodge has investments in securities through the Endowment Fund and
surplus Grand Lodge funds in excess of $1,000,000. To keep these funds carefully and properly invested, requires constant watching and rare judgment.
Both the Endowment Board and the Trustees of the Homes have committees to assist the Grand Treasurer in the performance of this important

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

593

function. The Grand Treasurer, however, is giving this requirement constant
scrutiny, arid with little attention from Grand Lodge on its importance.
The committee feels the Grand Treasurer is entitled to particular mention
and commendation for this service.
Grand Lodge Per Capita
The Constitution provides for the levying of a per capita of 50c to provide
for the expenses of Grand Lodge and its various committees. As will be noted
by the Budget, which is being submitted with this report, the revenue derived
from this source, together with other revenues coming to Grand Lodge, will
not be sufficient to provide for Grand Lodge activities for this coming year. The
differem:e ~s so small, however, that we feel unwilling to provide for any ad. ditional levy. The difference can be paid from the surplus accumulated from
previous years.
· The Constitution also provides for a per capita levy of 50c fo r .the Building Fund of Masonic Homes. In addition to this Building Fund and the other
revenues coming to the Homes, the H omes Trustees have recommended
the levying of an additional per capita of 75c for the maintenance of our two
Homes. Your committee is in accord with this request, and, therefore, offers the
following resolution and recommends its adoption.
Resolved, That a per capita of 75c per member be levied, and when paid,
shall be paid by the Grand Secretary to the Trustees of the H omes, for the
operation and maintenance expenses of the Homes.
Masonic Club Houses of the University of California at Berkeley and
Los Angeles
Your committee ·has reviewed the reports of the Trustees of these two Club
Houses, together with Public Accountants' reports on their accounts. These
reports indicate to your committee that great care is being exercised by the
Trustees of these two .Masonic activities, in their management and the spending
of the money necessary for their maintenance.
In discussing this activity the Trustees are loud in their praise of the good
that these two clubs are accomplishing. \ Ve also want to commend the Trustees
for the detail ofl the Budgets which they have presented. It would seem to your
committee that the requests which the Trustees make for funds for the continuation of these activities for this coming year, are quite reasonable. Your
committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $14,000.00 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge, for the support of the Masonic Club Houses, $7,000.00 thereof to
be paid to the Trustees of the Masonic Club House at Berkeley, and $7,000.00
thereof to be paid to the Trustees of the Masonic Club House at Los Angeles.
Resolutions
There has been referred to your committee two resolutions presented by
C. E. Mallachowitz, Past Master of Caledonia Lodge, No. 486. One of these
resolutions has to do with the salary of the Grand Secretary, the other proposing
the preparation and publication of a report on correspondence.
In this committee's report on salaries it states that it believes there should
be no change in salaries. It is also of the opinion that the action taken by Grand
Lodge in 1933, eliminating the expense for the preparation and publication of
'the correspondence report, was justified. It, therefore, makes no recommendations on these two resolutions. .
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
It is pleasing to your committee to note the reduction in the number of
Lodges that find their financial condition such that they cannot pay their Grand

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge dues. This year there are only four ( 4) such Lodges, whereas in 1933,
there were 36. Of the Lodges which were unable to pay in previous years, the
following Lodges are still delinquent:

Portrait of Grand Master
Your Committee on Finance recommends that our retiring Grand Master,
the Most Worshipful Randolph V. Whiting, have his portrait painted and present
the bill to the Grand Secretary, in an amount not to exceed $150.00, . who is
authorized to pay the same, and when the portrait has been painted, to be hung
in the gallery of our past Grand Masters . .

594

Yorba Linda, No. 469..................... ·-····-······························$ 239.60
Larchmont, No. 614...... :......................................................... 322.95
649.50
200.00

~;::~~tN~.0.1~~::::=:::::::::::::::::::::~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Making a total of Grand Lodge dues still due ................$1,412.05
The following Lodges have not been able to pay the 1935 dues:
Concord, No. 117................................................................... .$ 428.25
Bakersfield, No. 224......................•............·-····-················- 400.00
Azure, No. 533 ...............:..... -................................................. 262.25
Arcadia, No. 547....................................................................
71.50
Making a total of ....................................................................$1,162.00
A request has been received from Humboldt Lodge that the dues which
they owe for the year 1934 be remitted, and one from Yorba Linda Lodge, that
the balance they owe for dues for the year 1932, also be remitted. Your committee finds on inquiry that conditions in both of these communities have materially improved and that the outlook for the future for the communities, as
well as from a Masonic way, is good. It also must be borne in mind that the
remission of dues of any Lodge, throws an additional burden on other Lodges.
We, therefore, recommend that the request of these two Lodges be denied, and
that further time be given them for the payment of the balance .which they owe
on Grand Lodge dues.
We make a similar recommendation for Larchmont Lodge, No. 614, and
Concord Lodge, No. 117. For those four Lodges which have been unable to
pay their 1935 dues, we propose the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

Resolved, That each of the subordinate Lodges whose names are set out
above, execute notes in favor of the Grand Lodge for the amount due by each
of the said l:.odges in payment of said Grand Lodge dues, said notes to come due
on or before six months from date and bear interest at the rate of four percent
per annum.
Audit of Accounts
In accordance with the policy heretofore pursued by this committee, your
committee again employed the firm of Ruckstell and Land, Certified Public Accountants, to examine the books and records of the Grand Secretary-the Grand
Treasurer, the Masonic Homes of California, and the Endowment Fund. The
reports of this firm's examination on all of these records have been filed with
your committee. The report indicates that all records are correct and in proper
shape.
Travel Expenses of Grand Master
Your committee has given consideration to an appropriation to cover the
traveling expenses of the Grand Master for this coming year. We note that for
the year just closing, as well as the previous year, the entire appropriation made
for this purpose, has not been used. The committee is of the opinion, however,
that no reduction should be made in the appropriation for this purpose. We,
therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

Resolved, That the sum of $3,500.00 be, and the same is hereby appropriated
from the funds of Grand Lodge, to pay the traveling expenses of the Grand
Master during the coming Masonic year.

595

Portraits of Preceding Grand Masters
In looking through the gallery' of our past Grand Masters, it is to be noted
that five are missing, being the portraits of the following past Grand Masters:
William Rhodes Hervey.
Samuel Edgerton Burke.
William A. Sherman.
Will H. Fischer.
George L. Jones.
It is the belief of your committee that the gallery of portraits of those who
have served this Grand Lodge as Grand Masters, should be complete.
We, therefore, recommend that the above named past Grand Masters be
requested to have their portraits painted and present the bills for the same to the
Grand Secretary, in an amount not to exceed $150.00 for each portrait, who is
authorized to pay the same, and that when these portraits have been painted,
they be hung in the gallery of our past Grand Masters.
Salaries
. Your committee has given its usual consideration to the salaries being paid
by this Grand Lodge to its grand officers. It is of the opinion that no changes
should be made, and therefore recommend that the salaries for the coming year
be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ··········································-········$7,200.00
Grand Lecturer ..................................................... : 600.00
Assistant Grand Secretary .................................... 3,300,00
Grand Tiler ·····················--····························-······· . 200.00
Grand Organist -~- .............. :.................................. J-00.00
We further recommend .that the salaries of the Grand Secretary and Assistant Grand Secretary be for their services to the Masonic Homes, as well as
for the services to Grand Lodge, and that for their services to the Masonic
Homes, Grand Lodge .be reimbursed from the funds of the .Homes, in the
amount of $1,800.00 per annum.
We also ~ecommend that the traveling expenses incurred by the Grand
Lecturer and the four Assistant Grand Lecturers, in performing their official
duties within the State of California, as well as the expenses incurred by Grand
Lodge Officers, or members of Grand Lodge, who may be traveling by autho~ity
of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore, after the same have been audited
by the Committee on Accounts.
Pay of Members
Your committee on pay of members has submitted its report indicating
that the amount required to pay the traveling expenses of the officers and members attending this session, amounts to $16,437.90. We, therefore, offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption :

Resolved, That the sum of $16,437.90 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of Grand Lodge for the purpose of paying the traveling expenses of
officers and members attending this session.

596

PROCEEDING$ OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge Activities Committee
It is pleasing to your Finance Committee to be advised by the committee in
charge of this year's Grand Lodge activities that the expense incurred for the
various functions this year, will not equal the appropriations made for that
purpose. This committee wishes to reiterate its previously stated ·opinion ·that
the limit of this appropriation should not exceed $2,000.00. We, therefore, offe;
the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $2,000.00 be, and the same is hereby appropriated
out of the funds of Grand Lodge, to defray the expenses of the committee
having in charge Grand Lodge Activities W«!ek, for the annual communication
to be held in 1936.

evidence of improvement in the economic situation that reduction here, as well
. as in · outside relief account, can be expected.
In connection with the foregoing, reference is made to the suggestion of this
. committee in its report of last year with respect to the employment in northern
California of a person experienced in social service work, whose duties shall be
similar to those of the investigator who has for several years been profitably
employed in southern California. Your committee urges favorable consideration
of this important suggestion.
During the year payments of the further sum of $50,000 on the debt of the
Homes has been made. It is confidently hoped that a continuation of a policy
. of strict economy will permit substantial payments to be further made, looking
. toward the final extinguishment of the entire debt.
Recommendation with reference to the per capita for the support of the
Homes is made elsewhere in this report.

Seal Beach Lodge, No. 616
During the session of 1933, this committee recommended a loan be made to
~ea! Be~c.h 1;-odg_e, No. 616: in the s~m of $350.00 for the purpose of assisting
m rehab1htatmg itself and its Masonic Temple. This note still remains unpaid.
A request is now received from this Lodge that the entire amount of this note
be forgiven.
A thorough discussion of the affairs of the Lodge has been had with its
prese~t Master, Brother James J. Walder. The Lodge is small, having a membership of only 49. Business conditions in the community have not been good
for the past few years. The Master reports, however that the outlook for the
future is good, both Masonically and in an industrial ~ay. While we recognize
that a debt of this size on a small Lodge is somewhat of a burden yet your committee is of the opinion that, the obligation should not be can~elled but that
·further time should be given Seal Beach Lodge for the payment the;eof. We,
therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That Seal Beach Lodge, No. 616, be given further time to pay its
loan of $350.00 had from Grand Lodge.
Masonic Temples
Letters have been received from Howard Lodge, No. 37, at Yreka, and of
the Masonic Temple Association at Richmond, for assistance in refinancing the
obligations outstanding on their Temples.
While we are glad to have discussed with these parties their Temple problems, yet we have considered it unwise for Grand Lodge to attempt to assist
in refinancing any Temples, and have so advised _these two parties.
·
Masonic Homes
Your committee has given due consideratfon· to that p0rtion· of the report
of the Trustees of the Masonic H omes which appertains to Finance and finds
that upon survey of the items of receipts and disbursements that same have
been set forth in excellent detail. The report meets with the approval of the
c~mmittee and its commends the Trustees for their efforts in this respect.
·
Some increase in the expense of operation of the Homes is noted 0 due to
rising prices in such items as enter into the cost of maintenance. This is off set
to some extent by reduction in administration expense and outside relief account.
Your committee is pleased to note the reduction in this latter item but believes
that further reduction of a substantial nature is in order.
Consistent with resolution of Grand Lodge, passed last year, the Trustees
have been reimbursed out of Grand Lodge funds in the sum of $6,342.09, disbursed by the Trustees over the ten months period in the cases of distress of
brethren who are not eligible to admission to the Home. This activity will
represent a substantial demand on Grand Lodge funds in the current year and
will necessarily be reflected in the 1936 budget and largely responsible for its
unbalanced condition. The opinion prevails, however, that because of manifest

597

Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Your committee has examined the report of the activities of the Masonic
·Homes Endowment Board for the past year wherein the Board shows the collection of approximately $57,000. The expense of this collection was covered
by an appropriation of $6,000 by Grand Lodge at its annual communication in
1934. Your committee is of the opinion that the Masonic H omes Endowment
Board should continue their splendid effort to create a substantial endowment
fund, not only as a tribute to our departed brother, W. P . Jeffries, but ultimately looking toward the goal of relieving Grand Lodge and the constituent
Lodges of the cost of maintaining our Masonic Homes. Your committee having
in mind the reduction of expense wherever possible and giving favorable consideration to the request of the Masonic H omes Endowment Board, offer the
following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $4,000 be and is hereby appropriated from the
funds of Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board
for its expenses for the year ending July 31, 1936.
Budget
In analyzing the report of the Grand Secretary as to receipts and disburse· ments for the year ending July 31, 1935, we find that the income received was
about $1,000.00 over the amount included in the budget at the last annual com·munication. However, the total disbursements are in excess of the amounts budgeted, and also in excess of income received.
Total expenditures, after allowing for offsetting items, amounted to approximately $90,000.00, or about $6,000.00 in excess of the budget figures, and
about $8,500.00 in excess of the actual income for the same period. · This difference is more than accounted for by the two items of relief-Grand Masters
relief of $5,701.14 exceeding the budget by $700.00, and reimbursement of the
Masonic H omes in the amount of $6,342.09, the amount paid for outside relief
chargeable to Grand Lodge, and for which no amount was set up in the budget.
It 'is very difficult to budget relief expenditures, but your committee feels .
that some estimate should be made, and it ·has therefore included both items in
the budget for next year, which i~ as follows:
Cash on hand ..........................................:.........................................$42,000.00
Less that awaiting investment.................................................... 37,500.00 $ 4,500.00
Dues from Lodges......................................................................................- ........ 69,000.00
Interest and dividends ......................................_............................................:...... 11,000.00
Total income......................................................................................$84,500.00
Salaries .............................................:....................................................................$11,600.00
Printing ........"!.............................•.•.,•.•............•...............................•_•..••••.~•..., ..;.._ 4,000.00
Traveling Expenses-Grand Lecturer .and Assistants.................................. 1,600.00
Office rent .................................: ............................................................................ 3,900.00

I
S98

400.00
Postage ··········-·····..·····················································-··································-····
lS0.00
Auditing ··················--······································-··················································
Telephone and telegraph...................................... -.~ ......~..............:......................
2SO.OO
Grand Master relief ........................................................:.......:...............:...........: 6,000.00
Outside relief ........................................................................................................ 7,S00.00
Board of Control.........................................................., .......................................
S00.00
Public Schools Week..........................................................................................
600.00
Fifty Year Buttons...............................................................................................
400.00
Portraits Grand Master and five Past Grand Masters................................
900.00
Miscellaneous ...................................................................................................... 3,000.00
$40,800.00
Appropriations:
Pay of members--····-··································································.························$16,500.00
Reimbursement, Boards of Relief.........................·-········································ 1,100.00
Employment Bureaus ················-······················-····-············-···························· 10,800.00
Traveling Expense-Grand Master ................................................................ 3,S00.00
· Masonic Club Houses.............:. ............................................................................ 14,000.00
Endowment Board ····-·······················································-·······'···············,········ 4,000.00
Grand Lodge Activities Committee.................................................................. 2,000.00

$51,900.00

Total expense.........................................................:............................$92,700.00

Excess of expenditures over income...........................................................•.... 12,700.00
Estimated cash deficit at end of year .............................................................. . 8,150.00
This leaves an excess of expense over income of about $12,SOO.OO, or about
the amount budgeted for relief. In other words, the fifty cents per capita as
levied by the Constitution, plus income from investments, covers the normal
expenditure of Grand Lodge, but does not cover relief. Your committee fee.ls
that Grand Lodge cannot continue exceeding its income and using its capital
funds and that if the relief load is to continue, that an additional per capita
will have to ·be levied. However, we do believe that many factors are now
operating, which should lighten the relief burden. One of the most important
of these is the new old age pension law just passed by the legislature.
Therefore, we believe that the per capita should not be changed this year
and recommend that it be fixed as follows for the year .1936-37:
Grand Lodge ................................................:.$ .SO
Masonic Homes Maintenance.................... .7S
Masonic Homes Building Fund.............~.. .SO
Total........................................~ ......:......$1.i'S
Proposed Recommendations of Amendments to Constitution Proposed by
Committee on Accounts
The resolutions presented by the Committee on Accounts proposing altering
sections 37-E and 37-K, which sections provide for the payments of expenses
incurred by the members of the Board of Control and of the Endowment
Board, have been given consideration by your committee. The committee understands the purport of these two changes is to require that the expenses of these
two boards will have to be audited by the Accounts Committee before they are
in proper shape for payment. While this will entail some additional trouble and
delay by these two boards in securing the payment of expenses incurred, yet it
would seem to this committee that this scrutiny is in the line of additional care
·
..
and economy of expenses.
We, therefore, raise no objection to these proposed changes in the Constitution. It is to be noted, however, that the proposed amendments eliminate

S99

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the requirement of itemized statements. Your committee _is o_f the ~pinion that
this requirement should still be retained in any new legislation which may be
enacted.
·
·
t "b t t the
your committee cannot close its report without. paymg some n u e o
brother who has headed the activities of this committee for many, many years,
our esteemed Brother William P. Jeffries. His knowledge. of Grand Lodge
affairs, his wide experience in the comn_iercial ~orld and his many years of
service to Masonry is sadly missed by this committee.
ARTHUR S. CRITES,

c.

FRANK
RUPPEL,
WALTER L. BERGER,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON,
HoWARD B. KIRTLAND,
RUSSELL ESTY,
Lours UTTER,

J.

s

Committee.

The entire report was adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CRE.D ENTIALS
To the M.",

w:. Gra11d Lodge of Califor11ia .~

.

Your Committee on Credentials has the honor to report that the fo!lowing
members of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled to
participate in .its deliberations.
Mileage Allowed
Representatives
!..
..
Raymond
E.
Young,
Master
California............................. No.
George F. Wells, Sr. Warden
Ralph G. Wadsworth, Jr. Warden
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Harvey A. Marvin, Past Master
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Harry L. Dewey, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Harold W. Cookson, Past Master
H. P. Umbsen, Past Master
Raymond H. Willcox, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Past Master
Western Star........._ ...........No. 2.... A. V. Fondahn, Representative and
Past Master ..........................................$ 19.60
Tehama.................................No. 3.... Andrew Sorensen, Master........................
Frederick E. Holmes, Sr. Warden
Carl E. Yeargain, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. Schwartz, Inspector..................
Richard J. Carpenter, Past Master

S.40

Benicia..................................No. S....Ralph L. Bowerman, Master ....................

2.00

5.40

11.60
Tuolumne............................. N o. 8....Roland L. Hughes, Sr. Warden..............
Corinthian............................. No. 9....Wi!liam Menchinella, Master.................. 7.SO
George W. Williams, Sr. Warden
James W. Robipson, Inspector................ 7.SO

600

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Jose..._ ..........................No. 10....Chesley M. Douglas, Master..................
Herbert K. Daegling, Jr. Warden
Jos S. Greenley, Inspector......................
John H. McGehee, Past Master............
C. H. Smith, Past M·aster
Christopher H . Smith, Past Master
Curtner W. Zankner, Past Master
Yount .....................................No. 12....Frank W. Ferrari, Master........................
George J . Gerlach, Sr. Warden
Percy S. King, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2.90
2.90
5.40

2.50

Nevada..................................No. 13....Walter A. Carlson, Master...................... 15.02
Ternple..................................No. 14....Everett T. Murphy, Master....................
Henry J. Baliros, Sr. Warden
H . D. Burmester, Past Master
Eureka.................................. No. 16.... Sydney W. Bancroft, Past Master
Louis G. Roberts, Past Master and
Representative ..............·..........................

3.00

7.60

La Parfaite Union.............. No. 17.... Paul Gros, Master
Leopold L. Detoy, Sr. Warden
A. L. Auradou, Inspector
Henry Mottet, Past Master
M . E. Diebold, Past Master
A. P. Girard, Past Master
Mountain Shade..................No. 18.... Stanley N. McCormick, Master.............. 23.50
San Joaquin ..........................No. 19....Bruce E. Olmsted, Master........................
·
Bruce G. Hislop, Past Master

5.10

Washington..........................No. 20....Berman T. Silvius, Jr., Master.............. 5.40
J. J . Haken, Past Master and
Inspector ·················-····························· . 5.40
H . I. Scholefield, Past Master
David H . Pinsler, Past Master
Hawaiian.............................. No. 21....William J. Dickson, Master.................... 250.00
Occidental............................ No. 22.... Herbert Chas. Engle, Master
Roderick B. Cassidy, Sr. Warden
Alden Ames, Jr. Warden
Ralph K. Marshall, Past Master
Rudy Mohr, Inspector
Wm. Penn Humphreys, Past Master
H. A. C. Mitchell, Past Master
Madison................................ No. 23 ....Francis W . Be1mallack, Master.............. 14.76
Walter J. Wieger, Sr. Warden
Thomas M. Harris, Past Master............ 14.76
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master.... 15.02
Mariposa..:........................... No. 24....William Hardwick, Sr. Warden............ 23.22
Fred C. Alexander, Past Master
J . S. McElliott, Past Master
Georgetown.......................... No. 25....Walter G. Drysdale, Master.................... 13.80
El Dorado.............................No. 26....Max L. Davey, Master.............................. 9.80
Henry Panning, Sr. Warden
Trinity...................................No. 27....Hal E . Goodyear, Representative............ 30.60

Golden Gate-.....:..................No. 30....Henry H. Schulz, Master
Albert E . Witcher, Sr. Warden
Nicholas F. Munson, Past Master
Paul R. Bjick, Past Master
A. F . Heuer, Past Master
Fred S. Nobmann, Past Master
Fred J. Schultz, Past Master
George H. Dannemark, Past Master
Edw. C. C. Wellesley, Past Master
S. S. Schlobohm, Past Master
Gold Hill.............................. No. 32....Barney G. Barry, Master....,.. - .................
Ophir.,..............,....................No. 33....J. T. Morley, Past Master and
Representative ........................................
San Diego.............................No. 35.... Earl J. Verdeckberg, Sr. Warden........
Shirley R. Hymer, Jr. Warden
James B. McLees, Inspector....................
R. W. Belding, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master..........
Howard..................................No. 37.... Ra!ph F. McMurry, Sr. Warden............
Santa Cruz........................... No. 38....Robert E. Burton, Master........................
Fred B. Montell, Sr. Warden
J. N. Dier, Jr. Warden
Willett Ware, Past Master
Val C. Waterman, Past Master
Sacramento...................:......No. 40....Edward A. Kuechler, Master..................
·
Chas. M. Smith, Past Master
Martinez...............................N o. 41.. .. Chester Raymond Arthur, Master....... .
Edwin D. Blakemore, Sr. Warden
Louis Mittleman, Inspector ................... .
Los Angeles......................... No. 42....Max G. Samuels, Master........................
Joseph Wm. Lewis, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Assistant Grand
Lecturer .............,............. - .........................
Hiram................................... No. 43....William F. Truscott, Master..................
Mount Moriah ..................... No. 44....Rene A. Vayssie, Master
J. C. Kimball, Past Master
Thomas Nixon, Past Master
D . B. Richards, Past Master
Roy A. Pratt, Past Master
Crescent ................................ No. 45....Howard E. Raymond, Jr. Warden........
Texas.................................... No. 46....Edward F. Pearce, Master......................
Forbe~town .......................... No. 50....Charles E. Fernandez, Sr. Warden ....... .
· .
J. D. Vance, Past Master
J. A. Vaughn, Past Master
Iltinoistown..........................N o. 51.... Charles Clay Moore, Master..................
Suisun................................... N o. 55....Benson B. McGann, Master....................
Harry Nelson, Inspector..........................
J . H . Murray, Past Master
Volcano................................,No. 56.... Paul B. Procter, Master............................
Santa Rosa ..:........................ No. 57.... George H. Lindemenn, Master................
Martin Leggerini, Sr. Warden
Karl F. Stolting, Past Master
Raford W. Leggett, Past Master·
James T. Mailer, Past Master
Ellsworth L. Barnett, Past Master
Union:.................- ................. No. 58....Leland H. Carlton, Master......................
Jack C. Butler, Sr. Warden
H. S. Mcintire, Past Master

601

7.10
15.80
42.98
42.98
42.98
27.52
7.10

5.40

2.10
3.50
34.40
34.40
9.30

42.00
5.30
15.00
9.10
3.00
3.00
13.26
3.30

5.40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Gravel Range ____________"___________ No. 59... .Julius E. Pa~ly, Past Master and
Representative _____ :_·---·--·-·---·-·-················ 17.50
Plumas ..·----·····-·-··---·······-·--·-·No. 60.... Lee Wm. Larison, Master·-··--·----·--·····..... 21.52
Wm. E. Styan, Past Master
Live Oak __________________ ,, ___________ N o. 6L.Rulo E. Minard, Master
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Grand Master
C. A. Severin, Past Master
Natorna .... ~'----·-·--···-'""·----··-·No. 64.... Edmund E. Payen, Master ________________ ........ 6.80
Amador·-----·-·--------·--·------------N o. 65 .... George Johnson, Master·-----·--------------·--·· 9.68
Fores~'--------··-----·--'------·-·------:No. 66 .... Willard V. Van Doren, Sr. Warden____ 23.24
Mornmg Star---------·-··----------No. 68.... Ray L. Hamlin, Master ____ ,, __________________ .... 5.10
Clarence E. Stewart, Sr. Warden
H. Wallace Rohrbacher, Jr. Warden
H. W. Bessac, Inspector .. -------------------···-- 5.40
Orin S. Henderson, Past Grand Master
1.90
Enterprise ............................. No. 70.... Ralph Vernon Newcomb, Sr. Warden..
7.30
Clive B. Kelly, Jr. Warden
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Desmond A. Winship, Past Master
Bear Mountain ____________________ No. 76.... August P. Nelson, Master........................ 10.18
Chas. P. Cusick, Jr., Jr. Warden
Calaveras .............................. No. 78. ... Henry Wesson,· Representative................ 9 .60
Humboldt.·--·-·---------·--·--··-----No. 79.... Howard B. Melendy, Master.................. 23.24
Russell E. Harvey, Sr. Warden
James T. Fraser, Jr. Grand Warden...... 23.24
Trustom R. Dinsmore, Past Master
Tone........................................ No. 80... Joseph W. Sibole, Master
I
H. A. ·Harper, Inspector__________________________ 7.60
Yo o....................................... No. 81.. .. Forrest Laugenour, Master ........ ·-·---·-·-···· 5.50
Vesper·-·-··--··-·-·---·---··-·-·--··----No. 84 .... C. T. Burgess, Jr., Representative________ 16.00
NavaL. ...... ___________ ,____ ,__________ No. 87 .... David Jeffers, Master ___ _._______ ..................... 2.00
Elton L. Hunt, Sr. Warden
Phillip S. Creedon, Jr. Warden
Jos. Anderson, Past Master
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
·
Jos. C. Harrison, Past Master
Rose's Bar............................ No. 89.... Herbert L. Hite, Jr. Warden.................. 10.50
St. Helena. ___________________________ .No. 93 ....John A. Mitchell, Sr. Warden ______________ ,, 4.00
Henry Clay __________________ ,, ______ No. 95 .... Christopher Obradovich, Master____________ 9.76
Hornitos _______________________________ No. 98. ... William A. Thompson, Sr. Warden,_____ 17.98
Yosemite ____ ,, _________________________ No. 99 .... Alfred Wm. Petersen, Sr. Warden........ 8.40
Leslie F. Moe, J 1"- Warden
Roy E. Lantz, Inspector _____ ,_____________________ , 8.40
True W. Fowler, Past Master
Walter J. Chenoweth, Past Master
.
Earl R. Ewing, Past Master
Clay....................................... No. lOL.Ralph H. Kesteys, Master.................... 10.00
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
·
Oroville................................. No. 103....Alroy J. Gault, Master__________________________ 9.00
Harold L. Mason, Sr. Warden
Albert E. Boynton, Past Grand Master
Lexington ____________________________ No. 104.... Donald M. Dinsmoor, Master______________ 35.30
Arcata................................... No. 106.... Sidney A. Webster, Sr. Warden________ 23.74
Pajaro............,...................... No. 110.... Alfred Burnell, Master____________________________ 5.90
Chico..................................... No. 111..".Wm. Valentine West, Sr. Warden...... 10-20
SummiL .............................. No. 112.... Wi!liam G. Howe, Sr. Warden____________ 7.10

Eden...................................... No. 113 ... .James S. Drummond; Master ________________ · .90
Sydney B. Force, Past Master
Concord................................ No. 117... .J am es F. Lyon, Representative _____________ _ 5.40
Harold E. Moon, Past Master
Benj. T. Meier, Past Master
Clinton _______________________ _. __________ No. 119.... Byron D. Bigler, Sr. Warden _____________ _ 21.60
Fideljt'.Y-------·--·-··-·-·-·-·--·'----· No. 120.... Albert F. N emnann, Master
Harold S. Simon, Jr. Warden
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Phillip Jacobovics, Past Master
Jesse Rosenwald, Past Master
L. M. Loewenthal, Past Master
B. Armer, Past Master
AlamO----·------·--··-----·-·-----------No. 122 .... Mathis C. Andersen, Master _________________ _ 3.20
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Master
Sotoyome ______________________________ No. 123 .... Perry D. Austin, Sr. Warden ___________ _ 4.10
Table Mountain __________________ N o. 124.... Roy Clarence Lewis, Master·--------------- 9.00
La Fayette----·-----··-·····-··-.. ··· No. 126....James G. Thomson, Master............ _____ _ 3.70
William C. Heatly, Inspector _______________ _ 3.70
E. A. Feaks, Past Master
Chas. H. King, Past Master
Hermann.............................. No. 127.... Hans E. Warncke, Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Sr. Warden
Rich H. Dachner, Jr. Warden
Louis Muller, Past Master
Ernest Gentner, Past Master
John Behrens, Inspector
Paul R. Schubert, Past Master
Emil A. N eumarkel, Past Master
George A. Creon, Past Master
Paul H. Posch, Past Master
Visalia ................................... No. 128.... Robert B. McNutt, Master___________________ _ 18.40
Nicolaus............................... No. 129.... Linden S. Pritchard, Sr. Warden ...... .. 7.50
Wood~ridge ......................... No. 131.. .. Max A. Mann, Sr. Warden .. _______________ _
5.60
Sincerity............................... No. 132 ____ Walter I. Nelson, Master _____________________ _ 21.14
Vacaville............................... No. 134.... Frank H. Clark, Past Master
E. W. Stoddard, Past Master
Valley.................................... No. 135 ....J. M. Corson, Past Master
Walter E. Freeman, Past Master and
6.10
Representative ·-------------------·---·-·-------------Pacific.•..- .............................. No. 136.... William J. Dawson, Master
William C. Drinnen, Sr. Warden
Raymond T. AniXter, Jr. Warden
Thomas Anderson, Inspector
Chas. E. Jackson, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Albert A. Axelrod, Past Master
Frank Mueller, Past Master
Harry K. Wolff, Past Master
Robert L. Lincoln, Past Master
CrocketL.............................. No. 139.... Williert H. Mason, Sr. Warden
Wm. A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
H. J. Gaevert, Past Master
C. L. Wehe, Past Master
P. Jorgensen, Past Master
Grafton.............._ .............. No. 141.. .. Forrest R. Russell, Sr. Warden .... _______ _ 5.80

602

603

604

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Franklin................................No. 143....George H. Holmes, Jr. \Varden ......... :..
]. H . Hyde, Past Master
Oriental... .............................. No. 144.... Charles R. Brown, Master
Delbert L. Berry, Sr. Warden
Walter Leonard, Inspector
Edward F. Wa11, Past Master
Wm. E. Conner, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Volney Stamps, Past Master
Wm. S. Wells, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
L. P. Hansen, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
Chas. T. Clark, Past Master
Roy N. Buell, Past Master
F. C. Martin, Past Master
John F. Clute, Past Master
Vittuvius .............................. No. 145....Theo. J . Friis, Master............................
Russell Lynn Smith, Sr. Warden
Abel!... ................................... No. 146....Russel! D. Ford, Jr. Warden,...............
Eel River ............................. No. 147....Ralph E. Bowman, Sr. Warden.......... ..
Walter G. Orman, Inspector ............... .
Lassen................................... No. 149.... Carlos C. Lucero, Master......................
.
Wallace V. Hardy, Sr. Warden
Molino.......:...........:...............No. 150.... Howard V. Burnett, Jr. Warden....... .
Woodland ............................. No. 156.... George A. Zane, Master........................
L. E. Fairlee, Past Master
Keystone.............................. No. 161.... Albert L. Groves·, Representative....... .
Harmony........... _................. N o. 164.... Richard J. Thomas, Master..................
Ernest M. Innes, Past Master
Excelsior.............................. No. 166.... Walter J. Pybon, Master
Joseph C. Sand, Jr. Warden
Arnold T. Brown, Past Master
James W. Crosby, Past Master
Walter Peddicord, Pa,st Master
Ralph G. Curtis, Past Master
Elwood R. Olsen, Past Master
Alameda................................No. 167....Herbert F. Harrold, Master................ ..
Frank G. Evans, Sr. Warden
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
Redwood City..................... No. 168.... Ralph C. Rathbone Morser,
Sr. Warden ........................................ ..
John R. Isaac, Jr. Warden
Mission ................................. No. 169.... Richard L. Plath, Master
Harry F. Husted, Sr. Warden
Daniel D. Smith, Jr. Warden
Robert E. A11an, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
John C. Strickler, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
Wm. Griffith, Past Master
Elk Grove............................ No. 173....Edgar ]. Camp, Master..........................
Nathan M. Clem, Sr. Warden
George B. Stout, Jr., Warden
A. M. Leavett, Rast Master
Thomas L. Conrad, Past Master
George M. Taverner, Past Master
Drytown............................... No. 174....John J . Myers, Representative..............

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

6.40

4.10
6.90
23.74
19.74
25.26
15.30
5.20
6.90
30.40

2.00

1.60

6.50

9.26

605

-Antioch................................. No.175....John F. Cox, Master................................ 3.30
James N. Christian, Past Master
Phoenix................................ No. 178....Roy B. Cole, Master.............................. 37.90
Chas. E. Showalter, Sr. Warden
M. J. Newburg, Past Master ·
Mendocino............................No. 179....Harry J. Wakerley, Sr. Warden.......... 21.12
Petaluma.............................. No. 180....Eugene R. Bell, Past Master and
Representative ...................................... 2.40
Arbuckle...............................No. 182....B. E. Perkins, Past Master.................... 3.80
Clear Lake........................... No. 183.... Clarence E. Corum, Past Master and
·
Inspector .............................................. 13.00
Sierra Valley...................... No. 184.... Harry A. ·Turner, Master...................... 28.40
Claiborne.............................. No. 185....Jarnes D. Jensen, Master........................ 20.12
Evening Star........................ No. 186....A!exander Parker, Past Master ............ 30.30
Keith ......................................No. 187.... Harry L. Wilkinson, Master.................. 4.70
Oakland.................................No. 188....Milton Hendrickson, Master
Melvin L. Graves, Sr. W arden
Frank A. West, Jr. Warden
Wm. N. Munro, Past Master
Arnt C. Heidekker, Past Master
Ralph A. Kurtz, Past Master
· Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand Master
Thomas I. Miller, Past Master
Arthur Mock, Past Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Northern LighL..................No. 190.... Dryal Armstrong, Jr. Warden.............. 20.10
Marin.....................................N o; 191.... Albert D. Turner, Master ................... . 1.74
Henning S. Vandel, Sr. Warden
Frank L. Berthinier, Jr. Warden
H. F. Meilink, Past Master
Jos. Block, Past Master
A. B. Dewing, Past Master
H. K. Walton, Past Master
A. L. Borkheim, Past Master
Santa Barbara...................... No. 192....Estle A. Fenn, Sr. Warden.................. .. 27.10
John McRae, Inspector ............................ 27.10
Ferndale................................No. 193....N. John Lund, Master............................ 24.92
C. Matheson, Past Master
Mountain View....................No. 194....Hans. V. Lund, Master.......................... 2.20
Leon H . Watson, Sr. Warden
Buckeye................................ No. 195.... A. H. Manyan, Past Master................ 5.00
San Simeon.......................... No. 196....Roland L. Houtz, Master...................... 24.00
Seth G. Kinney, Jr. Warden
E. J. Righetti, Past Master
Wilmington.......................... No. 198.... K. E. Kincaid, Sr,. Warden.................... 35.60
Hartley..~...............................No. 199....Harry L. Jordan, Sr. Warden .............. 11.10
Truckee................................. No. 200.... Halford L. Hackley, Master................ 18.30
Pentalpha............................. No. 202.... Clovis J. Robert, Master........................ 34.40
Leland A. Dailey, Sr. Warden
L. C. Kelley, Inspector .......................... 34.40
Theodore T. Spurgeon, Past Master.. 34.40
James B. Gist, Past Grand Master.....; 34.40
William Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand
Master .................................................... 34.40
Confidence............................No. 203.... Harold R. White, Master...................... 5.66
Walter C. Buttle, Sr. Warden
Christopher Dudley, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA

Salinas...................- ..............No. 204.... Harold M. Hitchcock, Master.............. 6.90
Henry A. Holme, Sr. Warden
Olivet.___ ..............................No. 205.... Chas. W. Butler, Master........................ 10.80
Jules M. Nathan, Sr. Warden
Stanislaus............·-····--········ No. 206....0scar F. Thrasher, Sr. Warden..........- 6.20
Anaheim..•............................. No. 207.... Addison P. Brown, Master..............•..... 36.00
Rio Vista.............................. No. 208.... Harry E. Alley, Jr. Warden.......·-········ 4.40
King David's:.......:.............. No. 209 .... Howard B. Kirtland, Master................ 19.00
Carl Pate, Sr. Warden
John Whicher, Grand Secretary
Walter D. Adriance, Junior Grand
Steward ............................................,..... 19.00
Friendship............................ No. 210.... Chas. V. Whalley, Master.................... _ 2.90
Ernest L. Wilder, Jr. Warden
D. J. Sedgwick, Past Master
A. T. Hollingsworth, Past Master
L. R. Britton, Past Master
San Benito ........:.................. No. 211.... Max D. Ley, Master................................ 5.50.
Martin C. Arthur, Sr. Warden
Herman A. Hermansen, Jr. Warden
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master and
Inspector ...................................:............ 5.50
F. H. Wood, Past Master
So. San Francisco..............No. 212.... Chas. H . Kispert, Master
Wm. G. Green, Past Master
H. A. Kruger, Past Master
C. F. Hensel, Past Master
A. D. Zanetti, Past Master
. 0. J. Spindler, Past Master
San Buenaventura..............No. 214.... Homer Wheeler, Master........................ 29.80
James R. Henderson, Sr. Warden
M. L. Brazil, Inspector........,................. 29.80
Hugh M. Wood, Past Master
R. W. Cummings, Past Master
Oak Grove ..........................No. 215 .... Mansfield W. Garratt, Master
Chester F. Hacke, Sr. Warden
William H. Cox, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
M. C. Godfrey, Past Master
Doric..................................... No. 216....Jacon W. Ehrlich, Master
Samuel D. Hamburg, Sr. Warden
Walter C. Simpson, Jr. Warden
Manuel Lafee, Past Master
Monterey......................- ....-No. 217....Mathew Stahl, Master............................ 7.40
Mosaic...................................No. 218....M. J. Clark, Past Master........................ 2.90
·
T. F. Brady, Representative
Speranza ltaliana...............No. 219....Joe Cimino, Jr., Master
Vito L. Bruno, Jr. Warden
Pietro Capua, Past Master
J. M. Icardo, Inspector
John Isola, Past Master
A. M. Cogliandro, Past Master
Downey,.....................- .........No. 220....Lance A. Walker, Sr. Warden. ............. 35.10
lnyo..............................- ...... No. 221....James G. Wilder, Jr. Warden.............. 45.30
A. C. Krater, Past Master
Roseville ................-·····-···-No. 222....Frederick A. Denny, Jr., Jr. Warden.. 6.50

Bakersfield........................... No. 224.... Frederick W. Finch, Master......:........... 2320
Henry Eissler, Past Master.................. 2320
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master 23.20
Brooklyn...............................No. 225.... Herbert D. Johnson, Master
William Keay, Sr. Warden
Roy S. A. Lenthall, Jr. Warden
Francis T. Rermie, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo............................No. 226.... Hjalmar Johnson, Master...................... 1.10
Hugh W. Allen, Sr. Warden
Athens................................... No. 228.... Grover C. Lowe, Sr. Warden................ 4.60
Solano..........................,........ No. 229....Harry Wm. Brown, Master.................. 2.00
A. J. Whitney, Past Master
0. H. Hilton, Past Master
H. A. Frahm, Past Master
Dempsey F. Dufour, Past Master
North Butte........................ No. 230.... Merle R. Criddle, Sr. Warden.............. 6.90
Covelo..-···-··························No. 231.... L. J. Lane, Sr. Warden...................:...... 17.74
Janesville.............................. No. 232.... 0tis Clark, Master.................................. 29.26
Calistoga...............................No, 233....John Emory Williams, Master.............. 4.50
Hope...................................... No. 234....R. A. Scolari, Past Master and
·
Representative ...................................... 24.92
Surprise Valley...................No. 235....0rville Hotchkiss, Representative........ 41.36
Hills Ferry.......................... No. 236.... Alvin Kniebes, Sr. Warden.................... 6.60
W. S. Thompson, Past Master and
Inspector ·······-~·-····································· 6.60
Guadalupe.............................No. 237....Julius R. Rogers, Sr. Warden.............. 20.40
Colusa...- .............................. No. 240.... Isaac C. Totman, Master........................ 8.10
E. L. Hicok, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................ 8.10
Santa Ana ............................No. 241.. .. Sidney J. Babcock, Master.................... 36.40
Horace J. Howard, Sr. Warden
Magnolia........................:..... No. 242....0range R. McNall, Master.................. 27.10
Dana F. Bucey, Jr. Warden
Eucalyptus............................No. 243.... Walter F. Flierl, Jr. Warden................ 1.30
N. E. Clemens, Past Master
Alcatraz................................ No. 244....Herbert Henry Harry, · Master
John M. Ward, Sr. Warden
E. A. Clothier, Past Master
L. T. Corwin, Past Master
Laurel.................................... No. 245....R. R. Ingram, Past Master.................... 9.10
Pomona........................:........ No. 246.... Ernest R. Geddes, Master...................... 36.50
George A. Ritter, Sr. Warden
Clarence R. Goff, Jr. Warden
Fresno....:.............................. No. 247....C. H. Warlow, Asst. Grand Lecturer 15.70
H . F. White, Past Master
D. H . Fisher, Past Master and
Representative ...................................... 15.70
Alturas..................................No. 248...:Chester W. Mapes, Jr. Master .............. 35.36
Chas. S. Baldwin, Past Master
Landmark..........- ................. No. 253....John Wm. Gilliam, Sr. Warden.......... 6.10
Reading....- ............,..............No. 254....G. C. DeForest, Inspector...................... 18.10
Earl Lee Kelly, Past Master
Albert F. Ross, Past Master and
Representative ...................................... 18.10
Welcome............................... No. 255....Benj. H. Pratt, Master....._........._. ......... 18.30

606

607

608

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

Lodi....................................... .No. 256.... Gerald J . Wagers, Jr. Warden ............•.
T. G. Wright, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................
Penrhyn................................ No. 258 .... Edmund Jos. Pilz, Master......................
Evergreen .............................No. 259....Wilbert R. Graham, Master..................
Henry D. French, Sr. Warden
James McD0t1gall, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master ......... .
W. G. Babcock, Past Master
J. F. Davidson, Past Master
A. Heber Winder, Past Master
King Solomo11's .................. No. 260-....Charles H . Teubert, Master
David Kerr, Sr. Warden
Willard W . Grundel, Jr. Warden
W. K. Cullen, Past Master
Henry L. Green, Past Master
Tuscan.................................. N o. 261.. .. Gilbert Britton, Past Master and
Representative ..................................... .
Lompoc ................................. N o. 262.... M. R. Pattee, Past Master and
Representative ......................................
Hesperian ............................. No. 264.... Maxton A. Laughlin, Sr. Warden ....... .
Orland ...................................No. 265 .... Stanley E. Coffey, Master ......................
Francis P. Masterson, Sr. Warden
Herman Thode, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................
North East... ........................No. 266 ....Frank Barmettlor, Master ......................
Galt... ......... ;...........................No. 267 ....Albert Osler, Past Master and
Representative ..................................... .
Durant... ............................... No. 268 .... Donald D. Graves, Master
John Jacob Hink, Sr. Warden
N. 0. Miller, Past Master
William H . Waste, Past Master
R. E. Hoyt, Past Master
W. W . Bradley, Past Master
Olive Branch ...................... No. 269 ....Robert K. Meyers, Master ................... .
Snow Mountain .................. No. 271....D. 0. Sullivan, Master ........................... .
Pasadena ............................... No. 272 .... Torrance C. Welch, Master ..................
George J . Macey, Sr. Warden
Anchor .................................. No. 273 ....Cecil M. Prior, Master ............................
Theodore M. Newtson, Sr. Warden ·
Arroyo .................................. No. 274 .... Wm. M. Houser, Master:.......................
A. H. Severson, Past Master
Oakdale................................. No. 275 .... Leroy E. Wood, Master ....................... .
Lawrence B. Gilbert, Sr. Warden
B. F. Hoisholt, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................
Selma .....•···········- ······-··········No. 277 .... Don H . Sinclair, Sr. Warden............... .
Southern California .......... No. 278.... Benjamin F . Robinson, Master ............. .
Edward B. Spencer, Past Master
Hanford ................................ No. 279....Archie D. Warnock, Sr. Warden....... .
W. E. Martin, Inspector ....................... .
Madera .................................. No. 280....Dean Cook, Sr. Warden ........................
Mount Shasta......................No. 281.. ..H. C. Dusendschen, Past Master and
Representative ..................................... .
Edwin L. Story, Past Master
Callayomi... .......................... No. 282.... Philip J. Menzio, Sr. Warden ............. .

5.40
5.40
7.10
37.90
37.90

7.60
23.80
21.22
10.00
10.00
43.66
5.40

18.40
14.10
35.20
35.10
19.74
7.10
7.10
16.70
34.40
17.80
17.80
14.50
17.40
9.00

609

South We·st... .................. _...No. 283 .... F . T. Hutcheson, Master ........................ 42.98
Thomas E. Ward, Sr. Warden
E. G. Spofford, Inspector...................... 42.98
San Miguel... ....................... No. 285 ....Maurice C. Getzelman, Master ........... . 12.20
Paso Robles ................._..... No. 286 .... 0tto M. Kuehl, Master......................... . 12.80
Winnedumah ....................... No. 287....Ivan E. Harrah, Master.......................... 46.72
Maxwell... ............................. No.288 ... .]ames E. Gorman, Jr. Warden ............. . 8.10
Elsinore .................................No. 289 .... Arthur E. Gustafson, Sr. Warden........ 40.22
East Gate ............................. No. 290 .... Edward H. Martin, Master................... . 34.40
Eric St. C. Flett, Sr. Warden
R. E . Smith, Past Master
Frank M. Smith, Past Master ............ 34.40
E. L. Stephen, Past Master
Santa Paula ......................... No. 291.. ..Gustav A. Quick, Sr. Warden ............. . 30.80
Los Gatos ............................No. 292 .... Henry Owen Smith, Master ............... . 3.10
T . M. Widby, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................... . 2.90
Orange Grove ......................No. 293 ....George M. Lee, Master ......................... . 36.40
John D. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Leon D. Whitsell, Past Master
Traver..........•................_...... No. 294 .... Wm. C. Rothermel, Sr. Warden .......... 17.00
Mt. Jackson~ ......................... No. 295 .... Frederick R. Nydegger, Master ........... . 4.50
Silver Gate ........................... No. 296....Frederick S. W eed, Master ................... . 42.98
Han1> Peter Larsen Beck, Sr. Warden
Emil L. Schellenberg, Jr. Warden
Dunsmuir ............................. .No. 297.... Ellsworth R. Deering, Master ............. . 22.90
Clay C. Roberts, Sr. Warden
Liberty.:...·-········-·················No. 299 .... Wm. Jones, Sr. Warden....................... . 2.70
John T. Allen, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. English, Past Master
Chas. 0. Burrell, Past Master
Redlands ...............................No. 300 .... Harold F. Taylor, Sr. Warden ............ 38.50
Harry Horne, Grand Bible Bearer ...... 38.50
Arthur Crim, Inspector.......................... 38.50
Ontario..................................No. 301....William B. Reed, Master ....................... . 36.80
Santa Lucia.......................... No. 302 .... William R. Luckett, Master................. . 9.60
Porterville ............................ No. 303 ....Chas. J. Cummings, Sr. Warden .......... 19.90
0. W. Carr, Past Master and
Inspector ................................................ 19.90
W . C. Bradford, Past Master
Reedley ....................... _........ No. 304 ....Clarence E. Skidmore, Jr. Warden ...... 17.20
Azusa .................................... No. 305 ....John A Lee, Sr. Warden..................... . 35.90
Ashlar ................................... No. 306.... Albert J. Erichsen, Master .................... 37.90
Alexander Jenkins, Sr. Warden
Santa Monica ...................... No. 307.... Wallace F. Basbrouck, Master .............. 35.70
·
Earl S. Miller, Sr. Warden
F . M. Wise, Inspector ............................ 35.70
F. J. Moody, Past Master
Monrovia .............................. No. 308. ... Henry J. Brown, Sr. Warden............. . 35.50
C. L. Anderson, Jr. Warden
Delano...................................N o. 309 .... Herbert H. Kramer, Master ............... . 21.30
0 . J. Whitten, Past Master
Archibald Sheppard, Past Master
Sisson .................................... No. 310....Robert E. Roush, Sr. Warden ........... . 23.80
Los Banos ............................ N o. 312 .... Alexander McKenzie, Master ............... . 7.80
Forrest F. Varney, Sr. Warden
Eugene L. Christian, Jr. Warden

611

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Tehachapi... .......................... No. 313.... Robert G. Nelson, Master...................... 25.10
Temescal... ............................No. 314 .... Avery W. Briggs, Sr. Warden
·
.
Fred E. Snidecor, Past Master............ 38.80
Norwalk ................................No. 315....Chas. E. Irish, Sr. Warden.................... 35.40
Sanger................................... No. 316.... John J. Linenbach, Sr. Warden............ 16.60
Fallbrook.............................. No. 317.... 0liver B. Staude, Sr. Warden............ 42.02
O. A. Staude, Past Master
Emmanuel... ......................... No. 318.... Joseph A. Foster, Past Master and
Representative ---··---·-····--··-·····--·-··-·-·---- 8.80
Hollenbeck...................... :.... No. 319 .... Alexander H . Campbell, Master.......... 34.40
Sylvester Carder, Sr. Warden
Leo V. Youngworth, Past Master........ 34.40
W. D. Johnston, Past Master
South Gate .......................... No. 320 .... Frederick E. Ussher, Master .......~---···-· 34.40
John R. Neelands, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master............ 34.40
George M. Donovan, Past Master
'Nm. B. Gage, Past Master
Alisal... .................................. No. 321....Stanley C. Smallwood, Master.............. 2.50
Walter T. Nilson, Sr. Warden
Alfred B. Casterson, Jr. Warden
H . H. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra ..............................No. 322.... 0ra H. Portner, Master ..........:............. 34.90
Tom DeWitt Atkins, Sr. Warden
F. M. Freebarn, Past Master
Whittier................................ No. 323 .... Claude Aude Lamb, Master.................... 35.60
Wilbur J. Hale, Sr. Warden
Clarence W . Peck, Jr. Warden
Roy I. LeFever, Inspector...................... 35.60
Corona .................................. No. 324....J ohn A. Wormell, Master...................... 3520
David A. Marcus, Sr. Warden
Consuelo ............................... No. 325 .... Herbert \V. Brewer, Master.................. 42.48
Needles ...........................-.... No. 326 .... Samuel Robert James, Master.............. 46.02
Giles Il. Combs, Sr. Warden
C. C. Mikesell, Past Master
Long Beach.......................... No. 327.... Herbert G. Polhill, Master.................... 35.70
William J. Burgin, Sr. Warden
C. H. Shaw, Inspector............................ 35.70
W. R. Shaw, Past Master
E. T. Date, Past Master
Chas. A. Weise, Past Master
Redondo ................................No. 328.... Steve J. Franklin, Sr. Warden.............. 35.70
Valle de France .................. No. 329....Herman Biederman, Master.................. 34.40
Kilauea .................................. No. 330....Alexander K. Bell, Sr. Warden .......... 283.00
R. M. Lindsay, Past Master
S. L. Desha, Past Master
Pacific Grove ...................... No. 331....John C. Greenwald, Master.................. 7.50
George H. Schuyler, Sr. Warden
Chas. K. Tuttle, Inspector.................... 7.50
• Chas. L. Cope, Past Master
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
C. C. Higgins, Past Master
San Pedro ............................ No. 332.... James F. Smith, Master.......................... 35.70
John Ramsey, Sr. Warden
Alta ........................................No. 333 .... John Weier, Master................................ 40.10
Covina................................... No. 334 ....Theodore J. Hoogendyk, Sr. Warden 35.92
West Gate ............................No. 335 .... Abe Blumenthal, Master........................ 34.40
Benj. J. Scheinman, Sr. Warden

Fruitvale ............................... No. 336.... Earl L. Howatt, Master
James C. Holland, Sr. Warden
Samuel L. Hancock, Jr. Warden
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Carquinez............................. No. 337.... Harry Dinsmore, Master........................ 1.80 ·
·
Harry H. Polen, Sr. Warden
Otis I. Oliver, Jr. Warden
J . E. Hughes, Inspector
James King, Past Master
B. F. Scribner, Past Master
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
San Jacinto..........................No. 338.... Hardus Sorkness, Master...................... 41.94
Fullerton.............................. No. 339 ... .J oseph H . .Giltz, Master........................ 35.90
Cory George Hoff, Sr. Warden
H. C. McMaster, Inspector.................... 35.90
Oxnard ................................. No. 341....Robert M. Wright, Jr., Master............ 30.40
Chas. R. Havens, Jr. Warden
San Fernando......................No. 343 .... Harry W. Gross, Master...................... 3320
Starr King .......................... No. 344.... Fred W. Reitler, Master
Armand Heumann, Jr. \Varden
C. C. Hinshaw, Past Master
Chas. 0 . Munson, Past Master
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Grand
Master
H . L. Wayne, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
A. F. Breslauer, Inspector
Solomon Deutsch, Past Master
Leland S. Bright, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Senior Grand
Deacon
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Brentwood ..........,................ No. 345 .... Shirley S. Summers, Sr. Warden........ 3.80
Palto Alto............................No. 346.... William L. Smith, Master.................... 1.90
N. W. Glaeser, Past Master
A. N. Umphreys, Past Master
McKinley... - .........................No. 347.... Lewis C. Keading, Master.................... 1.00
Leon Michel, Sr. Wai-den
San Bernardino..................No. 348.... Stanley Mussell, Master........................ 37.90
Mark M. Sinsabaugh, Sr. Warden
George Feetham, Inspector.................... 37.90
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Grand Master 34.40
Sequoia ..................................No. 349.... Cyril W. McClean, Master
·
Fred C. Granholt, Jr. Warden
Earl Warren, Deputy Grand Master
W. W. Kergan, Inspector
C. L. Herrmann, Past Master
E. F. Hughes, Past Master
Palestine........•...................... No. 351....Howard E. Hart, Master...................... 34.40
Walter F. Haas, Past Master.............. 34.40
Sunset... ............................... Ne. 352 ....Ernest G. Bashor, Master...................... 34.40
Edward W. Hart, Sr. Warden
L. C. Campbell, Inspector...................... 34.40
Samuel E. Burke, Past Grand Master 34.40
Rollie W. Miller, Sr. Grand Warden 34.40
W . K. Schofield, Past Master

610

612

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pinole......................- ............ No. 353.... Compton Gault, Representative............ 1.40
George W. Pfeiffer, Past Master
Presidio................................ No. 354.... Chas. R. Cooper, Master
R. 0. Majors, Jr. Warden
Eric R. Johnson, Inspector
W. A. Sherman, Past Grand Master
Emil G. Wunner, Past Master
J. C. Carson, Past Master
John E. Houston, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Glanville A. Stockhausen, Past
Master
Louis E. Boivin, Past Master
Hollywood............................ No. 355....Ward J. Henry, Master.......................... 34.40
William W. Skelton, Sr. Warden
Marion S. Hull, Jr. Warden
W. B. Ogden, Inspector.............,............ 34.40
Mill Valley.......................... No. 356.... Arthur F. Thomas, Master....................
.80
Rich T. Lawrence, Jr. Warden
Kent. J . C. Seymour, Inspector
T. P. Bagshaw, Past Master
F. A. Reim, Past Master
C. F. Fennema, Past Master
Buena Park..........................No. 357....Arvil A. Houston, Master...................... 35.70
Golden State .......- ...............No. 358....Frederick G. Robb, Master.................. 34.40
George W. Mann, Sr. Warden
J. F. Bourne, Inspector.......................... 34.40
A. B. Dittman, Past Master
T. H. Ewers, Past Master
Benj. G. Wright, Past Master.............. 34.40
San Francisco...................... N o. 360.... Earle Freeman, Master
William F. Jebe, Sr. Warden
Chas. B. Stone, Jr. Warden
J. E. Rebard, Past Master
K. F. Saysette, Past Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
V . .E. Perry, Past Master
Frank W. Aitken, Past Master
Steve I. Simmons, Past Master
H. L. Alves, Past Master
Fort Bragg...........................No. 361.. .. Franklyn 0. Albertson, Master............ 18.82
Adolph Berton Colberg, Sr. Warden
Charity..............................:...No. 362.... Walker E. Vaughn, Master.................. 3.10
Mark S. Stocker, Sr. Warden
Milford L. Morgan, Jr. Warden
Berkeley................................No. 363 ....Clarke W. Crocker, Master
Frank A. Fielitz, Sr. Warden
R. P. Arnold, Past Master

South Pasadena.•.................No. 367....George W. Roche, Master...................... 35.00
Harold A. -Bond, Sr. Warden
H. E. Vedder, Inspector........................ 35.00
C. M. Sampson, Past Master
George I. Bragonier, Past Master
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity..................................... No. 368....Daniel M. Campbell, Sr. Warden........ 34.00
D. W. Stephenson, Inspector................ 34.40
Ocean Park........................ No. 369.... Hamilcar Smith, Master........................ 35.70
Amity...................................,No. 370.... Henry 0. Hammerich, Master
Howard G. Wooley, Sr. Warden
N. 0. Slate, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie.....No. 371....Harry G. Thompson, Master................ 250.00
Alexander D. Potts, Inspector .............. 250.00
Gardena................................ No. 372....Manuel D. Nelson, Sr. Warden.......... 35.20
Veteran................................. No. 373....Theron E. Coe, Master.......................... 35.40
Robert S. Pierce, Sr. Warden
Orrin H. Tryon, Past Master
Sardis L. Frazier, Past Master
Jewel..................................... No. 374.... Edgar M. Campbell, Master
Thomas Parry, Jr. Warden
J. P. Rundell, Past Master
C. F. Crawford, Past Master
Chas. E. Anderson, Grand Organist
Leo Bruck, Past Master
C. J. Shipaugh, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
J. H. Adams, Past Master
Richmond ............................. No. 375 .... Harry P. Robinet, Master
Ross L. Perkins, Sr. Warden
Robert W. Price, Jr. Warden
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
R. T. Bauer, Past Master
J. H. Conner, Past Master
George F. Land, Past Master
J. G. Hooper, Past Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Past Master
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
James L. Halley, Past Master
R. T . Haas, Past Master
Francis Drake..............,..... No. 376....Carl E. Peterson, Master
Franklin A. Dominy, Sr. Warden
Chas. W. King, Past Master
Artesia..................................No. 377.... Austin R. Gamble, Master.................... 35.50
Mizpah.............................,....No. 378....0tto A. Kaulbars, Sr. Warden.............. 34.40
Lawrence J. Hall, Jr. Warden
Fillmore................................ No. 379....Edwin S. Rice, Master.......................... 31.40
Ronald A. Ritchie, Sr. Warden
Harry D. Felsenthal, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach.............. No. 380....Louis Conrady, Master.......................... 36.90
Roscoe Mcintosh, Sr. Warden
Oceanside .............................. No. 381....George A. Otis, Past Master................ 41.30
A. B. Eschwege, Representative
Highland Park................... No. 382.... Chas. 0. Brottain, Sr. Warden............ 34.40
Willard M. Mier, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master

Willits................................... No. 365....Ray Dunham, Jr. Warden...................... 12.40
A. B. Guslander, Inspector.................... 12.40
Las Palmas..........................No. 366.... Douglas A. May, Sr. Warden.............. 15.70
A. W. H orn, Past Master
James R. Erskine, Past Master

613

615

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Orosi... ...................................No. 383~ ... Ritey H . Hallmark, Master.................. 18.00
El Centro.............................No. 384....Herbert R. Anderson, Master.............. 52.02
·
Fred Williams, Sr. Warden
Chas. E. Sones, Past Master................ 52.02
Chas. H. Knights, Past Master
John Stewart Ross, Past Grand
Master ...... :............................................. 34.40
Dinuba.................................. No.385 .... C. L. Fraser, Inspector.......................... 17.50
C. V. Martin, Representative................ 17.50
Coalinga. ............................... No. 387 .... Wm. C. Wallace, Sr. Warden.............. 20.80
Parnassus .............. :.............. No. 388 ....Vernon Chas. Richards, Master
Samuel Miller, Sr. Warden
K. B. Hoppe, Past Master
J. C. Durham, Past Master
A. L. Johnston, Past Master
Chas. Goff, Past Master
Palos Verdes ...................... No. 389.... Howard Miller, Master.......................... 35.70
William Lyttle, Sr. Warden
Imperial... ............................. No. 390.... Ralph R. Powers, Sr. Warden............ 52.02
.
C. C. Rodgers, Jr. Warden
East Belt .............................. No. 391....Arthur T. Hannah, Sr. Warden.......... 14.00
West Lake ........................... No. 392 .... William E. Rydalch, Master................ 34.40
Sylvester C. Boarman, Sr. Warden
W . T. Osterholt, Past Master
C. E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master.................. 34.40
Walter L. Berger, Past Master.......... 34.40
J. E. Hill, Past Master
S. T . Sniffen, Past Master
Balder.................................... No. 393,...Clarence H. Peterson, Sr. Warden
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Jr. Warden
N. D. Stahl, Past Master
University ................ ,............ No.394 .... Wentworth W. Wolfe, Master............ 34.40
John F. Bissell, Sr. Warden
Edw. A. Brown, Past Master
Turlock.... ,............................ No. 395 .... George S. Gotobed, Master.................... 7.00
H . 0. Carlson, Past Master and
.
Inspector .............................................. 7.00
Apollo.............................;...... No. 396.... D. 0. Colegrove, Master
.
0. G. Lake, Sr. Warden
A. S. Ridley, Jr. Warden
0. R. Presco, Past Master
Rising Light ........................No. 397 .... Ralph D. Treadwell, Master................ 34.40
Leslie V. Hughes, Sr. Warden
R. Floyd Marshall, Past Master
F
. ............................. No. 399 .... Harold H. Shanley, Sr. Warden.......... 2.90
B rat:rmty
urhngame .......................... No. 400.... Hugh B. Dobbs, Sr. Warden................ 1.00
Frank A. Bloom, Jr. Warden
S. L. Hawken, Inspector........................ 1.00
William Wilken, Past Master
Chas. J. Orman, Past Master
Bay View ..........................,..No. 401.. .. Hartley A. Postlethwaite, Master
Samuel W. Gardiner, Sr. Warden
Alfred F. Virden, Jr. Warden
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
E. D. Sellers, Past Master
Brawley................................ No. 402.... Gifford T. Randolph; Sr. Warden...... 51.70
A. Lauraine, Past Master

Yerba Buena ....................... No. 403 .... Turner McAllister, Inspector
A. B. Casad, Representative and
Past Master
Glendora ............................... No. 404....Floren C. Stites, Sr. Warden.............. 36.10
Moneta..................................No. 405 .... Sidney J. Holland, Master .... '................ 34.40
0. A. Stoltz, Past Master
Burbank................................ No. 406....Grover C. Swart, Sr. Warden.............. 33.70
La Mesa...............................No. 407.... Harry M. Fisher, Master...................... 42.98
Sierra Madre ...................... N o. 408.... Thomas Miller, Jr., Master.................... 35.20
Marion L. Hays, Sr. Warden
Samuel L. Graham, Past Master
Honolulu...............................No. 409 ....John B. Walker, Sr. Warden ................ 250.00
Charter Rock .................... No. 410.... Frank W. Plant, Master
Roy M. McHale, Sr. Warden
Matthew Morton, Jr., Jr. Warden
Thomas H . Beatty, Past Master
George T. Babcock, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
William C. Juergens, Past Master
H. Robert Braden, Past Master
Wm. D. Wisdom, Past Master
Perris.................................... No. 411....Sherman H. Freeman, Master.............. 39.18
Calexico................................ No. 412 .... William L. Jacobs, Master.................... 52.02
Wm. L. Bennington, Sr. Warden
Wa~coba ...............................No. 413 .... Frank E. Seglie, Master........................ 47.60
Arlington..............................No. 414.... Ben M. Banks, Master............................ 34.40
Lester C. Potts, Sr. Warden
Silver Trowel... ...................No. 415 .... Harold B. Chambers, Master................ 34.40
Wm. F . King, Jr. Warden
Lindsay................................. No. 416.... Herman C. Landers, Master..... ,............ 19.30
·
John Henry Mercer, Sr. Warden
Clovis.................................... No. 417 .... George E. Talbert, Master................:--· 16.50
Elysian.................................. No. 418 .... Henry D. Coley, Master........................ 34.40
Harry L. J. Nicholas, Sr. Warden
Walter B. Stearns, Jr. Warden
Robert F. Callender, Past Master
Upland.................................. No, 419 .... W. R. Farmer, Inspector .....;.................. 36.90
T. M. Nichols, Representative.............. 36.90
Kerman ................................. No. 420 .... B. W.· Kilby, Jr. Warden ...................... 15.00
Inglewood ............................. No. 421....George C. Kins father, Master.............. 34.40
Robert K. McGuire, Sr. Warden
·
Frank R. Wolter, Past Master
Fred B. Pardee, Inspector.................... 34.40
Eagle Rock .......................... No. 422 .... Vivian Lyle, Sr. Warden...................... 34.40
York...................................... No. 423 .... Donald T. Metz, Master ........................ 34.40
Exeter ................................... No. 424 .... William W. Waterman, Master............ 18.90
Joseph P. Zimmerman, Jr. Warden
Charles L. Burnett, Past Master
Frank W. Mixter, Past Grand Master 18.90
Holtville ............................... No. 425 .... Mathew M. Sweeney, Master................ 52.02
Jasper V. Yeargin, Sr. Warden
William Jackson Gregg, Past Master
Midway.................................No. 426....Thomas A. Hillary, Master.................. 26.90
·
Errol Ellis Ustick, Sr. Warden
Chino Valley ........................No. 427....Ernest 0. Carlisle, Master.................... 36.80
San Dimas ........................... No. 428....Herbert C. Foster, Sr. Warden.......... 36.20
Arthur E. Tangeman, Inspector.......... 36.20
Pittsburg..................- .......... No. 429.... Wm. E. Jones, Master.. ~......................... 3.00

614

617

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. McCloud............................... No. 430.... Chas. Glover, Sr. Warden..................- 25.80
Alpha.................................... No. 431....E. George Harlow, Master.................... 1.00
William F. Fraser, Sr. Warden
Carl F. La Vo, Jr. Warden
George M. Clarke, Past Master
Edgar C. Clarke, Past Master
William P. Self, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
Hammonton......................... No. 433....Edward I. Quick, Past, Master and
Representative ...................................... 9.00
Maricopa.............................. No. 434....Francis L. Banks, Sr. Warden............ 26.60
Fairmount... ......................... No. 435....Ralph H . Ruppert, Sr. Warden
Robert E . Blinn, Jr. Warden
Ralph Wm. McDonald, Past Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
Rudolph I11ing, Past Master
Claremont... ..........................No: 436.... Earl F . Jones, Master.............................. 36.60
Lancaster......:.......................No. 437....Thomas E. Burchfield, Sr. Warden.... 29.70
Tyrian................................... No.439....William Farrer, Jr. Warden................ 5.20
Standard............................... No. 440....Russell W . Rogers, Master
Edward Leslie, Sr. Warden
Frederick C. Peterson, Jr. Warden
Wesley P . Relfe, Past Master
Coronado.............................. No. 441.. .. Stewart M. Worden, Master................ 42.98
Harry S. Clark, Inspector.................... 42.98
E. C. Nevins, Past Master
Blackmer .............................. No. 442.... 0scar E. Hanson, Sr. Warden............ 42.98
Richard H . Garland, Jr. Warden
Warren E. Libby, Past Master............ 34.40
Schofield ............................... No. 443 ....James Zukerkorn, Sr. Warden............ 250.00
Carpinteria ........................... N'o. 444.... John B. Hudson, Master........................ 29.80
Leonidas C. Kirkes, Past Master
Wilshire............................... No. 445....Frederic E. Clark, Master
John A. Klarquist, Sr. Warden
Tom A. Dille, Inspector.......................... 34.40
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master............ 34.40
Will H . Fischer, Past Grand Master.. 34.40
Bertin A. Wey!, Past Master
La Puente............................No.446.... Arthur Wm. Lee, Sr. Warden................ 35.60
Torrance.....................•.........No. 447.... Edgar H . Barlow, Master.................... 35.40
Herbert G. Babcock, Sr. Warden
Mt. Diablo........................... No. 448....Thomas Smith, Master......:................... 2.70
Park...................................... No. 449....Floyd M. Elmore, Master
Arthur L. Hillman, Sr. Warden
Foster G. Dyer, lrispector
Reginald Duden, Past Master
George H. Gislin, Past Master
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master
Van Nuys ............................ No. 450....Leslie A. Phipps, Master........................ 34.40
H . S. Morrison, Sr. Warden
·
Herbert W. Walker, Inspector.............. 34.40
Montebello........................... No. 451....Russell M. Castell, Master.................... 34.40
Leslie H. Bentson, Sr. Warden
San Pasqual... ..................... No. 452....Herbert G. Boultinghouse, Master...... 35.20
T. J. Sowerby, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem.......................... _ No. 453 .... Kenneth M. Jenkins, Master
Chas. E. Heberer, Jr. Warden

Crocker.................................No. 454....William A. Jaques, Master
· ·
Royden K. Friedrichs, Sr. Warden
Peter J . Barsi, Jr. Warden
George Watson, Past Master
James G. Allan, Past Master
George E. Archer, Past Master
Robert H . Turner, Past Master
George C. Chamberlain, Past Master
Golden West....................... No. 455.... Morten Holm, Master
Frank C. Edmonds, Sr. Warden
Harold L. Scheppler, J r. Warden
Sherman C. Fowler, Master................ 34.90
Ramona............................__ No. 457....Louis U . Stone, Past Master
W ilbert J. Stewart, Inspector.............. 35.20
Henry S. Orme..................No. 458.... V. Glenn Chessman, Sr. Warden.......... 34.40
F rederick C. Warner, Inspector ............ 34.40
Riverbank. ............................No. 459....Albert A. F letcher, Jr. Warden.......... 6.60
Mount Oso..........................No. 460.... Neil B. Fabian, Sr. Warden................ 4.16
Argonaut.............................. No. 461.. ..Ralph E. P feiffer, Master
· Edwin J. Barshell, Sr. Warden
J . Denison McCue, Jr. Warden
Sig. Pels, Past Master
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Jos. A. Blackford, Past Maste r
Virgil L. Wallace, Past Master
Harry P . Rothermel, Past Master
J oseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Purcell Rowe, Past Master
Paul Revere ........................ No. 462.... Nathan Danziger, Master
John Cox, Sr. W;i.rden
Robert L. Duncan, Jr. Warden
J ohn C. Oslin, Past Master
W m. A. Gerder, Past Master
Louis D. Smith, Past Master
Alonzo J . Owen, Past Master
Philip Werner, Past Master
Morgan Hi!L....................No. 463 .... Louis Rosso, Jr. Warden ...................... 4.10
Alta Vista............................ No. 464....Glenn W. Clifford, Master
Earle L. Bagot, Sr. Warden
Harry L. W intersgill, Past Master
Francis J os. Herz, Past Master
James G. Marshall, Past Master
Center ....................................No. 465....Roy C. Lacy, Sr. Warden ...................... 15.70
Chas. W. Manly, Jr. W arden
S. E. Dollar, Past Master
Libertas.................................No. 466.... Clyde E. Mcilwain, Sr. Warden........ 23.20
Arthur E. Overton, Inspector ................ 23.20
Culver City..........................No. 467.... Allan W . Courtney, Master.................... 34.40
Harold N. Cool, Jr. Warden
T ruman Van Dyke, Inspector................ 34.40
Rockridge..............:.............. No. 468.... Carl 0 . H omeyer, Master
William E. Harris, Sr. Warden
T hor G. Nordlund, Jr. Warden
Samuel F . Stockum, Past 'Master
Willard W. Shea, Past · Master
George W. Miller, Past Master
Yorba Linda....- ..................No. 469....Herbert Worsham, Master..........:......... 36.24

616

618

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lincoln. .........-··········-·········· No. 470.... Felix Scheyer, Master
Oscar A. Huber, Sr.' Warden
Albert Springer, Sr., Jr. Warden
Arthur M. Joel, Inspector
George A. Hannan, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Alexander Z. High, Jr., Past Master
·Delta...................................... No. 471....George Otis Washburn, Master...........·. 5.10
Maui................................. _... No. 472 .... Arthur J. Wagner, Sr. Warden ............ 272.00
Marquis F. Calmes, Grand Sword
Bearer .................................................... 272.00
Blythe......................... _......... No. 473 .... George Heflin, Representative ........:..... 51.88
Victory ................................. No. 474 .... Chas. A. Cooper, Master
Clarence S. Farris, Sr. Warden
Albin B. Johnson, Jr. Warden
America ................................ No. 475 .... Wm. A. Schreider, P~t Master.......... 34.40
Chas. E. Wright, Representative .
Coachella.............................. No. 476.... Walter C. Wheeler, Sr. Warden.......... 45.90
Temblor ............ :: .................. No. 477.... John C. Weddle, Master........................ 27.40
Arthur E. Hawthorne, Inspector.......... 27.40
Thousand Oaks .................. No. 478 .... 0tto L. Zeus, Sr. Warden
Chas. H. Linford, Jr. Warden
L. V. Hitchcock, Past Master
Golden Rule ......................... No. 479 .... Arthur H. Rhoades, Master.................... 2.90
Joseph C. Boschken, Past Master
Morris Jensen, Past Master
Fellowship............................ No. 480 .... Edward Hackers, Master
·
Claude A. Hunter, Sr. Warden
Chester H. Treichel, Jr. Warden
·
Mt. Davidson ...................... No. 481.. .. Elmo N. Murphy, Master
Jos. L. Mayers, Sr. Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith..... ,........ No. 482.... Jay G. Beel, Master................................ 34.40
G. Palmer Byrkit, Sr. Warden
Bell ........................................ No. 483 .... Donald G. Johnson; Master.................. 34.40
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
·
Wm. H. Poole, Past Master
Albert Pike........... ~ .............. No. 484.... G. C. Zimmerman, Sr. Warden.......... 34.40
George T. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Chowchilla............................No. 485 .... William H. Byers, Sr. Warden.......... 9.50
Caledonia .............................. N c. 486 .... Frank A. Bartlett, Master.................. 23.20
Claude H. Ashen, Sr. Warden
Norval D. Cleghorn, Past Master
Clyde E. Mallachowitz, Past Master
Leland J. Runyon, Past Master
Homer Z. Myers, Past Master
George McHugh, Past Master
Vallejo .................................. No. 487 .... George G. Martin, Master.................... 2.00
Virgil V. Lee, Sr. Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
and Inspector........................................ 2.00
Harry M. Rowe, Past Master
Frederic B. Hall, Past Master
C. Garrison Crane, Past Master
:Patterson.................. :........... No. 488.... Raymond_A. Morgan, Sr. Warden...... 5.90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

East Bay........- .................. No. 489 .... Arch C. ·Greely, Master
Robert D. Wall, Sr. Warden
John Martin Rush, Jr. Warden
John H. Bertram, Past Master
Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master
Clifford B. Marker, Past Master
David S. Roberts, Past Master
Corcoran............................... No. 490 .... Harold M. Goodrich, Sr. Warden......
·
Woodstock........................... No. 491....Chas. A. Nesmith, Master
Phillip L. Lanzit, Sr. Warden
Augustus D. Zimmermallll,
Jr. Warden
Chas J. Kondstrom, Past Master
Layton A. Choice, Past Master
Ralph W . Merrick, Past Master
Garvanza.............................. No. 492 .... E. A. Mahoney, Sr. Warden ............... .
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Astascadero............... :.......... No. 49.3 .... Chas. Wm. Starkey, Master .............. ..
Floyd P. Brown, S'r. Warden
Fred Chas. Hess, Past Master
Acorn .................:.................. .No. 494....Roy L. Burgk, Master
James E. Gale, Sr. Warden
Frank W. Sprague, Jr. Warden
Raymond V. J oste, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master
Charles M. Herkenharn, Past Master
Lebanon ................................ No. 495 ....Craig C. Campbell, Master
Frank Weinstock, Jr. Warden
Bernard B. Stimmel, Past Master
Roy R. Shoulberg, ·Past Master
Riverdale .............................. No. 496.... L. E. Harland, Past Master..................
Fremont... ............................. No. 497.... Sam W. Southwell, Jr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, Inspector
Fred F. Morse, Past Master
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
Cyrus L. Rossi, Past Master
Stockton ................................. No. 498 .... John P. Spaenhower, Master.. ............ ..
Earl T. Womble, Jr. Warden
Capital City......................... No. 499 .... Harvey P. Gay, Master......................... .
W. Del Richards, Past Master
Roosevelt... ........................... No. 500.... Chas. A. Ertola, Sr. Warden
Italiano Mussetti, Jr. Warden
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
Otto C. Huth, Past Master
Nils E. Johnsson, Past Master
William F. Traverso, Past Master
Westwood...................... -...... No. SOL.Louis E. Dixon, Master...................... ..
Norman Lindersmith, Past Master
Harbor .................................. No. 502.... Frank H. Wilkins, Master ....................
Chas. E. Pickering, Jr. Warden
PoinL................................... No. 503 .... Cyrus M. Nielsen, Master....................
Seaside.............:._ ................. No. 504.... Eugene E, Tincher, Master ....................
William T. Corbusier, Past Master
William .J. Courtiour, Inspector........... .
Silver Cord...... .'...................No. 505 .... J. Parley Smith, Sr. Warden ............ ..
Mount Olive........................ .No. 506.... Thomas C. Relph, Master......................
F. A. Kelsey, Sr. Warden

619

18.54

34.40
13.50

17.00

5.10
5.40

25.26
1.00
1.00
35.70
35.70
36.40
34.40

620

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

El Segundo.......................... No. S07....William H. Jepperson, Master ..............
Joppa ....................:.................No. S08.... George Riley Chaney, Master..............
Benjamin Franklin............ No. S09.... C. E. Gilhousen, Master..........................
Cupertino..............................No. SlO....J. R. Kamp, Sr. Warden........................
I. A. Ball, Past Master
Sunnyvale.............................No. SIL.John F . C. Kay, Sr. Warden..............
]. B. Kehl, Past Master
Palms.................................... No. S12....Lawrence Rentchler, Master................
Cahtienga.............................. No. S13.... Earle C. Baker, Master..........................
.
C. Champagne, $r. Warden
Argonne................................ No. S14....L. I. Tarleton, Sr. Warden
John H. Turner, Past Master
Sam H . Hardin, Past Master
Henry C. Mathewson, Grand Marshal
Vermont Square.................No. SlS ....Harry E. Dawson, Master ...............:....
Chester A. Reese, Sr. Warden
Taft....................................... No. S16.... Henry F. Letlow, Sr. Warden............
·
Harry W. Beatty, Past Master
Mount Vernon .................... No. S17....Alva V. Sligar, Master
Leland E. Langdon, Sr. Warden
Richard F. Fletcher, Jr. Warden
Timothy W. McCarthy, Past Master
Harold Wm. Chaunce, Past Master
.
La Jolla.................................No. S18....Elmer Fernstrom, Master..................... .
Euclid.................................... No. Sl9....J. J. Hollibaugh, Sr. Warden..............
James T. Montano, Past Master
lonic.......................................N o. S20....J oseph Greene, Master ..........................
Harold C. Roddan, Sr. Warden
Piedmont.............................. No. S2L.Francis G. Tallman, Sr. Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Master
Sunrise.................................. 'ti0. S22.... Walter E. Toole, Master ......................
Bellflower ............................. No. S23 .... William S. Mitchell, Master ................
George McCormick, Sr. Warden
Erich H. Fredericks, Past Master
Catelina I sland ....................No. S24....John J. White, Master............................
Harold M. ·warner, Sr. Warden
George Washington............ No. S2S.... Alfred L. Bosse, Jr. Warden
John Johnston, Past Master
Bay City...............................No. S26.... Wilfred A. Lerner, Master
Thomas A. Dethlefsen, Sr. Warden
Edgar V. Meyer, Past Maste;·
Jack A. Seaman, Past Master
Sol Gross, Past Master
Covenant........................ :......No. S27,... Edward J . Mueller, Sr. Warden..........
Beverly Hills...................... No. S28.... Frank Harwell, Jr. Master....................
Albert L. C. Hitchen, Past Master
Joe· Bookman, Past Master
Loyalty..................................No. S29.... Marshall E. Green, Master....................
Sun Garden .......................... No. S30.... Milton M. Young, Sr. Warden..............
Herbert R: Hargrave, Past Master
·
and Inspector ........................................
Alexandria............................No. S3L.Christian H. Mingst, Master
. Irwin J. Sprott, Sr. Warden·
Edmund S. Davidson, Jr. Warden
Frank G. Hobbs, Past Master
F. B. McAtee, Past Master
Smyrna..................................No. S32.... Stanton K. Helsley, Master..................
Andrew M. Tully, Sr. Warden

3S.40
lS.10
34.40
2.82
2.40
34.40
34.40

34.40
26.90

42.98
34.40
34.40

34.40
34.90
38.90

34.40
34.40
34.40
lS.70
lS.70

6.SO

621

Azure......... -\.........................No. S33....James Shaw, Sr. Warden......,..~....,...:..... 3$.90
\
Norman A. Richards, Past Master
Forest Hill...\ ···················.N o. S34....Andrew L. Hanselman, Master
,
Alexander Findlay, Sr. Warden
\
Oliver A. Haberdier, Past Master
Alexander H«mi~on..........No. S3S.... Thomas R. Duncan, Sr. Warden ........ . 34.40
Seal Rock...............,............ No. S36.... Gus Wm. Kramer, Master
Wm. R ichard Hamilton, Sr. Warden
George R. Finnigan, Jr. Warden
Utopia...........................- ......No. S37....Ronald M. Cringan, Master................ 34.40
Ascot..................................... No. S38.... Arthur L. Reed, Master...................;...... 34.40
J ohn B. Tubbs, Sr. Warden
Belvedere..............................No. S39....Lee D. Parker, Master............................ 34.40
Harry F. Tucker, Sr. Warden
Jesse D. Ramsey, Jr. Warden
Queen Beach........................No. S40....]ames L. Kennedy, Master.................... 3S.70
Henry Morse Stephens.... No. S4L.Harold W . Conklin, Master
Malcolm Hansen, Sr. Warden
Erskine Fullerton, Jr. Warden
Mark W. Sawrie, Past Master
Lankershim.......................... No. S42....Roy C. True, Master.............................. 34.40
Signal.......................,............ No. S43....Guy ,A.lien Cheney, Master .................... 3S.70
T. A. Reynolds, Sr. Warden
Glendale................................No. S44....John Paul Fisher, Master...................... 34.00
Jonathan ............................... No. S4S.... Irving C. Stevenson, Master
Herbert E. Stone, Past Master
San Gabriel........................:.No. S46....William H. Finke, Master .................... 3S.OO
Warren D. Gill, Grand Pursuivant.... 34.90
Arcadia................................. No. S47.... William S. Orr, Master...................,...... 3S.40
Triangle................................No. S48.... Harry D. Cleaveland, Master................ 3S.70
·
Arthur N. Nelson, Past Master
Justice................................... No. S49.... Karl D. Smith, Master
Frank M. Scott, Jr. Warden
Ralph 0 . Biedenbach, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Hans C. Christiansen, Past Master
Seaport...............;..:................No. SSO.... Anthony J. Spatafore, Master
Chas. F. Knipe, Sr. Warden
John D. McReynolds, Jr. Warden
Walter H. E. Von K onsky, Inspector
Otto A. H oltzen, Past Master
J ohn Alpers, Past Master
Benjamin L. Canning, P ast Master
Lakeshore....................:........No. SSL.Claude D. Glenn, Master
Howard S. Gerrish, Sr. Warden
J ohn Roger Wood, Past Master
M. R. McKalip, Past Master
Semper Virens.................... No. SS2.... George P. Cornwell, Sr. Warden........ 23.24
Golden City..........................No. SSL.Arthur F. Lewis, Sr. Warden
.
Walter G. Swa.nson, Past Master
Educator...•........................... No. SS4.... Ralph M. Small, Sr. Warden
Byron D. White, Jr. Warden
A. J. Cristofani, Past Master
White Pine.....:.....................No. SSL.Ralph Albee, Sr. Warden.................... 24.50
Fairfax................................. No. SS6..:.Chas. L. Covalt, Sr. Warden................ 1.10
0. McDearmon, Jr. Warden
Hermosa ...............:......;.J:L :·;No.5S7.•..Rufus L. Engstrom, Sr. Warden........ 35.70

622

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

/

\

\

'\

623

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(

Point Firmin........................No. 558.... Arthur McGinnis, Master........... /..:....... 35.70
L. C. Stephenson, Sr. Warden,/
Craftsmen............................ No. 559....Martin L. Thayer, Master.... ,!.............. 34.40
Joseph C. Griffin, Sr. Wardett
East San Diego.................. No. 561....Clarence L. Peterson, Sr. Warden...... 42.98
.
·
·
·
Eugene B. Smith, Past Master
Pyramid................................No. 562.... Albert W. Archibald, Master
Claudius A. Marckley, Sr. Warden
Earl ]. Schmale, Jr. Warden
.
Thomas E. Harris, Past Master
Emanuel Jos. Portello, Past Master
South Park........................._No. 563.... Clarence S. Tryon, Master.................... 34.40
Newton D. High, Past Master
Foothill................................. No. 564.... Arthur M. Lyons, Master
Benjamin L. Miller, Sr. Warden
Henry Towne, Jr. Warden
James A. Garfield.............. No. 566.... Arthur N. Chaffee, Master.................... 34.40
.
Ralph 0. Chick, Sr. Warden
Searchhght........................... No. 567....Jarnes H. Kethely, Master...................... 35.70
Rex Gilbert Sands, Sr. Warden
Park Boulevard.................. No. 568....Edward W . Long Master
·
.
John McSweyn, P~st Master
Chateeau Thierry.............. No. 569....Walter E. Orcutt, Master
Walter ]. Breen, Sr. Warden
MT
.
Eugene J . Ralston, Jr. Warden
1 1tary Serv1ce.................. No. 570.... 0tto Vogt, Master
Alfred C. Honey, Jr. Warden
Fred L. Somers, Past Master
Cornelius ]. Manning, Past Master
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
.
Frank L. Lambertson, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck.......... No. 571.. ..George S. Jennings, Master
Allen L. Fowle, Sr. Warden
John Tilbury, Jr. Warden
George M. Stoltz, Past Master
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master
Daniel Ross McCurdy, Past Master
Leonard H. Castlio, Past Master
James Madison.................... No. 572....John R. Wolters, Jr. Master................ 34.40
H"
Paul F . Mowry, Jr. Warden
1llcrest................................No. 573....John W. Lawton, Master
S. L. Stanley, Sr. Warden
S. W. Hackett.................... No. 574.... William Otis King, Master.................. 42.98
Fort Crook........................... No. 575....T. A. Fortson, Sr. Warden.................... 28.60
Warren E. Dunwoody, Jr. Warden
Otho Stewart, Past Master
El Cajon...............................No. 576....William C. Koppel, Master.................... 43.48
Sunnyside..............................No. 577.... G. Everett Frame, Master...................... 34.40
Progressive........................_No. 578....Arthur V. Lumlstrom, Master.............. ·. 34.40
Clarence E. Altig, Sr. Warden
Warren G. Harding.......... No. 579.... Robert I. Sackett, Master.................... ~. 5.70
Santa Maria..................:.....No. 580.... Aaron H . Schrock, Master.................... 45.38
John H. L. Vogt, Sr. Warden
Security................................ No. SSL.Irving E. Lane, Master.......................... 23.20
Emil J . Schmidt, Jr. Warden
Rialto..................................... No. 582....William T. Dunn, Master.................... 37.80
Edward P. Patterson, Sr .Warden

w

\ .....................-No. 583....~~~t\/8~~~~'
.
s
d
21.82
Wasco..........~
p~~t ~;st~~---·········
Harding..:......... ................... No. 584.... Chas. L. Hanson, Master........................ 34.40
. Donald S. Williams, Sr. Warden
Manchester.......................... No. 585.... ~~i;e~~C~~d~'r.M;~~~-~~---··················· 34.40
Garden Grove.........1........... No. 586....Lawrence L. Trickey, Master.............. 36.40
Alfred E. Nearing, Sr. Warden
Valley Forge...............lr--···No. 587.... Carl F. Menke, Master.......................... 36.40
·
George L. Eads, Sr. Warden
El Sereno.............................. No. 588.... Leo P. Packham, Representative........ 34.40
Kauai ................-................_No. 589.... Theador I. Blackstad, Sr. Warden ...... 272.00
Compass..............................•No. 590.... Harold E. Herrling, Sr. Warden.......... 36.50
Escalon....- ................:...........No. 591....Bernard L. Blackmore, Master.........~.. 6.30
·
Frank S. Thornton, Jr. Warden
Tuiunga............................-.. No. 592....Elmer J. Breidt, Master........................ 34.90
All States.............·-········-···No. 593.... Arthur A. Schultz, Master.................. 35.70
·
Fred E. Selover, Sr. Warden
Service...._.............................No. 594.... Rezin A. Henry, Master........................ 35.70
·
Benjamin H. Linville, Sr. Warden
Alexander Graham Bell.No. 595.... 0tto A. Schwennicke, Master.............. 34.40
Guardian...............- .........._No. 596....Dewey N. Hobart, Master...........·-········ 34.40
Truth..................................... No. 597....C. Zeno Holt, Sr. Warden.................... 34.40
Pearl Harbor.....•.................No. 598.... Alexander D. Potts, Representative
Carmelita:............................. No. 599....Harold D. Green, Master........................ 3520
Lynwood............................... No. 600.... A. B. Cousins, Master............................ 34.72
Grizzly......~............................No. 601....Lawrence D. Taylor, Master................ 23.30
Alfred N. Waite, Past Master.............. 23.30
H. S. Date, Past Master
Melrose..................................No. 602.... 0tto A. Gerth, Master.......................... 34.40
J. Lynn Goode, Inspector........................ 34.40
Jos. H. Pennington, Past Master
Dimond................................. No. 603....Frederick E. M. Jones, Master
·
Henry A. McKenna, Sr. Warden
Benj~in L. Wade, Jr. Warden
Jubilee.................................... No. 604.... Wilford G. Lewis, Master.................... 36.40
Fred H. Pope, Sr. Warden
Glassell Park...................._.No. 605....Anton 0 . Slottelid, Master.................... 34.40
Sojourner..............................No. 607....Ray I. Haviland, Master........................ 35.50
Granada.................................No. 608....John H. Wernex, Master........................ 34.90
Provident..............................No. 609.... Leslie E. Wood, Grand Lecturer.......... 5.40
·
Isiah L. Driver, Representative............ 5.40
Theodore P. Pendleton, Past Master
Roscoe L. Clark, Past Master
Elmhurst............................... No. 610.... Horace W. Lee, Master
·
James S. Blaine, Sr. Warden
John H. Gilmour, Jr. W arden
Canoga................................... No. 611....V. L. House, Jr. Warden........................ 32.90
Temple City.....:.................. No. 612....Rupert C. Curtis, Master........................ 34.90
Three Pillars.......................No. 613 ....Joseph B. Woody, Jr., Master.............. 5.40
Larchmont............................ No. 614....]ames "C. Rodgers, Master..................- 34.40
George P. Salm, Inspector.................... 34.40
. Hemet-..........._. ....-................No. 615....George S. Anderson, Master.................. 40.40
Seal Beach...........................No. 616....James J. Walder, Master........................ 35.70
· Big Bear...............- ............No. 617.... Thomas B: Andrew, Sr. Warden.......... 41.06
Southland.............................N o. 618....Thomas M. Johnson, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
•
William L. Hovis, Inspector................ 34.40

624

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

Neptune............................- ...No. 619 .... Dwight M. Overmyer, Master ............ . 35.70
Kenneth S. Whitmu:k, Past M ter
Point... ...................................No. 620 .... Ralph D. Lathrop, Master................... 42.98
The Gardens.~---··················No. 621....George V. Jameson, Ma;ter. ................. 34.40
Jack B. Nealon, Sr. War n
Atwater................................. No. 622....William J. Ellison, Mastl,lr.................... 34.40
E. E. Schmidt, Past Master
Menorah ................................No. 623 .... Aaron Elmore, Master .......................... ,34.40
Samuel H. Silverman, Sr. Warden
Joseph White, Past Master
Fortitude...,...........................No. 624.... Lionel B. Benas, Master
James C. Williams, Sr. Warden
Andries H. van Eck, Past Master
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Frederick L. Shau, Past Master
Olof E. Anderson, Past Master
Tracy E. Clark, Past Master
Angeles Mesa...................... No. 625 .... Walter R. Gentry, Master.............. :..... 34.40
John J. Humble, Sr. Warden
Chula Vista.........................No. 626.... Walter S. Binney, Sr. Warden.......... .. 42.98
Lamanda Park. .................. No. 627.... Gustav H. Breitenfeld, Master ............. . 35.20
Otto Bhend, Sr. Warden
Beacon of the West... ....... No. 628.... Melville Hutchinson, Sr. Warden........ 34.40
Fairview............................... No. 629 .... Almer R. Hines, Master ........................ 34.40
Horace C. Burns, Sr. Warden
William C. Hudnall, Past Master
Ingleside ............................... No. 630.... Donald H. Frew, Master
Cecil A. Reid, Sr. Warden
John B. Connolly, Jr. Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Asst. Grand
Lecturer
Adam H. Krage!, Past Master
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Herbert P. Shaw, Grand Chaplain
Benevolence......................... No. 631 .... Claude Mayhugh, Master ........................ 34.40
Carl E. Drake, Sr. Warden
Normal Heights ................. .No. 632.... Frank F. Vance, Master ...................... .. 42.98
Poinsettia............................. No. 633 .... Clarence F. Carlisle, Master ............... . 29.80
John V. Van Meter, Sr. Warden
R. A. Maddox, Past Master ·
L. C. Drapeau, Past Ma·ster
Victorville............................ No. 634 .... Theodore A. Lee, Master.............. - ...... .. 39.06
Riverside .............................. No. 635.... Hugh McCulloch, Master..................... . 37.90
F . Har.old Butterfield, Sr. Warden
Henry W. Coil, Past Master
John Marshall... ................. No. 636.... Edwin Clarence Traucht, Jr. Warden .. 34.40
Patisades ............................... No. 637 .... Chas. H. Foye, Jr., Sr. Warden ............ 35.70
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock. ....................... No. 638 .... Lawrence F. Williams, Master
James E. Esty, Sr. Warden
Donald I. Cone, Jr. Warden
Composite............................. No. 639 ....Jacob L. Goldberg, Master.................. 34.40
lrving M. Friedman, Sr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

625

Veritas ................................. No. 640 .... Philip Collischonn, Jr., Master
Chas. R. O'Donnell, Sr. Warden
Wm. R. McWood, Jr. Warden
Leonard S. Leavy, Past Master
Edward J. Hudson, Past Master
Washington I. Kohnke, Inspector
James A. Foshay.......1........ No. 641....John H. McNeill, Master ...................... 34.40
·.
Ralph L. Moore, Sr. Warden
Albert E. Anderson, Past Master
La Cumbre ........................... No. 642 .... Harry V. Dobson, Master ................... . 27.10
H. C. Taylor, Sr. Warden
Alta Loma ......... - ...............~.No. 643 .... Carl 0. Willenberg, Master.............. .. 35.70
Lomita...................................No. 644 .... John L. Sanders, Sr. Warden .............. 35.70
A. F. E. Irwin .................... No. 645 .... Henry P. Haynes, Master ................... . 35.70
Edwin J. Genter, Sr. Warden
Metropolitan ........................ No. 646.... Edmond W. P. Jochomsen, Master .. .. 34.40
.
James W. McDonald, Past Master
Hawthorne ........................... No. 647.... L. E. Henry, Sr. Warden .................... 34.40
Damascus ............................. No. 648 ....Joseph W. Snyder, Master................ .. 37.90
Florence ................................No. 649 .... George H. Hennes, Sr. Warden......... . 34.40
Fred Wm. Kennett, Past Master
La Brea............................... No. 650 .... Charles B. Goodridge, Master .............. 34.40
Walter L. Laumann, Sr. Warden
William T. Wheeling, Inspector ......... . 34.90
Menlo Park. ........................ No. 651....-Clyde A. Howard, Master.................. .. 1.82
Clarence M. Sebring, Sr. Warden
Tillman B. Hunnell, Jr. Warden
J . Ross Hardy, Past Master
Gerald C. Owens, Past Master
'Crescenta Valley................ No. 652.... Whyte A. Womack,. Jr. Warden ............ 34.00
Fontana ................................ .No. 653 .... Archie H. Calkins, Master ................. . 37.60
Jordan ................................... No. 654 .... Frederick A. Palmer, Master .............. 34.40
Albert P. Henry, Past Master
Monte Vista........................No. 655 .... W. E. Campbell, Master .................... .. 35.70
Arthur· Lee Jones, Past Master
Citrol... .................................. No. 656 .... Henry A. Rudd, Master ......................... . 36.00
John D. Spreckels .............. No. 657 .... Lloyd W. Carter, Sr. Warden .............. 42.98
Livingston............................ No. 658 .... George_W. Sheesley, Sr. Warden .... .. 7.60
Francis M. Ecclefield, Past Master
La Habra .................... .".........No. 659.... George P. Armstrong, Sr. Warden .. .. 35.80
• Baldwin Park. .................... No. 660.... Daniel L. Dunlap, Sr. Warden........... . 34.98
Malta..................................... No. 661....John E. North, Master.. ........................ 34.40
Henry Knox ........................ No. 662 .... Harry H. Van Luven, Master .............. 34.40
Ojai... ............................... :.... .No. 663 .... Lloyd F. Poplin, Master....................... . 31.10
Arthur J. Koenigstein, Sr. Warden
Oasis ...................................... No. 664.... Clarence W. Carroll, Master .............. 52.02
Kaweah ................................. No. 665 .... Roy Lee Davis, Sr. Warden.............. 18.90
Robert W. Moore, Jr. Warden
Reseda .................................. No. 666 .... Cornelius Davis, Master........................ 34.40
Meridian ...............................No. 667 .... Samuel A. Macdonald, Master............ 34.00
John C. Moore, Past Master.............. 34.00

626

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CRA~rn

LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

627

San Gorgonio.-................... No. 668.... Chas. A. Preston, Master................... 39.70
DeRoy Harkness Gates, Inspe tor...... 39.70
John P. Jarman..................No. 669.... Nels H. Johnson, Master...................
Creed M. Triplett, Sr. W den
Hebert Pritchard, Past aster
Art Daly, Past Master ,'

2.90

·Jn d?ranb JLobge
MORNING SESSION

Greenleaf.............................No. 670.... William A. Wood, Master.................... 35.60

Friday, October 11, 1935.

San Clemerite...................... No. 671....Dan M. Acres, Master.......................... 4-0.40
Laguna Beach......................No. 672.... Royal M. Piety, Master.......................... 36.40
Lynn Shrewsbury, Sr. Warden
Far West......................- ......No. 673.... Carroll S. Locke, Master
Chris J. Christensen, Jr. Warden
Louis A. Gintzler, Past Master
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Nante W. Anderson, Past Master
George B. Quamby, Past Master
Howard 0. Taylor, Past Master

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

· A DVANCE INFORMATION OF PROPOSED
LEGISLATION

Los Cerritos.......................No. 674.... Nathan Nagel, Master............................ 35.iO
Herbert C. Goldman, Past Master
Modesto................................ No. 675....Alva L. Pearl, Sr. Warden....................

6.20

Willow Glenn......................No. 676.... Louis A. Bergna, Master........................
John R. Gordon, Sr. Warden
Sidney E. Akers, Jr. Warden

2.90

Liberal Arts......................... No. 677....Wm. A. Sherwin, Sr. Warden.............. 34.40
·Ira F. Thompson, Grand Orator
G. Ellsworth Meyers, Past Master
Altadena...............................No. 678.... Samuel j, Hughes, Master.................. 35.20
Allan F. Oark, Sr. Warden
Canby's Cross......................U. D .........Ralph A. Ganger, Jr. Warden.............. 34.00
Carrnel......_....- ..··-··············.U. D ....:.... Chas. A. Watson, Master........................
James R. Zuck, Sr. Warden

Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

7.90

s.

LEONARD
LEAvY,
FRANK M . SMITH,
CHARLES E. SONES,
MARTIN L. GRIFFITH,
THAYER B. THOMAS,
HERBERT R. ANDERSON,
EDWARD B. DODDS,

Committee.

A~ 5 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 Friday
mornmg.
·

A proposed plan for the submission of information to Lodges,
as originally proposed by the resolution of Brother Donovan,
having been made special order for consideration at this time, the
following resolution was presented :
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved, that all resolutions and proposed legislation to be presented for
consideration of Grand Lodge shall be in the hands of the Grand Secretary
sixty days prior to any annual communication of Grand Lodge, and all other
resolutions or p(oposed legislation presented during the period sixty days immediately prior to the annual communication of Grand Lodge, or during sessions
of Grand Lodge, shall be acted upon if a two-thirds vote of the members
present at Grand Lodge so direct, providing further that the Grand Secretary
be instructed to cause a short summary of all such resolutions and proposed
ltgislation in his hands, sixty days before the annual communication of Grand
Lodge, to be compiled and printed in leaflet form, and there shall be included
therein decisions. of the Grand Master as then rendered and such recommendations as to proposed legislation as the Grand Master may ·be prepared to present,
and the Grand Secretary shall have placed in the hands of the Secretaries of
each subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction copy of said leaflet prior to the
stated meeting of such subordinate Lodge immediately preceding the annual
communication of Grand Lodge.

a

GEORGE M. DONOVAN,
CARL 0. WILLENBERG,
ALTER E. TOOLE,
JOHN EMORY WILLIAMS.

w

The subject matter of _the resolution was discussed at length,
and a vote being had it was declared. lost.

628

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IIII

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS /
The annual election of officers was now held, th(result being
as follows :
;
The R.". W:. Earl Warren of Sequoia Lodge No. 349 was
elected Grand Master.
The R.". W:. Rollie W. Miller of Sunset Lodge No. 352 was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W.". James T . Fraser of Humboldt Lodge No. 79
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W. ·. Leon 0. Whitsell of Orange Grove Lodge No. 293
was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V.". W.". William P. Filmer of King Solomon's Lodge
o. 260 was reelected Grand Treasurer.
The V:. W: . John Whicher of King David's Lodge No. 209
was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V:. W:. Leslie E. Wood of Provident Lodge No. (:Af)
was reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of the
appointive officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Herbert P. Shaw of Ingleside Lodge
No. 630.
I
Grand Orator, Albert F . Ross of Reading Lodge No. 254.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria
Lodge No. 531.
Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson,' of Argonne Lodge
No. 514.
Grand Standard Bearer, Gordon Ross of Hawaiian Lodge
No. 21.
Grand Sword Bearer, Chas. Listeriwalter of West Lake
Lodge No. 392.
Grand Bible Bearer, Harry Horne of Redlands Lodge No.
300.
Senior Gran.cl Deacon, Albert C. Wollenberg of Starr King
Lodge No. 344.
Junior Grand Deacon, Cyril McClean of Sequoia Lodge No.
349.
.
Senior Grand Steward, Harold Conklin of Henry Morse
Stephens Lodge No. 541.
Junior Grand Steward, Walter D. Adriance of King David's
Lodge No. 209.

\
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

629

Grand Pursuivant Warren D. Gill of San Gabriel Lodge
No. 546.
Grand Organist, Chas. E. Anderson of Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson of Presidio Lodge No. 453.
He also announced the appointment of James B. Gist to be a
member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of
California, vice John Stewart Ross, term expired.
The M .". W:. James B. Gist was appointed master of ceremonies and the officers-elect and appointed~ excepting the Grand
Treasurer and Grand Standard Bearer, were installed by the
retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form.
The Grand Master then invested his predecessor w ith a diamond lapel pin and the apron of a Past Grand Master; the Chas.
Albert Adams pin was transferred from the retiring to the
present Grand Master; the other chair officers exchanged their
lapel pins. A pleasing ceremony then followed when Brothers
Potts, Thompson and Zuckerkorn of the Hawaiian Islands,
invested the retiring Grand Master, the Grand Master, the
Deputy Grand Master and the Grand Secretary each with a
beautiful silk lei, with the aloha of the brethren of the Islands.
Past Grand Master Gist then in the name of the Grand Lodge
presented Brother Whiting with a beautiful silver service.
.At 1 :20 o'clock, all business being completed, Grand Lodge
was closed in Ample Form.
EARL WARREN,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

630

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

STANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence-Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles;
Jo~n _D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, 639 Roosevelt
Bu1ldmg, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling, deYoung Building, San Francisco;
~eorge L. Jones, Nevada City; Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco; John Stewart Ross, 117 West 9th street, Los Angeles.
Policy and General !'~trposes-William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring
street,_ Los Angeles; Wilham A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery streets, San
F:anc1sco ; :\lbert E. Boynton, 155 Montgomery street, San Francisco; Will H.
~1scher, Edison Bldg., Los Angeles; William H. Waste, State B.ldg., San Francisco; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter; Bradford Webster, 360 29th street, Oakland.
Grie~ances-Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los Angeles; Olm L, Berry, Bank of America "Building, San Francisco; William Penn
Humphreys, Balboa B?ilding, San Francisco; Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt
Bank Bldg., San Francisco; Frank B. Belcher, 510 So. Spring street, Los Angeles.
Financ_e-Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Frank C. Ruppel, Masonic Te~ple,
San Francisco; Claude H. Morrison, First National Bank1 San Diego· Walter
L. Berg~r,
South Spring street, Los Angeles; Randolph V. Whiting,' Monadnock Bmldmg, San Francisco.
. Credentials-Roy H. Parkinson, Flood Building, San Francisco; Ralph E.
Smith, 587 Cypress avenue, Los Angeles ; Martin L. Griffith, 5739 11th avenue,
Los Angcl~s; Charles E. Sones, E l Centro; Charles R. Cooper, 105 Lake street,
San Francisco.

19 North Second street, San Jose ; Lee Crawford, 1800 Broadway, San Francisco; Orrin S. Henderson, Box 242, .Palo Alto.

?40

Charters-Lee T. Mullen, Security Title Insurance Building, Los A~geles;
J~hn _R. Moore, Glendale; Henry Eissler, Bakersfield; Leo V. Youngworth, 902
Fidelity Bldg., Los Angeles; Milton T. Farmer, Balboa Bldg., San Francisco.
By-Laws-Oakley K. Morton, Courthouse, Riverside; Julius Gabriel, 250
Broadway, San Francisco; Theodore T . Spurgeon, 1834 W . 80th street, Los Angeles; Ira F. Thompson, State Bldg., San Francisco; Ira Wheeler, Santa Monica.
Pay of Members-John H. McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento.; Joseph
Block, 156 Fourth street, San Francisco; Ben Wright 740 South Olive street
Los Angeles; Louis Sutter, Anglo-California Nation~! Bank, San Francisco;
Ben Corlett, Napa.
. Acco1mts-(All San Francisco) Paul Nathan, 311 California street; Max
J. Mertens, 571 18th avenue; Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple; Otto G. Freyermuth, 209 Post street; Paul R. Bjick, 273 Edinburgh street.
. Returns-Robert E. Allan, 1499 Sutter street, San Francisco; Percy S.
Kmg, Napa; John Corey, Grass Valley ; Ralph E. Hoyt, Courthouse, Oakland ;
Fred L. Thomas, Courthouse, San Jose.
G_orrespondencc-Jesse M. Whited, Phelan Building, San Francisco; Byron
F. Hillhouse, W oodla~d ; Trustom R._ Dinsmore, Eureka; Martin Ortlieb, 7th
and C streets, San Diego; C. M. Hickman, Placerville; Henry Mottet, 1030
Leavenworth st~eet, San Francisco; Chas. Ziegler, Harris and Frank Building,
Los Angeles; B1on S. Gregory, Hearst Building, San Francisco; A. Cogliandro,
622 Montgomery street, San Francisco ; Franklin Padan, 1700 South Second
street, Alhambra.
Nec1·ology-Warren E. Libby, 1015 Spring street, Arcade Bldg., Los Angeles;
Ezra Decoto, Financial Center Bldg., Oakland; George F. McN able, Stockton.
Grand Lodge Week 4ctii>itics-Russell C. Horstmann, 1433 Madison street
Oakland ; Clarence Severm, 4635 Benevides street, Oakland; and Inspectors of
Alameda and Contra Costa counties.
Library- Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick street, San Francisco;
Rudolph Rosenberg, 742 22nd avenue, San Francisco; Theodore M. Wright,

631

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Masonic History-Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco; Mark
Sa wrie, 1061 Mariposa street, Berkeley; David Tullock, Oakdale ; . Roscoe L.
Clark, 822 Forum Building, Sacramento; Thomas Norris, Livermore; Chas. E.
Haas, Dept.. 42, Superior Court, Los Angeles; Chas. R. Ingram, Grass Valley.
Clandestine Masonry-William A. Schreider, Mutual Life Building, Los
Angeles; John Alpers, 547 Alvarado street, San Francisco; Orla A. Pratt,
Calexico; Harold A. Scholefield, Perkins Company, Sacramento; Harry W.
Beatty, Taft.
Masonic Education-Irving Magnes,. Easton Building, Oakland; William H .
Parcels, 1121 Detwiler Building, Los Angeles; A. Heber Winder, Riverside ;
Joseph M. Argabrite, 321 West Third street, Los Angeles ; George M. Donovan,
1646 Point View street, Los Angeles.
Ritual-Grand Lecturer; Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los
Angeles; William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson street, San Francisco.
Public Schools Week-Chas. Albert Adams, Chairman.
· Fi11anci11g Building Projects-William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson street, San
Francisco; Herbert C. Goldman, 746 Geary street, Apt. 25, San Francisco;
Leonard S. Leavy, City Hall, San Francisco.
CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
Endowment Board-Terms expiring 1936: William Rhodes Hervey, 458
South Spring street, Los Angeles; Fran1' M. Smith, 2808 North Sichel street,
Los Angeles ; Edmund A . Lockett, 552 South Raymond street, Pasadena; Robert
B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco; Thomas Flint, Hollister. Terms ex·piring 1937 : Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles; David W.
Schick, care of Marstons, San Diego ; Harry F. White, Fresno; John F. Pullen,
State Library Building, Sacramento; Howard B. Kirtland, Security First National Building, San Luis Obispo. Terms expiring 1933: Louis C. Drapeau,
343 Sansome street, San Francisco; Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Eugene S.
Elkus, 485 California street, San Francisco; Ernest G. Bashor, 600 EdwardsWildey Building, Los Angeles; Halcott C. Thomas, 457 South Spring street,
Los Angeles.
·
Trustees Masonic Homes-Chas. M. Wollenberg, President, Laguna Honda
Home, San Francisco; James B. Gist, Vice-President, Security First National
Bank, Sixth and Spring streets, Los Angeles ; Samuel E. Burke, 649 South
Olive street, Los Angeles; · Chas. Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank Building,
San Francisco ; Rollie W. Miller, Associated Realty Building, Los Angeles;
James T. Fraser, Eureka; Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building; San Francisco.
Board of Con.trol-Eugene · S. Elkus, 485 California street, San Francisco;
Robert F. Callender, 1128 West Kensington road, Los Angeles; James R. Erskine, Box 974, Fresno; Frank M. Wise, 330 Colorado avenue, Santa Monica;
Frank Tade, Farmers and Mechanics Building, Sacramento.
ASSISTANT GRAND LECTURERS
District No. 1 (Northern California)-Oscar L. Harris, 853 Orange street,
Yuba City.
District No. 2 (Bay Cities)-Lloyd E. W ilson, 220 Golden Gate avenue, San
Francisco.
District No. 3 (Central California)-Chester H. Warlow, Security National
Bank, Fresno.
District No. 4 (Southern California)-Sidney K. Lehman, 649 South Olive
street, Los Angeles.

632

633

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES
With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5935
Lodge
No.
Location
~~:~!~r Fees Fees Dues bers
1 California ------------ I San Francisco ____ _ 1850 $100 $20.00 $12 646
2 Western Star ------- · 2 Shasta --------------- 1850
50 6.00 9 81
3 Tehama ------------- 3 · Sacramento _____ 1850
75 10.00 9 442
4 Benicia --- -------------- 5 Benicia ----------- - 1850
50
12 157
5 Tuolumne---------- - ------- 8 Sonora ------------ 1850
2.00
9 209
75
6 Corinthian ---------------- 9 Marysville ------------ 1850
50
9 307
7 San Jose ------------ 10 San Jose ------------- 1850
50
9 466
8 Yount - --------- ------ 12 Napa ------------ 1851
60
12 254
9 Nevada -------------------- 13 Nevada City _____ 1851
50
9 135
10 Temple _______,________ 14 Sonoma ---------- 1851
40
2.00 12 119
11 Eureka -- - - - - - - 16 Auburn -------------- 1851
50
9 195
12 La Parfaite Union___________ 17 San Francisco ______ 1852 100 •i5~oo 12 157
13 Mountain Shade __________ 18 Downieville
1852
30
9
33
14 San Joaquin ----------- --- 19 Stockton ----------- 1852
80
12 600
15 Washington - - - - - - - 20 Sacramento
1852
75 10.00 9 519
16 Hawaiian ------ - - - 21 Honolulu, H. T ___ 1852
80 10.00 12 350
17 Occidental ---------- 22 San Francisco------- 1852 100 25.00 12 822
18 Madison ------------ 23 Grass Valley --------- 1853
53
10 165
19 Mariposa --------- 24 Mariposa --- ----- 1853
50 5.00 9 155
20 Georgetown ------------ 25 Georgetown
1853
30
9 50
21 El Dorado-------------- 26 Placerville - ----------- 1853
50 5.00 9 178
22 Trinity ---------- -- 27 Weaverville ----------- 1853
50 5.00 9 86
23 Golden Gate ---------- 30 San Francisco ------- 1853 100 10.00 12 731
24 Gold Hill ----------- 32 Lincoln ------------- 1853
50
1.00 . 9 100
25 Ophir ----------- - - - 33 Murphy's -------------- 1853
9 40
50
4.00
26 San Diego ----------- 35 San Diego ------------- 1853
80 8.00 12 593
27 Howard - --- - - - - - - 37 Yreka -------------- 1854
50
1.00 9 208
28 Santa Cruz ----------- 38 Santa Cruz---------- 1854
80
1.00 12 316
29 Sacramento ---------- - - - 40 Sacramento
1854
75 10.00 12 535
30 Martinez----------- -- 41 Martinez ----------- 1854
50
12 209
31 Los Angeles ------------ 42 Los Angeles _______ 1854
50 10.00 9 745
32 Hiram --------------------- 43 El Dorado ------------ 1854
75 20.00 9 43
33 Mount Moriah----- - - - 44 San Francisco --------- 1854 100 10.00 12 454
34 Crescent ----------- - - - 45 Crescent City -------- 1854
50 6.00
9 127
35 Texas ----------------- 46 San Juan -------- - - 1854
30
1.00 9 47
36 Forbestown ---------------- 50 Forbestown ---------- 1854
30
9
57
37 Illinoistown --------------- 51 Colfax --------------- 1854
50
9
74
38 Suisun ------ - - - - - 55 Suisun ------------ 1855
50
12 140
39 Volcano ---------------- 56 Volcano ----------- - 1855
30
5.00 9 29
40 Santa Rosa ------------ - 57 Santa Rosa ---------- 1855
75
5.00 9 373
41 Union --------------- -- 58 Sacramento --------- 1855
75 10.00 9 526
42 Gravel Range ------- 59 Campronville ------- 1855
55
9
33
43 Plumas ------------------ 60 Quincy ------------ 1855
50
2.50 9 101
44 Live Oak - ---------- 61 Oakland ----------- 1855
50 10.00 12 991
45 Natoma --- ----------- 64 Folsom ---------- ------- 1855
50
5.00 9 117
46 Amador ----- - -50
9 75
65 Jackson ------------- 1855
47 Forest ------------ - 66 Alleghany ----------- 1855
50
9 49
48 Morning Star -------------- 68 Stockton ------------ 1855
80
12 430
49 Enterprise ------------ 70 Yuba City - -- ------ 1855
50
5.00 12 230
50 Bear Mountain ------- - 76 Angel's Camp ------ 1855
50
3.00 9 81
51 Calaveras ------------·- 78 San Andreas ________ 1855
50
5.00 9 88
52 Humboldt ------------- - 79 Eureka --------------- 1855
75
18 366
53 lone - ------ - -- - - 80 lone ----------------- 1856
50
9 69
54 Yolo ---------- - - - 81 Yolo - ------- - - - 1856
50
9 62
55 Vesper -- --------- -- 84 Red Bluff _______:______ 1856
50
9 176
56 Naval --- ------------ - - 87 Vallejo ------------------ 1856
50 10.00 9 589
57 Rose's Bar - - ---- - 89 Smartsville
1856
50
5.00 9 38
58 North Star -------- ------- 91 Fort Jones - ------------ 1856
35
5.00 9 47
AllU.

Mem-

Lodge

59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76

77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98

99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
Ill

112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120

No.

St. Helena - - - - - - - - 93
Henry Clay ----------- 95
Hornitos ------------- 98
Yosemite ------------ ---- 99
Clay
101
Oroville ____________ 103
Lexington ________ _ _ 104
Arcata ------------106
Pajaro _
110
Chico _ _ _ _ _ _ _ll l
Summit ----------112
Eden
113
Concord
.
117
Clinton - - - -- ---119
Fidelity --------120
Alamo ----------122
Sotoyome - - ---- --123
Table Mountain -----124
La Fayette -------------126
Hermann --------127
Visalia - ------ - - - - 1 2 8
Nicolaus ---- ----------129
Woodbridge ---------131
Sincerity _______ 132
Vacaville ___
134
Valley - - ------ - - --135
Pacific - - - - 136
Crockett ___ _ _ _139
Curtis -------'------140
Grafton ------ - - - - -141
Franklin ------ -------------143
Oriental -------------144
Vittuvius --------------------145
Abell --------------146
Eel River ---------------147
Lassen ---------------149
Molino --------- ----150
Woodland -------------156
Keystone ------------161
Harmony -------------164
Excelsior - -----------------166
Alameda -------- - - -167
Redwood City ---- - -168
Mission - -----------169
Elk Grove -- - - - - - - -173
Drytown ---------174
Antioch ----------175
Phoenix ------- - -- -----178
Mendocino -------------179
Petaluma -------------------180
Russian River - ----------·181
Arbuckle -----'---------182
Clear Lake ----------------183
Sierra Valley ----- -- ---184
Claiborne
185
Evening Star - ------------186
Keith - ---------187
Oakland - -------------188
Northern Light.___ _____ 190
Marin -----------191
Santa Barbara --------192
Ferndale - - - - - - -193

Charter
Issued

Fees

Allll.
Fees

St. Helena --------- 1856
Sutter Creek---------- 1856
Hornitos --------- -- 1856
Merced ---------- 1856
Dutch Flat _______ 1856
Oroville ---------- - - 1856
El Monte -------------- 1856
Arcata ------------------- 1857
Watsonville ------- 1857
Chico ---------------- 1857
Knight's Ferry _____ 1857
San Leandro --------- 1857
Sacramento -------- 1857
Igo------------------------ 1858
San Francisco -------- 1858
Walnut Creek ------- 1858
Healdsburg ------- 1858
Cherokee ---------- -- 1858
Sebastopol ---------- 1858
San Francisco ---------- 1858
Visalia ------------------- 1859
Wheatland --------- 1859
Woodbridge --------- 1859
Greenville --------------- 1859
Vacaville ------------ 1859
Linden ----------------- 1860
San Francisco --------- 1860
San Francisco ______ 1860
Cloverdale
1860
Knights Landing.___ 1860
Courtland ------------ 1861
San Francisco --------- 1861
Bloomfield
1861
Ukiah - ----------------- 1861
Fortuna ---- -------------- 1861
Susanville ------------- 1862
Tehama ------------- 1862
Woodland ----------- 1863
Milton ----------------- 1863
Sierra City ________:_ 1864
San Francisco _______·_ 1864
Centerville
1864
Redwood City--------- 1864
San Francisco -------- 1864
Elk Grove _____________:_ 1865
Plymouth ------------- 1865
Antioch ---------- ------ 1865
San Bernardino ._____ 1866
Mendocino --------- --- 1866
Petaluma--------------- 1866
Windsor -------------- 1866
Arbuckle ----------- 1867
Lower Lake._________ 1867
Sierraville ------------- 1867
Point Arena -------- 1867
Etna Mills - ----- ----- 1867
Gilroy ------------------ 1868
Oakland ------------- - 1868
Millville --------- 1868
San Rafael ----------- 1868
Santa Barbara __________ 1868
Ferndale ------------ 1869

50
60
55
50
60
50
55
55
50
50
50
80
75
30
100
80
75
80
50
100
50
50
50
50
75
50
100
100
75
30
75
100
30
50
50
60
50
50
30
30
50
50
50
100
50
30
50
55
50
80
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
35
80
75
50

1.00 12
12
10.00 IO
15
9
5.00 12
LOO
9
3.00 9
10.00 15
10.00 12
5.00 9
5.00 12
10.00 9
5.00 9
5.00 15
5.00 12
5.00 12
1.00 9
9
20.00 12
8.00 12
5.00 9
5.00 9
5.00 9
9
12.00 9
20.00 12
25.00 12
9
5.00 9
1.00 18
25.00 12
1.00 9
8.00 12
9
12.00 9
1.00 12
9
10.00 12
5.00 9
10.00 12
5.00 12
1.00 18
5.00 12
10.00 9
5.00 9
5.00 12
3.00 9
5.00 9
5.00 9
1.00 9
1.00 12
10.00 9
9
5.00 12
9
1.00 15
25.00 12
3.00 9
12
5.00 15
9

Location

Dues

Mem·
bel'B

89
52
82
230
62
256
165
193
250
326
39
216
248
35
614
131
172
90
196
240
293
87
107
95
160
70
708
680
64
67
93
461
92
162
176
179
120
240
29
16
540
134
285
764
108
33
153
446
143
286
108
35
39
57
48
166

837
79
442
234

149

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

634

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182

No.

Mountain View - ---194
Buclceye _________ 195
San Simeon __________ l96
Wilmington _ _ _ _ _198
Hartley
199
Truckee _ _____zoo
Silveyville - -- ---- ---201
Pentalpha __
-202
Confidence
203
Salinas ----------204
Olivet ------~05
Stanislaus - - ------206
Anaheim ------------207
Rio Vista ----~--208
King David's- - ----- ----...209
Friendship - ------ ---210
San Benito - - ---211
So. San Francisco______ z12
San Buenaventura --214
Oak Grove
215
Doric ----------- -----216
Monterey
217
Mosaic - ----------218
Speranza Italiana·-----..219
Downey --- - ·- -220
Inyo ------ -- --221
Roseville --- - - - - - - - 222
Bakersfield - - - ------- 224
Brooklyn_
25
San Mateo __
226
Athens
28
29
Solano -------North Butte - ------230
Covelo
2Jl
Janesville - ----------232
Calistoga --33
Hope -------------234
Surprise ValleY-----235
Hill's Ferry --- ----236
Guadalupe - ·- ---237
Colusa
40
Santa Ana ___
241
Magnolia
42
Eucalyptus - - - -- - - -243
Alcatraz - - --- - -244
Laurel - -- -- --245
Pomona - -- - - - - 2 4 6
Fresno
47
Alturas ----- --------248
Adin ------ -- - - - - 2 5 0
Landmark --- - --- -253
Reading _ __ _ ___z54
Welcome --- ----255
Lodi ------------ -- 256
Penrhyn - - --- - 258
Evergreen - - - -.- 259
King Solomon's ----------260
Tuscan __
61
Lompoc -------- -- - 262
Hesperian
264
Orland --- - ----265
North East - - - - --266

Location

Charter
Issued

Mountain View__ 1869
Winters ___:_ ________ 1869
Cambria -- ---------- 1869
Wilmington - --------- 1869
Lakeport -------------- 1869
Truckee,--------- 1869
Dixon ---~------ 1869
Los Angeles ___________ 1869
Castroville ----------- 1869
Salinas ------------------ 1869
Corning ___: __________ 1870
Modesto --- - - - 1870
Anaheim - - ---- 1870
Rio Vista - - ---- ---- 1870
San Luis Obispo...... 1870
San Jose --------------- 1871
Hollister __________._ 1871
San Francisco---- -- 1871
Ventura - - -- --- 1871
Alameda _________:.__ 1871
San Francisco ______:__ 1871
Monterey ---------- 1871
Livermore ____ _ 1872
San Francisco - ------ 1872
Downey - - --- ---- 1872
Independence -------- 1872
Roseville -------------·--- 1912
Bakersfield --------- 1873
East Oakland._______ 1873
San Mateo - - ----- 1873
Davis ------ ------------ 1873
Vallejo - --- - --------- 1873
Gridley ----- ------------ 1873
Covelo --- ----------- --- 1874
Lassen - - - --- -- 1874
Calistoga -~-------- 1874
Beckwith _ ________:_ 1874
Cedarville ----------- 1874
Newman ---- --------- 1874
Guadalupe - -------- 1874
Colusa - - - - -- 1875
Santa Ana _________:_ 1876
Santa Barbara _____:_ 1876
Haywards - - - ----- ---- 1876
West Oakland - ---- 1877
Willows --- ---- - 1877
Pomona --- --------- 1877
Fresno - -------------- 1878
Alturas -- - ------------- 1878
Adin ---- -------------- 1878
Esparto _____ _____ :__ 1879
Redding ---- - - - 1879
Lemoore - -------·--- 1879
Lodi ---- ----- ·--·- 1879
Penrhyn - --------- --- 1880
Riverside --------------- 1880
San Francisco-------- 1880
Williams --------- 1880
Lompoc - - --------·-- 1881
Santa Maria - ---------- 1882
Orland - ---------------- 1882
Fort Bidwell -------·- 1882

Fees

Mem-

Ami.

Fees Dues bers

50
50
5.00
30
80
30
60
5.00
60
5.00
50 20.00
40
75
50
50
50
50
1.00
80
1.00
50
30
1.00
95
50
75
1.00
100 10.00
75
50
105 35.00
30
50
5.00
50
2.50
100
80 .
50
50
50 10.00
50
40
50
1.00
35
5.00
50 10.00
30
1.00
80
50 10.00
50
1.00
75
3.00
75
50
5.00
50 10.00
50
5.00
50
3.00
80
3.00
40
1.00
70
1.00
35
8.00
50
50
50
30
3.00
50
80 15.00
50
50
1.00
50
1.00
50
2.00
30
5.00

635

9
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
12
12
16
12
12
9
12
12
9
15
12
12
12
18
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
15
12
9
18
12
9
9
15

9
12
9
9

9
12
12
12
9
12
9

9

196
101
99
302
166
111
133
625
28
269
105
326
284
88
293
529
142
261
255
583
526
144
123
389
186
75
264
427
583
240
116
426
106
42
69
78
69

90
55
155
483
232
200
522
173
323
538
139
48
91
188
109
280
112
508
736
85
119
242
105
53

Lodge

183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
228
227
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244

No.

Galt
67
Durant
68
Olive Branch________--269
Snow Mountain___---271
Pasadena
7Z
Anchor .
73
Arroyo
Z74
Oakdale
Selma
2'17
Southern California -----278
Hanford
79
80
Madera - - Mount Shasta_
81
Callayomi _ __.__
282
South West__ · ..
83
San Miguel
285
Paso Robles.
86
Winnedumah - - - - ·~287
88
Maxwell - - Elsinore
89
East Gate ___
90
Santa Paula
91
Los Gatos ____---292
Orange Grove_________z93
Traver - --- ----294
Mt. Jaclcson________z95
Silver Gate - -------?96
97
Dunsmuir
99
Liberty - - Redlands _ _ _---300
Ontario ___
- ____;____JOI
Santa Lucia______302
Porterville
03
04
Reedley
Azusa
05
Ashlar
06
Santa Monica _ - - - 3 07
Monrovia __
08
Delano
09
10
Sisson
12
Los Banos
Tehachapi_
13
Temescal _ _
14
Norwalk _
15
16
Fallbrook
Sanger _ _ _._ ----..J 17
Emmanuel ------~18
Hollenbeck __ __----..J 19
South Gate __ __----..J20
Alisa! ______ ___J21
22
Alhambra
Whittier _ _ _ ----323
Corona _
24
Consuelo _ __ --325
Needles _ __
26
27
Long Beach
Redondo_
28
Vallee de France____.329
30
Kilauea
31
Pacific Grove
32
San Pedro - 33
Alta

--

~

"

Location

Charter
Issued

Galt - -- -- 1883
Berkeley ---- - 1883
Tulare-- --- ------ 1883
Stony Ford - --- --- 1884
Pasadena - --- - -- 1884
1884
Compton
Arroyo Grande.____ 1884
Oakdale - - - -- 1884
Selma --- - - - - --- 1885
Los Angeles __ _ ____ 1885
Hanford ----~-- 1885
Madera - ----- - 1885
Anderson - - - - --- 1886
Middletown - - - - 1887
National City - - ---- 1887
San M iguel _ ____ 1887
Paso Robles------~- 1887
Bishop -------- - - 1887
Maxwell - - - - - - 1888
Elsinore - - - - 1888
Los Angeles __ __________ 1888
Santa Paula _________ 1888
Los Gatos-- ----- - 1888
Orange --- ----- -- 1889
Kingsburg - ---- - 1889
Guerneville - -- - -- 1889
San D iego - - - ---- 1889
Dunsmuir---------- 1889
Santa Clara___ _ 1890
Redlands ---- --- - 1890
Ontario - ----------- 1890
Kings' City _____ 1890
Porterville - - -- --- 1890
Reedley - -------- ---- 1891
Azusa - ·-- ------ - - 1891
Colton ---- - - ------ 1891
Santa Monica------- 1891
Monrovia - --- ------ 1891
Delano ---------- 1892
Mount Shasta ---- 1892
Los Banos ------- 1892
Tehachapi ------ --- 1892
Corona - - - ----- 1893
Norwalk - -- - - --- )893
Sanger -- -- - - ------ 1893
Fallbrook - ---- -- 1893
Biggs --- --------- 1893
Los Angeles.______ 1894
Los Angeles._ _ __ 1894
Pleasanton -- - ----- 1894
Alhambra - - - -- 1894
Whittier - -- - - 1895
Pasadena - - - - - - 1895
Escondido ------ -- 1895
Needles - - - -------- 1896
Long Beach - ------- 1896
Redondo ----·------- 1897
Los Angeles.________ 1897
Hilo, H. T, __ __ 1897
Pacific Grove__________ 1897
San Pedro ____ _ 1897
Bridgeport - -- - --- - 1897

Fees

MemFees Dues bers

Ami.

67
9
30
9 637
80 10.00
18 199
50
30
9
30
1.00
12 553
70
12 277
80
79
6.00 12
35
9 113
50
1.00
9 160
50 12.00
50 15.00 12 607
12 153
50
50
3.00 12 173
62
12
30
9
59
30
5.00
9 152
1.00
50
30 10.00 12 62
9 107
50
3.00
20 117
50
9 61
50
12 298
30
50 10.00 9 809
15 276
50
12 205
50
1.00 12 203
75
10 107
50
12 133
30
12 570
80
12 200
50
9 233
50
9 364
75
9 195
50
24 104
40
9 285
50
9 148
50
12 169
50
50
9 166
12 278
80
12 257
50
9 170
50
64
50
2.00 · 9
12 122
75
1.00
9 165
75
50
2.00 12 130
9 123
30
9 148
50
30
5.00 9 66
9
74
50
5.00
50 10.00 .9 1215
9 687
50
9 110
50
9 389
50
9 465
50
8.00 12 552
70
9 142
50
1.00 12 213
75
9 564
80
12 233
60
50 12.00 12 128
12 207
50
9 148
75
12 499
80
9 39
5.00
53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

636

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

-I

245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

Covina
34 Covina ------------ 1898
West Gate _________ __335 Los Angeles.____________ 1899
Fruirvale __________ ______336 Oakland --------- --- 1899
Carquinez _ _ __ __ __337 Crockett - ---------- 1899
San Jacinto __________--318 San Jacinto _______ 1899
Fullerton ____________ _______339
Fullerton -------------- 1900
Oxnard - - ---------341 Oxnard ----- ------------ 1901
San Fernando ________ 343 San Fernando ------ 1902
Starr King _ _____ ______344 San Francisco --------- 1902
345 Brentwood
Brentwood __________
1902
Palo Alto ___ __ _ _ 346 Palo Alto ------ 1902
McKinley _ _
347 Richmond - -------- 1902
San Bernardino_______348 San Bernardino ___ 1902
Sequoia
49 Oakland - - - - - - 1902
Palestine _ _
51 Los Angeles_______ 1903
Sunset __
352 Los Angeles_____ 1903
Pinole
_353 Pinole ------------- 1903
54 San Francisco ____ 1903
Presidio - -- - -Hollywood ______ __355 Hollywood ---------- 1903
Mill Valley _________356 Mill Valley ------------ 1903
Buena Park - - -- --- ----357 Buena Park ----- - - 1903
Golden State________ _ _358 Los Angeles .__________ 1904
Loyalton __ _ ____359 Loyalton ---- --------- 1904
San Francisco _ _____-360 San Francisco ------ 1904
Fort Bragg _ _____ _ _-361 Fort Bragg ___________ 1904
Charity ___
62 Campbell ------------ 1904
Berkeley - 63 Berkeley - - - - - - 1904
Willits _ _ __ _ _--365 Willits -------- ----- 1905
366 Fresno ------ -------- 1905
Las Palmas
South Pasadena_ _ ___367 South Pasadena_____ 1905
Unity ____ _____368 Glendale - -------- - - 1905
Ocean Park ____---369 Ocean Park ---------- 1905
Amity ______ ______370 San Francisco ------- 1905
Le Progres___de
l'Oceanie_ J71 Honolulu, H. T ,.____ 1905
_______ ____ .372
Gardena
Gardena · ----------------- 1906
Veteran _______---373 Sawtelle ----------------- 1906
Jewel ___ _____ ___-374 San Francisco ______ 1906
Richmond ----------------3 75 San Francisco --------- 1906
Francis Drake - ------- --376 So. San Francisco ___ 1906
Artesia
377 Artesia -------------- 1906
78 Los Angeles .______ ____ 1906
Mizpah ------________
379
Fillmore
Fillmore -------------- 1906
Huntington Beach ------·--380 Huntington Beach .. _ 1906
Oceanside _____ ..:_~-381 Oceanside ----- ------ 1906
Highland Park -------382 Los An!feles .______ 1907
Orosi ___________383 Orosi ------------ 1907
El Centro __________ ____J84 El Centro _________ 1907
Dinuba __________ ____385 Dinuba ----------------- 1907
Coalinga -------------- - -- 387 Coalinga --------------- 1907
Parnassus _____ ______ 388 San Francisco --------- 1907
Palos Verdes_________________.389 Long Beach ----------- 1907
Imperial ____________390 Imperial ----------------- 1908
East Belt ______ ___ __-391 Tuolumne -------- ---- 1908
West Lake_________________392 Los Ang~les . _____________ 1908
Balder _________ _393 San Francisco -------- 1908
University 394 Los Angeles._ ______ 1908
Turlock ____J._______395 Turlock ~----------- 1908
Apollo - ---- -- -- - 396 Alameda -------- - - --- 1908
Ri•ing Light _ ____ 397 · Huntington Parle .. _ 1908
Fraternity - -- -----399 San Jose _____ ______ 1908
Burlingame - -----400 Burlingam, - ---- 1908
Bay View - - -- - - --401 Oakland ----------- --- 1909

Ami.

Fees

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Mem-

Fees Dues bera

50
75
50 25.00
50
50
75
1.00
50
50
100 10.00
30
54
4.50
75
55
5.00
50
1.00
75 10.00
50
. 50
75 15.00
50 12.00
80
30
50
50
100
50
5.00
75
80
5.00
50
1.00
80
3.00
80 15.00
75
80
100 25.00
80 10.00
55
5.00
3.00
75
100 30.00
50 10.00
5.00
75
50
50 15.00
50
1.00
50
50
75 20.00
50
75
50
100
100 10.00
75
5 10.00
50
5.00
50 50.00
50 20.00
50
80
75
1.00
50
50
50
50
5.00

637

9 227
15 814
12 752
12 151
96
9
12 394
12 236
9 226
12 595
12
92
9 463
9 305
9 466
12 912
12 578
15 439
12 131
12 576
9 929
15 313
9 123
9 871
9
68
12 372
9
94
9 107
9 548
· 9 134
9 629
10 526
12 399
12 343
12 490
12 361
9 140
12 178
12 156
12 594
12 181
9
86
12 413
15 161
9 245
9 126
12 492
15
88
12 238
9 179
12 256
12 656
9 479
12
57
9
64
9 1001
12 511
12 537
12 161
12 382
12 490
9 392
18 407
12 324

Lodge

No.

307 l3rawley
402
308 Y erba Buena._ _______ __403
___________40<4
309 Glendora
310 · Moneta ---~----- ___405
311 Burbank _____ _ _ _406
La
Mesa
__________
__
___ 407
312
_____________ 408
313 Sierra Madre
_ ___ _ _ _409
314 Honolulu
315 Charter Rock _______________ 410
316 Perris
411
317 Calexico
412
318 Waucoba
413
319 Arlington
414
320 Silver Trowel
415
321 Lindsay
416
___ 417
322 Clovis
323 Elysian _ ______418
324 Upland _ _ _ ___ _419
325 Kerman __________ 420
326 Inglewood _ ______ _ _ 421
327 Eagle Rock _______________ 422
328 York _ _ __ _ _ _423
329 Exeter __________424
330 Holrville _ ___ _ ____ 425
331 Midway _____________426
332 Chino Valley_ _ _ _ _427
428
333 San Dimas ---429
334 Pittsburg
_
_
__
_
430
335 McCloud
431
336 Alpha
433
337 Hammonton
__
;_
_
_
_
434
338 Maricopa
__________435
339 Fairmount
340 Claremont _ _ _ __ 436
341 Lancaster ------ - -- ---- 437
342 Acacia ___ ____ _ _ _438
343 Tyrian _____ ______ 439
344 Standard _ ___________440
345 Coronado _ ____ _ 441
346 Blackmer _ _ _ _ _442
347 Schofield _ · __________443
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
364
365
366
367

444
Carpinteria
Wilshire _ _ ___ __ 445
La Puente ____ __ 446
Torrance _ _;_ __ __447
Mt. Diablo _ __ _ _448
_ ____ _ _ __ 449
Park
Van Nuys ______________.450
Montebello _ . _ ___ 451
San PasquaL._____________452
Bethlehem ---------------- 453
_______________454
Crocker
Golden West_______________.455
_ _______457
Ramona
Henry S. Orme _______458
Riverbank ______ _ 459
Mount Oso _ _ _ _ _460
_ _ _ _ _461
Argonaut
462
Paul Revere
Morgan HilL_____________463
Alta Vista __________________464

Location

Charter
Issued

Brawley ------------- 1909
Oakland ---------- 1909
Glendora ----------- 1909
Los Angeles ·------------ 1909
Burbank --------- - ----- 1909
La Mesa --------- ------ 1910
Sierra Madre --------- 1910
Honolulu -------------- 1910
Berkeley ---------------- 1910
Perris -------------- 1910
Calexico ----------- 1910
Big Pine --------- ---- 1910
Los Angeles_____ ___ 1910
Los Angeles .______ 1910
Lindsay ---- -- ------ 1910
Clovis ------------ - ---- 1910
Los Angeles ____________ 1910
Upland ---- ---- - - 1911
Kerman ----------- 1911
Inglewood - ------------ 1911
Eagle Rock--------- 1911
Los Angeles___________ 1912
Exeter ------------- - 1912
Holrville ------ ------ 1912
Taft ------ --------- 1912
Chino ---- - -------- 1912
San Dimas.___ _ ___ 1912
Pittsburg -------- 1912
McCloud ---------- 1912
Richmond -- - ------ 1912
Hammonton --- 1913
Maricopa ----- - - 1913
San Francisco ------- 1913
Claremont ------1913
Lancaster ----------- - 1913
Los Angeles_____________ 1913
Manteca ---- --- ---- 1913
Oakland - -------------- 1914
Coronado - ------------ 1914
San Diego __________ 1914
Schofield Barracks,
H. T. ---- --- ---- 1914
Carpinteria --- -1914
Los Angeles ._______ 1914
Puente - - - - - --- 1914
Torrance --- ------- 1914
Concord - ----- - 1914
San Francisco --------- 1914
Van Nuys ----------- 1914
Montebello ---------- 1914
Pasadena ___________.:.___ 1914
San Francisco --------- 1915
Daly City . _ _______ 1915
San Francisco ----- - 1915
Monterey Park.____ 1915
Los Angeles .____________ 1915
Riverbank - --------- 1915
Tracy ------------ 1916
San Francisco - -- -- 1916
San Francisco ------ 1916
1916
Morgan Hill._____
San Francisco ______ 1916

Ami.

Fees

Fees

75
80
60
50
50
50
50
80
80
30
50
30
50
75
50
50
80
50
80
80
50
80
50
75
50
50
50
75
50
75
50
50
50
50
55
50
50
50
50
80

5.00
25.00

80
50
50
50
50
80
70
80
50
70
50
50
105
50
75
30
80
80
100
50
105

5.00

3.00
10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
3.00
3.00

1.00

20.00
5.00
10.00

1.00
5.00
10.00
3.00
3.00
15.00
3.00
10.00

6.00
10.00
1.00

Mem·
Dues bers

15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
9
12
12
9
10
9
9
12
12
9'
10
9
12
9
12
12
9
.9
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9

131
397
104
688
228
130
85
242
423
69
48
331
314
155
212
446
144
54
295
261
166
155
95
369
58
108
141
112
416
64
174
530
98
116
78
104
319
170
500

9 198
9
70
12 524
9
70
15 195
12 160
12 473
9 254
9 221
12 371
12 337
12 263
12 477
12 206
15 542
12
73
12 186
12 347
12 541
9
94
12 291

638

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES-Continued
Lodge

368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403

404
405
406
407
408

409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421

422
423

424

425
426
427
428

429

No.

Center
465
Libertas
466
Culver City___ __ _ _467
Rockridge __
468
Yorba Linda
469
Lincoln
470
Delta
471
Maui
472
Blythe
473
Victory
474
America
475
Coachella
476
Temblor
477
Thousand Oalcs
478
Golden Rule
479
Fellowship
480
Mt. Davidson _____481
Clarence F. Smith._ __ _482
Bell
483
Albert Pike - ----484
Chowchilla _ _ _ __ 435
Caledonia _ _____ 486
Vallejo
487
:488
Patterson - ·
East Bay
489
Corcoran __
490
Woodstock - - ---491
_
__
_
__
492
Garvanza
Atascadero _ _ __ 493
Acorn .
494
Lebanon _ ____ _495
Riverdale _
96
Fremont
497
Stockton
'498
Capital City
499
Roosevelt __
500
Westwood
01
Harbor
502
Point
503
Seaside _ _
04
Silver Cord - - ---505
Mount Olive
506
El Segundo
507
Joppa
508
Benjamin Franklin --- - -509
Cupertino
510
Sunnyvale - ----511
Palms
512
Cahuenga - - - --513
Argonne __
514
Vernon Square - ---515
Taft
516
Mount Vernon
517
La Jolla _ _ _
18
519
Euclid - -520
Ionic - ---Piedmont - - - - 5 2 1
Sunrise
522
Bellflower - -- - --523
Cata[jna Island -~524
George Washington - --525
Bay City - - - ---526

Location

639

GRAND LODG.E OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Charter
Issued

Fresno _____________ _: 1916
Bakersfield -- - -- - 1917
Culver City __ _
1917
Oakland - ·-- -- ----- 1917
Yorba Linda ________ 1918
San Francisco _______ 1918
Stockton --------- ---- 1918
Kahului, H. T, __ 1918
Blythe ------------- - 1919
San Francisco ____ 1919
Los Angeles.__________ 1920
Coachella ------ 1920
Fellows - --------- 1920
Berkeley - ------------ 1920
San Jose ------ - --- - 1920
Oakland ------ -------- 1920
San Francisco------- 1920
Los Angeles.___________ 1920
Bell -- - - - -------- 1920
Los Angeles___________ 1920
Chowchilla __ ____ 1920
Bakersfield _____ 1920
Vallejo - - - ------ - 1920
Patterson - -- --- ---- 1920
South Berkeley - ----- 1920
Corcoran ---- -- - - - 1920
Alameda ----------- 1920
Los Angeles ___________ 1920
Atascadero ________
1920
Oakland --- - - - -- 1920
San Francisco ___ 1921
Riverdale - -- ----- 1921
Oakland - - ----------- 1921
Stockton - ---- - -- -- 1921
Sacramento ------- - -- 1921
San Francisco ------ -- 1921
Westwood --------- -- 1921
Richmond ----------- 1921
Richmond ____ __ _ 1921
Long Beach ______ 1921
Santa Ana ---- -- 1921
Los Angeles _________ 1921
El Segundo _ ______ l 921
San Joaquin ....--- --- 1921
Los Angeles ..___________ 1921
Cupertino ----- ---------- 1921
Sunnyvale __________:_ 1921
Palms - ----- ----- - 1921
Los Angeles ___ ___ 1921
San Francisco - ----- - 1922
Los Angeles _____ 1922
Taft - - - -- --- 1922
San Francisco --- ----- 1922
San Diego _____________: 1922
Los Angeles ............- 1922
Los Angeles .........- - 1922
Piedmont ----------- 1922
Los Angeles______ 1922
Bellflower - - - --- 1922
Avalon - - --- 1922
San Francisco --- -- -- 1922
San Francisco ---·-···· 1922

Ami.

Fees

Fees Dues

80
100
75
75
50
100
80
50
50
65
75
75
50
75
75
50
105
50
50
75
50
75
50
50
80
75
50
75
50
80
100
55
80
80
75
80
35
75
75
80
50
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
50
100
50
50
80
100
50
50
80
50
50
100
50
100

9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
15
15
9
12
18
9
9
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
10
9
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
9
9
9
10
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
9
9
12
10
9
12
8
12

5.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
25.00
5.00
1.00

-----

15.00
1.00
10.00
2.00
10.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
1.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
12.00
1.00
10.00
5.00

4.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

10.00
10.00

Mem-

Lodge

bers

247
206
359
115
288
287
123
35
217
358
82
125
339
342
208
314
260
187
198
57
141
233
68
266
80
174

m53

306
304
56
276
n8
l60
149
185
148
103

284
213

400
171
49
209
78
114
190
305
337
334
165
209
144
252
289
202
165
158
104
279
203

1

I

Location

Charter
Issued

Covenant
, 27 Los Angeles _______ 1922
Beverly Hills - - - --528 Beverly Hilla.____ 1922
Loyalty
529 Los Anaela ___ _ 1922
Sun Garden _ _ ___,30 Fresno - ------- 1922
Alexandria·
,31 San Francisco ___ 1922
Smyrna
,32 Ceres - - - - - - - - 1922
Azure
533 Fullerton - - - ---- 1922
Forest Hill
34 San Francisco - - -- 1922
Alexander Hamilton ___535 Los Angeles _ _ _ _ 1922
Seal Rock
, 36 San Francisco ___ 1922
Utopia
37 Los Angeles ___ ____ 1922
Ascot
538 Los Angeles _____ 1922
44i Belvedere
539 Belvedere -------- - 1922
443 Queen Beach - - ----540 Long Beach ----- ----- 1923
444 Henry Morse Stephens....- 541 Berkeley ----- ---- - -- 1923
445 Lankershim - - -- -542 North Hollywood ... 1923
543 Long Beach ---- - - 1923
446 Signal
447 Glendale
544 G lendale - -- - - -- 1923
448 Jonathan _
545 San Francisco _ __ 1923
44~ San Gabriel - - - - --546 San Gabriel.__ _______ 1923
450 Arcadia
547 Arcadia -------- - 1923
451 Triangle - - --- --548 Venice ------------- 1923
452 Justice - - - - - - - - -549 San Francisco _ __ 1923
453 Seaport - -- - - - -550 San Francisco - --- - 1923
454 Lakeshore _
551 Oakland - - -- -·- 1923
455 Semper Viren~ _
552 Eureka ----- - ----- 1923
553 San Francisco ___ 1923
456 Golden City
457 Educator
554 San Francisco _ ____ 1923
458 White Pine - - - -- 555 W eed - -- -- - 1923
459 Fairfax
556 Fairfax -- - ----- 1923
460 Hermosa
557 Hermosa Beach _______ 1923
461 Point Firmin- - ---558 San Pedro - - - - 1923
462 Craftsman - - -- - 5 59 Los Anjele•- --- - - 1923
463 Plymouth
560 Oaldan -------- - --- 1923
464 East San D iego..- - - -561 East San D iego------- 1923
465 Pyramid _
562 San Francisco - ----- -- 1923
466 South Park __
563 Los Angeles ______ _____ 1923
467 Foothill
564 Oakland - - ------- 1923
565 Los Angeles·------ 1923
468 West Adams
469 James A. Garfield______566 Los Angeles.---- ----- 1923
470 Searchlight - - -- -- 567 Long Beach ------ - 1923
471 Park Boulevard ---- ---- -----568 Oakland -- - - -- --- 1923
472 Chateau Thierry..--- - -- 569 Oakland -- ------ - -- 1923
473 Military Service.- - -- - 570 San Francisco - ------- 1923
474 Francis K. Shattuclc__ _ _ 571 Berkeley - -------·- 1923
475 James Madison ____ _ _572 Los Angeles -- ------- ·- 1923
573 Berkeley - -- - - ----- 1923
476 Hillcrest __
477 S. W . Hackett__---574 San Diego ------- --- 1923
Fort
Croolc
_______
575
Fall River Mills_ __ 1923
478
479 El Cajon Valley....-----576 El Cajon ·- ------ - ·_ 1923
480 Sunnyside _ ___ _ _577 Los Angeles .. ___ _____ 1923
578 Los Angeles-------- 1923
481 Progressive
482 Warren G . H arding __ _579 North Sacramento __ 1924
580
Santa
Maria
_
________
Ramona -- --- ------· 1924
483
581 Bakersfield - ---···-- 1924
484 Security - - - 582 Rialto - -- --- ----- 1924
485 Rialto
583 W asco - - -- ----- 1924
486 Wasco
584 Los Angeles ---- -- -- 1924
487 Harding __
585 Los Angeles . ______ _ 1924
488 Manchester
489 Garden Grove...- -- ---586 Garden Grove _ ____ 1924
490 V alley Forge.- - - -- -- -587 Los Angeles .____ ____ 1924
491 El Seren0- --- -- -- 588 Los Angeles ____ ____ 1924
430
431
432
4jj
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441

331

No.

Ami.

Fees

50
75
75
80
80
70
100
55
75
50
50
50
50
80
80
75
80
50
50
50
55
50
75
100
75
50
80
80
55
55
60
80
50
80
60
50
50
80
50
100
80
80
50
100
75
50
50
80
50
50
50
75
30
100
55
80
70
55
50
50
50

Fees

5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.00

10.00
1.00
5.00
30.00

MemDues bers

9
12
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
12
9
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
9
12
9
25
9
12
12
9
9
12

254
198
218
336
122
51
199
96
133
128
435
228
198
104
273
232
258

347
160
142
82
98
162
175
187
120
74
166
94
104
128
254
191
181
219
159
293
223

135
323
201
5.00
168
1.00
10.00 12 253
5.00
9 166
9 155
12 56
9 190
1.00 12 69 .
12 66
4.50 12 247
15.00
9 228
135
12 . 50
12 166
9 84
12 103
25.00 12 150
20.00 12 225
1.00 . 9 98
12.50
9 190
12 121
--

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

640

641

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGE~Continued
Lodge

No.

492 Kauai ______________589
493 Compass ___________590
494 Escalon _______ _ _591
495 Tujunga _ _ _ _ _ _592
496 All States _________593
______________594
497 Service
498 Alexander Graham BelL.595
499 Guardian _ _ _ _ _ _596
500 Truth ___________597
501 Pearl Harbor_______________598
502 Carmelita _____, ___599
503 Lynwood ------------- - ------600
504 Grizzly -------------------601
505 Melrose -----------------602
506 Dimond -- --- ---------603
507 Jubilee --------------- ------604
508 Glassell Park ..----------------605
509 Sojourner --------------607
510 Granada ---------------------- 608
511 Provident ----------------------609
512 Elmhurst ----------------610
513 Canoga -------------611
514 Temple City ----------612
515 Three Pillars....____________613
516 Larchmont --------614
517 Hemet ----------------615
518 Seal Beach ....-------------616
519 Big Bear--------- - - - -617
520 Southland ---· -------618
521 Neptune ----'------------- 619
522 Point Loma ....------------620
523 The Gardens--------- -621
524 Arwater ---------------..:.622
525 Menorah -------- -------623
526 Fortitude -------- - - ----624
527 Angelus Mes&--- -- ------625
528 Chula Vista·------------..:.626
529 Lamanda Park.--------------627
530 Beacon of the W est------ 628
531 Fairview ------------------629
532 Ingleside -------------------630
533 Benevolence --------------631
534 Normal Heights.-------------63 2
535 Poinsettia -------------..:.633
536 Victorville -------- --------634
537 Riverside - - - --- - -63 5
538 John Marshall ---------- 636
539 Palisades - ------------------63 7
540 Indian Rock ------ - - -638
541 Composite -------------639
542 Veritas --------------------640
543 James A. Foshar-----------641
544 La Cumbre - ------ - ----642
545 · Alta Loma __..:,_______ _...643
546 Lomita --------------- 644
547 A. F. E. IrWin---------------64 5
548 Metropolitan _· - -------646
549 Hawthorne --~----------647
550 Damascus - -----------648
551 Florence _ _ _ _ _ _649
552 La Brea _____:_ _____650

Locntion

Charter
Issued

Lihue, T. H ,_____ 1924
Pomona - ------------ 1924
Escalon ----------- 1924
Tujunga ------------ 1924
Long Beach ------------ 1924
Long Beach ----------- 1924
Los Angeles _____________ 1924
South Gate --------- 1924
Los Angeles ____________ 1924
Honolulu, T. H, ______ 1924
Pasadena --------- 1924
Lynwood ------------- 1924
Portola ---------------- 1925
Los Angeles ______________ 1925
Oakland ---------- 1925
Santa Ana --------- 1925
Los Angeles ___________ 1925
Monrovia ---------- 1925
Alhambra __________ 1925
Sacramento ---------- 1925
Oakland -------------- 1925
Canoga Park ____________ 1925
Temple ------------------ 1925
Sacramento -------------- 1925
Los Angeles..__________ 1925
Hemet .1------------- 1925
Seal Beach ---------- 1925
Pine Knot ------------- 1925
Los Angeles__________ 1925
Long Beach ------------- 1925
San Diego ------------ 1925
Los Angeles ______:_____ 1925
Los Angeles ...__________ 1925
Los Angeles ------------ 1925
Oakland ----------------- 1925
Los Angeles _____ 1925
Chula Vista._________ 1925
Pasadena ---------------- 1925
Los Angeles _ _________ 1926
Inglewood ------------ 1926
San Francisco -------- 1926
Los Angeles____________ 1926
San Diego - -------.,- 1926
San Buenaventura .... 1926
Victorville ------------- 1926
Riverside ------------- 1926
Los Angeles.___________ 1926
Santa Monica ---------- 1926
Berkeley ---------------- 1926
Los Angeles__________ 1926
San Francisco --------- 1926
Los Angeles ~---------- 1926
Santa Barbara--------- 1926
Signal Hill _________ 1926
Lomita ------------- 1926
San Pedro -------------- 1926
Los Angeles ____________ 1926
Hawthorne ----------- 1926
San Bernardino _______ 1926
Los Angeles__________ 1927
Los Angeles ·----------- 1927

Fees

Ami.

Fees

75 10.00
70
2.00
50
35
3.00
80
75
80
5.00
50
50
5.00
80 15.00
70
50
50 10.00
50 10.00
60
1.00
50
1.00
50
50
50
5.00
75 10.00
80
1.00
1.00
75
50
75 10.00
50 15.00
30
45 .
30 30.00
50
75
75
50
50
75 10.00
80
1.00
50
5.00
50
1.00
70 15.00
50
1.00
80 23.00
50
80
60
50
55
50
80
80
80
5.00
100 10.00
100 10.00
105
75
75
60
80
5.00
50
80
3.00
5.00
75
55
4.50
50 10.00

-

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGE~Continued

MemDues bers

12
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
12
9
12
9
9
12
9
12
9
18
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9

96
l36
84
272
294
149
227
91
148
166
107
90
135
189
220
93
257
125
131
124
86
126
172
72
51
34
184
118
76
174
152
241
118
303
119
112
102
99
101
161
182
207
97
134
100
169
102
124
71
68
237
100
123
89
54
180
176
164

Lodge

553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561
562
563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573
574
575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582

No.

Menlo Park.-------- ---------65 l
Crescenta Valley________652
Fontana
----653
Jordan --------------65'4
Monte Vista --·------655
Citro! ---··-···-----656
John D . Spreckels _________ 657
Livingston ----·-·---·---658
La Habra --------·--··----·-- 659
Baldwin Park ____________ 660
Malta ----··--·----------- 661
Henry Knox -·----------·---662
Ojai_
.663
Oasis ---- --------·-------664
Kaweah ---------------------665
Reseda --------------------666
Meridian _____________667
San Gorgonio ______________668
John P . Jarman _______________669
Greenleaf __________________-670
San Clemente _________--671
Laguna Beach._________________672
Far WesL-------------------673
Los Cerritos _________674
Modesto ------------~675
Willow Glen.__:__________676
Liberal Arts _________677
Altadena ·-- - ··- ---678
Canby's Cross--------679
__________680
Carmel

Cha1ter
Issued

Location

Menlo Park ______ 1927
Montrose ---------- 1927
1927
Fontana
Los Angeles ···------ 1927
1927
Long Beach.-----··-Brea --------------- 1927
San D iego -------- 1927
Livingston -------- 1927
La Habra -------------- 1927
Baldwin Park ___ 1927
Los Angeles __________ 1928
Los Angeles _____________ 1928
0 jai ··-------------------- 1928
El Centro··------------ 1928
Woodlake -------------- 1928
Reseda ----------------- 1928
Glendale ---------- 1928
Banning --------------- 1928
San Jose - - ----------- - 1928
Whittier ------------- 1928
San Clemente ------ 1928
Laguna Beach _______ 1929
San Francisco ---------- 1929
Long Beach ----·- 1929
Modesto -------------- 1929
Willow Glen ·---------- 1930
Los Angeles ....--------- 1930
Pasadena ·----------- 1930
Tulelake -------------- 1935
Carmel --------------- 1935

-------

Fees

Ami.
~·ees

MemDues bers

50
4.50 12
55
9
55 10.00 9
50
9
50
12
50
1.00 12
12
80
50
15
50
12
12
50
9
50
50 10.00 9
45
1.5
75
12
10
75
9
75
12
75
1.00 12
75
50
5.00 9
55 -------- 9
100
9
50
1.00 12
75 10.00 12
50 10.00 12
9
50
9
50
50
10
12
70
75
9
75

67
98
79
140
·218
135
259
67
116
59
106
163
49
72
49
69
161
70
92
146
31
45
124
81
121
73
67
150
22
27

Total Membership August l, 193 5____ ·------------------------··-------- - -----129,326

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

642

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

643

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
EXTINCT LODGES
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
4 Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crochet, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco Aug. 18, 1852.
7 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
11 · Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov., 1851.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon, Nov.,
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never issued.
26 Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt. Jefferson
No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelumne, Moke!umne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13,
1883 .
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Va!ley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov., 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.
•
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill,- 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May 2,
1855.
69 Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian
No. 9, Dec., 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
77 Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma
No. 180, Dec., 1898.
82 Mountain, Don .Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest HiU, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 11 5,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, Nov.,
1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena, Oct. IO, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbes town No. 50, July 19, 1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, Oct., 1898.
102 M anzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.13, 1910.

105
107

Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857, Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26 1894.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, ia6I.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter siirrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now known
as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct'. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Doric, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never issued.
151 ·Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 1O, 1862.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1565.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863 . Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada
Jan. 16, 1865.
'
158 G~bsonvill~, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot H ill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25 Dec. 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to Ju;isdicti~n of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
·
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada
'
Jan. 16, 1865.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev, Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to. jurisdiction of Nevada Jan. 16
•
'
'
1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transfe;red to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada Jan. 16
1865.
'
'
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never issued.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona March 25
-·
'
1882.
180 Ar_!:turas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated-with Petaluma No. 77, as No. 180, Dec.,
1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct, 16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with N atoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never issued.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
i27 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct, 16, 1884.

644

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered .Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881. Transferred
to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, l882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1886. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13,
1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec. 19,
1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T . H ., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
432 Granite No. 222, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
·
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. N ame changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 18, 1925.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15, 1931.

645

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850.
1850

1856

1862

Jonathan D.Stevenson, G. M. William H. Howard ..G. M. W illiam C. Belcher .... G. M.
California No. I
Corinthian No. 69
John A. Raymond .. D. G. M.
Born Jan. I 1800
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Feb. 14, 1894
Died Sept. I, 1895
Lemuel Lyon ..........$. G. W.
John A. Tutt......._... D. G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne.... D. G. M.
Peter
W.
Randle
....
J.
G.
W.
Caleb Fenner .... _..$. G. W.
John W. Harville....$. G . W.
Sashel Woods ........J. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T. John B. Hewson ......J. G . W.
Levi Stowell .................. G. T. Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. James Laidley .............. G. T.
John H. Gihon .............. G. S.
Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.

1851

1857

1852

1863
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Washington No. 20
W illiam C . Belcher ....G. M.
Born Feb. 8, 1825
Died July 12, 1897
Gil. B. Cla iborne.... D. G. M.
Chorles Marsh ........ D. G. M. Louis Cohn ............$. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies ......J. G. W.
Aaron D. Park........ S. G. W.
James Laid ley .............. G. T.
John B. Pope..........J. G. W. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1864

Benjamin D. Hyam .... G. M.
Benicia No. 5
BornChas, M. Radcliff.. D. G. M.
Adolphus Hollub....S. G. W.
J. R. McConnell .... J. G . W.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.

William C . Belcher ....G. M.
G il. B. C la iborne.... D. G. M.
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M. Wm. A. Davies........$. G. W.
P. W. Shepheard.... D. G. M. Isaac S. Titus..........J. G. W .
Wm. McCormieL.S. G. W. James Laid ley ..............G. T,
Jas. W. Bicknell ......J. G. W. Alex G . Abell .............. G. S.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
1865

John A. Tutt.............. G . M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb, 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam ...... D. G. M.
E. F. W . Ellis •.........S. G. W.
Benj. S. Olds ..........J. G . W.
Towns'd A. Thomas...... G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G. S.

1858

1853
Gilbert C. Claiborne.. G. M.
1859
Charles M. Radcliff.. G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Born 1828
Tuolumne No. 8
Died Dec. I, 1908
Born Feb. 5, 1818
P. W. Shepheard .... D. G. M.
Died Dec. 31, 1889
Ebenezer Lane ........S. G. W. Wm. A. Davies...~.. D. G. M.
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G . M. Thos. P. Hawley...... J. G. W. ls~ae S. Titus..........S. G. W.
Jno. R. Crandall.... $. G. W. Addison Martin ............G. T. Henry H. Hartley..J. G. W.
Richord F. Knott.... J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. James Laid ley .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S.
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
Levi Stowell .·--············G• S.
1860
1854

1866

Nathaniel G. Curtis.. G. M.
Gilbert C . Claiborne.. G. M.
William H. Howard .. G. M. P. W. Shepheord .... D. G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Wm. C. Belcher......$. G . W, Henry H. Hartley.. D. G. M.
Born
1810
Alvinza
·
H ayward ····J ' G ' W ' Wm. H. Peterson ....$. G. W.
Died Aug.
Sept.29,
18, 1866
Thomas Beck ..........J. G . W.
N h G C . D G M Addison Martin ............ G. T. James Laid ley ..............G. T.
at ·
· urtis.... · · · Alex G. Abell... ........... G. S.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
Rector E. Cole......S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ......J. G . W.
1861
Addison Martin ............ G. T.
1867
Levi Stowell .................. G. S. James L. English ......G. M. William A. Davies ......G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Columbia No. 28
1855
Born June 5, 1813
Born Feb. 5, 1827
William H: Howard .. G. M.
Died May 29, 1889
Died J une 20, 1916
T. A. Thomas.......... D. G. M. Wm. C. Belcher.... D. G. M. Henry H. H artley.. D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond .. $. G . W. John W. Harville ....$. G . W . Thomas Beck ..........S. G. W.
Sam. A. Merritt......J . G . W. Caleb E. Wilcoxon .. J. G. W. Leonidas E. Pratt....J . G. W.
Addison Martin ............ G. T. .James Laidley .............. G. T. James Laidley .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell .................. G ; S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

646

1868

1875

1882

Charles Marsh ............ G. M. John M. Browne.........G. M. Clay W. Taylor..........G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Naval No. 87
Jonath. 0. Hines.... O. G. M.
Born Dec. 6 1825
Born May 10, 1831
Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Died April is, 1876
Died Dec. 7, 1894
Leonidas E. Pratt....O. G. M. Chas. L. Wiggin .... O. G. M. George Hinds ........J. G . W,
Theo. G. Coekrill.... S. G. W. Wiley J. Tinnin ......S. G. W. Moses Heller····- -.........&: T.
Fredk. F. Barss........J. G . W. Jacob H. NefL.....J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S.
James Laidley .............. G. T. James Laidley ..............G~ T.
1883
Alex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S. Jonathan 0. Hines. .....G. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
1869
1876
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Leonidas E. Pratt........G. M. John M. Browne.......... G. M.
Mountain Shade No.18
Chas. L. Wiggin .... O. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin ...... O. G. M.
B'?rn Aug. 29, 1833
Wm. S. Wells..........S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Hiram N. Rueker....J. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus .......... O. G. M. Solon W. Craigue..J. G. W. Moses Heller ................G. T.
John S. Ward ........ S. G. W, James Laidley -············G. T. Al.,x G. Abell... ...........G. S.
Richard Dale ..........J. G. W. Alex G. Abell.............. G. S.
1884
James Laidley ·······-·····G. T.
1877
Alex G. Abell...... ,....... G. s. John M. Browne..........G. M. Jonathan 0. Hines......G. M.
1870
Chas. L. Wiggin .... D. G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin...... O. G. M.
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M. Wm. W. Traylor......S. G. W. i:dm. C. Atkinson ..S. G. W.
Hiram N. Ruder....J. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus..........O. G. M. Wm. H. Crane........J. G. W. Moses Heller ................&. T.
Chas. L. Wiggin .... S. G. W. Moses Heller ................G. T. Alex G. Abell..............G. S.
Benj. H. Freeman.... J . G. W. Alex G. Abell... ...........G. S.
1885
Jjmes laidley .............. G. T.
1878
A ex G. Abell.............. G. s. John M. Browne..........G. M. Wiley J. Tinnin..........,.G. M.
Trinity No. 27
1871
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Wm. W. Traylor .... 0. G. M.
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M. Wm H. Crane........S. G. W.
Edm.
C. Atkinson .. 0. G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin.... O. G. M. Robt. C. Broder......J. G. W.
Ben. H. Freeman.... S. G. W . Moses Heller ····-··········G• T. Hiram N. Ruder....S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perkins......J. G. W . Alex G. Abell..............G. S. Henry H. Knapp....J. G. W.
Nathan W . Spaulding.. G. T.
James Laidley .............. G. T.
1879
Alex G. Abell.. ............G. S.
Alex G. Abell.............. G.
William W. Traylor.... G. M.
1886
California No. I
1872
Edmund C. Atkinson ..G . M.
Born March 17, 1822
Leonidas E. Pratt........ G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Born Nov. 17~ 1837
Benj. H. Freeman.. O. G. M. Samuel C. Oenson.. D. G. M.
Died M•rcll ~o. 191 I
Geo. C. Perkins...... $. G. W Clay W. Taylor......S. G. W.
Hiram
N. Ruder.... D. G. M.
John M. Browne....J. G.
John Q. Adams......J. G. W. Morris M. Estee......S. G. W.
Jjmes Laidley .............. G. T. t 'oses Heller ...............:G. T. Alvah R. Conklin....J. G. W.
A ex G. Abell.............. G. s. Alex G. AbelL............ G. S. Nathan W . Spaulding.. G. T.
1873
Alex G. Abell..........- .. G· S.
1880
Isaac S. Titus.............. G. M. Samuel C. Oenson......G. M.
1887
San Joaquin No. 19
Union No. 58
Hiram N. Rucker ......G. M.
Born Oct. 14 1827
Born Sept. 23, 1839
La
Grange
No. '9
Died April 22, 1892
Died July 26, 1917
Born Sept. 6, 1844
Died
Dae.
13,
1'105
Geo. C. Perkins...... O. G. M. Clay W. Taylor ...... 0. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne...... S. G. w. John Q. Adams...... S. G. W. Morris M. Estee...... D. G. M.
Chas. E. Mitehell....J. G. W 0. W. HollenbeeLJ. G. W. Alvah R. Conklin....$. G. W.
Jjmes Laidley .............. G. T: Moses Heller ....- ..........G. T. Wm. Johnston ........J. G. W.
A ex G. Abell.............. G. s. Alex G . Abell.............. G. S. Nathan W. Sp·aulding ..G. T.
Alex G. Abell..............G. S.

s.

w:

1874

1881

647

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1888

George C. Perkins .... G. M. Clay W. Taylor.......... G. M. Morris M. Estee........G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Western Star No. 2
California No. I
B'?rn Aug. 23, 1839
Born Sept. JO, 1844
Born Nov. 23, 1814
Died Feb. 26, 1923
Died May I, 1897
Died Oct.· 7, 1903
John M. Browne.... O. G. M. · John Q. Adams...... D. G. M. Alvah R. Conklin.... O. G. M.
Wr;i. B. Parker........ S. G. W. Jonath. D. Hines....S. G. W. William Johnston ....$. G. W.
filey J. !innin ......J. G. W. Thos. J. Bowers......J. G. W. Mare. 0. BorueL...J. G. W.
Armes La1dley .............. G. T. Moses Heller ................G . T. Nathan W . Spaulding.. G. T.
ex G. Abell.. ............ G. S. Alex G. Abell .............. G. S. Alex G. Abell........- ....G. S.

1895

1901

1889
William S. Wells.. ......G. M.
Morris M. Estee........G. M. Edward M. Preston .... G. M.
Martinex No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
William Johnston .. 0. G. M.
Nevada
Born
MayNo.4 131841
Died Jan 23, 1919
Chas. R. G ritman ..S· G · W •
Died Aprll 24, 1903
O. S. Henderson .... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Wm. T. Lueas........ O. G. M. Chas. W. Nutting ..S. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. Thomas Flint ...._....S. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter ....J . G . W.
Alex G. Abell.............. G. S. F. .,
J G . W • Edward Coleman..........G. T.
..... Ang ell o ttl.......
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. George Johnson ..........G. S.
1890
George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L
Alvah R. Conklin ...... G. M.
1902
1896
Inyo No. 221
Orrin S. Henderson ....G. M.
Born 1835
William T. Lueas ........ G. M.
Mornln11 Star ·No. 68
Died Oct. 5, 1897
Born Guadalupe No. 237
William Johnston .. 0. G. M.
Born March 18, 1850
Chas. W. Nutting .. D. G. M.
Died March 21, 1931
Chas. R. Gritman ..S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter ....S. G . W.
Henry S. Orme......J. G. W. Thomas Flint .......... 0. G. M. Motley H. Flint......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. G. T. F. M. Angellotti ....S. G. W. Edward Coleman ..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. Chas. L. Patton......J. G. W. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Wm. H. Edwards.......... G. L.
George Johnson ..........G. S.
1891
1903

William Johnston ......G. M.
Charles W. Nutting .... G. M.
1897
Franklin No. 143
Evanln11 Star No. 186
Thomas Flint.. ............ G. M.
: Born June 2 I825
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Texas No. 46
Born May 29, 1858
Chas. R. Gritman .. O. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter....O. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ......S. G. W. F. M. Angellotti ....0. G. M. Motley H. Flint ......S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens........J . G. W. Chas. L. Patton......S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........J. G. W .
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Jas. A. Foshay........J. G. W. Edward Coleman..........G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S_. Edward Coleman.......... G . T. George Johnson ..........G. S.
George Johnson ..........G. S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

1892

1898

1904

1899

1905

Charles R. Gritman ....G. M. Frank M. Angellotti....G. M. George W. Hunter....G. M.
. Humboldt No. 79
Yount No. 12
Marin No. 191
BornBorn Dae. 10, 1838
Born
Sept.
4,
1861
Dlad Oct. 14, 1925
Died May 14, 1894
Died May 23, 1932
Henry S. Orme...... O. G. M. Chas. L. Patton...... O. G. M. Motley H. Flint......O. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens........ S. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay........S. G. W. Edw. H. Hart..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston......J. G. W. Wm. S. Wells..........J. G. W. Geo. M. Perine......J. G. W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. George Johnson .......... G. S. George Johnson ..........G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L.

1893

H. Flint.......... G. M.
Henry S. Orme.......... G. M. Charles L. Patton ...... G. M. Motley
East Gata No. 290
So. Califomla No. 278
California No. I
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Died July 14, 1930
Born March 25, 1837
Born 1865
Died Nov. 29, 1912
Died Aprll I I, 1923
Edward H. Hart .... D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens...... O. G. M. Jas. A. Foshay........O. G. M. Geo. M. Perine......S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ....S. G. W. Wm. S. Wells ..........S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lueas..........J. G. W. 0. S. Henderson ....J. G. W. Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
Edward Coleman..........G. T. Edward Coleman.......... G . T. George Johnson .......... G. S.
George Johnson .......... G . S. George Johnson ..........G. S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G . L.

1900
1894

1906

James A. Foshay........ G . M. Edward H. Hart..........G. M.
live Oak No. 61
So. California No. 278
James B. Stevens........ G. M.
Born 1858
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Yount No. 12
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Died
Jan.
14,
1914
Born March 27, 1841
Wm. S. Wells.......... O. G. M. Geo. M. Perine ......0. G. M.
Died Dae. 6, 1919
Edw. M. Preston.... O. G. M. 0. S. Henderson ....S. G. W. Reuben H. Lloyd ....S. G. W.
Wm. T. Lueas..........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting ..J. G. W . Oscar Lawler ..........J. G. W.
Thomas Flint............J. G. W. Edward Coleman .......... G . T. Edward Coleman..........G . T.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T. George Johnson ..........G . S. George Johnson .......... G. S.
George Johnson .......... G. S. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L. Wm. H. Edwards..........G. L

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

648

1907

1913

1919

George M. Perine...... G. M. John D. Murphey ...:..G. M. Chas. Albert Adams.. G. M.
Pacific No. 136
Alta No. 333
Excelsior No. 166
·
Born 1852
BornBorn Nov. 25, 181.7
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd .... D. G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe...... D. G. M. Geo. F. Rodden .... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..........S. G. W. Alb. G. Burnett......S. G. W. Sam. E. Burke..........S. G. W.
W. Frank Pierce ....J. G. W. F. Y. Keesling ........J. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
George Johnson ..........G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .-........... G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.. Thomas J . Baker..........G . L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1908

1914

1920

Oscar Lawler ............ G. M. Benj. F. Bledsoe..........G. M. George F. Rodden .... G. M.
East Gata No. 290
San Bernardino No. 348
Marin No. 191
Born April 2, 1875
BornBorn Dec. 24, 1867
Died Mar. 8, 1934
W. Frank Pierce .... D. G. M. Alb. G. Burnett.... D. G. M. Sam. E. Burke ........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller......S. G. W. F. Y. Keesling ........S. G. W. Wm. A. Sherman ....$. G. W. ,
A. J. Monroe ..........J. G. W. W. Rh. Hervey........J. G. W. Arthur S. Crites......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer......G . T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G . L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L

1909
W . Frank Pierce........ G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe.......... $. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer........J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1910
Dana R. Weller..........G. M.
So. California No. 278
8ornA. J, Monroe.......... D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer ........S. G. W.
J, D. Murphey........ J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G . L.

191l

1915

1921

Albert G. Burnett ......G. M. Samuel E. Burke........ G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Santa Roso No. 57
Born April 9, 1851.
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Aug. 15, 1923
F. Y. Keesling ........ D. G. M. Wm. A. Sherman.... D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey....S. G. W. Arthur S. Crites......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster..J. G. W. David J. Reese........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S. John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1916

1922

Francis V. Keesling .... G. M. William A. Sherman.. G. M.
California No. I
Presidio No. 354
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Arthur
S. Crites...... D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey.... D. G. M.
Bradford Webster..S. G. W. David J. Reese ......S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams....J. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G. L. Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1917

1923

Alonzo J, Monroe...... G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19. 1858
Died Jun• 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey........ S. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe...... J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J, Baker..........G. L.

Bradford Webster.. D. G. M.
Chas. A. Adams.. ....S. G. W.
Seo. F. Rodden ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........G . L.

David J. Reese...... D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton ......$. G. W.
Geo. L. Jones..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1912

1918

1924

Wm. Rhodes Hervey.. G. M. Arthur S. Crites.......... G. M.
Bakersfield No. 224
Pentalpha No. 202
Born .March 26, 1870
Born Feb. 4, 1879 .

Wm. P. Filmer............ G. M. Bradford Webster ...... G. M. David J. Reese ............ G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
live Oak No. 61
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born March 3, 1866
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Born Aug. 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Jno. D. Murphey.... D. G. M. Chas. A. Adams.... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ...... D. G. M.
Benj. F, Bledsoe......S. G. W. Geo. F. Rodden ...... S. G. W. George L. Jones ....S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett......J. G. W. Sam. E. Burke..........J. G. W. Will H. Fischer......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S. John Whicher .............. G. S. Jbhn Whicher ..............G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.......... G. L Thomas J, Baker.......... G. L Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1925

1929

649

1933

Albert E. Boynton...... G. M. C. M. Wollenberg ...... G. M. James B. Gist............ G. M.
Oroville No. 103
Starr King No. 344
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Born March 13, 1873
Born Aug. 8, 1868
Geo. L Jones.......... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer ......S. G. W.
Gus. A. Hutaff........J. G. w;
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. 6. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

John S. Ro11.......... D. G. ~.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher ..............6 . S,
Thomas J. Baker.......... 6. L.

R. Y. Whiting ........ D. G. M.
Earl Warren .......... S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

1926

1930

1934

George L. Jones........ 6. M. John Stewart Ross...... G. M. Randolph Y. Whiting .. G. M.
Madison No. 23
El Centro No. 384
King Solomon No. 260
Born May II, 1873
Born May 21, 1879
Born Nov. 13, 1870
Will H. Fischer...... D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff... .....S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher . ............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Robt. B. Gaylord .... D. G . M.
Frank W. Mixter ....S. G. W.
James B. Gist........ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Which er ..............G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.......... G. L.

Earl Warren .......... D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller...... S. G. W.
James T. Fraser...... J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Which er ..............6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

1927

1931

1935

Will H. Fischer .......... G. M. Robt. B. Gaylord ........ G. M. Earl Warren ................G. M.
Wilshire No. 445
Oakland No. 188
Sequoia No. 349
Born Sept. 11, 1875
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Born March 19, 1891
Gus. A. HutafL..... D. G. M.
C. M. Wollenberg ..S. G. W.
J, S. Ross................J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......G. T.
John Whicher ...._ ....... G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Frank W. Mixter.... D. G. M.
James B. Gist..........S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J, Baker.......... G. L.

1928

1932

Gustav A. HutafL... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M.. Wollenberg .. D. G. M.
J. S. Ross................S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Frank W. Mixter........ G. M.
E1eter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1873
James B. Gist........ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton........S. G. W.
R. V. Whiting ........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...... G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.......... G. L.

Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser...... S. G. W.
Leon 0 . Whitsell.. ..J . G. W.
William P. Filmer ........ G. T.
John Whicher .............. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ............ G. L.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

New Brunswick (J. Twining Hartt) ..~......:______:;..'····----·······--·-···-·····-·--Saint John

RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

New South Wales (David Cunningham, P. D. G. M.) ---···-····-········--·---··Sydney

650

651

New Zealand (George Barclay) ......-.................................................... Christchurch
Alberta (J. H. W. · S. Kemmis )------------··--------·------·------·-----------·------·-----------·Ca~
Brazil.
. The Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of the State of Panahyba
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Para
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre

Norway (E. ·Lowig-Hansen),,____......·--···--··-·----.--···---········:.......•..Oslo
Nova Scotia (James C. Jones).,.................................................................-.Hali!ax
Panama (Jose Oller) ···---···-··-·······-······-····-·········--···-:···-·-··-······•-·········-····-Pmama
Peru (Gerardo Alania) __,...,...............................·...........;...,........................•.~ ....Liai.a
Philippine Islands (Teodoro Kala w) ············-···-·······---··-····-----··----·····---·--··Manila
Porto Rico (Jose G. Ginorio ) -·······-···············--·-···-··-······-----··--···----···-········San Juan

British Columbia (W. A. DeWolf-Smith) ...--------·-··-----------·-·New Westminster

Prince Edward Island (Ernest Kemp)---·---·---·-···-·-··-········-·--·-···---Charlottetown

Canada, Ontario (Vv m . M. Logan) .......-·-------·----··--·-·-·--··-·--··-------------·-·-·Hamilton

Quebec (W. W. Williamson) ........................................................:............ Montreal

Chile (Rudolfo C. Olive'. ra)---------·-·····-··-···-··-Cassila No. 2867, Santiago, Chile

Queensland (Leslie P. Marks).--··············--'--······-····-··:·-···--··-··-··-···-···-··---·-Brisbane

ColombiaNational Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota

Salvador (Salvador Grand Lodge) .......................................................... Cuscattan

Costa Rica (G. F. Bowden) _____________..:-----·-----···-·---------·-··---···-----·-··-···--·:-...San Jose

Serbes, Croates and Slovenes (S. Chokorah)-..................... Beograd, Jugoslavia

Cuba (Dr. Jose F. Caste11anos)-----··--------:----··--·--·--···------···-··-··----·····-----·-··-Habana

South Australia (Chas. R. J. Glover) ...................................................... Adelaide

Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia
Both Seated at Prague

Saskatchewan- ·(W. B. Tate):_··---·-·····-··-······-··--···-········-········--··-···--····-···-·-··Regin'a
Scotland (Thomas G. Winning) ... ·-·····-·-·-···········'·········~----,······-····-··--·Edinburgh

Sv,:eden (Yneve G. Wisin) ........................................ Frimurarelogen, Stockholm
Switzerland.
.
The Swiss Grand L odge Alpina (Arnold Raschle, Grand Secy.).:....
-····-····-····--·········-··:·-········-···············-·-·-·:·············;····················-···Zurich, 18

Denmark (P. O. Rosenorn)----····----·-------·-·----·-··-··Blegamsuej 23, Copenhagen
.
G
·1
Ecuador (Jose de la Cuadra)·-------···-·----------···-·-----·-····--··-----·----···-----···--- uayaqu1

Tasmania (W. H. Strutt),............................................................................... Hobart

Egypt (Abd El Maguid-Younis) ........ Freemason's Hall, 6 Fouad 1 St., Cairo

Vienna (Wla.dimir Misar).·--··--··--··-····--···-·-······-··· l Dorotheergasse 12, Vienna

England (P. Colville Smith) -----·-···--··----·--·-······--··-----···-··--··--··-·····---·-·········London

Wes tern Australia (J. D. Stevenson) .....·-·········-······-···-··········---·········--···-·-·-··- Perlh

France.
Grand Lodge of France (Auguste Viet)---··-·---·····---·-8 Rue Puteaux, Paris
Independent National (G. F . Beaumont), 42 Rue D Rochecaouart, Paris
Guatemala (Francisco Salazar)-----··--·----··----·····-····-··········-···-···-············ Guatemala
Holland, Netherlands (A. E. L. Faubel), Fluweelen Burgwal 22, The Hague
Honduras (M. F. Rodriguez)---------··------·-·······-···-··-···-·-···················---Tegucigalpa
Ireland (Henry C. Shellard) ......----··-···--··-·····-······-··-··-····---·--···-----····----·-········Dublin
Mexico-Grand Lodge of the Pacific .... Postal 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico, D. F.
York Grand Lodge..............Apartado 1986, Mexico City, Mexico, D. F .
Manitoba -···-·---····-----···-----·-·········--··-----··--·--·····--··-···----·---·····-·········-·····--·····-·Winnipeg

Victoria (W. Stewart) .......·-·•··-·········-···--·····-·····················-·········-····-·-··-·Melbourne

652

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. E. F. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250) Adin.
A lamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167) , Centerville.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton. ·
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678) , Altadena.
Alta Vista ( 464), San Francisco.
Alta Loma (644), Signal Hill.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

Amity (370), San Francisco.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Anai-\eim (207), Al1aheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angeles.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274) , Arroyo Grande.
Arlingtpn ( 414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538), Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493) , Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure ( 533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AL~HABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Citro! (656), ~ea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Claremont (436) , Claremont.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Clear Lake (183) , Lower Lake.
Clinton (119), Igo.
Clovis ( 417), Clovis.
Coachella ( 476), Coachella.
Coalinga (387) , Coalinga.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Concord (117) , ,Sacramento.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.

Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Bethlehem (453) , San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528) , Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Pine Knot.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402) , Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Eas t Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank ( 406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

Damascus (648) , San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta ( 471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.

Carmelita (599) , Pasadena.
Carpinteria ( 444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Catalina I sland (524) , Avalon.
Center (465), Fresno.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (410), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley ( 427) , Chino.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.

D owney (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
D unsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268) , Berkeley.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

EI
Eagle Rock ( 422), Los Angeles.
East Bay ( 489), Berkeley.
East Belt (391) , Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561) ,
East San Diego.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147) , Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
El Dorado (26) , Placerville.
Elk Grove (173), E lk Grove.
Elmhurst (610) , Oakland.

c
Cahuenga (513), Los Angeles.
Caledonia ( 486), Bakersfield.
Calexico ( 412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby's Cross (679) , Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.

Corona (324) , Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covenant (527), L.os Angeles.
Covina (334), \ovma.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Los Angeles.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Crocker (454) , Daly City.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverda le.
Chowchilla (485) , Chowchilla.

D

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Bay City (526), San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Beacon of the West (628),
Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain (76) , Angels Camp.
Bell ( 483), Bell.
Bellflower ( 523), Bellflower.
Belvedere (539), Los Angeles.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.

653

Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), L os Angeles.
Elysian (418) , Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70) , Yuba City.
Escalon (591), E scalon.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles. '
Eureka ( 16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Etna M ills.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
E xcelsior (166), San Fra.ncisco.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
'

F
Fairfax (556) , Fairfax.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.
Fairmount ( 435), San Francisco.
Fallbrook (31 7), F allbrook.
Far West (673) , San Francisco.
Fellowship (480) , Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Florence (649), L os Angeles.

Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
F orbestown (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66) , A lleghany.
Fort Bragg (J61), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575) , Fall River Mills.
F ortitude (624), Oakland.
Franklin (143) , Courtland.
Francis Drake (376) , South
San Francisco.

654

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.

Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Garvanza ( 492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassel! Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden City (553), San Francisco.

Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule ( 479), San Jose.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, H. T.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
· Henry Morse Stephens (541),
Berkeley.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.

Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
·
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville ( 425), Holtville.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, H . T.
Hope (234), Beckwith.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach. ·

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial. ·
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Fairview (629), Inglewood.

James A. Foshay (640),
Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield (566),
Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jefferson (97), Laporte.
Janesville (232), Lassen.

Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

J
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636),
West Hollywood.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

655

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Jordan (654), Los Angeles.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.

Justice ( 549), Sa:n Francisco.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, H. T.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, H. T.
King David's (209),
San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260),
San Francisco.

L
Lexington (104), El Monte.
L~ Brea (650), Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts (677), Los Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
· Libertas ( 466), Bakersfield.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lincoln ( 470), San Francisco.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
· Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
La Jolla (518), San Diego.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lancaster ( 437), Lancaster.
Lankershim ( 542),
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
North Hollywood.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Los Angeles ( 42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
La Puente (446), Puente. ·
Larchmont (614), _Los Angeles.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Lassen. (149), Susanville.
Loyalty (529), L os Angeles.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, H. T.

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez" (41), Martinez.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahufui, H. T.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.

Meridian (667), Glendale.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Midway (426), Taft.
Military Service (570),
San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.

656

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mount Davidson (481),
San Francisco.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angele~.

Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mount Shasta (281 ); Anderson.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Newville (205), Paskenta.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.

Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oasis (664) , El Centro.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.

Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere ( 462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, H. T.
Penrhyn (258), Penrhyn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Pinole.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

657

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Redondo (328), Redondo.
Redwood City (168); Redwood City.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto:
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

Rising Light (397),
Huntington Park.
Riverbank ( 459), Riverbank.
Riverdale ( 496), Riverdale.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
San Be;nardino (348),
San Bernardino.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
San Jose ( 10), San Jose.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel.
San Pasqual ( 452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (36), Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), Kings City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307), Sahta Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Schofield ( 443), Schofield Barracks,
H.T.
Seal Beach (616); Seal Beach.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaport (S50), San Francisco.
Seaside (S04),. Long Beach.
Security (S81), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (SS2), Eureka.

Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (S94), Long Beac'h.
Sierra Madre ( 408), Sierra Matlr.e.
Sierra Valley ( 184), Sierra:ville.
Signal (S43), Long Beach.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Silver Cord (SOS), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Los Angeles.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (S32), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
·
Solano (229), Vallejo:
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (S63), Los Ange"les.
South Pasadena (367),'
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco. ·
South West (283), National 'City.
Speranza ltaliana (219), ·
San Francisco.
Standard ( 440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton ( 498), Stockton.
Suisun (SS), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Fer.ry. ·
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnys.ide (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (Sll), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (S22), Los Angeles.
Sunset (3S2), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

658

P ROCEEDINGS OF THE

\

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

T
Table Mountain (124), Cherokee.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple City (612), Temple.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Texas (46), San Juan .
. Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.

Torrance (447), Torrance.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (597), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368); Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (.134), Vacaville.
Vallee de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo ( 487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Veteran (373), Sawtelle.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

INDEX-1935
.

A

.

.,

p~

Abrams, Joseph D.-Bequest to Homes...:..............•.....................:•....•..-1. •••••• ....MS
Acacia Lodge, Arrest of charter..................................................................._.~....l4&J
Report of Jurisprudence Committee, on..............................'"·····---..--'.--511
Accounts, Committee on, Duties re-defined............................................576, 598
Report of Committee on.........................................:...-:·····-·····--·············...,....$61
Activities of Lodges-When objectionable.......................,..................... .405, 518
Adams, Chas. Albert-Report on Public Schools W eek.............. ~ ....:............520
Admission •to Homes, Rules governing......................................................::....439
Advance informatfon of proposed legislation........................................'.... 573, 627
Advertising through Masonry...:..Grand Master's reference to ....................404
Allan, Robert E ..:.._Presentation to museum .................................................:..417
Alphabetical List of Looges...,....................-···--·-······---····-················---~-..652
Anderson, Olof E.-Resolution condemning communism..............:..... 520, S76
Annual election of officers of Grand Lodge.:..........::...,....:.......................,..,-..~
Annual Oration.by l_ra .:f, Thompson,..:... _:.: ..:.:..,...:::..........:...:..........:....::........43~
0

~::~:p:it~r:sncl L·~·d;~::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::~:::~::::~:~;;:::::::::::::·::=~:=~=:~~:::

· Assistant Grand Lecturer.s , Reference to J:>y Grand . Lectu.rer.••:.·.:..,:".,;1'••. '429
Aymar, A. F.-I'rese1.1t at Grand Lodge,...._....;••...~~,...:.,;---;,,,;.:-:---~---;,~..,;.*,.:,~

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
North. Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Waucoba (413), Big Pine.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565J, Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
W111its (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), Willow Glen.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445); Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.

York (423), Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

B
Ballot on rejected candidate-Dispensations . f<?r ••..~ ..::.f.••;·--..~-~-·-~:, .. ,.;,,!~~;,_,~99
·Bequests to E~do.wme~t F~~~L-~::...;..- ....,...................,.;,~.,:.:._""'''h·!".'r7!!;~ti~~
Bigotry and intolerance...,...,,,.,.........,,,..,,,,,.,,,, ...,..,.,..,,.,,,.,,.,...,. :·'.·······::.. :··1'::~:!~··.'~W
Bley, 5'imon-Present .at Gi:and L().d ge ..,,.,,,...,,.,...,..... :... ~·'······:·•·······~-h.. ,~:..,~'!?
Board of Control, · Annual: ·repo~t.,.,....,...,.-:--~··'··•, .......-·::-----:··i··'""····.····.-:··--;'.::t"';'·.·:~?.?
• Appropriations recommended,.•.." .......:..-:---····•:···..:.......,.'..........,...•., ..,...SBl, 592
Reference of Grand Master tQ., .............,.....,..,.................,......,..........'"·······40~
Reimbursements recommended ..............................:...............,:..................5!>2
Board of Relfef.....................:.......·--·······-······;,,.....:.'.-.,............:;.._..,....•.,....,,•.~...581
Brown, Peter-Bequest to Iiomes...........-..: ......,:..:.,..•..- ....:., .........................:...445 .
Budget .....:...................,......·...···"···•c·..•········•·•·"'"":....:.....,..........,.,...,:.....";:.....:•. ,.:4l~i 597
By-Laws, amended ........................................................................374, 517, 518, 574
Report of Con1mittee on..............~...............................................................568.

c
Canby's Cross Lodge-Charter . granted..................:..:........- ..•...•..:..:.....:.:.,,..•.:569
Dispensation issued ........................_.........................:..........:..::........-.;.-"..,..;..:....:4'l8

Car~i~p~~~~t~~ncfsa~:;~ . ~~~~~-~::::::::::::::::.:::::;::.::::::~~::::,::::;~:~:::~'.~;;~:t~'.~~~SJ:::!~
Carlson, C. A., Greetings from ...•..................................-···-···········--··-···:..........392

/
ii

INDEX

INDEX

iii

\

Page
Cash receipts and disbursements------------------------------------------------------1-------------------422
Certificates, pocket size for Past Ma&ters •. ~---·-··---··--·-··--·--·t
·· ----··---·---517, 575
Charter, arrest of Acacia Lodge ·----------'··············----·--·----·-----·--- ................402, 577
Charters granted, Canby's Cross Lodge................................'............................418
Carmel Lodge ··········-·----·-···········--------·················--·····--------··-·························411
Charters, Report of Comm:ittee on ...................................................................... 569
Clandestine Masonry, Report of Committee on...·--·····················-··----··-·-··-·56i
Commercial activities of Lodges ....·---------------·----------·-···-···------···--·----·-----.4()5, 578
Committees of Grand Lodge·--------··--·---------------------------·-----------····--------·-·····--·-----630
Communism, Remarks by Grand Master --············--·-···-·····----·------------·------·-----40I
Conference of Grand Masters-----------------------------------------------------------------······-·-----395
Constitutional amendments, Sec. 17 (lost) ................................................519, 573
Sec. 37c (lost) --------------·······--·------········----·--·······-----------···-··---······-374, 519, 574
Sec. 37e (carried) -------------------··················-·-·······------····---······--··520, 576, 598
Sec. 37k (carried) ....................:............................... ,.....•...........•.S2p, 576, 598
Sec. 41 (lost) ·················-···········································--·-························518, 575
Sec. 54 (los-t) ················--···········--·-·-··············--·····-···_--······················:..... 519, 573
Sec. 56 (lost) ................................................................:.........................520-, 573
Sec. 90 ( deferred) .....................·--··························-·············---J....................Si'S
Sec. 112 (los·t) ..•.•....•..•........,..............,.................................................,.,51-9, 574
Sec. 127 (carried) ..........................................................................•....•..........,.577
Sec. 128 (adopted) .........................................................:............:............•.......571
Cooper, Chas. R.-Resolution to provide special cancellation
stamp ··············'·····················································-:.;......:...........•.....St9", 574
Resolution for regiS1tra·tion of members ............................................519, 575
Crawford, William E., present aJt Grand Lodge..............................................39l ·
Credentials-Report of Committee on..............................................................599

D
Decisions of Grand Master.........,.,........................-...............................................397
Delinquent dues-Reference of Grand Mas•ter to ............................................ 403
Devotional Service ..................................................................................................392
Dimit, when may be issued ..................................................................................39?
Donovan, George M., Resolution re advance information ....................573, 627
Resolution to provide silver buttons..................................................517, 574
Dues, Exemption of past Masters from ............................................................399
Delinquent, reference of Grand Master to ................................................403
Delinquent-To Grand Lodge unpaid ......-..................................................593
Remission of, for forty-year members................................................398, 576
Suspension for non-payment of ....................................................................401

E
Ebbitt, Frank K., greetings from .................-----------·-----------··········-------------···------392
Employment Service-appropriations for ................................................ 581, 592
Endowment Board-Annual report oL....................................................502, 592
Appropriations for ·----·--------···················-·-·········-·----·--·-··--·--·-·······----·····---------597
Grand Master's reference to...................................,.,...................,...........•- ..:106
List of contributions....................--------····----·-···--------·-·······················-········-----507
Proposal to levy fifty cent taX-------··················---------------····-----··········-506, 516

Page
Endowment Fund-Bequests to..........................-.-------------······-····-·········----··---·;445
Condition of ............:.,•.........................................................................-.461, 504
Payments to •..••..............................:........ ;..................~----··········--·---·--·····-··-····--446
English, Chas. A.-, Grand Treasurer pro tem ....................................................392
Ententainments by Lodges::~-~~--------·-·····-----::.........................................................405
Examination of visitots-. ."...............................---··········---·-·-·····--·----··-········-·-·--·-401
Exemption of Past Mast~rs from dues .... -----·-···---------·-···------------····------------------399
Extinct Lodges, List of..............................................................................•...........642

F
Fairmount Lodge, restored charter................ -----------------------------·-·--······--·····-----397
Fifty-year buttons isstted........ ~. ··--------............ -----.. ---------------------------···· .... ----·--·-· ....41 S
Filmer, William P., greetings from ...............................:....................................392
Finances of Grand Lodge..............:...................:..:.........,.........•.·............."."..... ."...~ .. 425
Finances of Masonic Homes....---·--·-····---·-·-------.------··--·-.. ·················-····--·-······--·-·-446
!"inancial obligations of Lodges..........................•..............., .................................404
Financial and Statistical Report of Masonic Employment Service............591
Financing Building projects, Report of Committee on ....................................528
Foreign-born brethren, reference to by Grand Master ........---·-····-----····---.411
~-~nty-year members-Limitation of rights ..............................................398, 577
}'raternity Lodge-Objection to plan of teaching rituaL .............................517
Freyermuth, Otto G.-R.e solution to amend Constitution................520, 576
F'riendship Lodge, Objeotion to changes in floor work ................................517
Funds of Lodge, investment oL. ...:............::.:...:.............:...~................:..,...........398
Testimonial for retiring Master:.:.:..:..:................::..................~---···---·····-···-399

G
Gaylord, Robert B.-Committee on Grand Master's· Message....................413
George W ash:ington, memoriaL..................................................................•.•.....396
.G ist, James B.-Appointed Trustee Masonic -Hoines..'.....................................629
:G~ode, J. Lynn, Committee on Report of Grand Lecturer........................431
Grand Lecturer, Amendment to duties proposed............................................573
Annual report of..................................................................,........................... 427
Report of Commdittee on Report of..............................................................571
Grand Lodge, Meets in Oakland in 1936.......................................................... 5611
Special comm uni cations of............••....:..:.::.::...:............................................396
:Grand Lodge Officers, List of..................:...................:................................•......628
Grand Lodge Pacifico, Representative present................................................392
Grand Master-Annual Messa-ge.........•................................................................394
Advertising through Masonry........:.......------------·······-·--···········--···-············404
Appropriation for traveling expense ............................................................594
Assistance of officers ......................................................................................394
Bigotry and in_tolerance ....................................................- ............................410
Board of ControL.............................. _............................................................ 403
Conference of Grand Masters.......·-····-·---··-----··----···············----········'"·-·--------395
Deceased members ------------·--···--····---------·--·-·----···---------····----·-:·-·········----···-·--·394
Decisions ····--···-····-··--·-······---·--·---··········--···----·----·------·····-397, 576, 577, 578, 579
Acacia Lodge, Arrest of charter................................................40:?,. 577
D·imit_, when may be issued....---·-------······------·····-····--·······----·---············_..397

INDEX

Iv

INDEX

v

Page

Grie~nce Committee, Reports of

........................- ................................ 526
Guyett, Roderick G.-Grand Master's reference to death of........................ 394
Memorial services for .................................................................................... 543

Dispensation
to reballot
. ·
,
• Page
Examinaition of
· 't
...........,....................................................
399,
579
1
Exemption of Pa: t'i:t~:t~;~·-f~~;;; d~·-··--······------40l
Funds of Lodge, investment of
es .........................., ...................399
!~formation as to standing of a -~-~-;;;b...................................:............391
Liquors sale of
. er ............................................391
' to petition,
..................
__ ..M~·······......................................,._;,
.
""""
Objection
dut ..of
___

..

..........................,...

H

_

Harland, H. L., Bequest to Homes ..... :.............................................................. 445
Harper, Harry A.-Committee on Report of Grand Lecturer ................... .431
Hawaiian Islands, Grand Master's visit to.............................~ ....................- ....396
History, Mason-it-Reference by Grand Master to .......................:................405
Howard Lodge-Aid for denied ............... _ ..,.......................................,.-........,,.$~
Hudson, E. ].-Present at Grand Lodge ..........................................................39~.
Humphreys, William Penn-Resolution to amend by-laws ................ 517, 574

Physical qualification of ~ster....................................... :..,i ... .398
Pictures of Past Masters 0 ~cer .........£..........................................397, 398
Rec~ving petition from :nfn yment or......................................398, 578
Remissi?n of dues of forty-y~;~--;;;~~·b;;~ ................................ 398.. .457ot6
Suspens10n for non-payment of dues
................................ '
Territorial jurisdiction of Lod
............................... ,................. -401
.
ge............................
402
~ mquent dues ............-..................
.. .. :........................ .
D
1
Dispensations issued ........
' ........................... '.........
4Qf
Entertainments in Lodges ............................................. ,,._.....:···----··----···--···--519
F~irmount Lodge affairs ..::::::::::·············· .......................................... _ .........4b!
F.mancial obligations of Lodge .................................................................... 39J
George Washington Memorials ... ~ .................................. '. .............................~
Hawaiian Islands
................................ ,..................:........L..........3~
A • . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

... ··

I
Information as to standing of a member, when may not be given............397
Information of legislation proposed........................................................... ~573, 627
"
Initiation, ground for objection to...................,............................................,......398
Inspectors-Grand Master's commendation .. ."..................... ;..........................,.. 407
Investment of Lodge funds ................................. _.......................... ;.....- ................
.
398

~f~t!K~~~§:~t~~f=~:::::::::;.~~:::=::~=::~:::::::~~::~~~~~

J

Masonic history
.
.. .........,...........- ...........................................406
Mason~c Homes :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::.-···· ..:........................;-........,.~
· Masomc Homes Endowment Bo rd . ·· · ...... ., .......~......,... ,.................,..~.
a .........
.
as t ers, competency desired
. . · '"'."""""'.""''.""".--:-.:--· ...........:•--·
M
·Masters. and Wardens asso~t._.................. ,......................:..·........ ~ ....... ~ .........40t
ions..................... .................................
. . .. .
. d brethren
a ura 1ze
c:.;, ... 407
N
t
I
New ritual plan ..........:::::::::::::::::·--.::................................................................411
Objectionable activitie
.. _ ...............................................................407

Jeffries, William P.-Bequest to Homes........................................................ :.. .445
Grand Master's reference to death of........................................................394
Memorial services for .........................................................................,............ 545
Jurisprudence, Report of Committee on.................................... ,.......................576

K

.. , g~c~~~e~~~:~~~~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:.: : : : : : : :'.: .::;:::::::::_::~:::::::::~~:g:
_.:"·""'.'~U
11

Keesling, Francis V.-Greetings frorn. ..................................... :.........................392
Kergan, Wesley W.-Emergency relief .................... :....................................... 573
Kuechler, Edward ].-Resolutions relating to Grand Lecturer ............ 519, 573

.. Portra1t, app.r opnation .for...... :. ·' . · ·'-. : .
· ....._. ......:···:·--:, ......
· · . P~blic schools wetk · . . · : : ·::--.----_--:.: ........................... -:'·'.... :.:..........;..... ,.595
.
Rderence of messag~"'i~~~~;·;:tt.......~ ..... ;...·.. ;.;;.;.;:;.,,.;......•;..~;.~.:. ... :....~:..A03
,. ; .... Rep~rt ?~ Committee on Messa1 ee~£::.. ::....... ,.. •.~•"·::!"!, ...,... - ........ ~, ••,.........~13
. ..
. . g · ..................
,.
........•31
: .. · Spec! aI commumcations
-.. · .. ·· · - ·.... --.
.. ·-.:::-·---,·!·~···_.,.,
state of. 'the fraternity ...... ::::::::::=~--~::::~·:-~
396
Subversive activities
'
~................................................... - ....39$
Travel expenses, appr~·r;;·i-;t;~-;;--£~;--···- ......................., ................................408
Unemployment
.. .
:
...............,...............,.........- .......,........59'

L

............,... ..........:...........,......:....

Las Palmas Lodge-Objection to change in manner of teaching rituaL. ... 517
Law and Order, Grand Master.'s observations on ................................. ~ ......410
Legislation-Advance not·ice of proposed.....................;. ........-·.: .............. 513, 627
Lehman, Sidney K., Grand Standard Bearer ............. ~ ............:.; .......,.... _.:.:.:-.392
Life Memberships, established......................................................................... ;~_419
Lodge may appropriate for retiring Master .............. ~.~ ......... ~ ...........399, 576
Liquors, sale of .............................._...............:....... '.''''.~............... ----~--·····----....+-4-0Z
List of Elective Officers from 1850.............................................. -------•·--··--·~645
Lodge dues unpaid ............................................--....................:.-.......:......:..~.:i.l.h.593
Lodges-Commercial activities of........................................................ :.....405, 578
Competency of Masters of, des.ked ...... ;; ....... ;.................... :........................ .407
Entertainments by .....:.............................. :.......... ~.~:: .........; ........:.....:....,.:•.~.. ~ ...405
Financial obligations of............... ~........................"...::....:.........::..... ~ ...:::.........404
Formed in the year ......................... ~......;...........,.......;:.:......:.......:.....................4ltl

~ . ~~:~i~~~~!i~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~

Grand Sec~etary-Ann~~j";~·-~;~--···f ....... ,~ .......... ~--"~-~- .. ·:----:· ..:·-.. ·:···-···•-'."..-.. 411
0 .................... •
P
· - B y- Iaws a:mended
. .. . . · .......................,.................... ..414
Dispensations issu~·d- ....- ..- -...............~ ......;.......... ,.~ ..:..._.:............... ;,...,;, ..426

~!~ti~~~~r ;e~t~~~~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::.: : : : .: : : : : : : : :~~

•.
...
Report of Committee on
...............................42Z
Resolution to limit tenu;;--~£-""if:............: .....................:........... :..................433
• 1 R 'ecords
0 ice................ ........................................,... 5""'
na
, ..
T
. Pnpaid Dues
.. --;······· ..............
Grand Treasurer Report of" · ·· · .. ... . >· . . . . . . ·--.-.-.··--·--·:'.·'..............
,
............ - ......................~ ................. - ........... :~........... 4~

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·-,--

:~:

..

vi

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Objectionable activities of......................- ............................·-·····-··········..!...4"'5
Territorial jurisdiction of.............•.....•..............._...................;·····-··········-~...40a
Unpaid dues .................................................................;...................."·····.;;....:.;.414
Lodges, List of Subordinate...........................................................................•:.....632

M
McCloud Lodge-Gift to Scholarship account..•......,,............,.........................446
Mcintire, Howard S.--'-Resolution to require proficiency in third
degree .........................................:.................•.................................:.. 619, 574
Matlachowitz, C. E.-Resolutions by................................................517, 574, 575
Masonic Activities, Discussions of public questions ......................................404
Masonic club houses-Grand Master's. referen.ce ~o........................................406
Masonic education, Report of Committee on............................................ 560, 574
Masonic History, Reference by Grand Master to..........................................405
Report of Committee on..................--··-······-·····-·······································™
Masonic Homes-Annual Report of Tnus.tees._......................,................~ ......4J9
Building ~und, prop?sal to amend Sec. 41-............._.......................518, .575
Cas·h receipts and drsbursements ..................................................................449
Covina-Annu:il Report of Superintendent................................................485
Admitted during the year .......................................................................,m·
Christmas donations to ...........................~ ..........................................:.....493
Departures during the year ................................c................................... 500

~~~e~~i~i~~!~t~..~t..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::':::::::::::::::
List of children at.............- ...:................;.........;......................~......- .......496

~rs~::ii~:s et~p~~-~~..::::::::::::::::::::~:::.:::::::::::'.::::::::::::::~:::::::::;:::::'.'.::::lli

Decoto--Admit.ted during the year ..............................................................481
Christmas donations to .........·-·····················-·........................................471

~~e~:t~e~:~i:·:t~:~;~::::::::::: : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~

List of Residents at ..................................................................................474
Operating expense ......................................................................:......::..:456
Report of Superintendent......................................................................466
Visitations to ............................................................................................468
Endowment fund-Condition of ..........................,._.................................461
E!1tertainment fund ........................................................................................451
F mances ............................................................................................................446
General fund, cond•ition 0£•....-.....................................................................'..450
Gifts to Scholar·s hip account.........;.................:.................:...................... -.~446
Grand Master's reference to .................................................................... ..:.... 40Ci
Outside relief: .list of beneficiaries ...............................................,........483; 500

~~~~~Pa~i;:~~~:::::::::::::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : :::::jE

Rules and regulation.s ..............................-·.····-·····-····················-·······439, ..501
Scholarship account, condition of............._,.,. ..........................................-.45Z
Scholarship gifts ....................................................... v . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 446
Securities held by, Hst of...................J .......................... . ................._ •• _ •••••: ...:452
Social worker recomn1ended ............................,......................................... 596
Masonic Temple Association, Report oL...............~.......:._.:......;..:.....:....... -.. 567
¥ ..

vH

Page
Masters may not disregard objection to petitioner.......'····-··························398
Master of Lodges--Competency desired ............................................................407
Masters and Wardens Associations-Reference to by Grand Master:.......407
Meeting place of Grand Lodge..................·-···-·····················-··············-'··_:._568
Membership of the jurisdiction...............'........•.....•...·-····································---414
Memorial services ...........................•.......................................................•........:.....~SJ.I
Eulogy on Roderick G. Guyett...................................................................... 543
Eulogy on William P. Jeffries......................................................................545
Eulogy on David J. Reese .............................................................................. 541
Message of Grand Mas.ter................................................................................- ....394
Report of Committee on...........................................................•.................- ...431
Military Service Lodge-Objection 't o change in floor work. .............•.........517
Moore, Oliver C.-Bequest to Homes .................- ..........•..................................445
Morton, Oakley K.-Commrttee on Grand Master's Message....................413
On Jurisprudence CC>fftmitteec.......................................................................3'2
Museum additions ....................................................................................................417

N
Naturalized brethren, Grand Master's reference to ....................- ..................411
Necrology-Report of Committee OD. ••••••- •• ···-······-···................................ .....531

0
Oakland-Meeting place in 1936..........................................................................568
Objection to initiation, Master may not di&regard .......................~ ..................398
Officer, phy·sical qualification of..................................................................397, 398
Officers Associations-Commendation of...:............................................408, 428
Officers of Grand Lodge........................................................................................628
Oration, Annual ···-·--··-··-·-..··········-·························:········· .. ·······················.435
Our government, Observations by Grand Master..........................................411

p
Past Grand Masters-Appropriation for portraits.:........................................ 595
Past Masters-Certificate for provided.................................- ................. 517, 575
Exemption from dues ..................................................- .............·-·····-·········..399
Payment for pictures of.................... .'..................................................... j98, 578
Pay of members-appropriation for ....................................................................595
Report of Committee on..................................................................................572
Petition may not be re'ceived from one under 21.................... :.........................401
Phoenix Lodge-Objection to plan of 1teaching ritual... .................................. 517
Physical qualification of officers........................................................397, 398, 399
Pictures of Past Masters, payment for ........:.............................................398, 578
Plumb, Max A.-Resolution by..................................................................517, 575
Public Schools Week-Reference of Grand Master to .............................,......403
Resolution to provide postal cancellation stamps for .................... 519, 574
Report of Committee on.................._............................ ·-··-··········-····........520

INDEX

viii

R
.P age
Reese, David }.-Grand Master's reference to death of........................•.......394
Memorial services for•·-··········-····'····-···-··-······-········-········--·····-···-"-....541
Registration of all affiliations...................................................................... 519, 575
Rejected applicants-Dispensations to act on..........................................399, 579
Relief-appropriations for .........................:....................................................:.....592
Boards of, Report of..............................- ......-··············-···-··················--···581
Limitation of, propoSed..................................................................517, 573, 575
Outside Homes, Rules govcrnipg....................................- ....;.....:.......#1, 501
Outside, Masonic Homes, List of beneficiaries................:...........483, 500
-Remission of dues of forty-year mcmbcrs .... :...................................................398
Report of Board of Control...........................................................•........................57,9
Report of Committee-on Accou.n ts ..................................................................:.567
On Activities .........................................................................., .....,...................596
On By-laws ..............................:...............•.....- ......................................,.........568
On Building Projects....................................................·-······················:········528
On Charters .....................................~ ................,....................................:..........569
On Clandestine 1iasonry ................................................ _........... -~..............562
On Credentials ..................................;...•....:...... _ ............................, ..;...........599
On Finance, Annual report of......................................................................592
Activiries Committee, appropriation for ...............................,............596
Appropriations for Boards of Relief....................................................592
Audit of Accounts ..................................................................:.......,...•.....5914
Budget for ensuing year_.......:...•_..........................................................$
Endowment Board Masonic Homcs.............. _.~...............................591
Masonic Homes, Service Worker rccommendcd ............................596
Masonic temples, aid for, denied....................................:.....................596
Pay of mcmbers ....................................................................................-.595
Per cap)ita tax lcvtied.....................................................................:........5911
Portraits of Grand Masters............................,..................:..................595
Salaries fixed ·················'······~.................................................................. 595
Seal Beach Lodge, loan cxtcndcd ........................................................596
Travel expenses of Grand Master ...:........................................:.........594
Unpaid Grand Lodge ducs ...............................................:.................... 5~3
On Financing Building Projects....................................'...............:--········528
On Grand Lecturer's 'Rcport....................................................,...................57.\
On Grand Secretary's Report..........:.......~.....................................'................433
Grievances ...................................................................................,....418, 526
On Jurisprudence ........................................................,................:...................$7/,
By-Laws amended .................................................................., .......- ...•,.5"4
Commercial activities of Lodgcs..........................................•..,............51.8
Decisions of Grand Master......................................,......•........•............. $7~
Dispensations to act on rejected candidates....................................579
Duties of Committee on Accounts ........................................•.•..........576
Forty-year members ··-··········-········-···:.................................:......576, 577

on:

INDEX

ix

Page
Life Membership as testimonial to retiring Master . . . . . . ..... S.76
Photographs of Past Masters..............................................................578
Remission of dues ....................................................................___........516
On Masonic Education ·········································-·························-···-·--·560
On Masonic History ...................................................................................<'.564
On Necrology ..................................................................................................531
On Pay of Membcrs................................................................-.......- .............:572
O~ Policy and General Purposes.:..............................................................573
Advance notice of proposed lcgislation..............................................573
Amendment to by-laws .........................................;...........................;....$74
Building fund of IIomes...;.........................._.........................................;575
Communism .................................................,......,...............................,.....$74
Duties of Grand Lecturer..........................:...........................................57:1
Emergency relief ....................................................................................57.J
Employmenit service ..........................'........:...................-.........................51.f
Examination in lecture of third dcgree ....:.........................:...••....:.....574
Grand Secretary-tenure of officc..............................................,.........574
Masonic education ......................................................................:..-...-.574
Past Masters' cer.tifii:atcs.~ ....................................................................575
Publicizing Public Schools Weck....................................·:···········:...~..574
Registration of other affmations .........................- ...............................575
Relief, limitation of.................................................................'. ....... ~ .....'...575
Ritual, proposed addition to..................................................................575
Rules of Masonic Homcs...................................................................-...501
Shorter roll call .......:'.................................-....L..•...........•••....•.......•••.•......575
Silver bu•ttons to 25-ycar membcrs ......................................................574
On Public Schools Weck........................;.................................................,....~
On Returns ................................................................................,....,..........:-...551;1
On Ritual ................. ~............................................................................:....~---·570
On U. C. Los Angeles club housc ............................,.................................549
'
'
4~!
Report of Committee .on Message of Grand Master......................................
.>1
Report of Grand Lecturer'..........•.............................,...............:..............:...:.....::.427
Assistant Grand Lecturers, on..................................................................:.429
Cosit of new plan...................................................................................:.:.....:...430
Condition of Lo<lgcs.........................................................................~ ..............428.
Funer~ls .........................................................:.......................•..·-····•·-..;.~,.......4~
Officers' Associations ···············-···-···-·····················'····--·······.........,.....,.......428
Report of Grand Secretary-Budgct..............................:...................................415
Cash receipts and disbursemcnts ..................................................................422
Dispensations issued .......................:. ............................................:..................419
Fifty-year buttons issued .......................................~ ....................................- ..415
Life Memberships ............................................................- ..........:::...............419
Members hip ................................................- .................................'.............-~...414
Museum additions .....................................................•.:....:.-············-··'····'····417
New Lodges ··-·-····-···············--·········--················--······-··--····:.-_..;...418
Representatives appointed ··-·-·····-....···--···..-·····-----··-·-····-··415

x

INDEX

INDEX
Page
Report of Auditors .......................................................-..................... .'.............4lt
Report of Committee on................................................................................4.$.$
Shorter roll call.................................................................-.:..........:........418, 575
Trial records ............................................................................................418, 526

xi

rw1.-r,...

Page.
Securities, held by Masonic Homes....................................................................452
Held by Endowment Fund ........................................................- ..........461, 504
Held hy Grand Lodge.............. ,.....................................................................426

Seibel, Harry-Bequest to Homes ......................................................................445

.. Un pa.id dues ····························'································································.414, 593

Seymour, Kent ]. C.-Committee on Report of Grand Lecturer................431

Report of Grand Treasurer·····································································--······..-·4;f
Report of Masonic Homes Endowment Board.-................. ~.................502. 592

Shaw, Herbert P .-Devotional service by..- ....................................................392

Report of Masonic Temple Association............................................................567

Shorter roll call proposed...............·-········-·············-···········································418
Sinclaia, ] ohn-Bequest to Homes............................................................ - ........445

Report of Trustees of Masonic Homes.•...........'...............................................439

Standing of member, when may not l;>e divulged ................................•...........397

Report of Trustees U. C. Berkeley club house .............................................. 548

Suspension for non-payment of dues ..................................................................401

Report of U. C. club houses .. ;.............................................................................593
Representatives appointed ....................................................................................415

T

Resolutions and Proposed Amendments............•........•......................................517

Taft Lodge No. 516-Gift ,to Scholarship Account ........................................ 446

Resolutions-To amend by-la'j\'S................................:.....•.................. ~ ........517, 574
Condemning communism ..:..............:...............~ .............................;..... 520, 576
Objecting to change in floor work ................ ·-·····--·~·-··············..····:·..........517
To eliminate $25.00 Home fee from affili.ates......:......................;.... 517, 575
To limit salary of Grand Secretary..•.~·-····-··············:: .......: ................517, 593
To limit tenure of office of Grand Secretary················--··········:·······517, 574
To require proficiency in third degree ..........•..................................... 519, 574
To provide pocket certificate for Past Masters.........,.........- .........517, 575
To provide salary for Committee on Correspondence .................. 517, 593
To provide silver buttons for 25-year members...............•.....- ....... 517, 574

Testimonial to retiring Master............................................................................576

Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee on..........................................,....... 550

Thompson, Ira F .-Oration by............................................................................435
Trial records ....................................................................................................418, 526
Report of Committee on Grievances..................................................418, 526

u
U. C. Berkeley club house-Report of Trustees ..............................................548
U. C. Los Angeles club house-Report of Directors ..'.................................. 549
U. C. club houses-Appropriation for ................................................................593
Grand Master's reference to ......................................................................- ..406

Richmond Lodges-Aid for denied ..........................................................•......... 596

Unemployment-Reference to by Grand Master..............................................403

Ritual Committee-Report 0£...•.................................................•....................,...?10
Cost of new plan................................................................................................43()

Unpaid Grand Lodge dues ....................................................................................414

· Ritual-Objection to change in floor work. ......... _............................................51(
Proposed addition to..........................................................,..............•.............. S~
Resolution to add to ..:.............................................................................518, 574
Ritual plan-Grand Master's reference to ........................................·-·······-·-.407
Ritualistic instruction-Approyed ··································~··: .....................--......571
Roll Call-Proposal to shorteit....................................................................418, 575
Ross, ] ohn Stewart-] urispruclence Committee ..............................................392

v
Veterans' buttons issued ..........................................................................................413
Visitations of Grand Master .....~ ............................................................................395
Visitors, examination of.................................................................................,.........40'1
Present at Grand Lodge ......................................................................,.........392

w
Warlow, Chester H., Senior Grand Steward ...............,.........................,..........392

s

Washington, George, Memorial...............................................................,..........396
Watson, Frank G.-Gift to Scholarship account.................................,..........446

Salaries of Officers ...................................:.......................................~········--········'···595
Schleicher, August F.-Bequest to Homes.................................... _.,;....,..........445

Wilson, Lloyd E.-Comm.ittee on Grand Master's Message .............,..........413
Junior Grand Deacon...........................................................................,..........392

Scholarship Account, condition 0£......................................•.•.....•...•.••.-···-···:....452

World conditions-Observation~ of Grand Master............................,...........411

Seal Beach Lodge-Loan extended...·-····--······-··-·-···--···········:_ ___ ..~....~--596
Secretary of Lodge-May not divulge standing of a member, wh.en ..........397

Wunner, Emil G.-Resolutions by..............................................................518, 575

