Orand Lodge of California
WHICHEB, Grand Sectetary of the M:. W: .Grand Lodge

of
h1
I•

I

Accepted Masone of the jurisdiction of California, do
• that the following pages contain a true and faithful
·he proceedings of that Grand. Body at its Sixty-seventh
1unication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
tenth day of October, A. L. 51H6, and terminated on
hirteenth day of said month.

Jn muttmnng BlJtrtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature al\I}. have af·
fixed the Seal 'of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
Califonaia, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
Ban Francieco, this twenty-finst
day of October, in the year of
l
Five Thousand Nine
undre<l and Sixteen.

ALBERT G. BUH.NETT

"ranh :flila.atrr
1916

Grand Lodge of California
I, .TonN WHIOHER, Grand Secretary of the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge

r J!'roa and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
h1m1by oertlty that the following pages contain a true and faithful
t rnn1crlpt of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-seventh
A 111111111 <lommunication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tue11tay, the tenth day of October, A. L. 5916, and terminated on
Frluay, the thirteenth day of said month.

:iln mrstimnny 114trtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this twenty-first
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundrell and Sixteen.

' LBJ<_;RT G. BUUNE
<lranb •astrr
1916

PROCEEDINGS
OF THI!

M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge
OF

Free and Accepted Masons
OF THI!

jurisdiction of California
AT ITS

SIXTY.-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HllLD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 10th, A. D. 1916, A. L. 5916
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 13th, A. D. 1916, A. L. 5916

SAN FRANCISCO
Neal Publl•hing Company, 66 .Fremont Street

1916

GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE

OF THE

OF

O)rauh 11Inbgt nf ·o;alifnruia

lfl'rtt anh i\tttptth :!ll!lasnus

FOR

OF THE

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5916

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Master, M:.w:.J<'RANCIS Y. KEESLING, California No. 1.

SIXTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

Chronicle Building, San Francisco.

Dep. Grand Master, R:.w:.WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, Pentalpha No. 202.
Trust and Savings Building, Los Angeles.

Senior Grand Warden, R:.w:.BRADFORD WEBS'l'ER, Lfre Oak No. 61.
Monadnock Building, San Francisco.

Jun. Grand Warden, R:."\V:.CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS, Excelsior No. 166.
Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco.

,

1

Gmnd Treasurer, M:.w:.W1LLIAM P. FILMER, King Solomon's No. 260.
·'

330 ,Jackson street, San Frandsco.

Grand Secretary, Y:.W:.JmIN WIUCHER, King David's No. 209.
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.

Grand Lecturer, v:.w:.THOMAS J. BAKER, Union No. 58.
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.

Grand Chaplain, v:.R:.JoHN A, B. FRY, Charter Hoek No. 410.
Grand Orator, w:.ROBERT B. GAYLORD, Oakland No. 188.
Asst. Grand Secretary, "\V:.HARRY S. JOHNSON, San Praneisco No. 360.
Grand Marshal, w:.JAMES F. FENWICK, Honolulu No. 409.
Grand Standarll Bearer, W:.DAVID J. REESE, San Buenaventura No. 214.
Grand Sword Bearer, w:.ARTHUR w. GLUCKMAN, Corinthian No. 9.
Grand Bible Bearer, w: .JOHN P. ,JARMAN, San ,Jose No. 10.
Senior Grand Deacon, "\V:.JosEPH E. LEVIN, .Jewel No. 374.
Jnnior Grand Deacon, w:.FRANK K. 'fOWNE, Redwood City No. 168.
Senior Grand Steward, W:.FRED B. Woon, King Solomon's No. 260.
Junior Grand Steward, W:.JAMES C. ENSIGN, Hanford No. 279.
Grand Pursuivant, \¥:.THEODORE J. MILLIKEN, Tehama No. 3.
Grand Organist, w:.SAMUEL D. MAYER, California No. 1.
Grand Tifor, w: .GEORGE P. ADAMS, California Ko. 1.
(4)

The Most vVorshipful Grand Lodge of Pree and Accepted
Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced its Sixty.
seventh ·Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, in
the City of San Prancisco, on Tuesday, October 10th, A. L.
5916, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll call of Grand Officers disclosed the presence of the
following:
M:.w:.ALBERT G. BURNETT .......................... . Grand Master
R:.w:.FRANCIS V. KEESLING .................. . Deputy Grand Master
R:.w:.w. RHODES HERVEY .................... . i'l<!nior Grand Warden
R:.w:.BRADFORD WEBSTER ............•....... . Jimior Grand Wa·rden
v.·.w:.WILLIAM P. ]<'ILMER ........................ . Grand Treasurer
V:.W:.JOHN WHICHER , . , ......................... . Ora111l Secretary
v:.W.'.THOMAS .r. BAKER ........................... . Gran1l Lecturer
v: .R. ·.JOHN A. B. }'RY ............................. Jlrwul Chaplain
w:.SAMUEL E. BURK!<~ ............................. . Grand Or.ator
w:.HARRY s. JOHNSON ................ . ANNiHtaut (}rand Sceretary
w:.WrLLIAM KE'rTN!<:R ........................... . Orand Marshal
w:.DAVID J. REESE ....................... . Grand Staniford Bearer
w: .HORACE V. J,EY ......................... . Grand Swonl Bearer
w:.JOHN P. ,JARMAN ........................ .. Gralill /J'ible Bearer
W. ·.JOSEPH E. LEVIN ........................ Senior Grand Deacon
w:.RoBERT GREIG .......................... .•Junior Grand Deacon
W ... ROBERT E. ALLAN .................•..... Senior Grmul Steward
W:.FRANCIS W. MIXTER .... , .....•........ . Junior Grancl Steward
"\V:. THEODORE J. MILLIKEN ..•................... Grand Pursuivant
W:.SAMUEL D. MAYER ........................... . Grand Organist
w:.GEORGE P. ADAMS ............................... . Gra111l Tiler
(5)

6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS.

Jenee has been accomplished through these agencies, and that we ourselves, individually, have contributed in some degree at least to this
accomplishment; and that we stand to-day upon a higher level of moral
rectitude and potential achievement than we did one year ago when we
met in this place as the representatives of this great Fraternity.

w: .GEORGE :\f. PERINE

M.'.W.'.SAMUEL 0. DENSON

M.'.

M.'.W.'.WILLIAM T. LUCAS

M.'.W.'.W:r.r. S. WELLS

M.'.W, ·.THOMAS FLINT.

M.'.W.'.DANA R. WELLER

M.'.W,',FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI

M.'.W.'.WILLIAM P. FII,MER

M.'.W.'.CHARLES L. PATTON

M.'.W.'.JOHK D. MURPHEY

M.'.W.'.QRRIN S. HENDERSON

M.'.W,'.BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE

M.'.W.'.J'AMES B. STEVENS

M.'.W.'.OHARLES W. NUTTING

PAST GRAND JUNIOR WARDEN.
CHARLES E. MITCHELL.
PAST GRAND LECTURER.
WILLIAM

H. EDWARDS.

The Committee on Credentials reported the presence of
more than a Constitutional number of Representatives present
from chartered Lodges, and requested further time in which
to make final report, which was granted; and the Grand
Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with music by the choir
and prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
Past Grand l'Iaster E. I1. Fitzgerald of the jurisdiction of
Nevada was introduced and received with due honors.
The Grand l\faster ·then delivered his annual address as
follows:
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:

. This occasion must necessarily give rise to varied and peculiar re·
flections and impressions. The renewal of friendship that we experience
and .the social intercourse that distinguishes this week probably above
all the other weeks of the year will fill our minds with intense gratification, and, in contemplation of this feature of our convocation, we
may well rejoice that we are permitted to be here. The communion and
interchange of views of congenial spirits engaged in a high task of com·
manding duty, devoted to a common purpose of transcendent worth and
moving together and in co-operative effort toward the achievement of
definite and imperishable ideals, must be the source also of infinite
pleasure and delight. We are gratified also at the reflection that this
and other similar institutions having in view the happiness and welfare
of mankind have made substantial and enduring growth and develop·
ment within the past year, that an immense amount of practical benevo-

7

This feeling of joy and elation however, is somewhat tempered and
restrained as we recall how far short of the needs of humanity our ef·
forts have fallen, how little we have done in comparison with the stupendous work that has challenged our attention, and how grossly inadequate have been our personal sacrifices and puny endeavors in the holy
eause of humanity.
It is indeed a time for serious and searching introspection, for a
new and resolute dedication and consecration of ourselves to this high
purpose and for a reaffirmance of our faith in the gospel that our
Institution proclaims and of the reasons why we invite and claim the
approval of rational and righteous men.
It might cause many of us a large measure of chagrin and discom·
fiture if we seriously and solemnly considered the following questions
and reflections: How much time have I personally and individually
devoted to the practical, vital work of the Orderf Have I been really
interested in the welfare of my neighbor or have I been principally or
exclusively concerned in the gratifications of my own selfish desires and
purposes f Have I been satisfied to enjoy the good things of the world
while around the corner or perhaps in the same block children have been
crying for breadf ~ave I practiced any considerable self-denial that
the necessity of others might be supplied! Have I been satisfied with
a profession of faith in the beauty and efficacy of Masonic principles
while neglecting and refusing to demonstrate by the practical and enduring expression of benevolence and love the deep sincerity of my
avowal of these principles! Have I thanked God for the favor of
Heaven in the blessing of advantages superior to those of my neighbor
without using to the utmost, or at all, my superior gifts to lessen the
chasm that separates me from other and less-favored sons of the
Almightyf

What I wish to emphasize is that this is a personal consideration,
and that not only is the Institution collectively but each individual
member is solemnly pledged to the advocacy and support of the moral
sentiments taught in our ritual and to their persistent application to
the daily and ordinary affairs growing out of our relations to our fellow
men; and my earnest desire and prayer is that we may go away from
this convocation better equipped and more thoroughly inspired for the
great tasks that confront us.
· As to the principles themselves constituting the foundation stones
of this great Institution there can be no doubt that they are consistent

9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

with enlightened morality, that they constitute a sound and safe creed
of personal conduct, that individuals as well as nations can adopt no
better guide in their dealings with one another, and that their universal
application would largely destroy discontent, inefficiency and unhappiness, and contribute immeasurably to the highest development of human
character and the largest degree of national greatness.
·we content ourselves with the mere statement of these propositions,
as no argument is necessary to convince a body of Masons of their
verity.
There is some reason, however, to fortify ourselves against discouragement over the apparent disinclination of mankind generally to
accept these sentiments as the rule and guide of their conduct and to
place themselves under the beneficent dominion of these lofty ideals.
'fhe world is distracted by strife, contention, selfishness and brutality, a large part of the human race is waging a ruthless war of
death and destruction, and some of us may be ready to conclude that
fraternity has become a mere empty phrase and that love as a principle
of conduct has lost its charm and power.
Not so, my brethren. The principles we teach are the only influence
that can save and redeem the world1 and their beauty and potency will
yet be aeknowledged by all mankind. Out of this bitterness, hatred,
devastation and death will come a realization of the futility of violence and war, and the glory of love and peace and fraternity will be
revealed to mankind as never before in the history of the world.
This madness will pass away, and yet, as E.dwin Markham says,
there will be still unrest and contention, but it will have in view, not
the destruction of men, but the achievement of real freedom and the
highest development of character.

born in the morning of antiquity, whose genealogy in every page drips
with the red blood of innocence; it respects neither the feebleness of
infancy nor the sacredness of virtue, and walks iron-shod ruthlessly and
impartially over the form of the weakling or the form of the giant; it
makes puppets of kings, princes of paupers, courtiers of courtesans and
thieves of respected subjects; empires melt before its breath as does
the mist before the morning sunlight; famine, want and misery follow
in its path; it lays waste grainfields and stills the land of industry; it
pillages the land of its resources and contributes nothing of benefit to
mankind, leaving pestilence to stalk ghostlike in its wake and eomplete
the work of destruction. It lays heavy tribute upon its most loyal subjects for the maintenance of its establishment; it squanders the vitality
and lives of those who serve it faithfully, yet it returns to the world
nothing but ruin and ashes. The baubles of fame it confers on some
are but empty shells of false standards wherein the license to commit
murder and rapine is held to be the insignia of glory by a mistaken
civilization. It can offer no excuse for having come into existence, nor
ean it give one plausible reason why it should not cease to be otlrnr
than that so long as men who wield influence are permitted to gratify
their selfish desires and ambitions at the expense of many wlio must
carry the burdens and endure the suffering, so long will it continue to
exact its toll of sorrow, devastation and death. For it is pitiless, devoid
of all feeling. It fears neither man nor God. It is amenable to no
law, and is itself the law and the last resort.''

8

"Yet the black smoke of battle it will passSome time, some time,-like vapor from a glass;
There will be rest for all the weary flags,
And rest for bugles on the battle crags;
Still there will be no rest for man's strong soul;
Before him shines an ever-flying goal;
Still must he seek for freedom ever-more;
No halt for any soul on any shore;
Man is the conscript of an endless quest,
A long divine adventure without rest;
Each hard-earned freedom withers to a bond;
Freedom forever is beyond,-beyond.''
We must do our part as a Fraternity .and as members thereof to
hasten the time when the world shall realize that war is unnatural, inhuman and brutal; that it was properly characterized by an anonymous
writer who declared: ''It was conceived in passion, envy and greed,

If our .principles were atlopted by men generally1 instead of war
there would be friendly emulation among the nations of tlie earth as to
which could contribute most to the development of civilization and the
l1appiness of mankind. The world woul<l realize, as Mr. Root said, ''that
no nation can live unto itself and continue to Jive, tliat each nation's
growth is a part of the development of the race; that there may be
laggards, and there may be leaders, but no nation can long continue
very far in advance of the general progress of mankind, and no nation
that is not <loome<l to extinction can remain very far behind. A people
whose minds are not open to the lessons of the world's progress, whose
spirits are not stirred by the aspiration and achievements of humanity
struggling the world over for liberty and justice, must be left behind
by civilization in its steady and beneficent advance.''
And so, my brethren, with the individual: He cannot live unto himself alone and continue to live a wholesome, helpful and successful life.
He must recognize the fact that he is but one unit of this great aggregation constituting the race; that his own progress and happiness are
inseparably linked with the history and destiny of his fellow men; that
there is a law of unity and common interest binding us together and
emphasizing the importance of all we do in relation to other human
beings. We must realize that there will be for us no real life, no per-

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

manent progress, no substantial growth and development, and no abi<ling
sueeess or supreme happiness, if we attempt to live ourselves apart from
others or to exclude from consideration the happiness and success of
the rest of mankind. We can only booome greater1 stronger, better and
happier in an honest, earnest and persistent endeavor to be of vital
and helpful service to others.

November 24th, I visited Union Lodge, Sacramento, and witnessed
the third degree conferred by the Past Masters of that Lodge, Brother
Ben Wilson presiding decorously and efficiently in the East.

The great mission of Masonry is indeed to make us servants of
others, for their welfare as well as our own.
I regret exceedingly that I have not had the opportunity during the
year of urging these matters upon the attention of more of the membership.
I was, however, as you probably know, stricken with a severe illness
which seriously interfered with my plans and prevented me from making
many of the visits that I contemplated. I had the pleasure, though, of
meeting with the brethren as follows:
VISITATIONS,

October 16th, assisted by other Grand Officers, I instituted Bethlehem Lodge No. 455 at the Masonic Temple and installed their officers.
Monday evening, October 18th, I performed a like service for
Crocker Lodge No. 454 at San Mateo.
October 21st I visited Oak Grove Lodge No. 215 of Alameda, The
occasion was graeed by the presence of Brother Scott, Past Grand
Master of the jurisdietion of Illinois, who, by his inspiring words
increased our admiration for this great Institution. Brother Scott has
since joined the invisible host of the Grand Lodge above, ''where the
Supreme Grand Master of the Universe forever presides."
November 10th, I visited Orland Lodge No. 265 at Orland.
November 11th, Redding Lodge.
November 12th, constituted Kennet Lodge No. 456, at Kennet, and
installed their officers.
·
November 13th, visited McCloud Lodge, Siskiyou County.
November 15th, was given a joint reception at Yreka by St. John's
and Howard Lodges of that place. I must say a word as to the zeal and
interest of these mountain lodges in the progress of the Fraternity. In
my judgment, no more earnest and intelligent Masons can be found
anywhere. They show by their conduct that they regard Masonry as
one of the greatest instrumentalities in the world for the progress and
happiness of mankind. At Yreka I had the great pleasure of meeting
Dr. Nutting, Past Grand Master of this jurisdiction. He is a power
for good in that community, and the brethren who were present will not
soon forget his impressive and eloquent speech in behalf of the Fraternity.

11

November 27th, in.stituted Riverbank Lodge No. 459 at Riverbank,
and installed their officers, the charter having been issued by said Lodge
under my direction on October 22.
December 2nd, visited Natoma Lodge No. 64 at Folsom.
December 9th, convened the Grand Lodge at Monterey and dedicatetl
the hall of Monterey Lodge No. 217.
December 16th, in the afternoon, installed the officers of Jewel
Lodge No. 374 of San Francisco, and in the evening attended a reception
given by Fidelity Lodge No. 120 of the same city.
December 23rd, installed at San Mateo the officers of all the Lodges
of San Mateo county.
December 27th, installed at said city the offieers of all the Lodges
of Sacramento.
December 29th, installed at Watsonville the officers of Pajaro and
Santa Cruz Lodges.
December 30th, installed at San Jose the officers of the three San
Jose Lodges.
January 6th, at Suisun, installed the officers of Suisun, Rio Vista,
Dixon and Vacaville Lodges.
January 7th, at Woodland, installed the officers of Woodland, Yolo,
Buckeye and Landmark Lodges.
January 8th, at Crockett, installed the officers of Carquinez Lodge
No. 337. The ladies of the Eastern Star also installed, and they par·
ticipated gracefully and charmingly in the joint reception.
January 11th, at Santa Rosa, my home Lodge, installed the officers
of Lal'.'ayette Lodge of Sebastopol, and Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57. I
was presented with a beautiful gavel by Santa Rosa Lodge, Judge Seawell of the Superior Court making an eloquent presentation speech.
January 22nd, at Los Banos, installed the officers of Los Banos
Lodge No. 312, and in behalf of that Lodge presented to Brother
Drummond, one of their honored members, in commemoration of his
ninetieth anniversary, a beautiful Masonic apron. Brother Drummond
has been an active Mason for over sixty years. He is still strong and
alert and it is to be hoped that he may be with us for some years to
come.
January 26th, at Red Bluff, installed the officers of Vesper, Orland,
and Olivet Lodges.
January 27th, at Marysville, installed the officers of Hammonton,
Enterprise, Nicolaus, Yuba and Corinthian Lodges.

12

13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

January 28th, at Oroville, installed the officers of Emanuel, North
Butte, Table Mountain and Oroville Lodges.

our Home for Children. It was a noble gift from a noble man. I will
always remember the interview I had with him. It was to him and to me
an occasion of joy unspeakable. I wiRh that more of our moneyed men
could so fully appreciate their obligation to humanity and the significance and importance of such a monument to their memory.
In this connection, I will state that the Grand Secretary received
from Mr. and Mrs. George Zehnder of Arcata, the sum of $500.00 for
the Masonic Homes of California and I am sure that we all concur in
the sentiment expressed by Brother Whicher in his letter of acknowledg·
ment as follows: "No better passport to Heaven could be issued than
this gift, and the thanks of the Fraternity of the entire State of California are hereby tendered to both of you. 'Blessed is he that considereth the poor;
the Lord will preserve him and keep him
alive, and he shall be blessed upon the earth' ''·
January 11th I drew a warrant on the general fund for $256.00 in
favor of Past Grand Master Henderson of this Jurisdiction, whose financial distress was great, on his promise to repay the amount as soon as
possible.

January 29th, at Modesto, installed the officers of Stanislaus Lodge
No. 206.
February 3rd, visited Bay View Lodge No. 401 at Oakl d F
the fi t t"
d ·
·
an ·
or
rs ~me urrng my visitations I saw in the Lodgeroom at Bay View
t~e American flag, and I assure you it was a pleasing and inspiring
sight, ~nd _our .worthy. G_rand Secretary added interest to the occasion
by paymg 111 his own mimitable way an eloquent tribute to the ''Star
Spangled Banner ".
1'.'ebruary .12th, I visited Charter Rock Lodge at Berkeley, it being
the sixth anmversary of their institution.

Februar~ 23rd, visited Mission Lo~ge at San Francisco and witnessed the third degree conferred in an impressive manner by the officers
of the Lodge.

Aug~s.t 13th .visited the Home at Decoto and in the afternoon atdtended, , divme services. conducted' by the Superintendent . E veryth·mg was
one decen.tly and 111 order,'' and the impressions made by the simple
and reverential deemanor of the participants, can never be forgotten.
September 30th visited the Orphans' Home at Covina.
I may here add that on February 22nd, the Junior Grand Warden,
Bradford Webster, convened the Grand Lodge at Visalia and laid the
cornerstone of the Municipal Auditorium at that place.
On April 25th, Deputy Grand Master Francis Keesling convened
the Grand Lodge at Auburn and dedicated the new hall of Eureka Lodge
No. 16.
May 19 he performed a similar service at Glendale and dedicated
the Hall of Unity Lodge No. 368.
May 20th, 1916, he laid the cornerstone of the new Home for
Children at Covina, a full account of which will be found in the report
of the Trustees of the Home.
May 27th the Deputy Grand Master laid the cornerstone of the
Scottish Rite Temple at Sacramento.
July 8th the Junior Grand Warden laid the cornerstone of the
Union High School Building at Red Bluff.
July 15th, the Senior Grand Warden, W. Rhodes Hervey, convened
the Grand Lodge and laid the cornerstone of the Masonic Temple for
San Pedro Lodge No. 332.
OTHER SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS.

. December 23rd I received from a Brother who asked me not to reveal
h_is name the sum of $21,000 in giltedge bonds to be used in the construction of a dormitory at Covina, Los Angeles County, in connection with

February 16th, in company with William P. Filmer, Past Grand
Master and Sovereign Grand Inspector General; Rev. John A. B. Fry,
Grand Chaplain; William H. Waste, former Grand Orator; John Whicher,
the Grand Secretary; and other brethren, I exchanged greetings through
the long distance telephone from the company's office in San Francisco
with the Most Worshipful Grand Master Seering of New ,Jersey, who
was in attendance at a banquet in Ridgway of said State celebrating. the
installation of Herbert R. Talbot as Master of Fidelity Lodge No. 113.
of said city. It was a novel and wonderful experience. We were over
3000 miles apart, yet the conversation was carried on as expeditiously
and understandingly as though we were in the same room. It was,
indeed, as the Grana Secretary wrote, difficult to get away from the conviction that the brethren gathered there at the festal board were very
near in body as well as in spirit.
Brother Talbot first spoke to me as follows: "Brother Albert G..
Burnett, Most Worshipful Grand Master of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California,
I greet you in the name of the members of Fidelity Lodge No. 113 of
Ridgway, New Jersey, who are assembled before me with their ladies,.
450 in number. I am informed by a representative of the telephone
company here present that we now have the distinction of being the first
representatives of Masonic bodies, assembled as such, to converse across
the continent .. I am quite sure that in years to come, when transcontinental telephoning has become one of the commonly-accepted public
utilities of our great country, you and I will look back to this occasion.
with more pleasure. Surely, this demonstration is a marvelous triumph

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

14

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for science. We hear much of traveling from east to west and from
west to east in our Masonic experience, but surely nothing :Masonic has
ever before traveled as speedily as the sound of our voices tonight, for
I am told that the distance is 3400 miles and the time required for transmission is one-fifteenth of a second. The Most Worshipful Grand Master
for the State of New Jersey is seated at my right, and will in a few
minutes greet you on behalf of the Grand Lodge and the brethren of
New Jersey. In conclusion, I wish to assure you that the opportunity
to' address you in the language of fraternal greeting is much appreciated
by me. The company now assembled will listen with pleasure to your
reply."
I then replied: "Through me as Grand Master of this jurisdiction,
the Masons of California, sixty thousand strong, send most cordial and
fraternal greetings to the Most Worshipful Grand Master and brethren
of the jurisdiction of the splendid state of New Jersey. Though separated by more than 3000 miles of territory, we are bound together by
the indissoluble bonds of brotherly love, relief and truth. May we rejaiee in the consciousness of our membership in an Order that is inspired
by the highest considerations for the welfare and happiness of mankind,
and has for its ideals the purest and noblest conceptions of human
greatness. The principles we teach are as everlasting as the throne of
God; they are as sound and efficacious as any doctrine ever promulgated
for the development of individual character and the perpetuity of
society; and though madness and barbarism seem now to dominate a
large part of the so-called civilized world, yet the madness will pass,
the barbarism will give way to a better civilization than has ever been
known, and the doctrine of peace and love will yet bind together the
children of men in a holy and imperishable eompact. God grant that we
may be true and faithful and do our part in the mighty work of civilization and humanity that belongs to the craft."
The address of the Most Worshipful Brother Edward M. Searing
was as follows: "The kind message so distinctly heard, although your
voice has traveled 3500 miles, is greatly appreciated, and as Grand
Master of New Jersey, I shall take great delight in conveying it to the
42,000 Masons of this grand jurisdiction, and in return allow me to
extend to you, Most 'Vorshipful Sir, also to the brethren of the grand
and beautiful State of California, the same cordial and fraternal greet·
ings from the craft of New Jersey. It is said that distance lends enchantment, but the distance between us this evening seems but a few
yards and yet the delight in speaking with you is beyond description.
Were we not affiliated with this world-wide fraternity and linked together
so closely with the ties of brotherly love, we would be addressing each
other as strangers. As it is, we feel that we have always been acquainted,
btit have simply been brought together in eloser contact throi+gh the
agency of this wonderful telephonic invention. New Jersey is but a

small spot on the map as compared with the great State of California,
but this grand jmisdiction is growing rapidly and the brethren are stro.ng
in upholding the principles as set forth in the Rule and Guide of our faith
and practice. It would be a great delight to me to feel and clasp your
hand during this conversation, thereby forming a complete circuit of the
'l'ie that Binds. I trust that I shall be able to meet you in person at
some future date.''
February 28th our Grand Orator, John M. Eshleman, passed away
and on March 2nd I convened the Grand J~odge and conducted his
funeral at Los Angeles. His death constituted an irreparable loss to the
craft and to the State. His work for humanity will never be forgotten.
By his devotion to the public service he endeared himself to the _Peop!e
and built for himself a monument that will endure forever. Servrnes 1ll
honor of his memory will be held by Grand Lodge on Thursday afternoon
of this week.
On March 2nd I appointed as his successor Dr. Samuel E. Burke
1
•
,
d
of Los Angeles, and on April 4th he was installed by the Senior Gran
Warden, W. R. Hervey. It may be stated here that Brother Eshleman
had been installed as Grand Orator by Brother Hervey on December
28th at Los Angeles, and the very Reverend Jolm A. B. Fry was in·
stalled as Grand Chaplain and Worshipful Robert Greig as .Junior Gra~d
Deacon by Deputy Grand Master Keesling on the 13th of November m
Charter Rock Lodge, Berkeley.
The Grand Lodge in special session at Covh1a on March 20th, under
the direction of Brother Keesling acting as Grand Master, was kind
enough to send me a tender message of sympathy in my affiiction, which
touched me deeply, and for which I cannot fully express my gratitude.
In this connection, I desire also to acimowledge my appreciation of the
many kindly messages sent me by various lodges and many brethren. I
could not answer them specifically, but I want to state that the thoughtful
consideration thus manifested will be remembered as long as I live.
At the same special session of the Grand Lodge, the following
message was sent through the Grand Secretary: "Bishop Matthew Simp·
son Hughes, Saratoga Springs, New York: The Grand Lodge of Masons
in special communication for the purpose of laying cornerstone of Home
for Children at Covina, extends hearty congratulations on your election
to a position we know you will fill with honor to yourself and the great
Church of your affiliation.'' To which Brother Hughes, who had just
been elected a Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, replied: ''Mr.
John Whicher, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Fr'l.neisco, Cali·
fornia. Dear Brother Whicher: I received the telegram of congratulation which you sent to me at Saratoga on behalf of the Grand Lodge in
special communication for the purpose of layi~g the cornerstone of ~be
Home for Children at Covina. · It eame to me m the rush of the closmg

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR.\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sessions of the conference, and I have been on the wing almost continu·
ously since that time. This will explain and I hope excuse my tardy
acknowledgment. I was greatly pleased to hear from my brethren of
the Grand Lodge, through you, in connection with an important event
in my life. I have enjoyed my affiliation with my :Masonic brethren in
California, and it was a pleasure to me for them to have some part in
my elevation to the Episcopacy of my Church. Let me assure you, and
through you, my brethren of the Grand Lodge, of my deep appreciation
of their interest and· its expression, and believe me always,
''Fraternally yours,
"MATTS. HUGHES."

''I must say that I sympathize with them in their reverence for the
puMt nnd for the old ideals, and it may be also that the work as given
hy them, in consequence of its ''beauty and vitality'' as suggested by
l.hPKO brethren, is more impressive than as given generally throughout
U1iM Grand Jurisdietion.

All of us who had the great privilege last year of listening to the
splendid address of Bishop Hughes as Grand Orator, must feel that no
mistake was made when his Church elevated him to the Episcopacy, and
we rejoice in the opportunity thus afforded him for greater usefulness
in the sacred work.
:My attention was called to certain correspondence between our Grand
Lecturer Brother Baker and James F. Fenwick, Inspector for the 64th
Masonic District at Honolulu, and also a letter written by certain Past
Masters of Oceanic J,odge No. 371 at Honolulu, and Brother Fenwick,
in reference to a portion of the third degree work as given by said
Lodge. Brother Baker had insisted that they change their practice and
conform to the requirements of our Constitution. Said letter contained
an interesting history of said Lodge, and an eloquent statement of the
reasons for the action of the Lodge in retaining the so-called '':French''
work in the second section of the third degree, but the letter is too long
to ·quote.
In reference to the controversy, I wrote Brother Fenwick as follows:
"Your letter to Very Worshipful Thomas Baker, Grand Lecturer of
this jurisdiction, together with a communication from certain brethren
who are Past Masters of Oceanic Lodge No. 371 of Honolulu, has been
referred to me 1 as Grand Master, for consideration.
''I have read with great interest and pride the fervent and inspiring
statement of these brethren, whose utterances bear unmistakable evidence
of devotion to the cause of }'reemasonry and love for the principles that
we all profess.
''I am not surprised at their reluctance to
up that portion of
the work in the second section of the third
whieh is so impressively
associated with their Masonic history and their cherished traditions of
the Craft.
''The sentiment which underlies their opposition to the suggested
change is quite natural and is easily understood by anyone at all familiar
with the significance of early impressions and 'the force of long continued
habits of thought and conduct.

''Of this, however, I cannot speak from personal knowledge. J,et
• mn make it emphatic, then, that I have the greatest respect for the
opinion of these brethren, I admire their zeal for our Institution. I
nm entirely in sympathy with their desire and purpose to make the cere·
111onies of the Order as helpful and inspiring as possible, and I have the
nt.most confidence in their good faith, and I am sure the members of
the Order in this State share with me the foregoing sentiments; but we
mmnot forget, and lest they forget, I beg to remind our brethren of the
ve11erable Lodge whose charter was granted over sixty-five years ago,
that our Institution is foundetl upon law and order and that we are all
Hllbjeet to the guidance and control of certain well-defined principles of
action.
''That the purposes of our organization may be effectively carried
out, we have adopted a Constitution, which we have pledged ourselves
to support and to enforce. One of the provisions of that constitution is
found in Section 121 as follows: "No Lo(lge shall receive lectures from
any person who is not duly authorized by the Grand Master. The ritual
now taught by the Grand Lecturer and recognized by the Grand Lorlge,
must be adhered to by all Lodges and Masons in this jurisdiction. The
Grand Lodge alone has power to authorize any changes therein for the
purpose of having it remain as it was handed down from time immcm·
orial. No degree shall be conferred except in conformity therewith,
and all propositions looking to any changes in the ritual will be denied
consideration in the Grand Lodge.''
''Section 54 of the constitution also provides as follows: ''It shall
be the duty of the Grand Lecturer to teach the ritual and esoteric
work to the Inspectors of the jurisdiction; to visit the several Inspection
Districts and hold schools of instruction where most convenient, and not
only to exemplify the adopted work, but to require conformity therewith", etc.
''Hence, you will understand why the Grano Lecturer has been and
is so anxious and insistent that there be uniformity in the work through·
out the jurisdiction.
''Under the circumstances, however, I have concluded to take no
definite action now, but to refer the whole matter to the Grand Lodge at
its next annual Communication for such decisive and final action as may
seem meet and proper.
''With great respect, I remain
"Yours fraternally,

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

My attention was called to a circular letter issued by a brother of
Westlake Lodge No. 392 of Los Angeles, and mailed to all the members
of that Lodge in which bitter complaint was made of the conduct of the
Worshipful Master in reference to a certain notice of appeal to this
Grand Lodge in a ease that had been tried in said Lodge on March 16th,
1915. Said letter reflected severely on the integrity of said Master and
of course the matter demanded investigation. I wrote the Inspector
of that District to make a diligent inquiry into the case and report to
me the facts. A full report was made and in my reply, I suggested that
the accusing brother, the author of said circular, in the interests of
harmony and good fellowship, should be permitted to withdraw from the
Lodge. Furthermore I said, ''If he does not cho~se to do so, :barges
should be preferred against him for the circulation of that circular.
Surely, such conduct as that cannot be tolerated even. though t~e brother
may have some justification for the accusation contamed the:Sm. If he
considers himself aggrieved he should pursue the course provided b~ o~r
Constitution and laws. The method of vindication adopted by him is
illegal and unmasonic an.d can only result in evil. ' '
In reply to a l.engthy communication from him I also wrote said
author that "I regret exceedingly that there is such dissension in West·
lake Lodge. It is likely not only to disrupt the local or~anization, but
the inevitable effect of it will be to injure the Fratermty throughout
the State. I am afraid some of you are more concerned. about vindicating
your own opinions than in promoting the welfar~ of the Order. An
immediate investigation should be held of your serious charges that the
truth may be aseertained if possible by a responsible eomn;itte~ and
the matter set at rest, as far as it can be done by the determmahon of
regularly eonstituted Masonic authorities. I do not know the facts, but
I do know that the memory of the best of us is often at fault, and I
am certain that we need to exercise more of the spirit of the tolerance,
forbearance and fraternal love that we are taught in our order.''
Another more serious circular impugning the motive and condemning
the conduct of eertain brethren has come under my observation, and I
venture to say that I eannot understand the attitude of one who has
taken our obligations and profesed adherence to our prineiples, who
allows himself to resort to this method of "injuring a brother in his
good name'' and of creating strife and discord among the Craft. It
may be, and, no doubt, it is true that the decisions of Masonic ~s well
as other tribunals are sometimes wrong. Our brethren make mistakes
and are sometimes greviously at fault, but there is a lawful course, and
a decent method whereby derelictions, real or imaginery, may be re·
viewed and if we are law-abiding eitizens and upright Masons, we will
have r~spect for the tribunals we have established and will be mi~dful
of our obligations to cherish the honor of our brethren. ~he readmess
with which some of us seem willing to condemn others, arises from our

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

own perversity and conceit rather than a desire to be of serviee to the
Order, and we greatly need to consider and apply the admonition of
the Great Teacher to remove the beams from our own eyes that we may
see clearly the mote that is in the brother's eye.
A communicaiion was received from the Chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee of the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association calling attention to the importance of the erection of a memorial
temple to Washington. Every Mason must feel an interest in this
project, and I recommend that it receive our careful consideration.
I received an earnest letter from Dr. Francisco Sanchez Curbelo,
Most Worshipful Grand Master of Cuba, urging more intimate and cordial relations among the various Grand Lodges of the continent and suggesting the propriety of future meetings in which delegates from all of
said regular Grand Lodges shall participate.
No doubt such meetings would promote international good fellowship, would tend to strengthen the bonds of friendship and fraternity
and would add to the progress of our Order generally; but while I
endorse the scheme, I have not given the matter sufficient attention to
make any specific recommendation in reference to it.
On August 10th, I sent the following communication to the constituted Lodges:
''Dear Brethren: When I was elected Grand Master of this jurisdiction I fully expected to visit every Masonic District in the State and
meet personally as many of the brethren as possible. I was actively at
work in pursuance of that purpose when, on the seventeenth of March last
I was stricken with a serious illness which confined me to my bed for
twelve weeks and left me weak and incapable of performing the task
that I contemplated. I am now feeling quite well, but my normal strength
has not been fully restored. I have resumed my official duties on the
bench, but I cannot with safety to myself undertake much additional
labor. Indeed, my physicians advised me to abstain from all unneees·
sary effort for two or three months longer. This advice I have not
strictly followed, but I am sure that for some little time I shall not be
as active as formerly. I need not assure you that the enforced change
in my plans has been a great disappointment to me. I cannot tell you
how strongly I desired to visit the Lodges and meet the brethren in
the various parts of the State face to face. I thought I might, in the
providence of God, be of some service to the Fraternity that fills such
a large space in our thoughts and affections. During my long illness
this consideration was almost constantly in my mind, and I was unccas·
ingly and deeply concerned as to the welfare of the Order and the
progress and happiness of the membership. Thus, through circumstances
over which I had no control, I have been deprived of the unspeakable

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

pleasure of meeting many of you and talking with you of the majesty
and beauty of the principles upon which our Order is built. May I not,
though earnestly exhort you to be at all times alive to the necessity of
unremi~ting diligence in the espousal and advocacy of Masonic doctrine,
and to be unfailing in your efforts to be worthy of the great cause to
which we are committed f Our Order presents in its teachings the high·
est ideals of which the human mind can conceive; its history is full of
inspiration for all who desire the complete development of the race;
and its wonderful record of philanthropy, charity and love must always
command the admiration of every one who has a just conception of
human life. May we all realize that we are personally responsible for the
reputation, usefulness and glory of our Institution, and may we stu·
diously avoid everything that would bring reproach upon our beloved
Order or prevent any of our brethren from enjoying to the fullest extent
the inspiring and uplifting influence of Divine sentiments that we proclaim: 'Be just, be faithful, be true.'
"And may 'the peace of God that passeth all understanding' be
constantly with you.''
Of course there were other communications. In accordance with
the request of the Grand Masters of other jurisdictions I authorized
various Lodges within this State to confer the degrees upon candidates
from such other jurisdictions. I granted various dispensations and ap·
proved the by-laws of different liodges, and performed other similar
services of a more or less routine and formal character, but I do not
consider it advisable to make specific mention of them.
THE MCGREW AND PASCO CASES.

I suppose I am a sort of residuary legatee of these cases. They
have been before the Grand Lodge several times and have been the sub·
ject of coRsiderable discussion. The brethren are probably familiar with
the main feature of eaeh, and I shall try to avoid wearisome details. The
first of these, as is known, has been the occasion of an unpleasant
disagreement with the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction of Massachusetts.
The main question was whether Brother McGrew acted in good faith in
presenting to Durant Lodge the so-called "leave to withdraw" ri•
'' dimit ''. I was about to proceed to Berkeley to investigate that ques·
tion when I learned that Brother McGrew had consented to acknowledge
his error and request reinstatement by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts. He thereupon sent the following letter to the Grand Master of
that jurisdiction:
"2648 Hillegass Avenue, Berkeley, California.
"W. L. Johnson, Esq.,
''Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons in Massachusetts.
"Most Worshipful Sir:
.
1
' Realizing that there exists between the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts and the Grand Lodge of California a controversy concerning the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

legitimacy of my standing as a )fason, and that the controversy has
already tended to impair, the friendly relations that should exist between
them, and that further estrangement may result; impelled by an imperative sense of duty, I desire to do what may be in my power to ter·
minate this unfortunate state of affairs and assist in restoring peace
and harmony between these two Grand Jurisdictions of the Craft.
''With that end in view, I hereby make the following brief and
frank statement to you 1 and through you to the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts:
"First, I hereby emphasize and reiterate the sentiments of humble
contrition contained in my petition to your Grand Lodge in 1904 for
the attiude of hostility shown by me to the Committee of the Grand
Lodge before which I appeared in 1894; and to confirm the plea for
pardon which I, some years previously, had expressed in a personal letter
to each member of the Committee.
''Second, In this present petition for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Freemasonry by the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Massachusetts, it is my earnest and sincere desire to empha11ize more
fully, if possible, the contrite attitude of mind which I have never
ceased to have.
''Third, I wish to frankly and unreservedly acknowledge that the
answer of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Massachusetts to my
petition for restoration was never interpreted by me as meaning anything but a euphemistic manner of notifying me that my petition had
been rejected. My good friends of the Grand Louge of California took
a different view of the matter; and gave me permission to affiliate with
any Lodge in this jurisdiction that would receive me. In the face of
their optimistic interpretation and generous confidence, and with the
personal and intense yearning to once again meet the brethren upon
the Square, I was only too ready to accede to their friendly persuasion
and kind permission.
"Most Worshipful Sir, I earnestly and contritely ask you, and
through you, the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, to
accept in Sincerity and Truth, this humble explanation and apology for
every wrong of the Past, and with it my prayer for restoration by the
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts to all the rights and benefits of Free·
masonry.
"I have the honor to be, Most Worshipful Sir,
"Very truly yours,
"GIFJ<'ORD HORACE GREELY McGREW."
November 13th, 1915.
He was very ill at the time and died December 8th following, the
very day he was restored by said Grand Lodge to the rights and privi·

22

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

leges of Freemasonry. Some correspondence of a cordial and fraternal
nature between myself and said Grand Master ensued, but it is perhaps
unnecessary to set it out. I would rather have contented myself with
the bare recital that Brother McGrew was fully restored by the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts and that he passed to the higher Lodge where
mistakes are unknown, but I concluded that you were entitled to know
the full facts and that the statement was also demanded by the•consideration tha~ is due a sister jurisdiction. It may be said of Brother
McGrew that he atoned for any mistake that he may have made by years
of faithful service to mankind and devotion to the principles of the
Order.
The Pascoe case is one also of long standing. The ledger of Rising
Star Lodge shows that he was first suspended for non-payment of dues
in February, 1895, and reinstated April 6th of the same year. He was
again suspended March 30th, 1901. He then owed for dues for more
than four years.
Brother Pascoe 's application for reinstatement was made upon the
ground, a~ he states himself, "at the time of my suspension and f?r
some years previous thereto I was totally blind,'' and it may be said
that there were affidavits presented to the Lodge in support of the
statement. In his written communication he said he sought reinstatement "not for the purpose of securing aid from your Lodge" but "to
place myself in a position to meet my fellow brothers on a~ equal un.derstanding." He seemed to think that where "a member is placed rn a
position where he can no longer earn a livelihoo.d and .having no means
of obtaining funds to pay his assessments he is considered a member
in good standing and is exempt from dues".
The Lodge, however, declined to reinstate him unless he paid the
full amount due. The Lodge may have been influenced in its attitude
by the belief that Brother Pascoe had not always treated the Lodge as
a Mason should. In a letter among the papers in the case a former
Master of that Lodge says that he had heard it stated in the Lodge
that ''Brother Pascoe has neglected to pay his dues when he was well
able to do so" and that he was present when Brother Pascoe was suspended and that he had an opinion at the time that Brother Pas~oe
had not acted fairly in obtaining a certain letter of recommenclation
"under false pretenses and used it for a different purpose from that
for which he induced me to write it".
The evidence shows that the Lodge acted legally in suspending the
brother. They had no knowledge or notice of his disability as far as
the record shows. He should have notified the Lodge of his aftliction,
but, here, of course, there was excuse for his failure ~n consequence of
the nature of his trouble. While the brother has no right to demand a
restoration, I think out of consideration for his great misfortune and
moved by that brotherly love which is the cardinal tenet of the Order

we might well advise his restoration that he may go down to his grave
with all the privileges and honors of a Master Mason.
DECISIONS,

My first impression was to spare you a recital of the decisions rendered, but upon reflection I concluded that such an innovation would be
unfair to you and also hardly be in consonance with the requirement of
the law that the Grand Master shall "present at each annual Communication, a written message therein setting forth all his official acts during
the year,'' etc. It may be, though, that some of the minor decisions will
be omitted:
1. An application was made for the degrees in a Lodge and the
fee was deposited, an investigating committee was appointed, but before a report could be made the applicant moved to China.
He sought to have the fee returned, and I decided that there was
no authority for the Lodge to refund the fee as the application was
still pending according to section 101 of the Const.itution1 and that as
long as the application was pending and the Lodge was willing and
ready to confer the degrees the applicant was not entitled to have the
fee returned. It seemed to constitute a hardship in that particular case
and the law might well be amended to meet such a contingency.
2. A controversy between Temple Lodge No. 6 of Albuquerque,
New Mexico, and Coronado Lodge No. 441, of this jurisdiction, in
reference to the conduct of a petitioner in applying for the degrees. in
the latter Lodge while apparently a resident within the jurisdiction of
the former, was brought to my attention. I suggested that charges
should be preferred against him in order that his apparent fraud upon
the Lodge at Coronado might be investigated and justice meted out,
that it might be determined, in other words, whether there was an honest
mistake or a willful misrepresentation of a material fact on his part.
3. A circular was sent out by certain members of a Lodge asking
for a contribution for the purchase of a ''suitable remembrance'' for
the retiring Master, and I was asked if such conduct was in violation of
section 127 of the Constitution, and I replied that: ''As I understand
the facts, the said circular was not ordered to be sent by the Lodge,
and therefore the first. clause of said section does not apply. Without
doing violence to the spirit or letter of the law, I think it may be said
that the presentation of a suitable testimonial to a retiring Master who
has done many years of faithful work for the Lodge is a 'matter or
thing' Masonic in its nature, and I am of the opinion that the members
of the Lodge may properly, if they deem it advisable, make a contribution or solicit one among themselves for such purpose. Of course, it
is a matter of some delicacy, but it can be safely left to the good
judgment and sense of propriety of the members of the particular
Lodge.

24

25

PROCEEDINGS 01!' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

4. I was asked whether the tenn ''total revenue' ' as used in section 89 of the Constitution means the ''gross'' or ''net'' income of
the Lodge for the year. I held that the word ''total'' is one of the
definitions of the word ''gross'' and that the Grand Lodge used the term
with that sig)llification. Of course, as it was suggested, under this inter·
pretation the brethren may sometimes indulge in extravagant expenditure for social purposes, but we must repose confidence in the judgment
and conscience of the members of the constituent Lodges, and if the
law is deemed to work a hardship the subject should be brought to the
attention of the Grand Lodge that the needed change may be effected.

denee of the applicant is, however, much nearer the center of B than
of C. The question is as to the jurisdiction of the Lodges B and C to
entertain the application. I found no difficulty in determining that the
Lodge B had jurisdiction, since the applicant lives nearer the incorporated limits and also the center of that town. (See proceedings of
Grand Lodge, 1901, page 306.)
10. In balloting for a candidate a mistake was probably made in
placing a black ball in the box. There were, however, two unfavorable
ballots in the box, and the Worshipful Master declared the candidate
rejected. It was thought an injustice had been done the candidate
and inquiry was made as to how it could be remedied, and I replied
that section 106 of the Constitution as to dispensation suggested the
eourse to pursue.
11. I decided that a member of a lodge that had surrendered its
charter could become a member in good standing of another Lodge ''by
affiliation and election in the ordinary way", he furnishing a satisfac·
tory explanation in writing of inability to furnish a demit.
12. On a motion to amend the by-laws of a LO(lge, there being
ten members present, :five voted for it, three against it, and two did not
vote. The Master, acting on the presumption that ' 1 all present not
voting are presumed to dissent to the action taken," (Section 77h of the
Constitution), counted the two members not voting as though voting in
the affirmative, and therefore declared the amendment adopted, it requiring a two-third vote to carry it. The brother who seconded the motion
did not vote, but afterward movetl for a re-consideration and the \Vorshipful Master being in doubt as to the propriety of the procee<1ing did
not entertain the motion. I held that the amendment was not .carried as
the law requires the vote of two-thirds of those present. 'fhis necessarily exacts actual participation in the ballot and does not contemplate
"constructive voting"· The presumption as to those not voting is that
they ''assent to whatever disposition may be made of a proposition by
those who do vote". (Proceedings of Grand Lodge for 1884, Page
738.) Furthermore, the brother who did not vote was not entitled to
move' for reconsideration. (Mackey 's Masonic Parliamentary Law, page
143.) I also held that the Worshipful Master is not required to announce that a two-thirds vote is necessary to amend the by-laws, as the
brethren are presumed to know the law, but it is advisable for him to
do so to put the brethren upon their guard.

5. These two questions were submitted to me: 1. Can a Lodge of
either Entered Apprentices or Fellow Crafts be opened more than once
in twen.ty-four hours for the conferring of degrees in the maximum of
five different candidates at each meeting~ and 2. Can a Lodge of
Entered Apprentices be opened and :five degrees conferred and later a
Lodge of Fellow Crafts opened and :five degrees conferred on other
candidates, all within twenty-four hours? I answered that in my
opinion the questions must be answered in the negative, that the natural
and reasonable interpretation of the law is that no more than :five
degrees should be conferred by the same Lodge in any period of twentyfour hours.
6. I held that where the installation of Officers was to take place
in a building other than where the Lodge regularly met the Lodge
should open in the Lodgeroom and then repair to the place of installa·
tion.
7. It was held that a Mason who has demitted from his Lodge may
petition for affiliation with a Lodge in another jurisdiction while he
still holds residence in the jurisdiction from which he has demitted.
(See Proceedings of Grand Lodge of 1915, page 295.)
8. A candidate for the degrees was balloted for, and a black cube
appearing, another ballot was taken. This ballot was also unfavorable
and the Worshipful Master declared the candidate !ejeeted. Some discussion then ensued, it being suggested that possibly a mistake had
been made; and a brother admitted that he had made a mistake in
easting the black ball. Another ballot was thereupon had which resulted
in the election of the candidate. I held that the third ballot was a
nullity under section 104 of the Constitution. I am pleased to say,
however, that I granted a dispensation for another ballot under section
106 of the Constitution and the candidate was regularly elected and
afterward initiated.
9. An applicant for the degrees lives in incorporated town A,
which is contiguous to twa other incorporated towns, B and C. There is
no Masonic Lodge in A, but there is in B and also in C. The center of
A is of equal distance from the center of B and of C. The actual resi·

13. Several communications were received from Masonic Boards
of Relief in which complaint· was made of the jurisdiction of other
States for their failure to reimburse said Boards of Relief for moneys
expended for the relief of the members, or relatives of said members,
of Lodges of said jurisdictions. To one of these I replied. ' 1 I under·
stand that many similar cases have arisen within our jurisdiction. They
are of course annoying and even exasperating in some respects, but I

26

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

suppose until the end of time there will be found men, and even
Masons, who will manifest a disposition to impose upon others a burden
which should be borne by themselves. No one can tell you what you
should do in the premises. I will suggest however that you continue to
importune the Lodges that are primarily responsible for the duty to
care for their own, and that in the meantime you grant what relief
you can, and if you feel that the load has been heavy you trust to the
. sense and justice of the Grand Lodge to alleviate the situation"·
14. I received a communication from the Worshipful Master of
San Fernando Lodge No. 343, in which he called attention to the fact
that San Fernando is a city of the sixth class, comprising an area of
only twelve hundred acres, and that recently the city of Los Angeles
annexed the San Fernando Irrigation District, thus extending the
boundaries beyond those of the city of San Fernando and so as to
completely surround the latter. He therefore inquired: ''Has not the
Masonic jurisdiction of the city of Los Angeles by virtue of the above
named facts enveloped and absorbed the Masonic jurisdiction of San
Fernando Lodge No. 343 f and consequently does not San Fernando
Lodge now hold concurrent ,iurisdiction with the rest of the Lodges
located within the jurisdiction of the City of Los Angeles T"
I replied: ''I can find no ground for holding that San Fernando
Lodge has concurrent jurisdiction with the Lodges of Los Angeles City.
s.ection 82 of the Constitution, relating to concurrent jurisdiction, provides that 'If two or more Lodges are located within the corporate
limits of any city, town or place, they shall have concurrent jurisdiction
therein,' but in the sense of said expression, your lodge is not within
the corporate limits of Los Angeles but it is within the corporate limits
of San Fernando. I do not think a Lodge can be within the corporate
limits of two cities at the same time. You are a part of the municipality of San }'ernando but not of Los Angeles, 1tlthough surrounded
by the latter. This view necessarily operates to reduce the territorial
extent of your jurisdiction, and I regret the result, but under the laws,
as I understand it, I can see no other alternative. At the time said
provision was adopted no one probably anticipated such a complication
as has arisen in your city and the law should probably be amended to
meet the situation."
15. Wilshire Lodge No. 445 adopted resolutions changing the by·
laws relating to fees for degrees and dues, with. a proviso that the
change should not go into effect until the membership of the Lodge
should have reached three hundred. The Deputy Grand Master decided
(and I concur) that no amendment could be properly made to take
effect at an indefinite date; that "the time for such amendments will
be opportune when the membership shall have reached the specified
number and all members will have had an opportunity of expressing
an opinion thereon.''

27

In reply to an inquiry whether examination of visiting brethren
I.Jo held at any place other than a room or place adjacent to the
hotly of said Lodge", I answered that the Constitution contemplates that
~11 1 ·.h examination shall be made within the jurisdiction at least of the
I ,odgo which the visitors desire to attend.
17. I held that a man who ''has lost his right leg seven inches
lu•low the knee'' is not qualified to receive the degrees .
18. I held that it was proper for the Secretary at the stated meetiui.: in June to read the names of all who owed for dues, but that needi«•HH humiliation of any member should of course be avoided.
19. I decided that it was not proper to hold Masonic services over
the ashes of a brother whose body had been cremated.
20. In reply to a question whether a brother's dying request that
his funeral services be conducted by the Masons and Odd Fellows, I
held that the language of Section 164 of the Constitution should be
construed as liberally as possible, but that it certainly means nothing
less than tnat the whole service should be under the direction of the
Masonic Lodge· but that out of respect to the wishes of the deceased,
and as a matt:r of courtesy to the other great fraternal organization,
the Worshipful Master ~f the Lo.dge might properly request the Odd
Pellows to render their service or a part of it at the Chapel, it being
understood that the Masonic Lodge shall have charge of and conclude
the service". (Proceedings of Grand Lodge of 1891-1892, Page 215.)
IO.

• • 11111y

MASONIC TEMPLE.

One subject of tremendous importanoo to which I must not fail to
call your earnest attention, involves our interest in the Masonic Temple.
As has been said by my immediate predecessors, our faith has been
pledged to this enterprise, and we cannot afford, as I am sure we have
no disposition to shrink from, our responsibility in the premises. We
must go forward until the debt is entirely obliterated and this splendid
building is placed upon a sure foundation of safety and profit. Let there
be no laggards in this matter. We will bear the burden cheerfully,
knowing that the reward will be commensurate with the sacrifice we
are called upon to make. I recommend that we follow the example set
by the last Grand Lodge, and that we purchase $25,000 worth of the stock.
MASONIC HOMES AND OTHER AGENCIES,

I am pleased to say that the members generally are proud of the
practical agencies adopted and conducted by the Fraternity for the amelioration of distress and for the aid of those who need assistance. I
have not been able to devote much personal attenti~n to these instrumentalities, but I am satisfied that those having them in charge are fully
alive to the importance of their work and are striving earnestly and
efficiently to discharge their sacred trust. I believe they are imbued

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

with the true spirit of Masonry and are glad of the opportunity to be
of some service to the Order and to mankind. Of course, no one who
does not love the Order and his fellow man should undertake to admin·
ister these practical functions of benevolence and helpfulness nor should
he spare himself in his efforts to secure economy and effieie~cy if he is
called upon to represent the Order in these important executive duties.
There shonld be, of course, no favoritism nor partiality. Strict attention to duty should be required of all subordinates, and full value should
be obtained if possible for every dollar of the Fraternity's money that
is expended.
'
My visit to the Homes certainly made a deep impression upon my
mind. As far as one can judge from appearances, you would say that
conditions are almost ideal. It is unneoossary to go into detail, but
they certainly appear to be Homes indeed wherein reside contentment
love and happiness. May they ever be the object of our most earnest and
prayerful consideration to the end that we may discharge our full duty
to those entrusted to our guardianship.
The Boards of Relief and employment agencies are also of tremendous importance and they demand our most careful attention. Full information will be given you no doubt as to the work by those who know
whereof they speak, and I trust that it may receive the attention that
it deserves. I will state here that of the $1200 allowed for my expenses
I have turned back the sum of $580.65.
PROGRESS OF THE ORDER.

Speaking generally, I may say that the Order has made substantial
progress during the year. We have grown in numbers our enrollment
now being nearly 58,000. That constitutes, my bre~hren, a mighty
army of soldiers of peace and fraternity. We will soon be one hundred
thousand strong in this state. I believe also that our membership is
growing in appreciation of the significance of Masonry and in ihe practical exemplification of the tenets of our Order. The reports of the
Inspectors show that great care is being exercised as to the character of
those elected to receive the degrees and that in the various communities
the people regard Masons as standing for the highest and best in our
civilization, and they look upon it as one of the most potent agencies
for the promotion of human welfare and happiness.
SUGGESTIONS,

Various suggestions have been made to me whereby it is thought
?ur work may be im.proved. Probably none of these is of commanding
importance, yet I thmk I may trespass upon your time to call your at·
tention specifically, to a few of them. Of course we are all vitally interested in the subject of endowment for our Homes, and in this connection
one brother suggested that the Lodge be permitted•to spend a portion
of the social fund for the insurance of some of the members in favor

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

29

of such a fund. Another suggestion was that a specific day should be
designated by proclamation of the Grand Master to be known throughout
the jurisdiction as "Endo'll<ment Day," and that on that day it would
be expected ''that every Master Mason should contribute toward the
fund whatever he could, that the Inspectors should be instructed to
actively stimulate interest and through the Inspectors the Masters of
subordlnate Lodges could be induced to send letters explanatory of the
economic and sentimental desirability of the fund"·
Another suggestion was that the procedure should be simplified so
that ''for the purpose of examination only a lodge of the third degree
may be called from labor in that degree to work i~ the second degree
without closing and reopening in the respeetiv!l degrees'' and when the
cxamina tion has been concluded "the Lodge shall be purged and work
forthwith resumed in the third degree".
Another brother thought that the '' degree teams'' of which we hear
so much should be subjected to examination by a committee consisting
of the Grand Master, Grand Lecturer and Grand Secretary, who should
be authorized to pass upon their efficiency in the work.
These suggestions, together with a letter of advice to Masters of
Lodges by Brother Leo Bruck, are worthy of attention and I commend
them to you.
NECROLOGY.

The Grim Reaper has been busy in our midst during the year.
Many of our brethren have fallen, but in consequence of a life well
spent they could exclaim with the great Apostle: ''Oh death, where is
fhy sting¥ Oh grave, where is thy victory~" Many of the members of
the constituent Loc1ges who have passed away have not sought honor
or worldly distinction. They have been content to pursue· the even tenor
of their way, performing their daily tasks in a quiet, unostentatious
manner, satisfied with the approval of their conscience and leaving be·
hind them an enduring monument of self-sacrifice and devotion to the
welfare of others. We pay them the tribute of our admiration and com·
mend their example to those who are remaining here for a little while.
Of the members of this Grand Lodge we have to regret the loss of
William Abraham Davies and John Morton Eshleman.
William Abraham Davies, Grand Master of Masons in California in
the year 1867; died in the city of San Francisco, June 20, 1916. (Me-·
morial services will be had Thursday afternoon, October 12.)
John Morton Eshleman, Grand Orator, died at Indio February 28,
1916. Funeral by Grand :Master at J,os Angeles, March 2. (Memorial
services to be had October 12.)
OTHER J'GRISDICTIONS.

Arkansas-A. J. Witt, Grand Master, 1909; born December 31,
1855; died March 1i, 1915. Christopher Columbus Ayers, Grand Mas-

30

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI~

ter, 1901; born August 9, 1849; died August 2, 1915. Antonio Brooks
Grace, Grand Master, 1905; born December 13, 1848; died December 2,
1915.
Colorado-Zachariah X. Snyder, Grand Chaplain 1904 until his
death, November 11, 1915.
Connecticut-Asa P. Fitch, Grand Master 1905 • born January 6
Stanley B. BoswoAh, Gr~nd Treasurer 190~
until his death, April 29, 1916, aged 79 years.

184~; ~ied March 29, 1916.

Delaware-A.lfred D. Warner, Grand Treasurer, 1878; died Deeember
6, :91~, aged 68 years. Virginius V. Harrison, Grand Secretary, 1907
until his death, December 28, 1915. Henry Young, Grand Master, 1904;
born June 22, 1846; died November 151 1915.
Florida-Enos Wasgate, Grand Master, 1876 · born February 18,
1820; died March 5, 1915.
'
. Georgia-WiJliam Alexander Wolihin, Grand Secretary 1897 until
his death February 9, 1916, aged 55 years.
Idaho-Theophilus W. Randall, Grand Seeretary 1898-1915 · born
February 15, 1834; died April 6, 1916.
'
'
· Illinois.-William Hayes Scott, Grand Master, 1881; born September
5, 18~0; died December 30, 1915. Brother Scott for many years was
a. ~es1dent of Alameda, California, and was a frequent and welcome
visitor to our Grand Lodge. His remains wer!l buried at Presidio
cemetery, San Francisco, with military honors. At the Masonic funeral
held by Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, a phonographic record of a prayer
rendered twelve years before by the deceased brother was made a part
of the service.
, Indiana-Daniel McDonald, Grand Master, 1875; born 1fay 6, 1833;
died January 9, 1916. Sidney W. Douglas, Grand Master, 1893; born
March 25, 1840; died January 10, 1916. Edward Highly Wolfe, Grand
Inspector; born September 26, 1834; died August 17, 1916.
Iowa-Charles Trumbull Granger, Grand Master 1884-1886· born
October 9, 1835; died October 26, 1915. William Fisk~ Cleveland,' Grand
Master, 1906; born August 30, 1844; died February 19, 1916.
Louisiana-Alfred W. Cheesman, Grand Master at the time of his
death, which occurred September 30, 1915, aged 52 years.
Michigan-William T. Mitchell, Grand Master 1865· born May 27
1817; died February 6, 1916. Lucian Ely Wood,' Grand Master, 1900;
born October 5, 1852; died June 5, 1916.
Mississippi-Allen M. Hicks, Grand Lecturer from 1895 to the date
of his death, September 22, 1915.
Nebraska-John Bell Dinsmore, Grand Master 1897· born March
15, 1838; died October 6, 1915. William Amos DeBord Grand Master
1908; born January 4, 1865; died May 17, 1916.
'
·

31

New York-Charles W. Mead, Grand Master, 1900; died September
llH, llH5.
North Dakota-Charles A. Harris, Grand Treasurer, 1896; born
JHO; died October 22, 1915,
Nova Scotia-Theodore Augustus Cossman, Grand Master, 1900;
born May 26, 1844; died April 28, 1916.
Oklahoma-Alfred Gallitin Gray, Grand Master, 1912; born October
llO, 1858; died August 21, 1915. James Stephen Hunt, Emeritus Grand
Mucrotary; born July 14, 1833; died March 9, 1915. (Announcement of
this brother's funeral at San Diego was made by ,Bledsoe in his
1uldross 1915.) William Leander Byrd, Senior Grand Warden, 1874;
horn August 1, 1844; died April 21, 1915.
South Carolina-William Pinckney Smith, Grand Chaplain 1905 to
the time of his death, April 23, 1916.
Tennessee-John T. Williamson, Grand Master, 1889; born August
11, 1839; died December 10, 1915. Caswell A. Goodloe, Grand Master,
] 887; born August 24, 1838; died July 12, 1916.
Texas-Benjamin Franklin Frymier, Sr., Grand Master, 1893; born
1837; died December 4, 1915.
Vermont-Marsh Olin Perkins, Grand Master, 1885·1887; born
February 7, 1849; died February 10, 1916.
West Virginia-Robert White, Grand Master, 1874; born February
7, 1833; died December 12, 1915. George Hatch, Grand 1.faster, 1903;
born June 16, 1851; died April 27, 1916.
How forcibly this record of the dead reminds us that we too are
passing away. The places that know us now will soon know us no more
forever. Whatever may be the distinction we now enjoy, we will soon
meet upon the common level of the tomb. How true is the language
of Senator Ingalls: ''In the democracy of the dead all men at last are
equal. There is neither rank nor station nor prerogative in the republic
of the grave. At this fatal threshold the philosopher ceases to be wise
and the song of the poet is silent. Dives relinquished his millions and
Lazarus his rags. The poor man is as rich as the richest, and the rich
man is as poor as the pauper. The creditor loses his usury and the
debtor is acquitted of his obligation, There the proud man surrenders
his dignities, the politician his honors, the worldJ.ing his pleasures, the
invalid needs no physieian and the laborer rests from unrequited toil.
Here at last is nature's final decree in equity. The wrongs of time are
redressed. Injustice is expiated, the irony of fate is refuted, the unequal
distribution of wealth, honor, capacity, pleasure and opportunity, which
makes life sueh a cruel and inexplieable tragedy ceases in the realm of
death. The strongest there has no supremacy, and the weakest needs
no defense. The mightiest captain succumbs to that invincible adversary,
who disarms alike the vietor and the vanquished.''

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Let us, my brethren, h!!ed the lesson of the grave; but may we also
never close our eyes to the light that streams through its gloomy portals,
revealing the glory ineffable that lies beyond.
God grant that we may make the most of the present life, that we
may work while it is called to-day, knowing that "the night cometh
when no man can work'', that we may endure unto the end in the
earnest, unremitting and faithful discharge of our duties and at the last
great day receive the final judgment of the Supreme Grand Master of
the Universe: "Well done, good and faithful servant".
ALBERT G. BURNETT,
Grand Master.

The Deputy Grand l\Iaster appointed the following Committee upon the Grand Master's Address: Thomas I. Janes,
Philip J acobivics, William W. Douglas.
The Grand Secretary presented his Annual Report as
follows:
REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY.
To the M. '. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
In obedience to the Constitution, I present herewith my annual
report of the transactions of the office of Grand Secretary for the
year, and such other matters as may be of interest:
At the close of the last Annual Communication there were three
hundred and seventy-three chartered Lodges on our roll, with a membership of 55,341. Since then we have lost two Lodges by consolidation with other Lodges-Acacia Lodge No. 92, at Coloma, consolidated with Palmyra Lodge No. 26, under the name and number of
Palmyra Lodge No. 26, and Yuba Lodge No. 39 was consolidated with
Corinthian Lodge No. 9 under the name and number of Corinthian
Lodge No. 9. We have gained during the year six Lodges, making
the number of active Lodges now 377, with a membership of 57,856,
a net gain of 2,515. The six new Lodges for which dispensations were
issued by order of the Grand Master are as follows:
October 16, 1915--Mount Oso Lodge, at Tracy, San Joaquin
county. Frank Harloe ·westlake, Master; Victor Mayer, Senior
Warden; Lloyd Ivan Gerry, Junior Warden; and Albert Percival
Gerow, Lynn Oliver Stark, Ralph D. Whille, Charles Emery Pulliam,
Orville Hurd Root, Nelson Shields Dwelly, Henry Heil, David Rolland
Payne, Bayard Taylor Baker, Roy Whittier Ames, Edwin Henry
Williams, Harry W. Wilson, Milner Reginald Fothergill, Leonard
John Westlake, Simeon John :F'redrichs·, Herbert E. Littlejohn, Francis
Willard Duffy, Walter Scott Joy.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

January 24, 1916-Argonaut Lodge, San :E'rancisco. Purcell Rowe,
Master; Rex Edwards Gilbert, Senior Warden; Harry William Reis,
Junior Warden; and Benjamin Franklin Heastand, Lewis Templeton
Shamp, Harry Mansur Wright, Lewis Walter Roy Bowden, James
William Strawn, Roy Heck, Harold Charles Macaire, Sigmund Klein,
George Henry Tenbrook, Burton Alexander Swartz, Frederick Henry
Madison, Hamilton Morgan, George Andrew Davies.
March 16, 1916-Paul Revere Lodge, San l<'rancisco. Lou.is Theodore Cranz, Master; George Washington Kennedy, Senior Warden;
.George Horner Bradner, Junior Warden; and Philip Werner, Waldemar Hansen, Arthur Heinz, Frederick Bense, William Sydney Phelps,
Louis Charles Homan, Francis Edward Boerke, George Stanley Roxby,
Howard Lovell Van Orden, Carlos Arthur A. Johnstone, Sol Morris
Stock, Harry Trigger.
April 20, 1916-Morgan Hill Lodge, Morgan Hill, Santa Clara
county. Andrew Sofus George Rasmussen, Master; Jesse Warren Spry,
Senior Warden; Maurice Everard Morrison, Junior Warden; and
Claude Stark, Jesse Franklin Squibb, Robert Kelson Patchell, Gustavus Kendall Estes, William James Morrison, Washington Irving
Covert, William Britton, John Clifford Dowell, John Sutcliffe, Joseph
Marion Miner, 'fhomas Waldie Baird.
June 20, 1916-Alta Vista Lodge, San Francisco. William Clayton
Elliott, Master; Harold Yeager Heckman, Senior Warden; Harry
Guthrie Hansell, Junior Warden; and Leonardo Money Bussert, Henry
Cleveland Linde, James Garfield Marshall, Don Winslow Hill, Charles
Edward Lutz, Charles William Stewart, Herman Weinberger, Carl
Raymond Shaw, Willard Cullen Johnson, Kenneth Kilgore 'l'hompson.
July 12, 1916-Center Lodge, Fresno. Wal.t,er Edward Bonnett,
Master; Nelson Dennis, Senior Warden; Casper Neilsen Torp, .Junior
Warden; and William Richard Wells, Wilhelm Emil Richard Schottstaedt, .Tames Erosmith Dorwin Harrison, Robert Hall Ellitl.iorpe, Martin Berry Havner, Edward LeRoy Hughes, John Foster Davies, Henry
August Momson, Emory Ratcliffe, Goff Norval Nutwell, David Amanuel Shope, William Reynold Groshell, Herbert Alanson Sessio11s, Benjamin Thomas Norris, Albert Armenia Brown, John Frank Wagner,
Clyde Lafayette Holcomb. •
The records of the proceedings leading to the consolidation of
Acacia Lodge No. 96 with Palmyra Lodge No. 26, and of Yuba Lodge
No. 39 with Corinthian Lodge No. 9, are presented herewith.
The edition of Constitution and Ceremonies, last printed in April,
·1915, was entirely sold by the first of July, and authority is desired
for the puJ;>lication of at least one thousand copies of another edition.

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I may a<ld that the book produces a small margin of profit to Grand
Lodge, hence any moneys paid for its printing will be more than
repaid to the treasury.
The membership for the year ending July 31, 1915, was 55,341,
and the membership as reported to the end of this fl.seal year, July 31,
1916, is 57,856, a net gain of 2,515 for the year. The gross gain was
4,702, and by suspensions, deaths and withdrawals, the gross loss was
2,228. The suspensions alone were 638, and the restorations only 126,
and I repeat my remarks of a year ago, that ''suspensions are not•
always the result of depressed business conditions, but that in many
instances the members in arrears might be kept in good standing and
Masonic usefulness by studied effort on the part of Masters and See·
retaries. The largest Lodge in this jurisdiction, with a membership of
more than nine hundred, lost no member last year by reason of suspension or non-payment of dues.· . • • . One. of the principal committee.a is a ''Committee on Delinquent Members,'' and it is the duty
of this committee to ascertain the cause of delinquency-with the
happy result that if a member be in destress, his dues are promptly
remitted, and if he be negligent, he ls shown the error of his ways and
his duty to his fellows.'' This particular Lodge, pursuing its usual
splendid committee work on delinquents, reports the loss of four
members only this year by suspension.
The following table shows in compact form the gross gains and
losses for the five years last past, and indicates that our losses by
withdrawal, suspension and death are nearly half the gain:
1912
Year
Initiated ............ 3266
Passed ............... 3156
Raised . - ............ 3063
Affiliated ............ 1023
Restored
91
• • #• • • • • • • • • •

..

Withdrawn
........ 723
Suspended N. P. D.... 474
Suspended or expelled 25
..
609
Died
~

.. . ..........
~

1913
3198
3137
3132
977
113

1914
3592
3538
3507
1223
133

1915
3234
3239
3257
1088
146

1916
3760
3618
3513
1063
126

1915
719
682
669
656
573
558
557
548
546
538
511
476'
490
499

1916
738
680
675
706
583
572
579
581
561
548
513
503
517
543

10,386

10,763

Live Oak No. 61..................................
Southern California No. 278. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pacific No. 136.............................. . . . . .
East Gate No. 290 ........... ,....................
California No. 1......... . . . .. . . . .. . .. .. . .. .. .. .. .
Oakland No. 188.................................
West Lake No. 392...............................
Occidental No. 22. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fidelity No. 120..................................
Golden Gate No. 30...............................
King Solomon's No. 260. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Doric No. 216. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Los Angeles No. 42. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sequoia No. 349...................................

The Emergency Relief Fund has not been drawn upon during the
year, and it is accumulatthg interest as shown herewith:
Balance on hand as per report 1915 ........................ $8,241.29
December 31, 1915, interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164.82
June 30, 1916, interest. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168.12
Amount of fund ...................................... $8,574.23
Transcripts of trial records have been received and delivrred to
the Committee on Appeals and Grievances, as follows:
Case No. 163-Retrial. Member of Amity Lodge No. 370; tried
by Alturas Lodge No. 248 and suspended December 17, 1915. Appeal
by accused.
Case ::Ifo. 188-Suspended by Hesperian Lodge No. 264, ::Ifovem ber
1, 1915.

689
491
15
751

856
5.32
16
1012

738
742
20
811

753
638
23
814

The Lodges in the jurisdiction of 500 members and over are as
follows:
1915
1916
902
Mission No. 169................................... 908
742
South 'Gate No. 320 .. ~ ......................... ~.. 729
Hollenbeck No. 319............................... 727
810

Case No. 189-Suspended by Delano Lodge No. 309, November 4 1
1915.
Case No. 190-Member of East Gate Lodge No. 290; tried by
Fairmount Lodge :N'o. 435 and acquitted. Appeal by accuser .
Case No. 191-Member of Tehachapi Lodge No. 313; tried by
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224 and suspended November 4, 1915.
Case No. 192-Suspended by Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, ,January
20, 1916.
Case No. 193-Louis Abrams, unaffiliated; tried by Hawaiian
Lodge No. 21 and expelled February 7, 1916.

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Case No. 194-Member of La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17; tried
by Park Lodge No. 449 and expelled March 11 1916.

Changing time of stated meetings: Corinthian No. 9; Santa Cruz
No. 38; Vitruvius No. 145; Lassen No. 149; San Simeon No. 196;
Anaheim No. 207; Downey No. 220; Magnolia No. 242; Lodi No. 256;
Galt No. 267; Selma No. 277; Mount Shasta No. 281; San Mignel No.
285; San Fernando No. 343; Dinuba No. 385; Germania No. 438;
Blackmer No. 442; Torrance No. 447; Van Nuys No. 41'i0; San Pasquel
No. 452; Ramona No. 457; Henry S. Orme No. 458.

Case No. 195-Expelled by Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, :March 6,
1916,
Case No. 179-Retrial. Expelled by Moneta Lodge No. 405, April
6, 1916.
Case No. 196-Expelled by Nicolaus Lodge No. 129, March 17,
1916.
Case No. 197-Member of Mokelumne Hill Lodge No. 298; tried
by Amador Lodge No. 65 and expelled April 4, 1916.
Case No. 198-Member of San Diego Lodge No. 35; tried by
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 and expelled April 7, 1916.
Case No. 199-Expelled by South Gate Lodge No. 320, June 7,
1916.
Case No. 200-Expelled by I,a Mesa Lodge No. 407, July 3, 1916.
Case No. 201-Expelled by Blackmer Lodge No. 442, July 3, 1916.
·Case No. 202-Member of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215; tried by
Golden West Lodge No. 455 and suspended•August 1, 1916.

Increasing fees for degrees: Ione No. 180; Naval No. 87; Dry·
town No. 17 4; Mendocino No. 179; Monterey No. 217; Solano No. 229;
Willits No. 365; Gardena No. 372; Fillmore No. 379; Dinuba No. 385.
Increasing dues: Eureka No. 16; Meridian No. 182; Hartley No.
199; Monterey No. 217; Santa Monica No. 307; Delano No. 309;
Oxnard No. 341; Brentwood No. 345; Sequoia No. 349; South Pasadena
No. 367; West Lake No. 392; 'Gniversity No. 394; La Mesa No. 407;
Elysian No. 418;.
Decreasing fees for degrees: Pentalpha No. 202; King Solomon's
No. 260; Richmond No. 375; West Lake No. 392; Burlingame No. 400;
San Pasqual No. 452.
·
Decreasing dues:

Standard No. 440.

Case No. 203-Expelled by Starr King Lodge No. 344, May 3,
:1916. Appeal by accused.

Increasing affiliation fee:

PorterviLle No. 303.

Decreas.ing affiliation fee:

Moneta No. 405.

Case No. 204-Master of a Lodge, tried by a commission ap. pointed by the Grand Master. and deprived of office Augnst 19, 1916.

Abolishing affiliation fee:
415; Coronado No. 441.

Case No. 205-Expelled by Salinas Lodge No. 204, July 21, 1916.
Case No. 206-Member of West Lake I.. odge No. 392; tried by
Ariington Lodge No. 414 and acquitted Augnst 7, 1916. Appeal by
accuser.
Case No. 207-Expelled by Friendship Lodge No. 210, September
7, 1916.
Case No. 208-Reprimand by West Lake Lodge No. 329, May 1,
1916. Appeal by accuser.
Case No. 209-Suspend.;d by Fullerton Lodge No. 339, April 1,
1916.
Case 'No. 151-Expelled by Crescent Lodge No. 45, March 2, 1914.
Petition for restoration.
Case No. 210-E'xpelled by Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, Septem·
ber 6, 1916.
Case No. 211-Reprimand by Live Oak No. 61. Appeal by accuser.
The following proposed amendments to by-laws have been approved
by the Grand Master:

37

Dinuba No. 385; Silver Trowel No.

Wilshire Lodge No. 445 proposed to increase fees for degrees and
for dues to take effect at an indefinite date, and the proposition was
disapproved by t-he Grand Master.

Special dispensations for various purposes have been issued by
order of the Grand Master, as follows:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by the by-laws:
KeyRtone No. 161; Sierra Valley No. 184; Ferndale No. 193; Covelo
No. 231; Bodie No. 2.52; Lompoc No. 262; Sisson No. 310; Alta No.
333. And the following without fee, hy reason of resignation of of·
ficers: St. Helena No. 93; Arcata No. 106; Keith No. 187; Orland No.
265; Ashlar No. 306; Alhambra No. 322; Long Beach No. 327; Schofield No. 443; Bethlehem No. 453; Park No. 449; Riverbank No. 459.
To reballot: La Parfaite Union No. 17; .Tanesville No. 232;
Orange Grove No. 293; Palestine No. 351; Highland Park No. 382;
West Lake No. 392; Burlingame No. 400; Bay View No. 401; Alpha
No. 431; Henry S. Orme No. 458.
To receive and act upon petition without reference to committee:
Oak Grove No. 215.

38

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To receive petition from member of U. S. Army: Pacific No. 136;
Pentalpha No. 202; Silver Gate No. 296; Long Beach No. 327; Scho·
field No. 443.
Resolutions creating life memberships have been adopted and
approved by the Grand Master, as follows: Fidelity No. 120, $200.00;
King David's No. 209, $200.00; Sequoia No. 349, $150.00; Veteran Ko.
373, $100.00; West Lake No. 392, $200.00; Elysian No. 418, $125.00;
Golden West No. 455, $150.00.
Oceanic Lodge No. 371 desires to have its old name restored,
to-wit, Lodge le Progres de l 'Oceanie. The resolution adopted by the
Lodge praying for the change is presented herewith.
A goodly number of books were-received for the library during
the year, presented largely because of the active work of the Library
Committee, and particularly through the efforts of the Chairman of
that Committee, Brother Henry M. Owens. Follow~ng is a list of the
books contributed and the names of donors:·
By Henry M. Owens: Modern Eloquence, 15 volumes; Guy De
Maupassant, 17 volumes; National Portrait Gallery of Eminent Amer·
icans, 2 volumes; Life of Lincoln (Tarbell), 4 volumes; !l'h!l World's
History and Its Makers, 10 volumes; Irish Literature, 10 volumes;
Manuscripts, being copies from the collection in the British Museum;
History of Joseph Warren Lodge; Thomas Starr King in Verse;
Library of Oratory, 15 volumes; The Craftsman, and Freemason's
Guide (Moore); Cyclopedia of Freemasonry (Mecoy); Thomas Smith
Webb's Freemason's Monitor; Low Twelve (Edward S. Ellis); Jewels
of Masonic Oratory (L. S. Myler); Story of the World's Worship
(Dobbins); Memoirs of Napoleon Bonaparte (John S. Memes), 3
volumes; History of the Augsburg Confession (Stuckenberg); Lives
and Graves of Our Presiclents; Half Hours with the Best Authors;
The Poems of Schiller; Manual of Forensic Quotations; The Poems
of Alfred Tennyson; The Gospel of Buddha; a lot of miscellaneous
books and magazines.
By Louis Muller: Fifty Years of Masonry (Sherman), 2 volumes;
and other books.
By Henry G. Lewson: Works of Edgar Allan Poe, 5 volumes;
Studies in the Scriptures; ancl other books.
By William A. Burdick: History of America; Life and Letters
of Admiral Dewey; Personal Memoirs of U. S. Grant; Life and St.ate
Papers of Abraham Lincoln; and other books.
By William P. Filmer: History of Freemasonry in Maryland, 4
volumes.

39

By Jesse M. Whited: History of California Lodge No. 1.
By Albert Ihm: Life and Times of George Washington; and
ot.hor books.
G. F. Sand: Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam; and miscellaneous
works.
Otto L. Sues: Makers of History (John S. C. Abbott) 32 volumes.
Mrs. William H. Crocker: Framed Portrait of George Washing·
ton as a Mason.
;Tames H. Duncan: Twelve books.
:F'rank G. Watson: Political Thought of Plato and Aristotle.
John Fischer: A Brief History of Scottish Rite Masonry (E'dwin
A. Sherman); History of Freemasonry (Stillson and Hughan).
J. C. Warren: Nineteen miscellaneous books .
•Toseph Rosenberg: Five. volumes of miscellaneous works.
Thomas Nixon: Nine miscellaneous books.
The Library Committee also added by purchase Gould's History
of Fteemasonry, 5 volumes.
We have also been remembered by Brother John C. Coleman, the
oldest member of Grand Lodge, who presented a bronze bust of the
late Edward Coleman.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.

At the Annual Communication in 1915 the following resolution
was presented by the Los Angeles Board of Relief, referred to the
Committee on .Jurisprudence, which Committee reported baek reeom·
mending that it be referred to the incoming Committee on Jurisprudence, to be reported at the Annual Communication in 1916:
"Whereas, the Boards of Relief are frequently called upon to
give aid to the daughter of a Master Mason, living or deceased; and
'"Whereas, many of such el'l!lls are from and in behalf of such
daughters who have passed the age of majority, and from and in
behalf of daughters who have been or are married; therefore be it
"Resolved, that the term 'orphan' is construed to include both
male and female under the age of twenty-one years, and that the
claim to Masonic aid at the age of twenty·one years shall cease as a
matter of right, and that aid vouchsafed to such orphans after they
shall have attained the age of twenty.one years shall be in the dis·
cretion of the Masonic bodies dispensing charity.
"Resolved, that section 163i, now reading 'That the daughter of
a Master Mason in good standing, whether of tender or mature years,
is entitled to relief,' be amended to read:

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'' 'That the daughter of a Master Mason in good standing, under
the age of twenty-one years, is entitled to relief as a matter of right,
but the daughter of a Master Mason who has attained the age of
twenty-one years shaill not as a matter of right be enHtled to aid, but
may receive aid at the discretion of the dispensing body.' "
During the year, ending July 31, 1916, I have drawn against the
Grand Treasurer as foll(lws:
Warrant
No.
8.00
1. H. S. Crocker Co., 4 roller shelves ....... , ............ $
500.00
2. Board of Relief of San Diego, order of Grand Master ..
300.00
3. John Whieher, salary, August, 1915 ................. .
250.00
4. T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1915 ................... .
150.00
5. H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1915 ................. .
150.00
6. Masonie Temple Association, rent, September, 1915 ... .
25.00
7. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ..••
25.00
8. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............. .
9.30
9. Pacific T. & T. co., rent, August, 1915 .............. .
1.60
10. Schwabacher Frey Co., 1 ream typewriting pape! .... .
11. Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 large 2c envelopes, 12.75;
36.75
1000 small 2c envelopes, $24·.oo .................. .
2.25
12. Star Towel Supply Co., rent, June to September, 1915.
117.15
13. T. J. Baker, expenses, July 31 to August 19, 1915 .....
200.00
14. E. H. Hart, Chairman Committee on Correspondence ..
300.00
15. John Whicher, salary, September, 1915 ............. .
250.00
16. T. J. Baker, salary, September, 1915 ................ .
150.00
17. H. S. Johnson, salary, September, 1915 ............. .
150.00
18. Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1915 ..... .
25.00
19. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
25.00
20. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ...........•...
8.17
21. Sehwabacher-Frey Co., twine, penholders, ink, pens, etc.
130.00
22. W. N. Brunt, 56,000 endowment fund circulars ....... .
23. John Whicher, postage, mailing endowment fund cir·
culars, $41.00; expressage, $2.25; addressograph
43.75
frames, $ .50 .................... · . · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
9.90
24. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, September, 1915 ........... .
11.00
25. Neal Publishing Co., 2,190 cards (Credential Committee)
26. Geo. R. Armstrong, 16,500 receipts for dues, $61.05; 500
65.05
Life Membership receipt.s, $4.00 ................. .
101.60
27. T. J. Baker, expenses, August 26 to September 24, 1915
28. John H. McGehee, Pay Roll, 1915 .................. . 9,389.90
29. Board of Re.lief, San Francisco, appropriation by Grand
Lodge .......................... · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · 2,635.48
30. Board of Relief, Los Angeles ...................... . 7,500.00

GR.L,.,-D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

:11.
32.

:J:l.
:14.
:~5.

36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.

41

Board of Relief, San Diego ....................... .. 1,500.00
210.00
Board of Relief, Oakland ......................... .
Albert G. Burnett, contingent expenses of Grand Master 1,200.00
60.00
Samuel D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist ......... .
125.00
Geo. P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler ............... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent of hall (Annual
150.00
Communication) ............................... .
Ashlar Lodge No. 306, reimbursement account overpay·
2.45
ment Grand Lodge dues ........................ .
Reading Lodge No. 254, reimbursement account Blue
50.00
Ridge Lodge No. 411. .......................... .
Oak Grove No. 215, reimbursement account Mrs. L.
95.00
Lyon ......................................... .
Masonic Building Association of El Centro, loan account damage to bu11ding ....................... . 5,000.00
King David's No. 209, reimbursement aecount brother
450.00
of Connecticut ................................ ·
Masonic Temple Association, purchase of 4,000 shares
of stock ........................................ 40,000.00
San Mateo No. 226, reimbursement account brother
164.95
of Mexico .................................... .
10.00
S. H. Crow, balance milage last session ............. .
3.00
Enterprise Paper Co., 6 boxes for aprons ............ .
3.80
J. S. Godeau, 2 dozen gloves ....................... .
300.00
Shreve & Co., silver service for retiring Grand Master
300.00
John Whicher, salary, October, 1915 ................ .
250.00
T. J. Baker, salary, October, 1915 ................... .
175.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, October, 1915 ................ .
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, November, 1915 ... .
25.00
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............... .
25.00
Mrs: C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
15.00
H. F. Wright, Assistant to Grand Tyler ............. .
7.00
A. L. Auradou, engrossing 7 Charters ......•.........
14.50
Neal Publishing Co., 1500 programs Grand Lodge .....
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, October, 1915 ......•........
8.61
27.75
E. C. Hughes Co., 3000 letterheads .................. .
20.00
S. D. Mayer, choir at opening Grand Lodge ......... .
Remington Typewriter Co., adjusting machine ....... .
.85
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine.
4.00
16.00
Shannon-Conmy Co., 2000 Temple reports ........... .
24.00
A. A. Brown, stenographer to committees ........... .
3.00
Mrs. Herndon, typing for special committee ......... .
.John ·whicher, postage account mailing Temple report,
15.09
$10.78; sundries, $5.31 ......................... .
40.60
Mrs. M. Tower, washing aprons and gloves .......... .

t2

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

07. John Whieher, salary, November, 1915 .•.............
300.00
68. T. J. Baker, salary, November, 1915 ................ .
250.00
69. H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1915 .............. .
175.00
70. Masonic Temple Assoeiation, rent, December, 1915 ... .
150.00
71. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
25.00
72a Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master .............. .
25.00
73. John Whicher, stamped envelopes for Inspectors,
$73.50; sundries, $6.81 ......................... .
80.31
74. E. S. Berkeley, Gould's History of Freemasonry ..... .
36.00
75. Royal Indemnity Co., premium bonds Grand Treasurer
and Secretary .................................•
62.50
76. Rabjohn & Morcan, frame ......................... .
2.00
77.. Pacific T. & T~ co., rent, November, 1915 ............. .
11.97
78. E. C. Hughes Co., 5000 Inspector's letterheads ....... .
17.50
79. Neal Publishing Co., 1500 amendments to Constitu·
tion, $12.50; 500 copies summary proceedings Grand
Lodge, $6.50; 600 cireulars (examination questions
and answers), $11.25 ............................ .
30.25
80. T. J. Baker, expenses, September 25 to No.vember 24,
1915 .......................................... .
133.40
81. John "\Vhicher, salary, December, 1915 ............... .
300.00
82. T. J. Baker, salary, December, 1915 ................. .
250.00
83. H. S. Johnson, salary, December, 1915 ............... .
175.00
84. Masonic Temple Association, rent, January, 1916 .... .
150.00
85. Mrs. C.' W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
25.00
86. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............... .
25.00
87. Geo. R. Armstrong, 13,000 Receipts for dues, $48.10;
200 Life Membership Receipts, $6.00 ............. .
54.10
88. Star Towel Supply Co., rent, September to December,
1915 •.•........................... ., ........... .
2.25
89. T. J. Baker,. expenses, November 26 to December 23,
1915 ....•......................................
39.20
90. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, December, 1915 .•...........
8.10
91. Schwabacher-Frey Co., paste, rubber bands, twine, etc
5.10
92. J. M. Anderson Co., 700 2e envelopes (Grand Master) ..
19.75
93. Alhambra Water Co., water, annual session .......... .
4.00
94. F. W. Wentworth Co., 5000 cards (index system) ..... .
13.75
95. Wells Fargo & Co., sundry shipments ................ .
1.83
96. Shannon-Conmy Co., wrapping paper, $1.25; 5000 copies
address of Grand Master and Grand Orator, $172.00;
1000 small 2c envelopes, $25.00; 1500 large 2c en·
velopes, $38.25; 2000 address labels, $4.00; 1300
copies proceedings, $1,241.80; 700 clasp envelopes,
$9.25; 400 lists of rejections, $10.00; 1000 .mileage
tags, $4.00; 400 lists of rejections, $14.00 ......•..• 1,525.55

97.
98.
99.
100.
101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.

120.
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.

Orrin S. Henderson, order of Grand Master .......... .
Oakiland Board of Relief, account Mrs. R. H. Taylor ..
John Whieher, salary, January, 1916 .•..•............
T. J. Baker, salary, January, 1916 .................. .
H. 8. Johnson, salary, January, 1916 ................ .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, February, 1916 ... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............... .
H. S. Crocker Co., 6 book case units, top and base,
$34.00; 56 addressogra ph plates and cards, $1.96 ....
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 Monitors, $120.00; 400 lists
of rejections, $16.00 ............................. .
N ea! Publishing Co., 1000 Price Lists ............... .
Paeiflc T. & T. Co., rent, January, 1916 .............. .
Mrs. M. Tower, cleaning curtains ................... .
John Whicher, postage stamps, $31.00; sundries, $1.76
T. J. Baker, expenses, December 26 to January 25,
1916 .......................................... .
Wells Fargo & Co., shipping Grand Oration, $73.67;
shipping Proceedings, $132.96 ................... .
John Whicher, salary, February, 1916 ....... : ....... .
T. J. Baker, salary, February, 1916 ................. .
H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1916 ............... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1916 ....... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master .............. .
Geo. P. CaldweM, 75 volumes Proceedings (1914 and
1915) bound in leather, $135.00; sundry binding,
$130.00 .....................................•..•
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, February, 1916 ............ .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 600 Rosters .of Officers, $173.75;
500 envelopes, $3.00; 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75
Wells Fargo Co., sundry shipments .................. .
T. J. Baker, expenses, January 26 to February 23 1 1916
John Whicher, postage stamps, account mailing Roster,
$16.50; sundries, $ .55 .......................... .
Star Towel Supply Co., rent Delember to March ..... .
John Whicher, salary, March, 1916 ......•..•••.•.....
T. J. Baker, salary, March, 1916 .................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, March, 1916 ..................•
Masonic Temple Association, rent, April, 1916 .....•..
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............... .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, February, 1916 ............. .

256.00
160.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
35.96
136.00
4.50
8.72
1.00
32.76
97.50
206.36
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00

265.00
9.99
189.50
.96
116.90
17.05
2.25
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
8.16

44
133.

GRA.'l'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Geo. R. Armstrong, 19,500 Receipts for dues, $72.15;
100 Life Membership receipts, $3.00 .............. .
75.15
134. T. J. Baker, expenses, February 24 to March 23, 1916 ..
112.60
135. Wm. R. Hervey, account Eshleman funeral .......... .
57.30
136. John Whicher, telegrams, expressage, etc ............ .
7.16
137. H. S. Johnson, postage stamps, aecount mailing endow·
ment circular ............................... : ..•
35.55
138. John Whieher, salary, April, 1916 ................... .
300.00
139. T. J. Baker, salary, April, 1916 ................... .
250.00
140. H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1916 ................... .
175.00
141. Masonic Temple Association, rent, May, 1916 ..... ,.,.
150.00
142. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
25.00
143. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............ .' .. .
25.00
144. Mercantile Trust Co., rent .safe deposit box 1 year ... .
10.00
145. Shannon-Conmy Co., 400 lists of rejections, $16.00; 500
large 2c envelopes, $12.75; 500 small 2c envelopes,
$12.50; 500 bill heads, $4.00 ..................... .
45.25
146. Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ..
4.00
147. Irving & Jach.ens, signature stamps, ink and pad ..... .
2.30
148. Remington Typewriter Co., 4 ribbons ............... .
3.00
149. Walter N. Brunt, 56,000 endowment circulars ........ .
165.00
150. Pantagraph Printing and Stationery Co., 400 Lists of
Lodges ..............•..........................
173.61
151. Neal Publishing Co., 500 2c envelopes (Grand Lecturer)
12.50
152. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, March, 1916 ...............•
7.54
153. John Whicher, expressage, $3.10; twine, $ .80 .•......
3.90
154. T. J. Baker, expenses, April 2 to April 27 ........... .
78.90
155. John Whieher, salary, May, 1916 ................... .
300.00
156. T. J. Baker, salary, May, 1916 ......................•
250.00
157. H. S. Johnson, salary, May, 1916 .................... .
175.00
158. Masonic Temple Association, rent, June, 1916 ......••
150.00
159. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
25.00
160. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............... .
25.00
161. John Whicher, postage stamps,. $8.26; telegrams, $1.92;
photo Grand Lodge at Covina, $1.00 ............... .
11.18
162. T. J. Baker, expensea, April 29 to May 25, 1916 ..••.••
77.25
163. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, yril, 1916 ................ .
8.51
164. Nerul Publishing Co., 500 circulars re Lodges U. D .... .
4.75
165. W. N. Brunt, 2000 folders cornerstone Covina Home .•
43.25
166. Star Towel Supply Co., rent, March to June ......... .
2.25
167. Irvine & Jachens, brass plate, account cornerstone
Covina Home ...........................•..•....
1.00
168. E. C. Hughes Co., 2000 letterheads (Grand Secretary) ..
18.50
169. Geo. R. Armstrong, 2000 second sheets, $3.50; 500 receipt
• holders, $115.00 ..........................•......
118.50

liO.
171.

172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.

184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.
191.
192.
193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.
199.

200.

Kingsley, MaS-On & Collins, 1000 folders, account cor·
nerstone Covina Home .............•.............
Geo. P. Adams, expenses attending cornerstone laying
Sacramento .....•..........................•...
F. C. Prescott, sundry expenses cornerstone laying
Covina Home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ................ .
John Whicher, salary, June, 1916 ................... .
T. J. Baker, salary, June, 1916 ...................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, June, 1916 ................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, July, 1916 ........ .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ............... .
Geo. R. Armstrong, 15,000 Receipts for dues, $55.50;
100 Life Membership receipts, $3.00 .............. .
Samuel D. Mayer, choir at funeral of Wm. A. Davies ..
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, May, 1916 ................. .
H. S. Crocker Co., City Directory, 1916 .............. .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 Monitors, $120.00; 500 clasp
envelopes, $6.00; 425 list of rejections, $16.50; 500
special dispensation blanks, $6.00 ................. .
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 650 small diplomas, $85.00;
303 large diplomas, $263.55 ..................... .
John Which er, Wells Fargo, $2.89; 12 addressograph
plates, $ .24 ....... " .......................... .
T. J. Baker, expenses, May 26 to June 22, 1916 ....... .
Purcell Brothers, the five orders of architecture ...... .
Podesta & Baldocchi, floral piece funeral Wm. A. Davies
Wm. P. Filmer, salary as Grand Treasurer ........... .
John Whicher, salary, July, 1916 .................... .
T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1916 ...................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, July, 1916 ................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, August, 1916 ..... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ......•........
Schwabacher-Frey Co., 1 ream T. W. paper, $1.95; 1000
sheets p;i.per, $4.00; 12 tabs, $1.50; 1 pair shears, $1.50
T. J. Baker, expenses, June 22 to July 28, 1916 ....•...
John Whicher, postage stamps, $45.07; Wells Fargo,
$ .67; advertising, $1.70 ......................... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 800 envelopes (annual returns),
$8.75; 1000 small 2c envelopes, $25.00; 800 annual
return blanks, $92.50; 500 large 2e envelopes, $12.75;
425 lists of rejections, $20.00 ..................... ..
Pacific T. & T. Co.................................. .
Total

45
17.50
5.00.
12.95
300.00
250.00
175.00 .
150.00
25.00
25.00
58.50
25.00
9.17
7.50

148.50
348.55
3.13
93.30
50.00
15.00
200.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
8.95
97.10
47.44

159.00
.75

.............................................. $87,321.23

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of California for the fiscal year ending, July 31 1 1916.

For the current fiseal year August 1, 1916, to October 4, 1916,
inclusive, I have collected and paid to,the Grand Treasurer the sum of
$149,615.85 segregated as follows: ·
Home Maintenance Fund ............................... . $5r,856.oo
Home Building Fund ..............•..................... 28,928.00
General Fund ......................................... . 54,293.25
Hepresentative Fund .................................... .
8,538.60

Dues from subordinate Lodges ........................... $ 59,393.00
Fees for Charters (7). . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • .
350.00
Dispensations to form new Lodges.......................
525.00
Special dispensations for various purposes... . . . . . . . . . . . . .
420.00
Pay Roll, balance not paid· Representatives........ . . . . . . .
1,335.50
Sales for the yearYonitors ......................................... .
519.25
Constitutions and Ceremonies ....................... .
636.00
Receipts for dues .................................. .
324.50
Receipt Holders ................................... .
58.60
Proceedings ...................................... .
7.00
Lists of Regular Lodges ........................... .
4.50
Diplomas (large) ................................... .
250.00
Diplomas (small) .................................. .
115.50
Total Receipts Gener&! Fund ............................ $63,938.85
Total Receipts Home Maintenance Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55,341.00
Total Receipts Home Building Fund. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27,6i0.50
Amounting in the aggregate to ...................... $146,950.35
AU of which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per receipts
on file in this office, and as should be sh-0wn by his report.
Interest on bonds and deposits has been collected by the Grand
Treasurer as follows:
Interest on deposits with banks ................ $1,241.93
Seven Blue 11ake Water Co. 6% bonds.......... 420.00
Six: Southern Pacific 4% refunding bonds...... 240.00
Nine California Gas & ·Electric 5% bonds...... 450.00
Eight Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5% bonds ..... ,...... 400.00
Two Los Angeles Gas & Electric 5% bonds...... 100.00
Collection on El Centro Bldg. Ass 'n Note. . . . . . . 546.25

$3,398.18

Total receipts from all sources for the year
ending July 31, 1916 ...................... : ..... $150,348.53
RECAPITUf,ATION--{lENERAL FUND

Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1915 ........ : ...... $44,174.69
Receipts by Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63,938.85
Interest on bonds and deposits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,398.18
Total. . ............................................ $111,511.72
Less Warrants Nos. 1 to 200............................ 87,321.23
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1916 ..••...... $24,190.49

. 47

A total of ................................•......... $149,615.85
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

'Vhich was referred to the same Committee as that to
which had been referred the Address of the Grand :Vlaster.
The Grand llaster announced the appointment of the
following Committees :
On Charters: Frank W. Hosmer, Alfred W. Bush, ·wmiam Kay,
Percy Bascom, :Merwin .T. Neuburg.
On By·Laws; Benjamin B. Tuttle, Richard L. Hammer, V. W.
Ash, Harry E. Burke, A. S. Hallfrlay.

On motion of the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand
Secretary was directed to send a telegram to our oldest Past
Grand Master, George C. Perkins, expressing the regret of
Grand Lodge at his absence, and conveying the love of his
brethren. The motion was carried by unanimous vote. The
Grand Secretary thereupon sent to Brother Perkins the following message:
Grand Lodge in Annual Communication sends regrets at your absence, with renewed assurances of fraternal love and thankfulness that
you are yet spared to us.

Later the following response was received:
I gratefully appreciate the kind expression of fraternal sympathy
expressed by the :Masonic Grand Lodge, and return my heartfelt thanks
to each member of the Association.. I exceedingly regret that ill health
deprives me of the pleasure of being with you all on . this auspicious
occasion. It is, however, very gratifying to me to note· the progres_s of
our beloved Order in this jurisdiction, knowing its influence in every
·community where Lodges are established is an incentive for every good

48

49

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

citizen to strive conscientiously to perform his religious and civic duties
for the benefit of all the people. May the mission of our gracious Order
continue to the end of time to bless humanity, is the earnest prayer of
fraternally and cordially yours,
GEO. C. PERKINS.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

Receipts from interest on bondsBlue Lakes Water Co ......................•
California Gas & Electric Co ................ .
Southern Pacific Railroad Co ............... .
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co ........... .
Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co .............•.

420.00
450.00
240.00
400.00
100.00
$1,610.00

ASSETS.

Balance on hand July 31, 1916 ........................... $ 24,190.49
7-6% Blue Lakes Water Co. bonds............ 7,700.00
6-4% Southern Pacific Railroad bonds......... 5,580.00
9-5% California Gas & Electric Co. bonds..... 8,550.00
8-5% Pacific Telephone & Te.legraph Co. bonds 81000.00
2-5% Los Angeles Gas & Electric bonds....... 1,860.00
31,690.00

3Jn <6ranh ljnhgr
Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 10, 1916.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT.
The Grand Treasurer presented his annual report, as ·
follows:
To the Most Worshipful C.frand Lodge of California:

31,500 shares :Masonic Temple Association .................. 315,000.00
Total assets ..•..................................... $370,880.49
The Grand Treasurer also reports that he has in his possession the
notes of the Temple Association of El Centro and those of individual
members of El Centro Lodge given to secure the loan of $5,000.00 by the
Grand and also reports collections on these notes of $546.25.
Fraternally submitted,
WM. P. FILMER,

I herewith present my annual report as Grand Treasurer for the
year ending July 31st, 1916.

Grand Treasurer.
MASONIC HOMES GENERAL FUND TO JULY 31, 1916.

GENERAL FUND.

RECEIPTS.

RECEIPTS.

Balance cash on hand Augu'st 1st, 1915 .................... $ 44,417 .69
Received from Grand Secretary .....•......... $63,938.8fi
Received from interest on bonds. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . l,610.00
Received from El Centro collections . . . . . . . . . . .
546.25
67,337.03
Received from interest from banks............. l,241.93
$111,511.72
DISBURSEMENTS.

Balance on hand as per last report, July 31, 1915 .. $22,155.81
Less balance Building Fund included in above... . 16,631.80
Balance General Fund .................... .
Received from per capita tax for year 1915 ..... . 55,341.00
Received from Secretary Masonic Homes ........ . 6,825.54
Received interest on bank deposits ............. . 1,099.37
Total receipts for year .................... .

Cheeks Nos. 1 to 200 ........ " .. . . .. .. . . . . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .

Total receipts, including balance on hand July 31, 1915. . . .

$24,190.49

63,265.91

87 ,321.23

Balance on hand July 31, 1916 ....................... $ 24,190.49
Union Trust Co.............................. 2,963.79
German Savings & Loan Soeiety ............... 21,226.70

$ 5,524.01

$68,789.92

EXPENDITURES.

Paid Endowment Fund........................
231.04
Paid Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . . 64,692.22
Balance on hand July 31, 1916 ....••........

64,923.26
$ 3,866.66

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA~'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES BUILDING FUND,

EXPENDITURES.

RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand July 31, 1915 ............................. $16,631.80
Received per capita tax for 1915 ................ 27,779.50
Received interest on bank deposits .............. · 613.20
Total receipts for year .................... .

28,392.70

Total receipts, including balance on hand July 31, 1915 ..•.... 45,024.50
EXPENDITURES.

Warrants paid ................. ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 44,807.73
216.72
Balance on hand July 31, 19] 6 ...................... · . •. · · ·
Total balance •.................................... · · ·
Bank BalancesH um boldt Savings Bank.....................
Los Angeles Bank and Trust Co. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Savings Union Bank and Trust Co. No. 1... . . .
Savings Union Bank and Trust Co. No. 2......

51

---4,083.38

1,179.66
99'i.06
338.04
1,568.62

Total .. ; ................................ : ........... $ 4,083.38
Grand Treasurer's balance in Los Angeles Bank and Trust Co. is
$897.06, there being $100.00 deposit in said bank which has not been
transferred to his account.
MASONIC HOME ENDOWMENT FUND TO JULY 31, 1916.
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand July 31, 1915 ................•........... $ 2,143.70
Received interest on bank deposits ............... $
87.90
Received from various sources .................•. 21,409.75
Received from bonds redeemed.................. 1,000.00
Received interest on bonds..................... 2,701.02
City of Santa Barbaraa ........•.. $904.54
Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co ............. 250.00
City of San Diego .............. .. 87.73
City and County of San Francisco .. 100.00
City of Richmond ................ . 250.00
County of Orange ................ . 250.00
Retch Hetchy .................. . 540.00
City of' Uplands ................. . 93.75
City of Ashland .......•.......... 225.00
Total receipts ................ ~ ...•.....•... $25,198.67
Total receipts, including balance on hand last report ........ $27,342.37

Paid for City of Upland bonds ................. $ 3,619.14
Paid for Retch Hetchy bonds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . 12,249.00
Paid for City of Ashland bonds................ 2,673.15

18,541.29

Balance on hand July 31, 1916 (Humboldt Sav. Bk.) .... $ 8,801.08
. ASSETS.

Balance on hand ..•..............•...................•... $ 8,801.08
214%% City of Santa Barbara boncls @$5.37.50 .. $11,287.50
7 4%% City of Santa Barbara bonds@$1,000.00 7,000.00
975.00
141,2% City of San Diego bonds@ $975.00......
5 5% Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. bonds @ $1,000.00.. . 5 000.00
1
2 5% City and County of S. F. bonds @ $1,000.00 2,00-0.00
5 5% City of Richmond bonds@ $1,000.00....... 5,000.00
5 5% City of Uplands bonds@ $625.00. . . . . . . . . . 3,125.00
12 5% Hetch Hetchy bonds@ $1,000.00 .......... 12,000.00
9 5% City of Ashland bonds@ $1,000.00........ 9,000.00
55,387.50
Total assets July 31, 1916 ............................. $64,188.58
MASONIC HOMES "SPECIAL HOME FUND" TO JULY 31, 1916,
RECEIPTS.

Received interest from bank ........•..... , .... $
2.50
525.00
Received interest on bonds........... . . . . . . . . • . .
California Gas and Electric Co ..... $250.00
Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. . . . . . . . . . . . • 275.00 - - - - Balance on hand July 31, 1916 (Sav. U. B. & T. Co.)

$527.50

ASSETS.

Balance on hand ................................... , ...... $ 527.50
10 5% Cal. G. & E. Co. bonds at@$1,000.00 ..... $10,000.00
11 5% Pacific T. & T. Co. bonds@ $1,000.00 ..... 11,000.00
21,000.00
'fotal assets July 31, 1916 ........................•... $21,527.50
The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the Commencement of
the present fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary the following amounts from August 1st to September 30th, 1916:
Home Maintenance Fund ....•.........•........•. $47,937.00
Home Building Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23,968.50
Total · . · · ....•.......••.•................... $71,905.50

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

53

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF'ORNIA

Brother W. W. Allen presented a claim of certain brethren
against Crocker Lodge No. 454, which was referred to the
Committee on Grievances.

Pleetric power. The shop has been equipped with anvil and necessary
tools for pipe work and general repairs.
A garage is now being built, at a convenient distance south of the
main building.
.

52

The Trustees of the Masonic Homes presented their Annual Report, and inasmuch as printed copies were in the hands·
of Representatives present, the reading thereof was omitted
and consideration of the Report was made special order for
11 o'clock Wednesday morning. The Report is as follows:
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith
submits for your consideration and approval its annual report for the
year ending September 30, 1916.
The Most Worshipful Grand Master reappointed William S. Wells,
vice self, term expired, and the Board held its annual meeting at the
office of the Grand Secretary on October 16, 1915, electing William 8.
Wells President, Motley H. Flint Vice President, and Elmer E. Stone
Secretary. During the year the Board has held its regular and special
meetings at both Decoto and Covina.
Th~ report of the Secretary is submitted herewith, made a part of
this report, and referred to for more particular information regarding
the condition of both Homes.
DECOTO HOME.

The new dormitory, of fireproof concrete construction, which was inspected by the members of the Grand Lodge at its last session, was regularly opened immediately after the adjournment of that Body. All applications for admission have received prompt attention, and at present all
rooms are occupied, with the exception of five rooms in Simino:H' Temple,
four rooms in the cottages for men, and seven rooms for women on
the third floor of the main building. All rooms in the new dormitory
are filled.
The general affairs of the Decoto Home have moved along with
gratifying smoothness during the year past. Among the important repairs and improvements which have been made are the following:
A brick blacksmith shop building has been added to the power
house and equipped with furnace, drill and emory wheels operated by

An irrigating system has been installed to water the trees and
flower plants on the road leading to the main entrance of the Home
grounds, the lily pond being used as a reservoir.

Five cottages for reside~ts, three cottages for employes, the dairy
barn, and stable have been pamted to harmonize with the brick buildings.
A row of walnut rees has been planted along the entire front of
~he county road, inside the boundary fence of the Home property 1 adjoinmg land owners entering into a similar agreement.
_The deep well pump has been overhauled and put in order, and all
repairs to the hot and cold waterpipes and heating system have been
made.
The following improvements are recommended:
The hospital building is inadequate to the needs of the Home. There
are. fifteen beds, and during the past year at times more than twenty
patients w~re careu for, the extra room being secured by placing beds in
the op~ratrng room and crowding the space in the wards. The building
of a wrng to the present structure is recommended.
A large warehouse is needed to house farming implements, wagons
and to store feed corn and grain. This would enable the Home to pur'.
chase a year's supply when the market is low.
The porch floors of the main building and cottages should be
painted.
.
The frame work of the hospital building on the outside needs paintmg and .the woodwork an~ walls of the halls and rooms need a general
overhaulmg to put them rn good condition.
.
All roads on the Home grounds need grading, crowning and gravelrng.
. The activity .at the Home is shown by the enlargement of the
chicken ranch, which now contains two thousand chickens, the improvement of the dairy herd of :fifteen cows, and the enlargement of the vegetable garden, which furnishes all vegetables for table use and greens and
stock f~ed for farm department. This year two tons of sugar prunes
were dne~ at Deco~o, and a large quantity of stock corn raised and stored
f~r use m the chicken and hog ranches, the latter of which contains
sixty-five hogs. A combination auto truck and bus is needed to reduce
the number of horses now used.
COVINA HOME,

The pa.st year has been a most active one at Covina. Few persons
can appreciate the amount of detail necessary in moving so large a

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

family with .attending conditions of leaving a large roomy building
with very old but generous equipment, and placing them in a comparatively small building with limited appurtenances. The children, however,
ent~red into the spirit of the affair and assisted in many helpful ways.

The Temporary Buildings, Covina.

The New Buildings, Covina, Sept. 20, 1916.

Your Trustees had agreed to deliver possession of the old San Gabriel
property 'on January 1, 1916. Immediately after the close of Grand
Lodge, construction . was begun on a temporary building to house the
children during the construction of the new buildings. It was constructed economically, but was very convenient, though somewhat crowded.
Materials of such dimensions and quality as to make the greatest sal-

55

vage when the present purpose was accomplished, were selected, and the
construction was adjusted to minimize the waste when the material
•hould be used in other buildings. At a cost of approximately $7,000 the
work was completed, and the children moved to the new building on
Saturday, December 18, 1915. They enjoyed their holidays in the new
home, and started their school work the first of the year without any
interruption of their studies.
The Masons and citizens of Covina are deeply interested in our
Home, and assisted in every way to secure all necessary conveniences. We
met with no disappointments, and few inconveniences with the public
utility companies. Although two miles from Covina, we had water, electric lights, gas, power and telephone all in service before occupying the
building. We were obliged to provide a pressure tank and motor for
waier, but the supply is ample, and we now have arranged for pressure
~ater from the street mains for the new buildings. For heating, an
odorless gas fµrnace was provided in each of the rooms. This was not
ideal, but met the need.
In the construction of our new buildings we desired the greatest
possible efficiency in arrangement and construction, with the view of
economical maintenance when completed. The Trustees therefore personally visited many similar institut ions, corresponded with every Masonic Home in the United States for suggestions and recommendations,
and consulted the best authorites on eleemosynary institutions to secure
for our dependent children all possible advantages consistent with judicious expenditure.
Architects of Los Angeles, members of the Fraternity, were invited
to submit completed drawings and brief notations for specitlcations.
Three of our most prominent firms responded with carefully drawn plans
and complete perspectives. Needam & Cline, John F. Blee and Train &
Williams submitted their odrawings without identifying marks to indicate
to whom they belonged. All of the plans possessed much merit,' so the
Board called in another architect to assist in the selection, and had a
responsible contractor estimate the cost of each set of plans. The selec·
tion finally fell upon John F. Blee, whose plans most nearly met the
need of the institution. All of these architects deserve t he thanks of
the Fraternity, for .they manifested much sincere interest in the Home
and gave generously of their time to render us a good service. All are
experienced in t his character of work and have designed creditable school
buildings for the Los Angeles B oard of Education.
The Board ordered Mr. Blee 's plans moditled to meet many needs
not known at the time to the architect. Floor plans and elevations were
approved February 26, 19161 and the contract let for the foundation
and first floor on April 5, for $21,445. The foundation and a portion of
the first floor were completed by May 20, at which time the cornerstone
of the building was laid.

•
56

GR..\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

57

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
LAYING OF CORNERSTONE.

The ceremony of laying the cornerstone was one of the most inter·
esting events in the history of Masonry in California, and the interest
of Southern California Masons was evidenced by their great attendance
on this occasion. Credit for success of details is due largely to a com·
mittee on arrangements, consisting of representatives of Masonic, Municipal officers and business men's organizations of Covina. The following
account of this splendid occasion, written by our Very Worshipful Grand
Secretary John Whicher, best reports the event:
The most important public event of the year was the laying of the
cornerstone of the new Home for Children. The buildings, as described
above, will be located on our recently-acquired holdings two miles east of
the beautiful city of Covina, in Los Angeles county. The foundation
stone was laid in the northeast corner of the main structure on the
20th of May, 1916, by Right Worshipful Francis V. Keesling, Deputy
Grand Master. It was an ideal day, and the little city of Covina was
decked out in flags, bunting and flowers, while thousands of people
lined the avenues along the line of march to the Rome. Of automobiles
alone there were six hundred parked near the place of the cermonies.
Grand Lodge was convened in the hall of Covina Lodge No. 334, and
under the able direction of Frank Clarke Prescott, Past Master of
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329 of Los Angeles, the eseort was formed
as follows:
Seventh Regiment Band, N. G. C., of Pomona.
The Grand Commandery Knights Templar of California, Right
Eminent Sir Elmer E. Stone, Grand Commander, escorted by two battalions commanded by Eminent Sir Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Grand Captain
General.
First Battalion: Eminent Sir Frank L. Miller o'? Los Angeles Commandery No. 9, <'·Ommanding:
Los Angeles Commandery No. 9, K. T.
Southern California Commandery, No. 37, K. T.
Pasadena Commandery No. 31, K. T.
Long Beach Commandery No. 40, K. T.
Second Battalion: Right Eminent Perry W. Weidner, Past Grand
Commander, commanding:
Golden West Commandery Band.
Golden West Commandery No. 43, K. T.
Alhambra Commandery No. 48, K. T.
Covina Commandery No. 49, K. T.
Whittier Commandery No. 511 K. T.
Glendale Commandery No. 53, K. T.

'l'he Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of California, Most Ex·
(•ollent Casimir J. Wood, Grand High Priest.
Tylers of all Lodges in Los Angeles county, with drawn swords.
Stewards of all Lodges.
Deacons of all Lodges.
Secretaries and Treasurers of all Lo<lges.
Master Masons.
The Grand Lodge of California, Right Worshipful Francis V. Keesling, Deputy Grand Master.
Arriving at the site of the Home, the officers of Grand Lodge and
of the other participating bodies, with the Trustees of the Home and
all the children of the Home and their attendants, were assigned to seats
on a platform. Golden West band rendered a piece of music, and
prayer was offered by Very Reverend William MacCormack of Corona
Lodge No. 324, as follows:
"0 God, our Heavenly Father! We come into Thy presence to-day
supplicating Thy bfossing and seeking Thy guidance in what we are
about to do. Forasmuch as without Thee we are not able to please
Thee, mercifully grant that Thy holy spirit may in this gracious work
of mercy lead us in the way in which we ought to go. Direct us in
this and in all things with Thy most loving favor, and further us with
Thy continual help that in all our works, begun, continued, and ended
in Thee, we may glorify Thy holy name. We praise Thee most of all
that Thou didst put it into the hearts of Thy servants to erect this
building for the care and protection of Thy homeless and needy children.
May Thy presence brood over it. Be with the offi.iers and teaehers in
their blessed work. Bring to all a realizing sense of the responsibility
of the task committed to them, and of the privilege of serving Thee and
their fellows in the edueation and training of the young. Keep the
workmen employed from every harm and danger. May they labor not
as eye-servants or men-pleasers, but with this thought that they are
building this house in the blessed service of human redemption. Grant
that this consciousness may inspire them while they labor, and may it
perfect and beautify the efforts of their hands.
"We would ask as well Thy blessing on the Grand Lodge, and on
all the Lodges of our ancient eraft. May the ideals that are lifted up
for our contemplation be actualized in the lives of our members. We
pray Thee that each Mason, wherever he may be found throughout the
world, may be a living monument of the truth which his lips profess.
All this we ask in His name who has taught us to pray, saying: Our
Father which are in heaven, hallowed be Thy name. Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who
trespass again!!t us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

from evil: For Thine is the kingdom, and the power, a.nd the glory, for
ever and ever. Amen.''
The .children then, under direction of Miss Leta ~ash, sang America.
after which Past Grand Master William S. Wells, President of the Board
of Trustees, addressed the Grand Master, briefly reciting the efforts of
the Board and the Fraternity in providing a Home for the children in
the beautiful San Gabriel Valley, and introducing Master Herbert E.
Brown, one of the wards of Pentalpha Lodge ~o. 202 of Los Angeles,
who spoke as follows:
"Most Worshipful Grand Master: The children of the Masonic
Home, whom you are remembering to-day on this most happy event in
the history of your Grand Lodge, desire to express to all the Masons
of ?alifornia, tbro~gh yourself as the representative of the Grand Lodge,
their deepest gratitude and most sincere appreciation for providing us
with this beautiful Home.
"1;"ou ~ve selected a wonderful place for us, facing the big blue
~ountarns, with the great San Gabriel Valley spreading before us, with

its thousl).nds of orange groves and beautiful homes resting under their
own vines and fig trees; and with the fragrance of the orange blossoms
constantly carried to us by the gentle breezes of the ocean, we here
commune with all nature in her happiest mood.
"To-day, Most Worshipful Sir, you are to lay a cornerstone whereupon you will erect a superstructure that will provide the comfort and
training of many worthy children, and we pledge you at this time that
we· children who are fortunate enough to share your generous car: will
str.ive at all times to make ourselves true cornerstones whereupon w; will
b.mld characters that will reflect credit upon your most worthy institution.
"We ask you to accept this silver trowel in behalf of the children
of the Home, and as you cement this cornerstone to this building you
wil~ at the same time cement our hearts to the Fraternity in everia'sting
obligation and appreciation.''
The little fellow (he is nine years old) thereupon handed to Brother
Keesling a silver trowel bearing the following inscription: ·
Presented to
Right Worshipful
Francis Valentine Keesling
by the
Children of the Masonic Home
at the laying the cornerstone
of the buildings of
Masonic Orphan's Home
at Covina
May 20, 1916.

59

When the boy had finished, there were tears in the eyes of every
hearer, and it was with difficulty that the Deputy Grand Master could
reply, which he did in part as follows
"No one within the hearing of little Herbert's voice but who has
been profoundly affected. WoukJ that the entire membership of the
Fraterntiy were here for. the beneficent effect this incident would have
bad.
''This is a great work which the Fraternity is doing, but it is not
the greatest work done by the Institution. The greatest work is that
which promotes good citizenship, thereby insuring life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness, under which circumstances such great work as this
may be done. The environment of the Home is entirely befitting. Here
God's sunshine is less interrupted. Here the mountains are majestic
and the plants and trees bloom anil fructify in bountiful beauty. May
the happiness resultant from it all, assisted by the efforts of the Fraternity in its ministrations, be transfused into the hearts and souls of
the little ones who will be our wards in this institution.''
The usual ritualistic ceremonies of the craft then followed. The cop·
per box placed beneath the cornerstone contained articles as follows:
1. A metallic plate, engraved, bearing the following inscription:
This cornerstone of the central structure of a group of buildings
erected by the Masonie Fraternity of the jurisdiction of California, 11.s
a Home for Children, was laid by the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of California on Saturday, May 20, A. D. 1916, A. L. 5916, by
Francis Valentine Keesling, Deputy Grand Master.
Trustees of the Masonic Homes: William S. Wells, Motley H. Flint,
Elmer E. Stone, Edward B. Spencer, Thomas Flint.
Architect: .John F. Blee.
2. A metallic plate, engraved, bearing the .name of the Brother
who donated the funds to erect one building of this group.
3. A copy of the form of application for admission to the Home.
4. A copy of the Constitution and all Ceremonies of the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California:
5. A Roster of the officers of all the Lodges of Free and Accepted
Masons of California for the year 1916.
6. A copy of the printed transactions of the Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of California for the year 1915.
7. A copy of the printed transactions of the Grand Council of Royal
and Select Jl,fasters; a copy of the printed transactions of the Grand
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons; a copy of the printed transactions of
the Grand Commandery, Knights Templar; a copy of the printed transactions of the Grand Chapter Order of Eastern Star.

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8. A parehment form of Diploma issued by the Grand Lodge of
Free and Aecepted Masons of California.
9. A copy of the program of this day's proeeedings.
10. A copy of the parade orders of this day.
11. Copies of letters to the craft from the Endowment Committee
of the Masonic Homes of California.

12. The names of all the children now domiciled at the Home.
13. Copy of I,os Angeles Examiner dated May 18; copy of Los
Angeles Tribune dated :May 18; copy of Los Angeles Express dated
May 18; copy of Los Angeles Times dated :May 19.
14. Copy of Covina Argus of May 19, 1916; copy of Covina High
School Cardinal.
15. List of Covina city oftieials.
16. Membership roll Covina Commandery No. 49, K. T.; La Paloma
Chapter, Order Eastern Star; Covina Lodge No. 334, F. & A. M.; Azusa
Lodge No. 305, F. & A. M.
Brother Samuel E. Burke, Grand Orator, then delivered the following address: ·
''Suffer little children come unto Me and forbid them not; for of
such is the Kingdom of Heaven.''
Surely these, my friends, are the most beautiful words of all time.
Of all the utterances of our Lord none has been more quoted-songs have
been written around its theme, sermons have been preached, and whole
volumes have been written, and still the words strike as sweetly the ear
of the hearer today, as they did those many, many centuries ago when
they were :first uttered to the people of Judea.
And while we are laying this eornerstone today, let us remember
that we lay not only the comerstone of the building whieh shall give
to these children temporary shelter, but rather that we lay the cornerstone of character, the building·stone of souls. It is not enough that
we gather here today to see that stone placed which shall mean to these
little ones a home,-a place where thir physical bodies shall be fed, and
clothed and kept warm; it is more that the building which shall here be
erected shall be the fostering place ·of noble manhood and true womanhood; that here the little feet may be started in that narrow path that
leads to a lofty goal; the little hands taught to fashion, not mischief
and wrongdoing, but deeds of love and honor; that here into the little
hearts shall be instilled a love of truth, a love of country, and a love
of God.
We who have made possible this ceremony today are not dispensers
of sweet charity. Instead1 we are the recipients of a wonderful privilege. To be permitted to have in our keeping these youthful minds
and souls at the very time their characters are being moulded for all

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

the years to come; to be able to give to the world in after years men
and women of integrity, with sane minds in sound bodies, is an honor
far greater than ever conferred by medal or silken ribbon. It is at once
not only the greatest honor that could be bestowed on us today, but t?e
greatest responsibility. We are thankful to God for the honor; we will
not shirk the responsibility.
Do you not sometimes travel back, back into the day of yeste!J'.ea~,
back to that fairyland of your childhood, and do you not :fincl there mc1dents that stand out in your memory as landmarks, sometimes even
turning·points in your life' Perhaps to you then they were only an ~­
usual occurrence in the daily routine of your little life, but now, holding
aloft the lamp of experience, you view them differently. You view them
in their real importance and estimate them at their true worth. Perhaps
it was only an earnest talk with your father, but does not his. kindly
word of advice or warning sound in your ear today, though the hp that
uttered it may now be with yesterday's seven thousand years' Or perhaps it was the death of your mother, for how ofttimes has it happen~d
that the last loving look of a mother, the last tender clasp of her dear
hand, her last gently whispered word1 has had more influence for good
in the life of her boy than all the sermons and arguments that were
ever conceived in the brain of man.
Thus it is with us now: We sow, and we reckon not the harvest.
There may perhaps come a time in the more mature years of these chil·
dren when some lesson here learned, some precept impressed, shall stand
as a guide·post at the parting of the ways, helping them to know the
right path from the wrong, the wheat from the tares.
Then let us as Masons never think of this sheltering spot of our
'
'
.
Masonic children with a glow of righteous pride for our splendid munificence and generosity, but rather with hearts humble with thanksgi:'ing
for the gracious kindliness of Almighty God, that He has permitted
us to be the tool of His hand, that into our keeping He has seen :fit to
place this sacred trust, this priceless casket of His jewels, the lives of
His little children .
.Then let us make it our constant aim to make always the needs and
wants of other men our very own, to give the affection of our hearts
to those to whom we minister the gifts of this world's goods; to enter,
insofar as we ma.y, into the feelings of another, to make his sorrows our
own· to enter the shadow of his life and realize its pall. In this way
only: my Brethren, may we be of real service one to another. It is
tho hand of fellowship that strengthens, it is the word of cheer that
brightens the dull life, it is the assurance of brotherly. love that lightens
the burder for the weary heart.
To lift another's burder too hard for him alone to bear, to whisper
the word of warning to the erring one, to soothe the Grphan 's woe, and

.

62

63

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

wipe away the widow's tear; to dedicate our lives to service and to
sacrifice, to labor and not sigh for rest, to give and never oount the
cost, to fight and never heed the wound: these, indeed, are the :fruits
and :flowers of true Masonic brotherhood, and the primal reason for the
existence of our Fraternity.

Every one is familiar with the stupendous increase in prices of all
materials since the beginning of the European war1 and we have suffered much from this fact. · However, taking into counsel many of the
best men of the Fraternity, and judging from market conditions that
further delay would only be more expensive, your Board saw nothing
to do but accept the situation and let the contract. Therefore, after
four weeks' deliberation, we awarded the general contract to Brother
G. H. Whyte, for $91,000, feeling that the Fraternity is being well
served, and that the success of· the children who have gone from the
Home to take their places in the world's work merits all we can do for
those who are and will be under our care.
The contract for heating, plumbing, refrigeration, laundry, vacuum
cleaning, etc., was delayed for a time because of contention among the
bidders. This matter was adjusted to the satisfaction of both the Board
and the bidders finally by the contestants themselves determining the low
bidder, and a committee from their own number was selected to supervise the work. The contract was accordingly awarded to Brother
William McArthur, for $26,431.40.

Masonry, too, imposes upon as as bounden duty the leading of
pure and upright lives1 being charitable men and useful citizens. It
bids us in every condition and circumstance of life to remember our
high calling; to know and do Charity, not only in the relief 'of financial
distress, but in every ministration that love dictates to the just and
generous heart; to never forget our duty as citizens of the State, and
in all the responsibilities of citizenship be true; that in the home rela·
tions, our lives shall be such that content and happiness shall reign;
that in this journey of life we shall ever hold aloft the unfailing and
unquenchable light of Truth, that we may make light the paths of those
who follow.
And, in. this way, as time goes on, this noble Institution of Morality, Friendship and Brotherly Love shall radiate its perpetual influence
of charity among men, till cruel superstitions shall only be a humiliating
memory and a record of forgetfulness; because
The poor, oppressed, honest man
Had never sure been born,
Had there not been some ~eeompense,
To comfort those that mourn.
Golden West Commandery band then played Old Hundred, which
was joined in by the entire audience, after which Brother MacCormack
closed the ceremonies with the following benediction:
"The Lord bless thee, and keep thee; the Lord make His face shine
upon thee, and be gracious unto thee; the Lord lift up His countenance
upon thee, and give thee peace. Alnen. ''
The Board approved detail plans of the buildings on May 18 and
bids were received and opened July 22. Upon openings the bid:, the
Board was much disappointed to find that the amounts were in excess
of estimates. The bids for the foundation were slightly under estimate,
and we were encouraged to feel that the superstructure might also be
more rea!!onable. Many demands, however, were made upon the Board
by those sincerely interested in having the Masons of California make
suitable provision for the dependent children of the craft, and some additions were jleemed advisable to make a complete institution, particularly
in thoroughly equipped hospital rooms, operating rooms, sterilization,
surgical, dental and preparation room oti the second :floor of the main
building, and a substantial class of machinery for all needs in the basement.

Good bonds have been furnished with both contracts, and the work
is progressing very satisfactorily.
While this preliminary work bas been going on with the buildings,
we have not been idle with the farm end of the new location. About
four acres has been graded for alfalfa, and garden work has done well
since the water reached it. We have laid a system of pipes to reach all
of the lower grounds and constructed a septic tank for the new buildings, which we are using temporarily as a reservoir. The trees on the
plaee, while few in number, are doing nieely, and a small vineyard on the
terrace yielded a fairly good crop this year. The general farm improvements have not been made because they are a part of a general scheme
and contingent upon some work that cannot be done yet.
Altogether it has been a year of wonderful activity and splendid
progress, The buildings will stand as a monument to the noblest in
Masonry, and what is even better, our children are having a happy,
healthy and useful childhood.
Fraternally submitted,
WM. S. WELLS,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
THOMAS FLINT,
E. B. SPENCER,
EI,MER E. STONE,
Trustees.

64

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

65

MASONIC HOMES OF CALH'ORNIA.
SECRETARY'S REPORT.

DECOTO AND COVINA.

San Francisco, Cal., Sept. 16, 1916

General Balance Sheet, July 31, 1916.

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of Californ-ia.
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my Annual Report as your Secre·
tary for the year ended July 31, 1916, making the report of the Account·
ant my financial report.
Fraternally yours,
EI.MER E. STONE,
Secretary.

San Francisco, Cal., Sept. 16, 1916.
To the Board of Trustees, MMonic Homes of California,
GENTLEMEN: I have audited the accounts of the Masonic Homes of
California for the year ended July 31, 1916, and following upon the last
similar audit have presented a complete report thereof, embracing statements exhibiting in full details of the financial position and financial
operations of the Homes to the date of July 31, 1916.
I have verified the income from reports submitted by the Superintendent, the expenditures by examination of properly approved vouchers
accompanied by supporting invoices or other documents, and the funds
on deposit in banks, by examination of bank statement and Treasurer's
books.
I have verified the securities and cash of the Permanent Endowment
Fund, the Decoto and Covina Revolving Funds and the cash accoun.t
of F. B. Hartman, Trustee.
Faithfully yours,
WALTER B. BIRDSALL,
Accountant.

ASSETS,
19,508.95

l 'nHh

l"uneral Expense A,ccount........................................
.196.00
HBcurities .................................................................... 76,387 .50
Hupply and Sundry Equipment Inventories..........
4,927.50
J>ecoto Real Estate Improvements & Equipment 356,048.78
Covina Real .Estate Improvements and Equip·
ment ....................................................................

39,486.75

Heal Estate Investment............................................
Miscellaneous ......................................................... ..

1,900.00
1,722.05
$500,177.53

LIABILITIES.
Vouchers Payable
Trust Funds ......................... ..........................

3,420.46
7,194.74

Residents' Personal Deposits.............. $ 742.53
Special Rule No. 16.............................. 4,952.21
Headstone ............................................. ~ 1,500.00
Capital
538.87
Entertainment Fund ........................................... $
66,687.88
Permanent Endowment },und ............................ ..
Special Home Fund ............................................... . 21,527.50
216.72
Building Fund ..................................................... .
400,591.36
General Fund-Capital ..................................... .
$500,177 .53

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

67

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements ............................................................

$154,915.9!)

General Fund ············--···············---·-··········-·-··-······$ 80,867.12
Special Rule No. 16 Fund..................................
2,381.28

GENERAL STATEMENT OF TO'.!'AI, RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

August 1, 1915, to July 31, 1916.
Balance on hand August 1, 1915 ........................... .
General Fund ........................................................ $
Special Rule No. 16 Fund.................... ! .............. .
Permanent Endowment Fund ............................. .
Entertainment Fund ............................................
Residents' Deposit Fund......................................
Headstone Fund ................................................. .
Building Fund ..................................................... .

25,589.31

Entertainment Fund ·--·---·····---·--··--··-·············---···
Residents' Deposit Fund ..................................... .

437.21

Building Fund ····················--·-···············-··············

44,807.78

833.29

$ 34,068.92

Balance on hand July 31, 1916 ............................. .

5,491. 78
6,778.99

General Fund ........................................................

$ 16,088.49

............... .

Special Rule No. 16 Fund .................................. $ 4,952.21
Permanent Endowment Fund ............................. . 11,300.38

2,143.70
976.08
866.57
1,180.00
16,631.80

Receipts ..................................................................... .
General Fund ........................................................ $ 71,685.62
Special Rule No. 16 Fund....................................
554.50
Permanent Endowment Fund ............................. . 34,745.99
709.25
Residents' Deposit Fund ..................................... .
Headstone Fund .......... :........................................ .
Building Fund ..................................................... .
Special Home Fund ............................................. .

Permanent Endowment Fund ............................. .

$136,935.56

Entertainment Fund ........................................... .
Residents' Deposit Fund ..................................... .
Headstone Fund ................................................... .
Building Fund ..................................................... .
Special Home Fund ............................................... .

538.87
742.53
1,500.00
216.72
527.50

$ 19,778.21

Deficit-General Fund

3,689.72
$ 16,088.49

Disposition

320.00

Balances with Grand Treasurer (all funds) .... $ 13,411.96
Revolving Fund ....................................................
2,250.00
Bank of Italy........................................................
1,871.33

28,392.70
527.50
$171,004.48

Central National Bank........................................
F. B. Hartman, Trustee......................................

1,233.13
742.53

$ 19,508.95

Less Checks Outstanding (Vouchers Payable)

31420.46
----

$ 16,088.49

GRA..°"D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

68

69

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SUPERIN'l'E~DENT'S REPORT.

Deeoto, Alameda County, Cal., October 1, 1916.

711 llw Hoard of Trtistees of the Masonic H01nes of California:
1

STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

August 1, 1915, to July 31, 1916.

$ 5,491.78

Balance on hand August 1, 1915 ............................
Receipts ................................................................... .
Per Capita
.............. .,."' 55,341.00
Deeoto Farm Rental and Sales............................
9,334.56
Donations ..............................................................
3,628.50
Interest on Deposits:.............................................
1,273.12
Funeral Expense ..................................................
930.00
Covina Farm Sales................................................
780.51
Deeoto Home Operation........................................
247.93
Deeoto Building Equipment................................
150.00

71,685.62

----$ 77,177.40

General Fund-Deficit, July 31, 1916 ............... .

3,689.72
$ 80,867.12

Disbursements
Deeoto Home Operation........................................$ 35,228.94
Covina Home Operation ..................................... . 16,652.27
7,806.42
Decoto Farm Operation ........................................
6,434.72
General Expense ....................................................
651.00
Funeral Expense ................................................. .
1,027.49
Covina Farm Operation ......................................
4,794.86
Deeoto Building Equipment ............................... .
588.33
Covina Equipment ............................................... .
1,879.07
Covina Improvements ............................................
4,464.50
Decoto Sundry Improvements ..............................
483.89
Miscellaneous ....................................................... .
855.63
Insurance ............................................................... .

'l'ho undersigned presents the eighteenth annual report as Superin·
tP11d1•11t of the l\fusonic Homes of California.
I luring the past year the affairs of the Decoto and Covina Homes
lunn huon very satisfactory. The new building erected and now occupied
11t 11111\oto and the new building now being constructed at Covina marks
11111 "mnmencement of a new era of progress for both Homes.
With
Uw1m new improvements the field of usefulness in the work is enlarged
lllll! i.creatly assists the management in carrying out in a more efficient
11111111111r the spirit of service in both Homes.
·
l•]very effort is made to encourage the members of our large family
t.hoMo who are able-to assist in the general routine work and to
lntNnHt themselves in the welfare of their respective Homes, with the
r1•"11lt that a splendid family spirit has been created which exerts a
lmrmonious influence in the daily life of the Homes.
Huitable entertainments, school instruction, out-of-door recreations,
11i1•1d<\ parties, camping trips, etc., have enhanced the social and family
llf<t of the Homes, and the older and younger members have been enabled
1.u lmve that diversion which is in keeping with their years.
'l'he conditions at both Homes show great improvement during the
1111Mt. year, due to the loyal and faithful service of the employee and
1111•n1hnrs of the family, all contributing aeeording to their ability to
11111 peace and harmony of the Homes.
DE COTO.

$ 80,867.12

During the year there have been admitted to the Home, 37 men and
l:! women. There are now at the Home, 100 men and 52 women.
'l'lwrc are 14 members being eared for at the Coleman Hospital. In
vinw of the increased membership of the Home, additional room at
J.ho lmspital is urgently needed.
The water supply has been pl!lntiful for household, garden and
Irrigating purposes. The reservoirs have at all times 700,000 gallons of
w11tcr in storage.
The greater part of the hill ranch has as heretofore been leased
11it.hcr on shares or for cash rental.
The farm has supplied plenty of fruit for table use, the surplus
hoing sold in the San Francisco market. A large quantiy of corn and
11toek feed and hay has been raised for the dairy, hog and chicken
mnehes. Two tons of dried prunes are on hand. The vegetable and
lmrry gardens gave good returns. Enough of the vineyard has been

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

retained for Home use and the balance of the acreage has been cultivated for e<>rn and hay. The hay crop was fair. The new orchard is
doing well. A row of walnut trees has been planted along the entire
front of the Home property inside of the boundary fence.
The operation of the heating, laundry, pumping and cold storage
plants and the blacksmith shop have been satisfactory.
The chicken ranch has supplied all the eggs for kitchen and table
use and a large number of eggs have been put up for winter use. The
dairy has furnished plenty of milk and the hog ranch has given good
returns.
All the mending and household linen has been made by the women
of the Home. A number of the brethren have contributed to the welfare
of the Home by their labor in the carpenter, shoe, tailor and barber
shops, also the woodyard and in the care of flower gardens, lawns, library
and reading rooms, and light work in a general way.
There are 2600 volumes on the library shelves. Many magazines,
periodicals and daily papers are received, which are placed on the tables
of the library, men's club rooms and the ladies' reading room.
Moving picture, stereopticon and musical entertainments are given
from time to time in the Siminoff Temple and the Assembly Hall. An
orchestra consisting of a violin and piano has been organized and takes
part in all our entertainments. The Thursday evening social, games and
dances, the Friday evening song practice have been regularly held in
the Assembly Hall. The usual services are held on Sunday afternoon,
followed by a musical concert.
The men's club room in the new building has been furnished with
a billiard table, a pool table, two eard tables (drop lights being over
each table), two counting racks, twelve arm chairs and twelve Vienna
chairs. The brethren enjoy their new quarters, and greatly appreciate
the comforts affordecl them there, which was made possible by the
generosity of the Lodges of San Francisco. The opening of the club
room was a formal affair, the ladies of the Home acting as hosts, and
the brethren the guests.
The Regina music box and twenty Regina records, presented to the
Home by Mrs. M. E. Waldren, has been placed in the men's new club
room.
A beautiful Westminister chime clock, six feet high, was presented
and installed in this room by Mrs. Leo Bruck.
A large and beautiful silk American flag, with gold cord and tassel
and standard and pedestal was presented to th13 Home by officers of the
Grand Lodge, Inspectors of the Bay counties and Brother B. Pasquale.
It has been placed in the Assembly hall.
Arrangements have been made whereby each month the members
of our family-a few at a time-may visit Alameda Lodge No. 167,

a~~ Orient Chapter No. 177, 0. E. S., at Centerville. Oeeasionally
v1s1ts are made to Lodges and Chapters at Oakland1 San Francisco and
other cities near the Home.

71

Many entertainments have been given for the pleasure and benefit
of the family by Lodges, members of Lodges and their ladies. The
following is a list of those who have contributed to our enjoyment:
October 9, 1915-0akland Lodge No. 188, and Bay View Lodge No.
401, and ladies; program in the Temple; baseball game on the Home
grounds; lunch in the grove.
October 13, 1915-·Visit of officers and members of Grand Lodge.
May 27, 1916-Apollo Lodge No. 396; third degree in the Temple.
May 20, 1916. Sequoia Lodge No. 349; third degree; candy and
cigars.
,June 5, 1916-Jewel Lodge No. 374, and ladies; band of fifty
pieces; concert on the grounds.
June 17, 1916-Fruitvale Lodge No. 336; third degree; musical
program and smoker.
August 5, 1916-Inspectors of Bay cities; third degree; presentation
of American flag.
August 26, 1916-East Bay Matron's Association, O. E. S.; exemplification of degree work in the Temple, followed by a musical and
moving picture program.
September 16, 1916-0akland Lodge No. 188 and Bay View Lodge
No. 401, and ladies; forty members of the Knight Templar drill team
of Oakland Commandery gave an exhibition drill in uniform; concert by
Knight Templar band; literary program in the Temple.
September 28, 1916-Friendship Lodge No. 210; third degree
conferred in Temple.
All the holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The
specials were those held on New Year 's eve, New Year 's day, Lincoln 's
birthday, Washington's birthday, Memorial day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving day and Christmas.
COVINA.

The Most Worshipful Grand Master, Albert G. Burnett, officers and
members of the Grand Lodge, have made a number of visits to the
Homes, as well as many of the brethren and friends who are interested
in our welfare.
I wish to extend my appreciation of the loyal assistance rendered
by the Matrons and employes in their respective departments. I also
express my sincere gratitude to the Board of Trustees for the friendly
advice and support they have at all times given to me,
FRANK B. HARTMAN,

Super in ten dent.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

72

73

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CHRISTMAS CASH DONATIONS, 1915.
DONATIONS TO DECOTO HOME.

San Francisco Lodges, 1 billiard table, 1 pool table, 20 billiard
cues, 2 counting racks, 3 ivory billiard balls, 15 pool balls, 2 drop lights
with shades, 12 arm chairs, 12 Vienna chairs.
Grand Lodge officers, Inspectors of Bay cities and B. Pasquale, large
silk American flag.
Mrs. Leo Bruck, 6-foot Westminster chime clock.
Jewel Chapter No. 283, 0. E. S., 1 large framed picture.
Mrs. M. E. Waldren, Regina music box, 20 records, and clothing.
Thomas J. Baker, 1 croquet set.
David Johnson, 7 asparagus fern plants, 5 Japanese tubs, 2 flower
pots.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61, 1 stereopticon curtain, complete.
Oroville Lodge No. 103, 3 gallons olives.
Porterville Lodge No. 303, 6 boxes oranges.
Al Shipaugh, clothing.
E. W. Lincoln, magazines and periodicals.
C. H. Holdworthe, box of smoking tobacco.
The Oxy-}fol Company, packakge of toilet articles.
Paul Ruger, package of perfumery.
A. B. Rowley, 6 volumes of fiction.
Louis Aber, 85 canes.
E. A. Gilbert, clothing.
Needlework Guild of California, clothing and dry goods.
A. M. Ward, clothing.
Wm. Cluff Company, Candy and cigars.
California Anglers' Association, 100 packages playing cards.
P. C. Wilmer, wire fence stretcher.
Sequoia Lodge No. 349, candy and cigars.

Amt.
Lodge.
No.
Abell ..........•.. 146 .... $ 5.00
Adin ............. 250 .... 10.00
Alamo ............ 122. . . . 5.00
Alameda .......... 167. . . . 5.00
Alcatraz .....•.... 244. . . . 10.00
Alisa} ............ 321. .. . 5.00
Alpha ............ 431. .. . 10.00
Alta .............. 333 ... . 5.00
Alturas ........... 248 ... . 5.00
Amity ............ 370 ... . 15.00
Amador .......... 65 ... . 10.00
Antioch .....•.... 175 ... . 10.00
A polio .... __. ...... 396 ... . 5.00
Arcata ........... 106 ... . 20.00
Arlington ..•..... .414 ... . 40.00
Artesia ........... 377 ... . 10.00
Ashlar ........... 306 ... . 5.00
Bakersfield ....... 224 ... . 25.00
Balder ........... 393 ... . 20.00
Bay View ........ .401. .. . 10.00
Bear Mountain .... 76 ... . 5.00
Berkeley ......... 363 ... . 10.00
Blackmer ........ .442 ... . 5.00
Brooklyn ..•...... 225 ... . 10.00
Buckeye .......... 195 ... . 5.00
Burlingame •..... .400 ... . 10.00
Calerico .......... 412 .. .. 10.00
Calaveras ......... 78 .. .. 10.00
California . . . . . . . . 1 ...• 30.00
Carquinez ......... 337 ... . 5.00
Charity .......... 362 ... . 7.50
Charter Oak ...... 410 ... . 10.00
Chico ............ 111. .. . 10.00
Clear Lake ....... 183. . . . 5.00
Clay ............. 101.... 5.00
Clinton ........ .; .119.... 5.00
Clovis ............ 417. . .. 5.00
Coalinga .......... 387.... 5.00
Concord .......... 117. . . . 10.00
Confidence •....... 203. . . . 5.00
Colusa ............ 240.... 5.00
Corinthian . . . • . . . . 9. • . . 10.00
Corona ........... 324- .... 20.00

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Coronado ......... 441. ... 10.00
Crescent .......... 45.... 5.00
Croekett .......... 139. . . . 25.00
Dinuba ........... 385. . . . 5.00
Doric ....•........ 216. . . . 25.00
Downey .......... 220. . . . 5.00
Dunsmuir ......... 297. . . . 10.00
Durant ........... 268. . • . 10.00
East Belt ......... 391. . . . 5.00
East Gate ........ 290 .... 10.00
El Centro --· ....... 384 .... 15.00
Eden ............. 113. . . . 5.00
Enterprise . . . . . . . . 70. . . . 5.00
Eucalyptus ....... 243. . . • 25.00
Eureka . .. . . . .. . . . 16. . .. 2.50
Excelsior ......... 166. . . . 25.00
Evening Star ..•.. 186. . . . 5.00
Exeter ........... 424 .... 10.00
Fairmount ....... .435 .... 10.00
Fidelity .......... 120 .... 25.00
Fillmore .......... 379. . . . 10.00
Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 ... : 5.00
Francis Drake ..... 376 .... 10.00
Franklin .......... 143 .... 10:00
l<~riendship ........ 210 .... 10.00
Fruitvale ......... 336 .... 10.00
Galt .............. 267. . . . 5.00
Glendora ....•.... 404 ••.. 10.00
Gold Hill . ; ....... 32 .... 10.00
Golden Gate ...... 30 .... 20.00
Granite ........... 222 .... 10.00
Hammonton ....... 433 .... 10.00
Hanford .......... 279. . . . 10.00
Hawaiian . . . . . . . . . 21. ... 50.00
Henry Clay . . . . . . . 95. • . . 5.00
Henry S. Orme .... 458.... 5.00
Hermann ...••.... 127. . . . 15.00
Hesperian ........ 264. . . . 5.00
Highland Park .... 382. . . . 10.00
Hills Ferry ....... 236. . . . 14.50
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . 43. . . . 5.00
Hollenbeck ........ 319. . . . 10.00
Hollywood ......•. 355. . • • 10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

74

75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Honolulu •.. ; •.... 409. • . . 20.00
Howard ....•••..• 96.... 5.00
Humboldt ....•.•• 79 .•.. 10.00
Illinoistown .•••... 51 .... 10.00
Inyo ....••.•..... 221. • . • 10.00
Ione . . . • • . • . • • . . . . 80. . . . 5.00
Jewel ............ 374.... 5.00
Kennett ...•..... .456 .... 10.00
King David's ..... 209. . . . 5.00
King Solomon's ... 260. . . . 25.00
La Fayette ....... 126.... 5.00
Las Palmas ....... 366. . . . 5.00
Liberty .......... 299 ...• 10.00
Live Oak .. • .. . .. . 61. • . . 20.00
Lodi ............. 256. . . . 5.00
Lompoc ........... 262.. .. 10.00
Long Beach •...... 327. . . . 10.00
Los Angeles ...... 42. . . . 10.00
Los Banos ..•..... 312. . . . 15.00
Los Gatos ......... 292. . . • 10.00
Madero ........... 280 .... 10.00
Madison .......... 23.... 5.00
Magnolia ..•.••... 242 .... 10.00
Marin ....•..•.... 191. . • . 15.00
Martinez . . . . . . . . . 41. . . . 5.00
McKinley ...•.•... 347 •... 10.00
Mendocino •....... 179. . . . 5.00
Midway .......... 426 ...• 25.00
Mill Valley •.•.... 356 .... 25.00
Mission .....•...... 169. . . . 25.00
Mizpah ........... 378 .... 10.00
Mokelumne Hill ... 298 .... 10.00
Molino ...•...•••• 150. . . . 5.00
Monrovia ... , ••... 308 ...• 10.00
Morning Star • . . . . 68. . . . 10.00
Mosaic ..........• 218. • . . 10.00
Mount Diablo ..... 448.... 5,00
Mount Jackson .•.. 295.... 5.00
Mount Moriah • • . . • 44 .... ·25.00
Mountain View ... 194.... 2.50
Natoma ••........ 64.... 5.00
Naval ...........• 87 ...• 15.00
Nevada ........... 13.... 5.00
Nicolaus .•......•• 129. . . . 5. 00

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Norwalk .......... 315 ... . 5.00
Oakland .......... 188 ... . 10.00
Oak Grove ........ 215 ... . 5.00
Occidental . .. . . .. . 22 ... . 10.00
Oceanside ........• 381. ..• 5.00
Olive Branch ...... 269 ... . 10.00
Oriental ••.....•.• 144 ... . 25.00
Orland ...•....... 265 ... . 5.00
Oxnard ........... 341 ... . 25.00
Pacific ........... 136 ...• 11.00
Pacific Grove ....... 331. •.. 5.00
Pajaro ............ 110 ...• 10.00
Palo Alto ......... 346 ... . 5.00
Palestine ...•..... 351. .•• 5.00
Palos Verdes ....•. 389 .•.. 25.00
Parnassus ......... 388. . • . 10.00
Pasadena ......... 272. . • • 10.00
Paso Robles ....... 286.... 5.00
Petaluma ......... 180. . . . 5.00
Phoenix .......... 178. . . . 15.00
Pinole ............ 353. • . . 10.00
Pittsburg ........ .429. . . . 10.00
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . 60. . . . 5.00
Presidio .......... 354. . . . 20.00
P.M.Association,S.F.
14.12
Reading .......... 254 .••• 10.00
Redwood City ....• 168 .•.• 20.00
Reedley ........... 304. • .. 5.00
Richmond ......... 375 ..•• 10.00
Rio Vista ....•.... 208. . . . 5.00
Rising Light •..... 397.... 5.00
Roseville ........ .432. . . . 5.00
Russian River ..... 181. . . . 5.00
Sacramento . . . • . . . 40. . . . 10.00
Saint John's ...... 37.... 5.00
Salinas ........... 204.... 5.00
San Benito ..•..•.. 211. • • • 5.00
San Diego ........ 35 ••.. 10.00
Sanger ............ 316. .. • 10.00
San Bernardino •... 348. • . • 15.00
San Fernando ..... 343 ..•• 10.00
San Francisco ...•. 360. . . • 10.00
San Jacinto ....... 338.... 5.00
San Jose .......... 10 .... 10.00

Lodge.
No.
.Amt.
Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Tehama
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
3.
•
•
•
20.00
Ban Mateo •....... 226. . • • 5.00
Ban Miguel ....... 285 .... 10.00 Temescal ......... 314.... 8.60
Ban Pedro ........ 332 .... 10.00 Texas . . . . . . . • . . . . 46. • . . 5.00
Santa Ana ........ 241. • . . 20.00 Truckee ........... 200.... 5.00
Banta Cruz ........ 38 .... 10.00 Tuscan ........... 261. .. • 5.00
Santa Monica ..... 307. . . . 5.00 Union . . . . . . . . . . . . 58. • • • 25.00
Santa Paula ...... 291.... 5.00 Unity ............ 368.... 8.00
Santa Rosa . . . . . . . 57. . . . 35.55 Vacaville ......... 134.... 5.00
Selma ............ 277. .. . 10.00 Valley ............ 135.... 5.00
San Simeon ....... 196. . . . 5.00 Vesper ............ 84.... 5.00
Sequoia ........... 349 .... 10.00 Visalia ........... 128 .... 10.00
Sierra Valley ..... 184.... 5.00 Voleano .......... 56 .... 10.00
Silveyville ........ 201. ..• 10.00 Washington ....... 20 .••. 30.00
Silver Gate ....... 296. . • . 10.00 West Gate ........ 335 .... 10.00
Sisson ............ 310.... 5.00 West Lake ........ 392 ..•• 10.00
Snow Mountain •.. 271. . . • 5.00 Western Star .. . . .. 2.... 5.00
Southern California 278 .... 25.00 Wilshire ........•. 445 •..• 15.00
So. San Francisco., 212 ..•. 10.00 Wilmington ..•.... 198.... 5.00
Speranza Italiana ·.. 219. . . . 10.00 Woodbridge ....... 131.... 5.00
Starr King ........ 344. . . • 10.00 Woodland ........• 156.. . • 5.00
Stanislaus ........ 206. • . • 15.00 Yolo .............. 81.... 1.00
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55. . • • 2.50 Yosemite . . . . . . . . . 99 ...• 10.00
Sunset ............ 352 .... 10.00 Yuba ............. 39. • • . 5.00
Tehachapi ........ 313. . . . 10.00
TEMPLE, A. A.O. N. M. S.

Temple
Amt.
Aahmes .................. $10.00

Temple
Amt.
Islam .................... $100.00

CHAPTER, R. A. M.

Amt.
No.
Chapter.
64 .... $ 5.00
Acacia
70 .... 5.00
Alameda
65 .... 10.00
Antioch
7 .... 10.00
Beneeia
Berkeley .....•.•.• 92 .••• 10.00
California ......... 5 .... 25.00
Coalinga ....•....• 114 ..•• 2.50
51. ... 5.00
Corinthian
15 .... 5.00
Cyrus
48 .... 10.00
Dixon
39 .... 5.00
Donner

............

..........

······ .....
... ... .. ...

·······.
.············
. ········ ...

...........

Amt.
No.
Chapter.
66 .•.• 5.00
Doric
East Gate ..•...... 103 •... 5.00
78 .••• 10.00
Ferndale
69 •••• 5.00
Fresno
18 .••• 5.00
Grass Valley
74 .... 5.00
Hanford
68 .... 5.00
Hollister
14 •.•• 10.00
Howard
Humboldt .......... 52 .... 5.00
Kern Valley •...... 75 .... 20.00
La Purissima •.•... 104 ..•• 10.00

....... ······

...........

............

······
··········

··········
...........

77

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CHAPTER, 0. E. S.

Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Lassen ............ 47.... 5.00
Long Beach ..•.••• 84 .... 25.00
Martinez . . . . . . . . • . 31. . . . 10.00
Mendocino ........ 88.... 5.00
Mill Valley ........ 108 .... 10.00
Modesto . . • . . . . . . . 49. . . . 10.00
Naval ............ 35 .... 10.00
Nevada . . . . . . .. . .. 6.... 5.00
Oakland . . . . . . . . . . 36. . . . 10.00
Palo Alto . . . . . . . .. 93. .. . 5.00
Petaluma . . . . . . . . . 22. . . . 5.00
Richmond •........ 113. . . . 5.00
Rodondo .......... 101. ... 10.00
Sacramento . . . . . . • 3 .... 50.00
Salinas . . . . . . . . . . • 59 .... · 2.50

Chapter.
No.
Amt.
San Luis . . .. . . . . . . 62. . . • 5.00
Santa Cruz .......• 38 .... 5.00
Sebastopol ........ 117. . . . 5.00
Siloam . . . . . . . . . . . . 37. . . . 10.00
Signet . . . . . . . . . . • . 57. . • . 10.00
Sonora . . . . . . . . . . . . 2. . • . 2.50
Stockton .......... 28 .... 10.00
Sutter .. .. . . .. .. . . 11. .. . 5.00
Temple . . . • . . . . . . . 41. . . . 10.00
Tulare . . . . . . . . . . . . 71. . . . 10.00
Unity ............. 116. . . • 5.00
Vacaville ......... 81.... 5.00
Ventura .......... 50.... 5.00
Washington ....... 13 ...• 10.00
Woodland ......... 46.... 5.00

Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Golden Rod ...•... 22L •.. $10.00
Naomi •........... 36 .•.. 25.00

INDIVIDUALS.

Thos. J. Baker ...•........ $12.50
William Cooper . . . . • . . . . . . 2.40
Herbert Cornish . . . . . . . . . . 5.00
L. E. Elliott. . . . . . . . . • . . . . 2.00
J. G. Hunehberger......... 5.00

•

~

o •#no•• o

...........

The following is a complete list of the residents of the Deeoto Home,
the dates of their admission, their respective ages, the names and numbers
of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such Lodges:
MEN 100.

Commandery.
Amt.
No.
Oakland .......... 11. ... 5.00
3 .... 2.50
Pacific
Palo Alto
47 .... 5.00
Pasadena ......... 31. ... 23.75
Red Bluff ......... 17 .... 5.00
Redding ............ 50 .... 10.00
Riverside ......... 28 .... 10.00
San Jose ............ 10 .... 5.00
Santa Cruz ........... 44 .... 5.00
Stockton ........... 8 .... 10.00
Vacaville
38 .... 5.00
Woodland .
21. ... 5.00
Watsonville
22 .... 10.00

. ...........
.........

.
.
.

.

.

.

.
.............

.........
. ......

COUNCIL, It,, & S. :M:.

Council.
No.
Amt.
Gateway . . . . . .. .. . 13.... 2.50
LODGE OF PERFECTION, A. & A. S. R.

No.
Amt.
Lodge.
California
10 ..•. $50.00
Fresno .........•.. 6 .... 5.00
King Solomon's .... 3 .... 100.00
Oakland .....•.... 2 .... 25.00

Grant Jackson .......... . $•5.00
W. M. Laidlow ........... . 1.00
Wm. J. LeRoy ....•........ 2.00
Chester P. Ninekirk ...... . 2.00
2.40
George Stephenson

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME.

COMMANDERY, K. T.

Amt.
Commandery.
No.
Bakersfield ......... 39 .... $10.00
Berkeley .......... 42 .... 10.00
California
1. ... 25.00
Eureka ............. 35 ...• 10.00
Glendale .............. 53 .... 10.00
Golden Gate ........ 16 .... 25.00
Hanford .............. 46 .... 10.00
Lassen ............. 13 .... 5.00
Marysville ............ 7 .... 10.00
Mount Shade ....... 32 .... 5.00
Mount Olivet ....... 20 ...• 5.00
Napa .............. 34 .... 5.00
Naval ............. 19 .... 10.00
6 .... 5.00
Nevada

Chapter.
No.
Amt.
Santa Clara •.•.... 299 .... $25.00
Wheatland . . . . . . . . 48 .... 10.00

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Pacific .. .. .. .. . . .. 5 .... $ 5.00
San Francisco • . • . • 1. . • . 25.00
San Jose .......... 13.... 5.00
Stockton .. . . . . . • . . 12. .. • 10.00

.

NAME.

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

Anderson, C. A ....... Feb. 9, '09 Mt. Moriah ..... 44 San Franeiseo.68
Bell, Bradford ....... Dee. 5, '15 Mt. Jackson .... 295 Guemeville .. 74
Bemis, Ernest H ...... Mar.19, '16 Hollenbeck ..... 319 Los Angeles... 65
Bowes, Wm. E ....... Nov. 1, '15 Concord ........ 117 Sacramento . 77
Branthaven, D ........ Jan. 18, u4 Durant ......... 268 Berkeley .... 86
Bradbury, Wm. W .... Oct. 29, '14 St. Helena ...... 93 St. Helena ... 72
Bradley, John H ....•. Oct. 12, '07 Keith .......... 187 Gilroy ...... 86
Bartholemew, J. S .... June 15, '13 Mt. Jackson .... 295 Guerneville .. 68
Broadwell, Melvin L .. Dee. 7, '15 Oakland ........ 188 Oakland .... 64
Bullier, Leon ...•.... July 2, '12 Texas . . . . . . . . . . 46 San Juan .... 87
Burner, Henry ....... Jan. 10, '16 Occidental . . . . . . 22 San Franeiseo.69
Castellaw, T. A ....... May 2, '10 Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake .. 78
Chamberlain, M. R .... Sept. 28, '10 Hartley ........ 199 Lakeport .... 88
Chapman, J. A ....... Oct. . 6, '11 Concord ........ 117 Sacramento .66
Cogswell, James L ... May 19, '15 California . . . . . . 1 San Franeiseo.87
Crabtree, Converse W. Aug. 19, '16 Yerba Buena .... 403 Oakland ... .41
Cramer, George F ..... May 11, '13 Liberty ......... 299 Santa Clara .. 61
Davis, Charles H ...... Dee. 12, '15 Naval .......... 87 Vallejo .•. : .67
Dennis, John S....•.. Aug. 19, '16 San Jose ........ 10 San Jose ... :.80
Dennis, William ..... Feb. 28, '11 Sierra Valley ..• 184 Sierraville ... 84
Dolt, Alexander •.... May 18, '99 Rising Star ...•. ' 83 Forest Hill .. 71
Dunham, Murray .... Dec. 11, '15 Plumas ..... ; . : . 60 Quincy ...... 86
Edwards, W. R. J .••. Nov. 2, '15 Willits ......... 365 Willits· ...... 61
Fielder, John L ....... Jan. 20, '15 H<tward ...... ; . 96 Yreka .. .' ... 60

78
NAME.

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

Franck, Isadore ...•. Jan. 10, '16 La Parfait Union 17
Frasier, John ........ June 12, '00 Benicia ........• 5
French, John A ....... June 8, '07 Western Star .•.. 2
Fink, Conrad ........ Aug. 23, '12 Hermann ....... 127
Gates, Dawson D ..... Feb. 8, '14 Eden ..•........ 113
Gregory, Anwyl ..... Jan. 31, '16 Mizpah ......... 378

San :I'rancisco.69
Benicia ..... 89
Shasta ...... 82
San Francisco. 78

Humboldt . . . . . . 79
Brooklyn ....... 225
Forbestown . . . . . 50
South Gate •••.. 320
Eden ........... 113
Golden Gate .... 30
East Belt •...... 391
Santa Monica ... 307
Mission ......... 169

Eureka ..... 68
Oakland .... 58
Forbestown . 79
Los Angeles .. 72
San Leandro. 78
San Franciseo.64
Tuolumne .•. 63
Santa Monica.84
San Francisco.70

Keene, James ....... Sept. 4, '10 Mendocino ...... 179
Keller, Willis A ...... Nov. 11, '15 Mendocino ...... 179
Kerr, Earl .......... Sept.11, '09 Pacific .......... 136
Knickerbocker, Niles .June 8, '15 Pentalpha ...... 202
Knight, Lewis W ..... April 2, '14 Evergreen ...... 259
LaBonte, Francis X. .. Nov. 2, '14 Reading ... .' .... 254
Lewty, David ....... June 27, '16 Guadalupe .•.... 237
Lindsey, Orville A .... Aug. 30, '13 Rio Vista ........ 208
Lippoldt, H. A ....... Jan. 20, '07 Northern Light .. 190
Lippman, George .... Nov. 2, '13 Pacific .......... 136
Mayer, Joseph ...... Jan. 10, '10 Mokelumne Hill . 298
Magee, David B ...... April 19, '11 Doric ...•....... 216
Mehrtens, Richard ... Nov. 12, '13 Crockett ........ 139
Mallory, Charles P .... Aug. 31, '14 Orange Grove •.. 293
Maniece, .John ....... June Ii, '15 San Diego ....•. 35
~~tchell, Charles E ... Nov. 20, '15 Los Angeles ..•. 42
Myers, Oliver H •..•.• Aug. 29, '12 Starr King .•..•. 344
Meyer, Wm. D ....... Aug. 31, '12 Mountain View .. 194
Morgan, Josiah W .... Aug. 11, 114 Phoenix ........ 178
McEwen; John H ..... Aug. 21, '13 Pajaro ......••.. 110
Ogden, B. F .......... April 19, '05 Mission ......... 169
Olson, Ole .......... Mar. 22, '16 Solano .......... 229
Ong, Jackson W ..•... May 12, '15 Hornitos ........ 98
Payne, Edwin H ....... Mar. 23, '14 Whittier ........ 323
Parini, Daniel ....... Feb. 10, '14 Nevada ......... 13
Potting, Henry F ..... May 2, '11 So. San. Franeisco.212
Preston, J. N ......... May 22. '12 South Gate ...... 320

Mendocino .. 79
Mendocino .. 66
San Franciseo.79
Los Angeles .. 75
Riverside ... 67

Hamilton, John ...... Feb. 6, '15
Heath, George B ...... Aug. 19, '16
Hill, Maxwell G....... June 30, '16
Hodge, Edward T ..... Feb. 20, '15
Jeffers, s~ ........... Jan. 5, '10
Jensen, Niels P ....... July 22, '07
Johns, Josiah ....... April 15, '12
Johnson, David ...... Aug. 29, '13
Jones, Samuel A ...... April 2, '16

79

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Leandro.63
Los Angeles ... 69

Redding .... 69
Guadalupe .. 74
Rio Vista .... 78
Millville .... 86
San Francisco. 72
Moklmne Hill.87
San Francisco. 75
San Francisco.71
Orange ..... 72
San Diego ... 80
Los Angeles .. 74
San Francisco, 71
Mountain V 1w55
8. Bernardino.84
Watsonville .. 71
San Francisco.77
Vallejo ...... 61
Hornitos .... 86
Whittier .... 78
Nevada City •. 78
San Franeisco.68
Los Angeles .. 84

NAME.

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

Potts, Archibald R .... Feb. 21, '14 East Gate ...•... 290 Los Angeles .. 76
Quinn, Michael •.•... Nov. 5, 115 Nevada ..•..•... 13 Nevada City .. 87
Uobertson, Wm. B .... July 25, '14 Yount .......... 12 Napa ......• 67
Redican, B •....•.... Mar. 1, '05 Los Angeles ..... 42 Los Angeles .. 92
Rumbol, R. F ......... Jan. 30, '08 Redwood City •.. 168 Redwood City.86
Redmond, Samuel .... Aug. 21, '10 Truckee ........ 200 Truckee ..... 72
Hoss, Elias E ......... Nov. 12, '14 Ophir .......... 33 Murphy's ... 69
Rowley, Albanus B .... Oct. 19, '14 San Jose .•...••. 10 San Jose .... 84
Redington, James ... Aug. 19, '16 Nevada ..•....•.. 13 Nevada City .. 73
Rossow, Ernest F .... ,Mar. 19, '16 Naval .......... 87 Vallejo . · · · .62
Spencer, T. C......... Aug. 25, '12 Chico ........... 111 Chico .... · .. 68
Smith, Eli M ......... Nov. 25, '00 Concord ........ 117 Sacramento .. 86
Schneider, Edward W. Sept. 13, '08 Oriental ...•.... 144 San Frane.isco.72
Scull, Charles ....... Sept. 11, '09 Excelsior ....... 166 San Francisco. 79
Stanton, Andrew P ... Aug. 16, '11 Pacific .....•.... 136 &nFrancisco.79
Stafford, Ralph L ..... Feb. 17, '14 Granite ......... 222 Rocklin ..... 68
Schwartz, Jacob P .... May 4, '16 Welcome ........ 255 Lemoore .... 63
Silver, Mark B ....... June 20, '16 King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco.71
Speidel, Adolph F ..... May 19, '16 Hermann ....... 127 San Francisco.69
Stickney, David ..... June 15, '16 Oroville ........ 103 Oroville ..... 63
Stricker, Henry ..•.. Mar. 28, '16 So. San Franeisco.212 San Prancisco.71
Surface, John P ...... Aug. 19, '16 Ione ............ 80 Ione ........ 79
Tupper, John H ...•....Feb. 14, '09 Petaluma ..••... 180 Petaluma .... 76
Tack, Nicolas ....... Oct. 29, '10 Crescent •....... 45 Crescent City. 82
Tomkins, John L ..•.. Aug. 19, '16 Tuolumne • . . . . . . 8 Sonora .... · 73
Treat, James M ...•.. Nov. 2, '15 Hesperian ...... 264 Santa Maria .. 63
Van :S:owe, Charles G. Aug. 19, '16 Monterey ....... 217 Monterey ... 55
Wooley, E. B ......... Dec. 29, '03 Alcatraz ••.•••.. 244 Oakland ..... 87
Whipple, Wm. M ..... Mar. 6, '09 Brentwood .•..•. 245 Brentwood ... 83
Walton, Oscar M ..... Nov. 2, '15 Enterprise ...... 70 Yuba City .... 81
Winkler, Theophilus .Jan. 24, '16 Charter Oak •... 410 Berkeley .... 68
White, Andrew M .... April 27,'16 Moneta ......... 405 Los Angeles .. 71
Woodruff, Andrew F .. Aug. 19, 116 Emmanuel ...... 318 Biggs ....... 83
Zimmermann, W. T •.. Feb. 2, '10 Abell ........... 146 Ukiah! ....... 76

80

P~OCEEDINGS

OF THE

WOMEN 52
NAME.
ADMITTED.
Ames, Minnie P ...... Oct. 21, '13

LODGE.
NO.
Oak Grove ...... 215

LOCATION.
AGE.
Alameda .... 59

Baxter, M. F ......... April 16, '02 Santa Rosa ...... 57
Briggs, Mary J ....... April 24, '07 Long Beach ..... 327
Barclay, Cornelia B. .. May 6, '16 Union .......... 58
Bell, Lucy .......... Dec. 5, '15 Mt. Jackson ..... 295
Donaldson, A. R ...... Mar. 10, '14 Vacaville ........134
Dyer, Sarah ......... July 17, '00 Oriental ........ 144
Dunlap, R. F ......... Sept. 23, '09 Keith .......... 187
Davis, Grace G........ July 25, '16 Naval .......... 87
Dennis, Lydia ....... Aug. 19, '16 San Jose ........ 10

Santa Rosa ... 79
Long Beach .. 80
Sacramento .. 76
Guerneville .. 68

Elder, M. J .......... Jan. 8, '08
Elliott, A. M ......... May 1, '04
Field, Bessie M ....... May 25, '13
Fountain, H. E. ...... Sept. 7, '06
Fuller, C. T .......... Feb. 9, '08
Grant, Permelia ...... Feb 2, '11
House, Amanda ...... Sept. 13, '08
Heith, Catherine ..... Oct. 16, '10
Julian, B. M ......... Jan. 7, '00
Johnson, M. . ........ Mar. 6, '03

Vacaville .... 84
S;an Francisco. 78
Gilroy ...... 79
Vallejo ..... 62
San Jose .... 72
Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco.84
Occidental ·...... 22 San Francisco.75
Hesperian ...... 264 Santa Clara .. 83
Evergreen ...... 259 Riverside .... 84
Michigan City ... 47 Michigan City 71
Antioch ........ 175 Antioch ..... 76
Georgetown . . . . . 25 Georgetown .. 78
Fresno .......... 247 Fresno ...... 70
Madison ........ 23 Grass Valley .. 43
Summit . . ...... 112 Knight's F 'ry66

Knight, Anna R ...... April 2, '14 Evergreen ...... 259
Kane, Eliza J ........ June 30, '16 Mission ......... 169
Keller, Maude E ...... Oct. 18, '15 Tehama . . . . . . . . . 3

Riverside .... 68
San F'raneisco.76
Sacramento .. 46

McKinnon, M. A ...... Dec. 31, '14 Morning Star .... 68
Mallory, Anna F ...... Aug. 31, '14 Orange Grove ... 293
Mueller, Elizabeth ... Aug. 12, '14 Benicia . . . . . . . . . 5
Moore, Emily N ...... May 7, '12 Madison ........ 23
Mast, Frances C...... Aug. 31, '12 Yosemite ....... 133

Stockton .... 68
Orange .. : ... 62
Benicia ..... 74
Grass Valley.84
Coulterville .. 71

Nash, M. A .......... June 11, '01
Pierce, N . ........... Feb.,
'14
Potting, Nellie E ..... May 2, '11
Pron, Anna R. G ...... Feb. 5, '15
Robinson, I. ......... Dec. 19, '03
Redican, M. A ....... Mar. 1, '05
Reaves, Mary M ....... June 8, '13
Rossi, Josephine ..... Oct. 20, '14
Richards, Lillian .... Aug. 19, '16
Richardson, Julia A ... Mar. 26, '16
Seeley, Nancy C...... Sept. 3, '10
Smith, Annie T ....... May 12, '15

81

GRAND LODGE OF C.\LIFORNL\

Palmyra ........ 26 Placerville ... 78
Pacific .......... 136 SanFrancisco.73
So. San Franeisco.212 San Francisco.72
King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco.59
Eureka . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ..... 86
Los Angeles ..•.. 42 Los Angeles .. 85
Bear Mountain .. 76 Angels Camp.80
Alhambra ....... 322 Alhambra ... 56
McKinley ....... 347 Richmond ... 56
Live Oak ....... 61 Oakland ..... 66
Manzanita ...... 102 N. San Juan.80
California . . . . . . • 1 San Francisco. 75

NAME.
ADMITTED.
LODGE.
NO. LOCATION.
AGE.
Smith, Elizabeth .... Aug. 28, '13 Friendship ...... 210 San Jose ...• 73
Sawyer, Ella B. ...... Aug. 30, '13 Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ...... 66
Bly, Ellen S .......... Nov. 5, '13 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego .... 71
Smalley, Emily A ..... June 22, '14 Santa Ana ...... 241 Santa Ana ... 73
Surface, Emma ...... Aug. 19, '16 Ione ............ 80 Ione ........ 6.4
Thomas, F. W ........ Jan. 4, '04 Abell ........... 146 Ukiah ....... 88
Taylor, Mary J ....... Mar. 15, '16 Masonic B. of Relf
Oakland ..... 75
Trumbull, Mary ..... Nov. 12, '15 Agremnt B. of Tsts.
. ......•....• 74
Wentworth, L ....... Feb. 6, '00 Hawaiian ....... 21 Honolulu .... 71
Wooley, Jane ........ Dec. 29, '03 Alcatraz
...... 244 Oakland ....• 82
Wells, Mary ........ Oct. 27, '12 Golden Gate ..... 30 San Franeisco.78
Wright, Sarah G ...... Sept. 13, '14 Eden ............ 113 San Leandro. 78
DIED DURING THE YEAR-19.
NAME.
DATE.
Andrews, Richard ............ Oct. 9, '15
Child, Susan A ............... Mar. 13, '16
Claussen, Henry ............. Jan. 30, '16
Costelloe, Ellen A ............ Jan. 12, '16
Durant, Francis A ............ Oct. 8, '15
Griffiths, Benjamin J ......... Jan. 7, '16
Hendrick, Robert C........... May 31, '16
Muir1 Hugh ................. Mar. 8, '16
Osterdock, Peter ............ June 28, '16
Palmer, George J ............. Oct. 27, '15
Peacock, Christina P .......... Oct. 5, '15
Rauch, Alexander ........... Mar. 4, '16
Reed, Benjamin H ........ : ... Nov. 7, '15
Roberts, Samuel A ........... May 15, '16
Sherriff, Henry ............. Dec. 14, '15
Smith, Eliza J ............... Oct. 30 1 '15
Trampleasure, Thos. E .....• ·.. Mar. 8, '16
Vallient, Susan E ..........•.. Nov. 17, '15
Zuan, Sebastian ............. April 16, '16
VOLUNTARY DEPARTURES-2.
Beck, John ................. April 29, '16
Wade, Reuben A. S ........... April 13, '16

BURIED AT
Modesto
Deco to
Decato
Decato
Decato
Dutch Flat
Los Angeles
Decato
Deco to
San Francisco
Centerville
Decato
Decato
Decato
Deco to
San Francisco
San Francisco
Sacramento
Deco to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
THE COVINA HOME.

We ean most effectively introduce the new Home at Covina to the
Grand Lodge1 by quoting a portion of a letter written by one o~ o~r
older girls to a girl who left the home two years ago. The quotation llJ
modified only to avoid personalities mentioned in the letter:
"The dry stubble of a recent grain field in the midst of the orange
groves of Covina was disturbed one October morning by a string of
teams hauling in lumber, and the stillness of the spot was soon broken
by the noise of hammers and the hum of saws. In a few .we.eks the
scene was transformed as dozens of eqildren raced on the h1lls1de and
shouted in childish joy of the outdoor life.
''A new building, crowded, odd, no ceilings, no plaster, but convenient, novel and jolly, and the children were happy. A little cold in
the winter a little hot in the summer, but oh, so homelike and pleasant,
The schoo{ was new but so much better. Better playmates, better build·
ing and an auto tru~k to call for the children and bring them home again.
No church was near and no Sunday school room was provided in the
building, but it was' just so nice to bunch up all together in the living
rooms and have a Sunday school all their own. One of the Trustees
acted as Superintendent, one of the girls as pianist, and each Sunday
new quartettes and solos were arranged. Then one Sunday the Trustee
couldn't come out and he asked one of the older girls to lead the school.
It was :fine. Then one of the boys wanted to try it, and now the different children eagerly wait their turn to conduct the Sunday school. No
Sunday school in all California is more interesting.
''Soon flowers were planted, geraniums in green banks, the tall
cosmos and dahlias did so well and the violets, pansies, daisies, and
asters all rewarded us for the care we gave them. And the wild :flowers
were so plentiful and several million poppies right in front of the house.
It may. take a long time to grow big trees, but the sweet :flowers come to
us quickly and plentifully.
·
''And now the big buildings are going up. How wonderful they
are. How instruetive as it is all explained, and how generous Masons
are to do all this for children''.
The above quotation presents ii: true expression of the splendid
manner the children displayed in adjusting themselves to the new conditions, and their evident appreciation of the necessary steps contingent
to such a move.
The Home life was only intensified by the move. Inspired to greater
effort by new surroundings, the same spirit prevailed in their lessons,
training and discipline.
Their music has continued the same. Their dancing, ,art work,
sewing, etc., occupy the girls, and the boys have built pens for rabbits,
houses for pigeons, and laid out small tracts of grounds for vegetables.

83

Under the skilled direction of Eddie Maier and Doc White of the
"Tigers", the boys have advanced in base ball and have taken many
honors. Never in the past has Charter Oak school, where the boys
attend, ever had representatives to qualify for the track meet. This
year, with our boys alone, they won the greater number of points in the
valley schools, competing against well trained teams.
The indoor diversions of the children are many, and while our
Matron is most resourceful in providing something new from time to
time, the children display much originality in occupying their play hours
with healthful and suitable amusement. A social evening is given once
a week for dancing, card games, etc., for the older ones, and lighter
games for the little ones. A reading or ''story hour'' occurs practically
every day and their music, both instrumental and chorus work, is conducted in such a manner as to inspire interest and cause them to anticipate the new features with the greatest pleasure. Each child 'e birthday
is celebrated with a large cake and candles, and suitable floral decorations are placed on the table at which the child is seated. The child
cuts the cake and personally passes it to the children. A ringing
''call'' is always given and the event is thus pleasantly recognized.
All holidays, patriotic events, and anniversaries are celebrated in
suitable ways. St. Valentine's Day v.ith appropriate cards, Easter with
lilies and "rabbit eggs"· May .Day with baskets, Memorial Day with
flags, Fourth of July with pyrotechnics, Halloween with pumpkin faces
and masked party, and even St. Patrick's Day and All Fools' Day are
becomingly recognized. The birthdays of Lincoln, and Washington,
and Admission Day are remembered, and Thanksgiving Day is always a
treat.
'The children are given impromptu holidays by the Lodges, Shrine
an.d Eastern Star Chapters, and many visits of Grand Officers, Lodges,
or other Masonic Bodies, are turned into active occasions by something
novel, arranged either by the visitors or by the children. It is not practical to mention all visitations, but those particularly pleasant and en·
joyable since our last report were as follows:
October 3d. Grand Master and Mrs. Bledsoe visited the children
and so.t at the table with them at supper. The children gave an impromptu program and Brother Bledsoe gave them one of the most
pleasant and beneficial talks they ever heard. Our good Brother seemed
inspired for the occasion.
October 6th. Harbor Chapter No. l'i4, 0. E. S., o~ San Pedro,
visited the Home and left a dozen very attractive single comforts. for
the little girls' beds. The children responded with a program.
October 30th. Judge and Mrs. Wells took part in the Halloween
party of ghosts, fairies, imps, gargoyles, gnomes, pumpkin faces,
witches, etc.

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

November 1st. No one is ever more welcomed among the children
than Brother John Whicher. Every child feels intimately acquainted'
with him. They made this occasion pleasant for him, too.
November 14th. Golden West Commandery Band made their annual
visit to the Home and played a number of selections. Thia Band of
good hearted Masons has a strong claim on the children, who have not
the opportunity of seeing even the street parade of a circus or political
meeting, where bands are playing. This is a valued treat for the
youngsters.
November 14th. Brother William Henry Gaynor, Grand High Priest
of California, with his wife and daughter, and Brother Harry Ascroft,
Grand Lecturer of the Grand Chapter, visited the Home and had dinner
with the childrel'. Brother Gaynor is no stranger to the Home, and is
much interested, while Brother Ascroft has been adopted by the childl'.en
as their own. He is always prepared with new jokes and stories and
they would not trade him for the whole Orpheum circuit.
December 12th. Long Beach Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S., visited
the Home. This most generous Chapter and its strong ally, the Shrine
Club of Long Beach, are strong in heart and pocket for our children.
These good ladies and brethren are thoughtful the year around, and
are always providing for both the pleasure and comfort of the children.
They not only give the sunshine of their presence and spirit to the
children, but also fruits, melons, etc., and the big thirty pound bucket
of candy from the Shrine Club always comes along with ''Pop'' Bennett,
Brother Cleveland or some other good brother. Each year this Chapter
has presented one dollar to the personal account of every child, which
starts a saving fund as an inspiration for the child to add to it. The
Board of Trustees are much indebted to these representatives of Long
Beach.
December 19th. Jasmine Chapter No.145 of Azusa always visits us
the Sunday before Christmas. This is positively "Jasmine Day". This
year caught us just the day after we moved and in much disorder, and
our "Sunday clothes" not yet unpacked. We believe our visitors en·
joyed the situation all the more, and especially the fact that we had
moved so close to them, being now but half a dozen miles from their hall.
They left the usual big box of home made candy for each child and gav:e
us liberal Christmas greetings. The children responded with a program ..
December 23rd. The Masons of Covina and their families gave the
children a good House warming in their new temporary buildings. It
was an overflow of heart and soul. Nothing could convince the BoarcJ.
of Trustees more than this meeting that they had selected a truly Masonic
neighborhood where the children were among friends. The welcome
was most gratifying. We believe all reading this report would be
interested in their program.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

85

If ymn, "Adeste Fideles " ...................•... Chorus and Audience
fnvocation · · · · · · ·• • · .. · · · • · .................... Rev. Alfred Fletcher
Mnsie · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .................. Ukulele Club
Aihlress of welcome on behalf of the City of Covina.Rev. S. J. McConnell
V0<ial Solo · .. · · .. · • · · · · · · ·· .. · ................ l\:t:rs. J. L. Matthews
Athlress of welcome on behalf of the Masonic bodies .... H. N. Wells,
Eminent Commander Covina· Commandery No. 49, Knights Templar
MnHic · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... · . · · ................... Ukulele Club
Atldress of welcome on behalf of the Order of the Eastern Star
. ........... Mrs. W. W. Nash, Worthy Matron, La Paloma Chapter
Vocal Solo.········.········ ....................•... Miss Leta Nash
Address of welcome on behalf of the schools ...........•.......
· · · · · · · · · · · · · ... ·· ..... Prof. J. J. Morgan, Supervising Principal
Hcsponse on behalf of Masonic Orphans' Home .... E. B. Spencer, Trustee
Hymn, "Hark the Herald Angels Sing" .......... Chorus and Audience
l•:xercises by children of Masonic Home.
January and February. Many interested in seeing the children in
their temporary buildings called. It was a month of continuous visits.
Most of them were highly pleased with the buildings and all agreed on
the location.
March 5th. A big day for the children. Brother Whicher called
with his brid~. They sa~g parodies composed for the occasion, gave him
nnd Mrs. Wh1cher a real hve welcome, and had the living room and dining
room decorated in poppies and eolors in their honor. No one ever re·
ceived "well wishing" and "God speed" with more real sincerity and
tru~ honest e~pressions for a life of real joy, than these children gave
their good frrnnd and benefactor, Brother John Whieher. Mrs. Whieher
won every heart when the children visited the Fair, and this trip brought
her nearer and dearer to them.
March 26th. University Lodge No. 394 always has a "Home Day"
~h~y attend in large numbers and bring a ''program'' with them; cons1strng of. talented members of their families. This was a very pleasant
occasion.
Ma.reh 26th. Brother Perry Winslow Weidner, while deeply interested in our c.hildren, and particularly the boys, and often visits them at
ball and other diversions as an individual, made this visit as Grand
Commander of Knights Templar of California. He addressed the children in his big hearted, sincere and most interesting manner which
impressed the children both of the cyigness and the goodness of the man.
~he beat asset the c~ildren possess ·is the friends they make among the
big men of the State m the Fraternity. Such visits are not only pleasant,
but of great value to these young active minds.
April ~5th. Our boys Cadet Drill Team attended Field Day of the·
Commandenes of Southern California at Pasadena as the guests of
Pasadena Commandery No. 31. They were accorded many courtesies.

87

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

April 24th. East Gate Lodge No. 290 gave a "Home Evening" at
their hall which was largely attended by ladies. Four of our girls were
on this program and an address was given by a member of the Board.
May 13th. Al Malaikah Shrine, under the direction of ''Daddy
Silverwood", Potentate, secured special c11-rs and took the children to
the Shrine picnic at Eagle Rock Park. Every concession, games, merrygo-round, pictures, etc., was given them. The only thing short was time
to take them all in. They were generous in their prizes for races, etc.,
and our children received special prizes of unusual merit.
May 14th. Visit of Brother Leo Bruck, wife and friends. Brother
Bruck has won the children not only by his deep interest which he manifests so generously at times, but his music stands to them as a milestone
for them to reach, which he modestly tells them is easy to do. The ?hildren swarm around him at the Home and keep him playing at the piano
for hours. Brother Bruck is only a little older child himself, and puts a
spirit in the game when he is with them.
May 20th. Corner-stone laying. (See Brother Whicher 's account

with some of the leading performers of the country, and over three
hundred others participating. The expense of the camp, exclusive of
maintenance and supplies, is provided from the Christmas fund which is
sent in by many lodges every Christmas. If these thoughtful and generous lodges could visit this camp in a body and witness the round of real,
healthy childish joy, they would feel many times compensated for their
Christmas remembrance aside from the delight of Christmas time. The
camp is operated under self government. The children nominate and elect
their officers at a primary and general election, and the work is all done
by committees. Advancement on committees is made on a thorough merit
system, and the entertainment and disciplinary features excel many
organizations composed of older people.
Many favors from active and interested Masons have been received
and en,ioyed the past year. Some have inconvenienced themselves much
to be of service.
Brother Percy L. Nash, who first called our attention to our new
site, bas been of much assistance in arranging with all the utility companies, and gave us valuable counsel in our farm work. His pleasing
personality bas won the children and we count him one of our fast friends.
Our exceptional health record is largely due to the always timely and
willing attention of Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor, assisted by his wife, Dr. Nannie
Dunsmoor, and son, Dr. Robert Dunsmoor. Our reports have been strong
in commendation of Dr. Dunsmoor's work, which grows with our big
family each year.
A new and valuable friend of the children is Dr. C. Deichmiller of
Oriental Lodge, who has given much special attention to the children's
teeth. He bas examined every child's teeth and done much work for
them. The Doctor's only compensation is the gratitude of the children,
and appreciation of the Fraternity.
Miss Dorothy Lyndall continues faithfully to give our girls their
classic dancing, although our present quarters makes her work a little
difficult. Miss Lyndall 's work with the girls is much appreciated by all
friends of the Home, and particularly the girls benefited by her instruction.
Miss Theresa Costa with the string instruments, and Mrs. Lela
Buckham with the piano, have brought out splendid results, particularly
with the beginners.
Miss Leta Nash, a popular and gifted son~stress of Covina, daughter
of Brother P. L. Nash, has given the children training in chorus work
and bas added much to musical instructions of the Home.
Brother William Schneider, of Silver Trowel Lodge, extends favors
every month in the year with generous treats and gifts of clothing, etc.
At camp this year he brought out thirty-five sides of lambs and barbecued them for the children. He also brought his own dressings and a
big sack of rolls. The children photographed him for their records, but

86

in body of Trustees' report.)
May 21st. Ellen Beach Yaw, known to the world as "Lark Ellen",
is a neighbor of the children. This was her first visit to the Home, and
she gave them a rare treat in many selections of· her own composition, and
many by eminent composers suited to her voice.
June 16th. Some of the children assisted in a program given by
Monrovia Lodge at an open air theatre. The Lodge called for them in
autos and brought them home. Monrovia treated them royally.
June 21st-22d. One of the big even ts of ,the year in Masonry was the
Triennial Conclave of the Knights Templar of the United States, held
in Los Angeles, and of much interest to the children. Mas~ns of .Los
Angeles and Covina assembled in their autos and took the children ~n a
body to witness the striking features of this great event. They provi~ed
them with lunches, shows, rides and other treats, and made the occasion
one long to be remembered.
July 13th. Grand Master Robert Hewitt DeWitt, of the Grand
Council, and Grand Lecturer Henry Ascroft, visited the children. Brother
DeWitt gave them a splendid talk and Brother Ascroft gave ne': readings and stories. After a dinner with th~ children ;sro~her De~i~t had
the boys around him for an hour deeply mterested m his description of
the high Sierras of California near his home.
July 28th. Went to camp at Balboa. The camp life this year was
most enjoyable, and possessed many interesting features. Th~ first week
witnessed a water carnival, with many decorations and aquatic features,
in which the children participated. The canal on which our camp is
located was selected by a prominent Feature Play Company to represent
the river Ganges in India, and the children had the unusual and instruct.ive experience of seeing the full detail of making an expensive film

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the strongest impression of him is photographed on their minds for all
time.
Brother William Kettner is a staunch friend of the Home. He has
sent the children many souvenirs of our National capital and has them
on the mailing list of the different departments, from which they receive
many valuable additions to their library.

DONATIONS TO COVINA HOME.
DON OB.

ARTICLES.

Dr. and Mrs. B. C. Davies ..•....... Candies, fruits, etc., many times.
F. E. Edwards, S. F ............... 15 games "Yoo·Pla".
W. J. Brenner ...............•.... Toys, beads, etc.
Clinton C. Hyner ....•....•.......• 53 drawing books.
Mrs. Gertrude B. Andreae .........• Quantities of jams and jellies.
Mrs. Mary Purcell, Oakland ....••.. Candy for all.
Mr. and Mrs. Jas. J. Thomas, Columbus, Ohio........•..•........ Treats several times a year.
Pasadena Chapter No. 108 0. E. S ... Ice cream.
Mrs. C. Prochazka ................. Clothing.
Henry S. Jones .............•..•... 15 doz. pencils, 29 penholders, 42 auto·
matic pencils, 18 erasers, 5 compasses,
7 pen knives, 3 pencil books, 3 sharp·
eners, 6 large pencils, 4 doz. pen points,
9 Christmas books, 5 combination pencils.
Miss Lily M. Thomas, Columbus, 0 ... Treats.
D. A. Munger .....•......•• , ..•..• Treats and pennants.
R. Shaw, Hollister ....•........••.• Candy.
C. E. Boag, Hollywood ...........•. Books.
Harry Ascroft ...........•....••. Candy.
Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Biggs ..•......• Homemade candy.
Wilshire Chapter No. 329 0. E. S .... Jams and jellies.
R. E. Shore, Lemoore, Calif......... 12 boxes magazines.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173 0. E. S .. $75.00 for banks, apples and candy.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145 0. E. S .... Homemade candy.
Ladies of Shrine Band ..•.....•••.• 24 ties, 20 hair ribbons, 10 knit caps.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, Hanford ..• Christmas present for every child.
Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Thomas, Columbus,
'
Ohio ......•......••.•..•.•...• 4 volumes American Natural History.
F. B. (Daddy) Silverwood .......... Bank accounts and 75 boxes candy.
Covina Lodge No. 334 .............. Sacks of nuts and candy.
La Paloma Ch11pter No. 202 O. E. S .. Sacks of candy and nuts.
William Schneider .•• , •••••••.•••• Clothing, toys, and saek walnuts.
P. L. Nash ....................... Christmas tree.

DONOR.

89

ARTICLES.

Los Angeles Council No. 11 ..•..•... Victrola.
Oroville Lodge No. 103 .....•......• Three gallons ripe olive.s.
San Raphael Chapter No. 215 0. E. S.. Toys, dolls, games, ete.
Watts and Wilson .............•... 35 sacks potatoes.
William Hoogendyk .........•....• Box of oranges.
Charter Oak Citrus Association ...... Many boxes of oranges.
Pasadena Commandery No. 31 ..•... Supplies from big banquet, bats, balls,
mask and mitt.
F. B. Comfort, University Lodge. . . . Many, many favors and treats.
C. L. Hulce ........ , .•... , ..•..•. ,Fruits many times,
J. V. Eliot ..........•........•..•. 3 sacks potatoes, 2 sacks walnuts, 2 sacks
vegetables, 6 doz. eggs.
Hollywood 0. E. 8. Constellation .... Comforts and 16 girls' gowns.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor ..•....•...•..• Sterescope and 100 views.
Al Malaikah Shrine .............••• 300 lbs. chicken, 400 rolls, 3 boxes celery,
good prizes at picnic,
University Lodge No. 394 .....•... ,Chocolates.
Carmi Wyekoff-12 years old ...•... Five pounds of candy.
Velorus Wyckoff-10 years old ..... ,Five pounds of walnuts.
F. J. Hamilton ....•.....•........ Treat.
Mrs. Brooks, Pasadena ............. Treats.
G. 0. Dudderar .................... 68 sacks candy and other favors.
J. Todd Cook and wife ......•..... , 10 doz. large candy eggs.
East Gate Lodge No. 290 ........... Favors to many and 50 boxes candy.
Eddie Maier ......••.......•...... 5 bats1 2 masks, Home plate, 3 bases, 3
bags for bases, catcher's glove, first
base glove, shin guards, stomach protectors, finger mitts, 12 balls.
Gardena Chapter No. 260 O. E. S ..... 54 quarts canned fruit.
South Gate Lodge No. 320 .......•.. Big banquet called off by death of guest.
Supplies given to children.
Mrs. D. J. Brownstein ........•..... Clothing, books, toys and games.
William Klusmann ..............•. 10 lb. boxes chocolate several times, also
melons at camp.
Huntington Park 0. E. S. Auxiliary. Made 8 aprons, 9 night gowns.
J. C. Hutchinson .................. Files of Youth Companions.
University Lodge • . . . . . . • . . . . . • • • • Lunch at K. T. parade.
J. S. Fogel. .... , ...............•. Passes to Republic Theater.
Seilig Zoo ........................ Free admissions.
K. T. General Committee ........... Banquet supplies.
Fresno Commandery ...........•... 45 boxes seeded raisins.
H. R. MeLa:fl'erty ..•..........•.... 2 crates grapes.
Oron 0. Davis ..•........•..•..•..• Bunch bananas, 2 boxes of gum.
J. P. Greeley ..•.....•..•..•..••••. Candy.
Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Reinhart ..•.... ,Admission to Theater Balboa.

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RESIDENTS AT COVINA HOME.

GIRLS 24.

The following is a complete list of the children of the Covina Home,
the date of their admission, their respective ages, the names and numbers
of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such Lodges:
BOYS 32, ADULTS
NAME.

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

1.
NO.

LO(JATION.

AGE.

Ba;nach, Harry L ... May 23, 1916
Borland, John C..... May 21, 1913
Borland, Robert M .. . May 21, 1913
Brown, Herbert E ... June 15, 1915
Brown, Edmund E ... June 15, 1915

La Par:fiate Union 17 San Franeiseo.11
Richmond ....... 375 San Franeiseo.11
Richmond •...... 375 San Francisco.12
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles .. 10
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles .. 12
Caldwell, George H .. Oct. 20, 1913 Board of Relief ..
San Franeisco.10
Evers, Emory V ..... May 27, 1914 Live Oak ....... 61 Oakland ....• 14
Fisher, Harrison .... Mar. 8, 1914
Fisher, John E ...... Mar. 8, 1914
Fisher, William D ... April 10, 1915
French, Ferdinand .. April 7, 1906
Gill, George Harvey. Dec. 14, 1912

Presidio ........ 354 SanFraneisco. 7
Presidio ........ 354 San Francisco. 9
Presidio ........ 354 San Francisco.IO
Ashlar .••....... 306 Colton ...... 14
Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles .. 11

Howard, Homer E ... Feb. 17, 1913
Howard, Lester W ... Oct. 1, 1912
Hyner, Lewis ....... June 14, 1912

Oriental ........ 144 San Francisco. 8
Oriental ........ 144 San Franeisco.15
Volcano ........ 56 Volcano ..... 12

Lakey, Myron ..... Mar. 1, 1910 Gardena .....•.• 372 Gardena ..... 17
Mooneyham, Wm. O... Jan. 29, 1916 Upland ........ .419 Upland ..... 9
Neustadt, Lawrence June 20, 1914 Sunset •.•.•..... 352 Los Angeles .. 11
Parke, Stanley E .... Feb. 28, 1916
Quinton, Albert .... Dee. 18, 1909
Ramsay, Frederick .. April 19, 1910
Riley, Jahiel T ...... April 11, 1911
Robert, Albert L ..... Aug. 11, 1913
Raftery, Earl A ..... April 11, 1913
Rice, James Peter ... July 2, 1915
Smith, Robert ...... Nov. 7, 1915
Tate, Lawrence M ... Aug. 16, 1912
Tilston, Ceeyl C..... Sept. 23, 1913

Sequoia ......... 349
Mission ......... 169
. . . . . . •. . . . . . •. . •
Martinez ....... 41
Volcano . . . . . . . . 56
Mizpah ......... 378
Golden Gate ...• 30
University ...... 394
Table Mountain .124
Los Banos ...... 312

Oakland ••... 9
San Franeisco.11
. ............ 14
Martinez .... 15
Volcano ....• 14
Los Angeles .. 10
San Thancisco. 8
Los Angeles .. 3
Cherokee .... 16
Los Banos .... 15

Westfall, John B .... Aug. 18, 1913
Wingate, James B .... Feb. 20, 1911
Wingate,.'DonaldMcL.Feb. 20, 1911
Wehe, Vietor ...... Aug. 28, 1913
Bettes, Adoniram L .. Aug. 17, 1900

Bakersfield ...... 224 Bakersfield .. 11
Mission .......... 169 San Franeisco.16
Mission •......... 169 San Franeisco.11
Amity .....•.... 370 San Francisco.IO
Pasadena .•..... 272 Pasadena .... 73

:o'1 AME.

LODGE.

ADMITTED.

Basenach, Clarice M.May 23, 1916
Brown, Margaret ... Jan. 30, 1910
Buletti, Margherita .Nov. 10, 1907
Borland, Jessie G.... May 21, 1915
Fisher, Ruth H ...... Mar. 8, 1914
Fisher, Alice E ...... Mar. 8, 1914
Fisher, Mauriel ..... Mar. 8, 1914
Ferguson, Blanche B.June 16, 1916
Ferguson Esther M .. June 16, 1916
:F'rench, Ismena ......Dee. 30, 1903
Ryner, Edith G...... June 14, 1908
Mooneyham,MyrtleM.Jan. 29, 1916
Neustadt, Henrietta June 20, 1914
Pritchard, Ruth E ... June 14, 1915
Riley, Effie A. M .... April 11, 1911
Riley, Rebecca ..... April 11, 1911
Ramsey, May ...... April 19, 1910
Robert, Emily E ..... Aug. 27, 1910
Raftery, Bernice .... May 11, 1913
Stevens, Irene ...... Feb. 25, 1910
Virgo, Alice M ...... Dec. 5, 1913
Virgo, Sadie V ...... Dec. 5, 1913
Virgo, Winifred .... Dec. 5, 1913
Yeager, Isabelle .... Aug. 30, 1916

91
NO.

LOCATION.

AGE.

La Parfiate Union 17
Wilmington ..... 198
Speranza-Italiana 219
Richmond ....... 375
Presidio ........ 354
Presidio ........ 354
Presidio ........ 354
Humboldt ....... 79
Humboldt ....... 79
Ashlar .......... 306
Volcano ........ 56
Upland ......... 419
Sunset .......... 352
Phoenix ........ 178
Martinez . . • . . . . 41
}{artinez ....... 41

San Francisco. 7
Wilmington .. 13
SailiFrancisco.17
San Francisco. 8
San Franeiseo.12
San Franeiseo.14
San Francisco. 6
Eureka ..... 13
Eureka ...... 11
Colton ...... 16
Volcano ..... 16
Upland ..... 15
Los Angeles .. 13
S. Bernardino.14
Martinez ..•• 12
Martinez ...• 9

Volcano ......•• 56
Mizpah ......... 378
Agreement Bd. Trst.
Mizpah ......... 378
Mizpah ......... 378
Mizpah ......... 378
Inglewood ..... .421

Volcano ..... 17
Los Angeles. . 8
............. 14
Los Angeles .. 10
Los Angeles. . 8
Los Angeles. . 6
Inglewood ... 14

............. 12

DEPARTURES DURING THE YEAR-16.

Andreae, Frederick .... Nov. 24, 1915
Brown, Newell ......... July 6, 1916
Buletti, Antonio ....... July 28, 1916
Crego, William Hunter .. June 24, 1916
Crego, Dorothy E ....... June 24, 1916
Lakey, Dale ........... Nov. 12, 1915
Pattison, K. S. T ....... Oct. 17, 1915
Pattison, Francis H ..... Oct. 17, 1915
Schultz, Charles L ....... Oct. 20, 1915
Shain, David H ......... Oct. 23, 1915
Siegel, Nellie .......... Sept. 11, 1915
Siegel, Halcyon ........ Sept. 11, 1915
Siegel, Charles Robert ... Sept.11, 1915
Trumbull, Mary ..•.... Nov. 19, 1915
Westfall, Grayce E .•... Sept. 5, 1915
Westfall, Louise E ...... Sept. 5, 1915

Guardian appointee by court.
Position in Los Angeles.
Returned to Lodge.
To live with father.
To live with father.
Transferred to George .TuniorRepublic.
Withdrawn by lodge.
Withdrawn by lodge.
Dismissed.
Mother remarried.
Transferred to Montana.
Transferred to Montana.
Transferred to Montana.
Transferred to Decoto.
Adopted in Los Angeles.
Adopted in Los Angeles.

92

93

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Report of the Committee on Endowment was presented, and consideration thereof was fixed for 11 o'clock
Thursday morning. Following is the Report:

Because of these needed improvements, and others which will arise,
it is absolutely essential that a large endowment fund be raised as early
as possible, in order that the tax upon the individual Mason and upon
our subordinate lodges be reduced at the earliest possible time. From
the figures following, you will note that progess has been made.

REPORT OF ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE, MASONIC
HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Endowment Fund-July 31 1 1914:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
We, members of your Endowment Committee, Masonic Homes of
California, appointed by the Grand Master at the close of the last Grand
Lodge, beg to report that this very important matter has received our
most thoughtful and careful consideration.
The results secured during the year, while eminently satisfactory,
have not been as great as we had hoped, having in view the splendid
object for which we are striving.

Municipal and public utility bonds ............ $37,237.50
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
981.00

The status of the Endowment Fund, as of date July 31, 1916, is
as follows:

Total . . . .. ........................... $41,381.20

Cash on hand ................................ $11,300.38
Securities .................................. 55,387.50
Total ................................. $66,687.88
Which is a net increase over last year of more than $25,000.
All moneys and securities are in the hands of the Grand Treasurer
of this Grand Lodge.
Throughout the year, a most active and energetic campaign has been
carried on. This has entailed a voluminous correspondence, but has
brought good results. Following the custom previously established, a general letter was sent to all individual Masons of this Grand Jurisdiction,
under date of March 30, 1916, and read as follows:
ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Letter No. 3
My Dear Brother:-

March 30, 1916.

Once more we are calling your attention to the necessity of the
Endowmen"t Fund for the support of the Masonic Homes of California,
consisting of our great property at Decoto, Alameda County, where our
old people are domiciled, and our property at Covina, Los Angeles
County, where our Orphans' Home is located.
The new dormitory building at Decoto has been finished and is now
occupied, and plans are being prepared for the erection of the concrete buildings for the·Orphans Home at Covina.

Total .................................. $38,218.50
Endowment Fund-July 31, 1915:
Municipal and public utility bonds ............ $39,237.50
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,143.70

Endowment Fund-February 1, 1916:
Municipal and public utility bonds ............ $53,362.50
Cash . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,162.18
Total . . . . . . .......................... $54,524.68
In a speech delivered by the Hon. Henry D. Estabrook, a short time
ago, on "Truth-Business and Political," he said among other things:

''Our Vice-President, Mr. Marshall, occasioned much ribald laughter
in some quarters because he said in one of his speeches that the right
to inherit was not an inherent or natural right, but was founded altogether on custom or statute, and therefore subject at all times to legislative regulations. There is nothing in this statement to laugh at. Mr.
Marshall uttered a truism, and I predict that as this truth becomes more
'generally recognized, we will witness a development of the principle of
the inheritance tax that will cause laughter out of the other corner of
the mouth. For the state has the power to say, and I am not sure that it
is not its duty to say to· every man: Have your fling-get all the fun you
can out of life-work. not only for your necessities, but for the joy of
working-gain what knowledge you can-gain what wealth you canspend your wealth as you please, or not at all-give it aw~~ to those ~ou
love or to those you hate-but know this: that your domm10n ends with
your life! All you can hold in your dead, cold hand is what you have
given away! In other words, by givin 'in presenti,' you may evade the
law without cheating it, for the law leaves you the alternative, Give or
surrender! I am not sure, I say, but what this would be best for the
state, for the man himself while living, and for all parties concerned
after he has ceased to live.''

94

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

No greater truth ever was spoken than is contained in the excerpt
above, and the quotation is sent to our brethren with the hope that when
they are preparing their wills, such amounts as they feel they can give
will be bequeathed to the :\Iasonic Homes of California. Ask your
lawyer in preparing your will to provide for this bequest.
Some of our brethren, among them two residing at San Fernando,
Los Angeles County, have taken out life insurance policies in favor of
the Masonic Homes of California, and have forwarded these policies to
the Secretary of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, with instructions
that they be notified when premiums are due.
Many of our members could take out such policies for reasonable
amounts, making the Masonic Homes of California the beneficiary, and
this without any very serious burden, financially. Such a plan would
ultimately result in materially increasing our Endowment Fund.
One of our very distinguished Masons, an Inspector of a Masonic
district, is arranging for what is to be known as "Endowment Day,"
one day specifically designated as that upon which every Mason shall
contribute what he feels able toward the Endowment Fund. Such gen·
eral publicity not only acquaints the individual Mason with what we
are trying to do, but gives enthusiastic interest in this splendid work.
Another excellent suggestion, made by one of the Masonic brothers
in Los Angeles, is that each Mason in our jurisdiction set aside ten
cents each week for one year, to be ~dded to the Endowment Fund. Such
a plan would involve no real sacrifice on the part of any one, and would
amount, in round figures, to a very greatly increased Fund, for we have
over 50,000 Masons in our jurisdiction, and the $260,000 which the
working out of such a plan would add would be of material assistance.
Some of our brethren also are sending us small cash donations, all
of which are very thankfully received.
While the work of the Endowment Committee has progressed very
satisfactorily, if all of our brethren could appreciate the great good
that would be accomplished by bringing this Fund to such a figure that
the income therefrom would pay for the maintenance of these splendid
Masonic charities, our Fraternity would be a much greater factor in
the world's welfare than is possible now.
·
Reflect upon the suggestions that have been offered, write us what
you think of them, and give us any other icleas which you believe would
help in the creation of an adequate Endowment Fund.
Fraternally yours
(Signed by the Committee)
At the suggestion of Brother George F. Rodden, Inspector of the
35th Masonic district, who had given the matter very careful thought,
it was decided to hold an annual endowment Day, until our Fund shall

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

95

reach an amount of sufficient size, the income from which will support
our Home.
Thanksgiving Day, November 30, 1916, was decided upon as En·
dowment Day for this year, and through the office of the Grand Secre·
tary form letters are being supplied to the master of each lodge, to be
mailed by him to every one of his members, advising them fully of
our purpose and urging their support. The letter is as follows:
ENDOWMENT DAY

For the
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
THANKSGIVING DAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1916

Dear Sir and Brother:
Disregarding all other considerations, the Masonic jurisdiction of
California fulfills the purpose of its being, by the tender care and protection extended to its needy old at the Masonic Home at Decoto and
the dependent young at Covina.
But, glorious as the work is, and approved by the Most High as it
must be, it is accomplished only after the imposition of a per capita
tax upon the subordinate lodges which many of them find difficulty in
meeting, and which must result, in many cases, in financial compli·
cations.
Our own lodge, for instance, at the tax rate of $1.50 per member,
is called upon to remit annually for the maintenance of these Homes
approximately $ - - - - , which amount, added to the 90 cents per capita
for Grand Lodge dues, makes no inconsiderable sum.
Recognizing these facts, the Grand Lodge some years ago appointed
an Endowment Committee, with the purpose of raising an Endowment
Fund of $1,000,000, fr-0m the earnings of which the Homes could be
maintained, and as a result of which the subordinate lodges would be
relieved from all further taxation.
With the idea of aj!sisting the Endowment Committee so far as
possible, a plan was evolved by Brother George F. Rodden, Inspector of
the 35th Masonic district, which, submitted to the Grand Master, Chairman of the Endowment Committee, and many other wise and experienced
leaders, has met with hearty approval and support.
The plan simply contemplates the cooperative assistance of our
sixty thousand brethren. It provides that once each year the Grand
Master shall specify a day, to be known throughout the jurisdiction
as "Endowment Day", when it is expected that each Mason will con·
tribute toward the Fund whatsoever his means will permit.
It must be obvious that even so small a sum as one dollar from
each one of us added to the many contributions from other sources
will soon bring about the happy result.

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Every lodge must do its part, and every Mason his share. Thanks·
giving Day, November 30, has been designated "Endowment Day'',
and I am convinced that your apprecin.tion of the tremendous i:m·
portance of this movement, together with your love ol' and pride in
the craft, will prompt a ready and generous response at that time.

The enthusiastic support of every member of this Grand Lodge is
needed for the success of Endowment Day, so that on next Thanksgiving
Day the Fund will be very materially increased. The plan is one which
should have the hearty approval and earnest cooperation of every brother
of our Grand Jurisdiction, for it is only in this way that Endowment
Day can be made a complete success.

Subscriptions may ·be made through the Secretary, Brother
........................•..... , whose address is ...••....•.....•.•
Don't fail to have your subscription in the hands of your secretary on or before Thanksgiving Day. It's a good plan to ''do it now''
Yours fraternally,
Worshipful Master.
Enclosed with this form letter is a subscription blank which reads:
ENDOWME])!T DAY
for the
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
THANKSGIVING DAY

NOVEMBER 30, 1916.

Bro..•...•.......................... , Secretary,
...................... Lodge No...... , F. & A. M.,

Dear Sir and Brother :
Enclosed herewith I hand you. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for $ .......... ,
my contribution toward Endowment Day, Thanksgiving, Thursday, No·
vember 30, 1916.
Name
Address ...•................ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
In addition, that ;po Brother of our Fraternity shall overlook En·
dowment Day, a post card reminder is to be mailed on November 16,
emphasizing the importance of the project, in the following words:
JUST A REMINDER
November 16, 1916.
THANKSGIVING DAY, Thursday, November 30, will be EN·
DOW:MENT DAY, for the purpose of raising one million dollar11
($1,000,000.00), the income of which will be used to support the Masonie
Homes of California.
HAYE YOU MADE YOUR CONTRIBUTION' If not, please <lo
so at once, forwarding same to our Secretary, Bro .................... ,
whose address is ..................... ..
Fraternally,
Worshipful Master.

97

It is again suggested and recommended that all attorneys, members
of our Grand ,Jurisdiction, be urged to make suitable provision for the
Masonic Homes of California in the preparation of wills of members of
the Fraternity who are well endowed with this world's goods. Quite a
number of our attorney brethren have cooperated in this way, but there
are many who have not thought of this important phase of the work.
The question of brethren taking out life insurance policies in favor of
the Masonic Homes of California is receiving more and more attention.
In all of these ways we are making progress, and as the years roll
on, the Endowment Fund will be something of which every Mason of
this Grand Jurisdiction will be extremely proud.

Respectfully submitted,
MOTLEY H. FLINT, Chairman, Los Angeles,
SAMUEL E. BURKE, Los Angeles,
CLAYTON F. DRAPER, Kingsburg,
GEORGE M. PERINE, San ,Jose,
BENJAMIN B. TUTTLE, ~avis,
FRANK K. TOWNE, Redwood City,
FREDERICK \V. CLOUGH, Angels Oam1i.
FREDERICK B. NICHOLS, Mccloud,
JOSEPH D. PILLSBURY, Dinuba,
Endowment Committee, Masonic Homes of California.

'rhe Grand Lecturer then read his Annual Report, as
follows:

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER.
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Once more have we assembled in Annual Communication to give
an account of our duties performed during the year. We thank the
Great Giver of all good for the bountiful prosperity our beloved Fraternity bas enjoyed, as the increase of membership and the number of
new Lodges indicate.
I have visited all the Districts throughout the length and breadth
of the State, and have held schools of instruction, both day and night
sessions, which were well attended by the officers and members, all

99

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

anxious to perfect themselves in the ritual. I have also given much in·
struction in my office to Inspectors, officers and members, and I am at
all times ready and willing to instruct the brethren when requested. I
did not however, visit the two Lodges compos~ng the 11th Masonic Dis1
trict, located in Mono county, the officers of these Lodges being so scattered, except during the winter months, that it is impossible to get
them together for instruction.
The Lodges generally have had a marked increase in the number of
petitions, which would indieate the general prosperity existing throughout the jurisdiction from a financial standpoint. Many Lodges are building new Temples, which add in a great measure to the interest of the
officers and members.
I have received reports from an the Inspectors, and they report
the Lodges under their supervision to be generally prosperous, and conforming to the ritual and floor work as taught by the Grand Lodge;
many of these reports showing in detail the average attendance at stated
and special meetings as well as giving a complete financial statement of
the Lodges in their Districts. It is a pleasure to note in these reports
the great increase of candidates who are learning and in open Lodge
are passing examinations in the Candidate's lecture of the Third degree,
and receiving therefor a Grand Lodge diploma certifying to their proficiency. Several of the Inspectors suggest that this lecture by made
compulsory, many jurisdictions making this obligatory. Personally, I
do not think it necessary in this State, as the Lodges are so generally
taking this up now by merely suggesting to the candidates that they
learn the lecture, that the purpose thereof is accomplished without the
necess.ity of a Constitutional requirement.
It has been my pleasure to accompany the Most Worshipful Grand
Master on many of his visits. These visits are greatly appreciated by
the J,odges, and do much good, by stimulating new interest in the Lodges
and among the brethren, making us all better and better Masons for
having heard the beautiful sentiments expressed, and by coming in contact with such an exemplary character. The fraternity regrets as well
as he that his health would not permit of the visits to the Lodges which
he had anticipated.
I desire to express my thanks and appreciation to the Inspectors
and brethren for their courtesies and assistance, which has not only
made my duties pleasant, but the performance much more satisfactory
and beneficial. The ·efficient work of the Inspectors cannot be too highly
commended, for their untiring efforts in maintaining and effectually
raising the standard of the work throughout the jurisdiction, whicll cannot be gainsaid, has greatly improved.
I am greatly indebted to the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary
for his ever ready and willing counsel at all times, and also for many

~ourtesies extended to me in his office, whieh has been of material help
rn my work.
The Sehools of Instruction for the benefit of the Inspectors and
Brethren in attendance at the Grand Lodge were held October 8th and
9th. These schools were well attended by the Inspectors and brethren
all manifesting a keen desire to perfeet themselves in the ritual am~
fioorwork.
0~ Wednesday evening, October 11th, the thircl degree will be
exemplified by brethren of Redwood City Lodge No. 168, for Starr King
L~dge No: 344, on a candidate to be furnished by Presidio Lodge No.
3a4, of this City.
On Thursday e\'ening, October 12th, the officers of Occidental Lodge
No. 22 will exemplify the first degree. These Lodges will endeavor to
exemplify the work as near letter perfect as it is possible and I am
s1'.re the brethren will not only be pleased, but materially benefited by
witnessing the eonferring of these degrees.
' ·

98

.

Too mueh cannot be said in favor of the plan suggested by the
Committee, and recommended by the Grand Master, for
the ra1smg of a fund sufficient to maintain the Homes, and which ulti·
mately will .mean ~he ~limination of the per capita tax now necessary to
levy. I beheve this will meet with much favor among the brethren and
Lodges.
Lodges of instruction have been held at the following plaees and
times:
1915
Endo"'.~ent

San Francisco ...... October 16-17
Richmond ............ October 28
Oakland •............ October 31
Adin .............. November 5
Alturas ..•........ November 6-7
Orland ............ November 10
McClou<l ........ November 13-14
Gridley ............ November 18
Chico ............. November 19
Arbuckle ...... , ... N ovembcr 20
Colusa ............. November 21
Woodland ......... November 22

Winters ........... November 23
Guerneville ......... November 26
Healdsburg ........ November 27
Santa Rosa ......... November 28
Benicia ............ November 29
Dixon ............. November 30
Sonoma ............ December 11
Petaluma .......... December 12
Cherokee ........... December 18
Sacramento ...... December 19-27
Dixon .............. December 28
San .Jose ........... December 30

1916
Benicia ........... , ..Tanuary
Rio Vista .............Tanuary
Suisun .............. January
Woodland ........... January
Crockett ..............January

2
4
6
7
8

Stockton ............. January 10
Santa Rosa .......... January 11
Auburn .............•January 12
Penryn .............. January 13
Roseville ............ January 14

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1916
Yuba City .....•..... January 15
Marysville ........... January 16
Tracy ....•.•........ January 17
Oakdale ............. January 18
:M:odesto ..........•.. January 19
Turlock ..........•.. January 20
San Francisco ........ January 21
Los Banos ........•.. January 22
Antioch ............. January 23
Merced ............. l''ebruary 2
Fresno ............. February 3
Clovis .............. February 4
Sauger ............. February 5
Orosi ............... February 6
Kingsburg ..•....... February 7
Lindsay ............ February 8
Visalia ......•.....• 1''ebruary 9
Coalinga ........... February 10
Hanford ............ February 11
Delano ............. February 12
Bakersfield ......... February 13
Maricopa .•..•...... February 14
Lancaster .......... February 15
Los Angeles ........ February 16
Watts .............. February 17
San Pedro .......... February 18
Long Beach ........ February 19
Fullerton ........... February 20
San Bernardino ..... February 21
Needles ............ February 22
Redlands ........... February 23
Elsinore ............ February 24
San Jacinto ........ February 25
Riverside ........•.. February 26
El Monte ........... February 27
Monrovia ........... February 28
Azusa .............. February 29
Glendale .............. March 1
Pomona .............. March 2-3
Downey ............... March 4
San Fernando ......... March 5
Montebello ............ March 6
Norwalk .............. March 7
Alhambra ............. March 8
Pasadena ............. :M:arch 9

So. Pasadena ........•.. :M:arch 10
Brawley ....•......... March 11
El Centro •.•. ; •.•..... :M:arch 12
Holtville .............. March 13
San Diego ............. :M:arch 14
National City ......•... :M:arch 15
Escondido ............. March 16
Santa Ana ............ March 17
Sawtelle .............. March 18
Los Angeles .......•..• March 19
Berkeley .............. :M:arch 23
San Francisco ......... March 26
Walnut Creek ..•......• April 2
Linden ..............•.. April 4
Woodbridge ............ April 5
Riverbank .............. April 6
Manteca •.............. April 7
Galt ................... April 8
Elk Grove .............. April 9
Newman ............... April 10
Jackson ................ April 11
Plymouth .............. April 12
Ione ..............•.... April 13
Hollister .........•.. April 15-16
Oakland ............... April 19
Stony l''ord .......•.... April 22
Williams ............... April 23
San Jose .............. April 26
Los Gatos .............. April 27
San :M:ateo ............. April 29
Redwood City .....•.... April 30
Calistoga . . . . . . . . . . . . . May 3
Napa .............•..•.. May 4
Monterey ............... May 8
Salinas ................. May 9
King City .............. May 10
Paso Robles ............. May 11
San Luis Obispo .......... May 12
Santa Maria ............ May 13
Lompoc ................ May 14
Santa Barbara .......... May 15
Oxnard ................. May 16
Santa Paula ............ May 17
Los Angeles ..........•.. May 18
Santa Cruz .............. ~fay 21

101

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Rio Vista ............... May 23
Lincoln .....•..•........ May 24
Po Isom ........•........ May 25
Placerville •............. May 28
Angels Camp ............ :M:ay 29
Sonora ......••......... May 30
Tuolumne ............... May 31
Willows ................ June 5
Corning ................ June 6
Orland ..................Tune 7
Redding ................ June 8
Kennett ................ June 9
Anderson ..•............ June 10
Dunsmuir .............. June 11
Yreka .................. June 12
Sisson ........•..•...... June 13
Centerville ...............Tune 16
Brentwood ..•........... June 17
:M:artinez ............... June 18
Los Banos .....•........ June 19
Kerman ................ June 20
Selma ......•...........•Tune 21
Tehachapi .•.••......... June 22
Independence ............June 23
Bishop .........•....... June 24
Big Pine ............... June 25
Dutch Flat ............. June 29
Sierra ville .............. July 12
Beckwith ............... July 15
Truckee .................Tuly 17
Oakland .................Tuly 20
Arca ta ..................July 24
Fortuna ................ July 25
Ferndale ................ ,July 26
Eureka ..••............. July 27
Livermore •...•..•...... July 29

Mill Valley ............. July 31
Alameda ............. August 1
Vallejo ..•..••..•.... August 6-9
Richmond ............ August 8
Cloverdale ..•......... August 14
Fort Bragg ........... August 15
Mendocino ...........• August 16
Point Arena ..•....... August 17
Smartsville ........... August 19
Hammonton ...•...... August 20
Quincy ............... August 21
Greenville ............ August 22
Merced ............... August 25
Mariposa ............. August 26
Grass Valley .......•.. August 29
Nevada City .........• August 30
Campton ville .......... August 31
Alleghany ......... September 1
Sierra City ........ September 2
Downieville ........ September 3
Redwood City ...... September 8
Sonoma ....••..... September 11
Pinole ............ September 12
Lower Lake ........ September 15
Lakeport ........ September 16-17
Healdsburg ....•... September 18
Ukiah ............. September 19
Sebastopol ......•.. September 20
Windsor ........... September 21
San Francisco ..... September 22
Mountain View ..... September 24
Antioeh .....•..... September 29
Auburn .............. October 2
Sacramento .......... October 3
San Francisco ....... October 8-9

Thanking the Grand Lodge and the brethren for the honor antl confiden<'e they have reposed in me as their Grand Lecturer, I 11erewith submit
my Annual Report.
THOMAS J. BAKF.R,

Grand Lecturer.

Referred to a Special Committee consisting of Brothers
Arbogast, Adriance and Schmidlin.

BOARDS OF RELIEF.
The Grand Secretary presented the reports of the several
Boards of Relief, all which were referred to the Committee
on Finance.
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
We, hereby present the following report for the year beginning
August 24, 1915, and ending August 28, 1916, both dates inclusive:
The work during the past year has been nothing unusual, and the
amount expended for relief about the same as the average year, and
there is very little upon which we can comment. We have been given
assistance at all times by a great many Brethren of the Fraternity on
whom we called upon various matters, and have always found a ready
response and willingness to co-operate on all occasions.
We find the Fraternity at large very willing and anxious to do
something for the great Brotherhood, and believe that it is only from
lack of opportunity that a more active part is not taken by the membership of the Lodges.
We particularly desire to thank the following Brethren who havei
assisted us at all times with their professional skill and ability, and
their only compensation has been the thanks of those benefitted thereby.
It must be a source of great satisfaction to them to know the immense
amount of good that they have done during the year, from which came
no glory and no publicity. It is such work as these men are doing that
we may call true Masonic Charity. We refer to:
Doctors Winslow Anderson, H. I. Bloch, J. C. Egeberg, D. E. F.
Easton, George C. H. Franklin, Otto Freyermuth, A. S. Green, William
P. Read, Jacob Schwartz, George A. Wood, Wilhelm Waldeyer, and
A. W. L. Zillmer.
We want to call the attention of the Masters of the various
Lodges to the fact that the membership should be instructed in matters
pertaining to the actual management and work of the Lodge. The
amount of ignorance on this subject leads to a great many misunderstandings by the public in general, and by families of deceased Brethren. A little instruction will make better Masons and better men.
RECEIPTS.

TOTAL REFUNDS . .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . .

Assessments-City Lodges .................... $ 3,527.00
Interest on bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
510.00
Interest on deposits ......................... .
279.89
Old bank balance .....................•......
16.60
TOTAL CASH AVAILABLE ............ .

BOARD OF RELIEF OF SAN FRANCISCO.

Cash on hand August 24, 1915.................
Refunds-California Jurisdictions ............. $ 2,916.76
Refunds-Other Jurisdictions in United States.. 6,325.91
Refunds-Foreign Jurisdictions· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
321.00
Refunds-Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,635.48

103

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$ 8,555.59

$12,199.15

4,333.49
$25,088.23

DISBURSEMENTS.

Relief-California Jurisdiction ...... $3, 790.61
Relief-Other Jurisdictions in U. S ... 9,556.29
Relief-Foreign Jurisdictions ....... 1,659.56
Relief-Unknown Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . 360.00
Relief-Demitted Members . . . . . . . . . . 957.30
TOTAL RELIEF . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$16,323.76

• Expense-Salaries and labor ........ $2,080.00
Expense-Office supplies, etc. . . . . . . . . 307.22
Expense-Rent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 360.00
Expense-Telephone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
97.92
Expense-Telegrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18.22
TOT AL EXPENSE . . . . . . . . . . . .
Donations to Employment Bureau..............
Balance on hand August 28, 1916 .......... .

2,863.36
820.00

20,007.12
$ 5,081.11

ASSESSMENTS ON CITY LODGES.

California No. 1 .......................................... $ 203.50
La Parfait Union No. 17 .. . . .. .. . . . . . . .. .. .. .. . . . . .. . . . . .
62.50
Occidental No. 22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197.15
Golden Gate No. 30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191.10
Mt. Moriah No. 44 ...................................... . 127.40
Fidelity No. 120 ........................................ . 194.80
Hermann No. 127 ....................................... .
72.00
Pacific No. 136 ......................................... . 234.35
Crockett No. 139 ....................................... . 153.55
Oriental No. 144 ........................................ . 127.30
Excelsior No. 166 ....................................... . 138.55
Mission No. 169 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 315.40
South San Francisco No. 212 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .
69.20
Doric No. 216 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172. 70
Speranza Italiana No. 219 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
71.55
San Mateo No. 226 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
52.55
King Solomon's No. 260 . . . . .. . . .. .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 176.40

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Starr King No. 344 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Presidio No. 354 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Francisco No. 360 , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Amity No. 370 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jewel No. 374 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Richmond No. 375 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Parnassus No. 388 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Balder No. 393 . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Burlingame No. 400 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Fairmount No. 435 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Park No. 449 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bethlehem No. 453 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Golden West No. 455 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

103.00
106.40
84.90
111.15
31.75
107.45
98.80
69.20
51.10
110.45
49.05
18.90
24. 75

Total ............................................... $3,527.00
RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY
JURISDICTIONS.
UNITED STATES.

Received from
JurisdictionIndividuals.
Lodges.
Alabama ........... $
$ 50.00
Arizona ............
Arkansas ...........
35.00
95.00
17.00
Colorado ..... ... .
Connecticut .........
247.61
District of Columbia.
100.00
Delaware .. ·.........
350.75
Illinois .............
90.75
295.00
Iowa ...............
12.00
161.60
Indiana ............
110.00
Idaho ..............
Kentucky
105.00
Kansas ..............
131.00
Louisiana ..........
15.00
Massachusetts
129.68
31.82
Maine ... .... .. ..
25.00
Montana ...........
26.29
93.29
Michigan ...........
418.70
20.00
Minnesota ..........
65.25
156.50
Missouri ...........
5.00
Mississippi
45.00
Nebraska ...........
New Hampshire .....

..

...........

.......

..

.........

105

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Received
Total.
$ 50.00
35.00
112.00
347.61
350.75
385.75
173.60
110.00
105.00
131.00
15.00
161.50
25.00
119.58
438.70
221.75
5.00
45.00

Disbursemen ts.
50.00
$
25.00
165.00
95.00
353.15
385.36
330.00
497.50
349.50
178.60
132.75
102.50
251.70
156.65
215.67
646.90
255.00
113.58
502.65
337.51
5.00
55.00
254.00

............
.........
.
...............
..........
.............

Nevada
New Jersey
New York ······· ..
North Carolina .....
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania .......
Philippine Islands
Rhode Island
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Vermont
····· .....
Washington
Wisconsin
Wyoming

30.00
5.00
215.85

472.80
1,040.75

502.80
5.00
1,256.60

83.15

193.95

277.10

40.00
40.00
23.00
10.00
15.00

110.70
35.00
57.60
50.00
5.00
55.00

150.70
75.00
80.60
60.00
5.00
70.00

253.84

567.93

821.77

189.10

189.10

Total . ......... $1,306.81
California
155.00

$5,039.10
2,741.76

$6,325.91
2,916.76

$ 9,556.29

..........

u. s ...... $1,461.81

$7,780.86

$9,242.67

$13,346.90

Received from
JurisdictionIndividuals.
Lodges.
Alberta
...........
Australia ...........
British Columbia . ...
30.00
Canada .
75.00
England . ..........
Mexico ............
New Brunswick . ....
Ontario
Scotland
216.00
Saskatchewan

Received
Total.

Disbursements .
10.00
5.00
30.00
179.90
25.W
110.00
362.41
10.00
589.25
337.60

$105.00

$321.00

~

...
.......
.......
..........
..............
.
.........
..........
...........

Total

627.80
5.00
1,349.75
30.00
487.10
1.00
92.00
60.00
97.60
10.00
55.00
10.00
2.00
1,085.92
16.00
189.10

3,790.61

FOKEIGN.

.

............

30.00
75.00

.

. ...........
...........
. ......
Total .......... $216.00

216.00

$1,659.56

DIMITTED.
California
$648.30
Michigan .......................••.•.......••••...••••••• 189.00
Nova Scotia ................................ , ............ . 120.00
Total •......•................•.........••.•...•...•.. $957.30
Lodge unknown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . • • 360.00

106

During the year the following have been buried with Masonic honors
or their remains shipped according to the wishes of the families:
1915
Aug.28 Mrs. Marietta M. Marshall.Tyrian No. 86 .......... Mazeppa, Minn.
30 Elmer E. Troxell ........ St. Cecile No. 568 ...... New York, N. Y.
30 John W. Cameron ........ Montezuma No. 30 ...... Goldfield, Nev.
Sept. 4 Augustus C. Parlin ......• Hoffman No. 412 ....... Middletown, N. Y.
8 Arthur Harrison ........ Hawaiian No. 21. ...... Honolulu, T. H.
28 James Henderson Ashley .. Texas No. 46 .......... San Juan, Cal.
30 Douglas Young ......... St. John's No. 9 ....... Seattle, Wash.
Oct. 10 Edward G. Carson ....... Oriental No. 87 ........ Denver, Colo.
28 Joseph Samuels ......... Amador No. 65 ........ Jackson, Cal.
Nov. 8 Theodore Bacigalupi .... Olive Branch No. 269 ... Tulare, Cal.
8 Louis Schloss ........... st. John's No. 20 ...... Columbus, Ind.
18 Mrs. E. Brugiere ......... Live Oak No. 61 ....... Oakland, Cal.
22 Theophilus Keffer Wittich. Pickaway No. 23 ....... Circleville, 0.
Dec. 8 Frank Alexander Gamble. Vacaville No. 134 ...... Vacaville, Cal.
9 Bernard L. Schwarz ...... Kansas City No. 220 .... Kansas City, Mo.
30 John L. M. Shetterley .... Token No. 304 ......... Stuart, Iowa.
31 Charles Erskine Parcell ... Mountain View No. 194.Mt. View, Cal.
1916
Jan. 4 Elko Bernadus Dykhuizen. Tippecanoe No. 492 ..... La Fayette, Ind.
Feb. 1 Noah T. Morgan ......... Evanston No. 4 ........ Evanston, Wyo.
29 Thomas Clay Benjamin ... San Pedro No. 332 ..... San Pedro, Cal.
Mar.12 Morris Schwartz ........ Franklin No. 447 ...... New York, N. Y.
30 Felix Leavick ........... Platte Valley No. 32 .... No. Platte, Nebr.
Apr. 4 Peter Daniel Martin ...... Eureka No. 16 ......... Auburn, Cal.
8 John E. Griffiths ........ Mahoney City No. 387 .. Mahoney City, Pa.
15 Edward Stone .......... Tonopah No. 28 ........ Tonopah, Nev.
26 James Maugham ........ Clinton No. 47 ......... Massilon, Ohio.
May 5 Caroline A. McLean ...... Warren No. 51. ........ Portland, Conn.
25 William Baronclift MartlinErie No. 161 ........... Buffalo, N. Y.
25 Lucius William Beardslee.St. John's No. 9 ....... Seattle, Wash.
June 7 Mrs. Elizabeth Haley .... Benj. B. French No. 15.Washington, D. C.
13 Henry Disque ........... Eureka No. 16 ......... Auburn, Cal.
20 John Tuohy ............ Visalia No. 128 ........ Visalia, Cal.
24 John Valentine ......... Pentucket ............. Lowell, Mass.
26 Richard Constant Rankin. Rockland No. 89 ....... Rockland, Me.
July 11 James H. Oswald ........ San Jacinto No. 338 .... San Jacinto, Cal.
29 Thomas Henry Turnbull .. Arcana No. 87 ......... Seattle, Wash.
30 Mrs. Sarah A. Sproat .... Kinistino No. 1. ....... Prince Albert, Sask.
Aug.18 Marcus Weinberger ..... Suisun No. 55 .......... Suisun, Cal.
26 August Lawrence Simondi. Wasatch No. 1. ........ Salt Lake City, Utah.
Fraternally submitted,
JOHN B. WUERSCHING,

Chairman.

107

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LEO BRUCK,

Secretary.

REPORT OF THE MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
OF SAN FRANCISCO.
The Officers of the Masonic Employment Bureau hereby present the
annual report of their labors for the year ending August 31, 1916, for
your kind consideration and perusal.
We desire to express a deep sense of gratitude to the Members of
the Fraternity who have so ably assisted us during the year to obtain
employment for a great many worthy Masons and their families, thereby
relieving Lodges of the expenditure of unnecessary relief, and allowing
them to retain their self respect rather than become objects of Charity.
Although the Bureau has been hampered somewhat in its work by
the lamentable illness of our Secretary, Wm. H. Mitchell, who has so
ably fulfilled the duties of Secretary until this summer when he was
stricken with paralysis, and it became necessary to fill the office temporarily until such a time that he has recovered, and we are pleased to
be able to report that according to all indications this desirable end
will not be far distant.
Under these conditions, we thing the work accomplished is phenomenal, and we again wish to commend the good Brethren who keep us in
mind, ,and who make this success possible, and say to the ''KEEP UP
THE GOOD WORK".
Fraternally yours,
ARTHUR JOEL,

President.

J. W. FELT,

Secretary pro tern.
Placed in positions, male. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,169
Placed in positions, female...................................
162
1,331
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand ..............................• $
California Commandery K T. No. 1. ..........•••
Golden Gate Commandery K. T. No. 16 ........... .
San Francisco Commandery K. T. No. 41. ........•
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection No. 1. ........ .
California Lodge of Perfection No. 10 .........•.•
San Francisco Chapter No. 11 R. A. M............ .
California Chapter No. 31 R. A. M............... .
Mission Chapter No. 79, R. A. M................. .
Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. Shrine ............. .
San Francisco Pyramid No. 1, A. E. O. Sciots ..... .
Board of Relief , .............................. .

135.32
120.00
120.00
60.00
120.00
120.00
50.00
110.00
120.00
180.00
60.00
820.00
$2,015.32

108

109

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and before any of the corporations will employ him, be must pass a
severe physical examination. The examining physician does bis work
thoroughly and gives the corporation the benefit of the doubt. A man
over forty of age bas very little show for any position.

DISBURSEMENTS.

Salaries ....................................•.. $1,320.00
Rent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 180.00
Printing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10.00
Telephone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120.00
Carfare, stationery, postage, etc.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
86.15
1,716.15

MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.
Our Masonic Employment Bureau is doing a great work.
ger reports the number of applications during the year:

The mana·

APPLICATIONS.

Balance on hand September 1. .............. .

$ 299.17

MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF OF LOS ANGELES.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles, herewith
presents the following report of its labors from September 1, 1915, to
August 31, 1916.
The Masonic Board of Relief is composed of the Masters (ex-officio)
of the 26 Blue Lodges of this city and two members appointed by him,
together with the Past Grand Masters residing within the City of Los
Angeles, the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts of Los Angeles
City, one repressntative from each of the several Royal Arch Chapters,
the Council, the Commanderies, the Scottish Rite bodies and the Shrine,
the manager of the Masonic Employment Bureau, and one Past Worthy
Matron of the Order of the Eastern Star.
The conditions for the year 1915-16 are very much as they have
been during the last two years, only more intensified by the prevailing
conditions existing throughout the civilized world.
The cost of living has increased in proportion to the depreciation
of business. The number of unemployed Masons bas also increased, and
in desperation these Brothers have really become ''rovers' '-going from
place to place seeking employment. These men ask for only $2.50 to
$5.00, which seems too small an amount to ask a sister jurisdiction for
reimbursement, and also it is too small an amount to refuse to contribute
when the appeal seems meritorious.
We are sorry to note an increased number of wife-deserters and
abandonment of children. These wives and children must be aided,-at
least temporarily. This may not be in conformity with the Strict Letter
of the Masonic Law, but we believe it is carrying out the broad principle
of Masonic Charity.
INVALIDS.

Brethren:
Please observe the following paragraph:
This is no place for a really sick man unless he has plenty of means
and is willing to part with his money. He can't live on climate alone,

1915
Men .................................. · · · 1112
Women ................................... 286

1916
1085
620

Total applications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1398

1705

POSITIONS FILLED.

Men . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1915
687
116

1916
771
137

Total positions filled. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

803

908

APPLICATIONS CANCELLED.

Nineteen applications cancelled during the year for good and sufficient reasons.
Six applications cancelled for placing their various labor unions before Masonry and refusing good paying positions.
Six applications cancelled for refusing good paying positions because they were out of the city.
Three applications cancelled for drunkenness.
Four applications cancelled for failing to report for duty after positions were secured.
DEATHS.

During the year ending August 31, 1916, the following 92 Masons
or members of their families have passed to their final reward, and their
remains have been given burial with Masonic honors, or shipped according
to the wishes of the families, viz.:
NAME.

Alonzo Shaw
Dorr Husk
Edward Emerson
Claude R. Thorpe
Edward Oakford
Henry T. Terrill

LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION.

Tipton, Iowa
Cedar, 11
Auburn, N. Y.
Auburn, 431
Davenport, Iowa
Trinity, 208
St. Andrews, 863 Chicago, Ill.
Olive Branch, 269 Tulare, Cal.
Billings, Mont.
Ashlar, 29

DATE OF DEATH.

Sept. 18, 1915
18, "
" 27,
Oct.
6, "
12,
"
"
18, "

"

"

110
NAME.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
LODOE AND NO.

LOCATION.

111

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OF DEATH,

New York City
Oct. 24, 1915
Manie J. Karger
Pacific, 233
Sheridan, Ore.
Sheridan, 64
John F. Oviatt
" 31, "
Grass Valley, Cal.
Madison, 23
Nov. 6, "
Thos. J. Michell
Minneapolis, Minn.
Khurum, 112
Geo. A. Yates
" 9, "
Monongahela Val., 461 Coal Center, Pa.
James S. Newkirk
'. 12, "
Columbus, Ind.
John C. W. Pearce
St. John, 20
" 13, "
Bushnell, Ill.
T. J. Pickett, 307
Wm. E. Pritchard
" 14, "
Platte City, Mo.
Platte City,.504
John Walker
" 15, "
Cincinnati, Ohio
16, "
Cincinnati, 133
Vincent R. Havlina
Little Rock, Ark.
18, "
James Crawford Evans Magnolia, 60
"
Naugatuck, Conn.
24,
Victor Geo. ,E. Kalan Shepherd, 78
"
"
Elmore, Ohio
Portage, 351
Wm. K. Osmer
" 27, "
New York City
Dec. 3, "
James F. De Le Ree Harlem, 457
Boston, Mass.
Aberdour
5, "
Geo. F. Mansfield
" 12,
Denver, Colo.
Union, 7
Thos. J. Morrison
" 12,
Hamilton, Canada
Doric, 382
John Huxtable
"
"
Nashville, Tenn.
Stanley Terrence CooneyPhoenix, 131
" 17, "
Tonopah, Nev.
Tonopah, 28
David Joanis
" 19, "
St. Louis, Mo.
Aurora, 267
Wm. H. Haskell
" 20, "
Newport, Ky.
29, "
Newport, 358
David G. Brumbach
"
Leavenworth, Kan.
Jan.
1, 1916
Leavenworth, 2
Wm. H. Rose
El Paso, Tex.
El Paso, 130
Alfred L. Rossetter
" 3, "
Dawson, New Mex.
Vermejo, 36
James Turner
" 7, "
Cripple Creek, Colo.
11, "
Cripple Creek, 110
Levi H. Bowers
Walla \Valla, Wash.
Walla Walla, 7
Wellington Clark
" 11, "
San Francisco, Cal.
Pacific, 136
Wm. D. Pearce
" 11, "
E. F. W . .F~llis, 633 Rockford, Ill.
Nancy E. Phillips
" 13, "
St. Charles, Ark.
St. Charles, 86
Ernest L. Klauholt
" 21, "
Riverside, Cal.
· Evergreen, 259
Joseph W. Boyd
" 25 "
Lowell, Mass.
Ancient York
Feb. 1, "
Chas. E. Park
7, "
New Straitsville, 484 New Straitsville, Ohio "
James R. Coughtrie
Milbank, So. Dak.
8,
James Albert McBride Milbank, 20
"
"
Delta, Colo.
Delta, 62
Lewis W. Worth
" 11, "
Berkeley, Cal.
16, "
Berkeley, 363
l!'rederiek Gross
New York City
United States, 207
Arthur C. Davis
" 17, "
Chicago, Ill.
Frederick M. Brandt Constellation, 892
" 20, "
Vancouver, B. C.
James A. Fitzsimmons Mt. Hermon, 7
" 20, "
North Platte, Neb.
Platte Valley, 32
Albert L. Davis
" 21, "
Chicago, Ill.
Alfred D. Waterman Englewood, 690
" 22, "
Mch. 2, "
Vallejo, Cal.
Solano, 229
Lyman C. Wood
Tonopah, Nev.
Ewen A. McNaughton Tonopah, 28
" 4, "
Belleville, Texas
Belleville, 223
Daniel S. Chessher
" 5, "
Gauley Bridge, W. Va.
Ivan E. W. McKinley Gauley Bridge, 64
" 13, "

"

"

"

"

NA1'1E.

LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION.

DATE OF DEATH,

Thomas H. Hurley
Newton, 142
Newton, Kans.
Mch. 18, 1916
Charles C. Vining
Nemaha, 13
Corning, Kans.
April 2,
Reuben Goldberg
Tannehill, 52
Dallas, Texas
" 7, "
Frank S. Milligan
Granite, 272
Sedalia, Mo.
" 12, "
John Navratil
Ancient Landmark, 5 St. Paul, Minn.
" 13, "
Leonard A. Smith
Hanover, 905
Hanover, Ill.
" 18, "
John Campbell Clarke Joppa, 95
Stanley, N. Dak.
" 19, "
Chas. F. Gilbert
Waco, 92
Waco, Texas
" 23, "
John D. Stewart
Temple, 59
Hutchinson, Minn.
" 27, "
Bluff City, 71
Medard Duquette
Couneil Bluffs, Iowa
" 30, "
Lacon, 61
Edwin C. Brereton
Lacon, Ill.
May 3, "
David Morris
Constellation, 892
Chicago, Ill.
" 10, "
Myron E. Ware
Las Palmas, 366
Fresno, Cal.
" 13, "
Mt. Moriah, 2
:Frank J. Janney
Salt Lake City, Utah
12, "
"
Charles Hyde
Hesperia, 411
Chicago, Ill.
15,
"
Wm. Welch
Alleghany, 15T
Barton, Md.
" 15,
El Paso, 187
Wm. E. Porter
El Paso, Texas
" 22, "
MacKenzie N. Graves Weber, 6
Ogden, Utah
" 24, "
Lompoc, 262
Lompoc, Cal.
Gerhard T. Holst
" 27, "
Rev. Robt. C. Hendricks Enterprise, 70
Yuba City, Cal.
" 31,'
Wm. D. Gibbs
Humanity, 406
Lyons, N. Y.
June 6, "
Edward Nicholson
Steubenville, 45
Steubenville, Ohio
" 7, "
St. Joseph, 45
Wm. J. Dunnahoo
South Bend, Ind.
" 11, "
Pentucket
Edward H. Morse
Lowell, Mass.
13, "
Freemont, 97
Florence, Colo.
Gideon Rathbun
21, "
Magnolia, 20
Thomas L. Johnston
Columbus, Ohio
" 22, "
Montezuma, 30
John McKay
Goldfield, Nev.
21,. "
"
Composite, 369
Chas. W. Miller
Doniphan, Mo.
" 28, "
Dove, 51
Chester R. Reed
Richmond, Va.
29, "
"
Santa Barbara, 192 Santa Barbara, Cal.
Bernard Citzler
30,
"
"
Harry M. Thomas
Torrance, 4.47
Torrance, Cal.
July 4, "
Goldfield, 686
Chicago, Ill.
George I. Banta
" 7, "
Antiquity, 91
Redwood Falls, Minn.
Chas. W. Everett
" 15, "
Stansbury, 24
Brightwood, Wn., D.C. " 13,.
Edwin Bruce Flack
"
Blair, 393
Grant Clark
Chicago, Ill.
21, "
Columbia, 14
Arthur J. Boundy
Boulder, Colo.
" 26, "
St. John, 18
Chas. H. Stewart
Pioche, Nev.
Aug. '1,.. "
King Hiram, 12
Arthur J. Ewen
Derby, Conn.
" 2,, "
Elliott James Foster Davenport, 37
Davenport, Iowa
" 5,
Corinthian, 111
Wm. A. Hutchins
McConnelsville, Ohio
" 6, "
Alleghany, 223
Wayne Gilland
Pittsburg, Pa.
" 6, "
Y onnondio, 163
Herman Lieberson
Rochester, N. Y.
12, "
"
Taylor, 98
Catherine M. Yale
Washington, Ill.
" 20, "
widow o:I' George Yale

"

"
"
"

"
"

"

..

112
DETAILED

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS

AND DISBURSEMENTS

JURISDICTIONS.

Paid
64.50
Alabama .................................. $
160.50
Arizona .................................. .
121.00
Arkansas ................................. .
136.50
British Columbia ........................... .
California ................................ . 1,538.68
192.50
Canada .................................... .
15.00
China .................................... .
642.70
Colorado .................................. .
101.00
Connecticut ............................... .
15.00
Delaware ................................. .
96.00
England .................................. .
72.00
Florida .................................. .
29.50
Georgia ................................... .
17.00
Germany ................................. .
130.00
Idaho .................................... .
728.50
Illinois ................................... .
55.00
India ..................................... .
398.50
\ndiana .................................. .
302.05
Iowa .............................. · · · · · · · ·
25.00
Jamaica .................................. .
167.00
Kansas ................................... .
238.00
Kentucky ................................. .
278.00
Louisiana ................................. .
65.00
Maine .................................... .
15.00
Maryland ................................. .
165.70
Massachusetts ............................. .
586.00
Mexico ................................... .
297.00
Michigan ................................. .
455.85
Minnesota ................................ .
20.00
Mississippi ................................ .
587.70
Missouri .................................. .
40.00
Montana .................................. .
255.21
Nebraska ................................. .
280.71
Nevada ........................... , ....... .
10.00
Newfoundland ............................. .
15.00
New Hampshire ........................... .
10.00
New Jersey ............................... .
40.00
New Mexico .............................. .
New York ................................ . 1,187.20
15.00
New Zealand .............................. .
92.50
North Carolina ............................ .
371.83
North Dakota ............................. .
5.00
Nova Scotia ............................... .

113

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
CLASSIFIED

BY

Received
$ ....... .
134.75
52.00
136.50
1,284.73
157.50
15.00
618.20
88.00
55.00
70.00
5.00
115.00
469.00
437.00
321.00
153.50
165.10
115.00
10.00

Ohio ..................................... .
Oklahoma .........
................... .
Oregon ................................... .
Pennsylvania .............................. .
Philippine Islands ......................... .
Prince Edward Island ...................... .
Rhole Island ........................ ······.
Saskatchewan ..............................
Scotland
South Af~i~~

·····

Paid
418.60
398.50
128.00
195.50
7.50
5.00
20.00

Received
416.00
90.00
37.50
85.00

10.00
10.00

.............................. .

38.00

Utah ..................................... .
Vermont ...................................
Virginia .................................. .
Washington, D. C .......................... .
Washington State ......................... .
West Virginia ............................. .
Wisconsin ................................ .
Wyoming ................................. .

15.00
115.54
20.00
477.50
57.00
27.00
32.50
88.00
236.20
75.00
106.00
15.00

72.01
157.85
15.00
50.00
5.00

$12,407.97

$ 8,965.09

..............................
South Carolina .............................
South Dakota ..............................
Tennessee ..................................
Texas .....................................

5.00
70.54
324.50
45.00

RECAPITULATION.
RECEIPTS.

100.00
80.00
254.50
410.85
531.45
45.00
125.00
247.71
10.00

40.00
813.65

Balance on hand, September 1st, 1915 .......... $ 914.56
Interest .................................... .
78.66
Received from Grand Lodge ................... . 7,500.00
From Sister Jurisdictions ..................... . 8,965.09
Total ....................................

$17,458.31

DISBURSEMENTS.

Telegrams ................................... $ 321.31
Drugs and Medicines ......................... .
135.15
Christmas Dinners ........................... .
101.80
Classified by ,Jurisdictions ..................... . 12,407.97
.................................. .

"$12,966.23

Balance on hand September 1st, 1916 .......... .

Total

$ 4,492.08

All which is respectfully submitted.
25.00
481.25
5.00

J. M. DUNSMOOR,
Secretary.

J. H. BEAN,
President.

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OAKLAND BOARD Ol!' RELIEF.

To the M:.w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Board is composed of the Masters and Wardens of the con·
tributing lodges hereinafter named.
The last half of the fiscal year has been noticeable in this; com·
parison with the first half reveals a. falling of!' in applications for, and
amount distributed
relief of fifty per cent. In funerals of sixty-six
and two thirds per cent, with an entire absence of dependent sick for
more than three months. A most gratifying condition., the continuance
of which, while earnestly hoped for, can scarcely be expected.
RECEIPTS.

Live Oak Lodge No. 61. ........................ $
Oakland Lodge No. 188.........................
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . •
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • • . • . . • • •
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336........................
Sequoia Lodge No. 349. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . • • . . . • • •
Bay View Lodge No. 401. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. • . .. . . • . .
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403.....................
Standard Lodge No. 440........................

Total expense

.................................. 1,584.74

Total disbursements
.•••..••.......•........ $6 81813
Balance on hand
'
·
........................ ~. . 3,579.82

--

RECEIPTS AND DIS

72.20
56.25
37.35
37 .05
26.45
50.40
31.15
18.75
8.55

Total from contributing Lodges ............. .
Refunded by Lodges in California ..•...•..•..••. $1,254.30
Refunded by other U. S. jurisdictions ....••.•..••• 2,829.59
Refunded by individuals . • .. .. . . . . . .. • . . .. . . • • .. 408.20
Grand Lodge account St. Helena Lodge No. 93.... 210.00
Grand Lodge account Mrs. Taylor . . • • . • . . . • • • . • • 160.00
Interest from banks. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • • . . . . .
83.49

.Juris diction.
Colorado
Connectieu~. : : : : : :
District of Col. .. .
Georgia ........ .
Hawaiian Ter
25.00
Idaho
.. · · ·

...........

338.15

4,945.58

Total receipts ........................•...•

$ 5,283.73

Balance on hand September 1, 1915 .....•••••.•••

5,114.22

Total receipts and balance ........••.•.•....

$10,397.95

DISBURSE:ME."l"TS.

For California Lodges ......................... $1,807.57
For other U. S. jurisdictions .......•.....•••.•.• 3,246.42
For Foreign jurisdictions. . . . • . . . . . . . . • • . . . • . . • • 166.90
For Demi.tted cases .•.....•...........• , • • . . • . •
12.50
Total relief .............•.......•.••.....• $5,233.39

BURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY

United States.
Received from
Individuals.
Lodges.

$

115

Rent, salaries and incidentals .......... $1 452
Telegraph and telephone
'
.08
•. •. . .. . . .. .. .
63 76
S •-t'
:
"" 1onery and postage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
68 90

Illinois . . . . . . . . . .
1. 80
Indiana ........ .
Iowa
_
58 10
Kansas .. : : : : : .·:::
Louisiana ...... .
Maine ......... .
Maryland ...... .
Massachusetts . . .
5.00
Michigan . . . . . . . . lO.OO
M~nnes~ta •....•.
Missouri . . . . . . . .
l.OO
Montana
Nebraska ...... · · · · · · ·

.......

Nevada. .•....•..
New Mexico
20.00
New York •. ::::: 30.00
Ohio · · · · · • · · • · ·• 10.00
Oregon ....•...•• 10.00
Pennsylvania .•••
Texas ....•.....•
Virginia ...... , .
Vermont ....... .

$10,397.95

JURISDICTIONS.

45.00

Received
Total.
$ 45.00

Disbursements.
$ 45.00
5.00
25.00
2.50

276.00
498.80
69,00
45.00
30.35

276.00
500.60
69.00
103.10
30.35

25.00

25.00

259.60
130.00
106.00
135.00

264.60
140.00
106.00
136.00

317.00
457.30
99.00
123.10
12.85
10.00
60.00
2.55
270.;,iO
195.70
100.00
130.00
7.50
12,50
274.30
90,00
437.97
95.00
20.00
237.35
113.86
3.00
12.00

$

• • • • • i.

13.20
75.75
75.00
605.22
20.00

300.00
41.80

13.20
75.75
95.00
635.22
30.00
10.00
300.00
41.80

3.87

3.87

.......

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Received from
Jurisdiction.
Individuals.
Lodges.
Washington . . . . . 10.00
75.00
Wyoming

Received
Total.
85.00

Disbursements.
82.44
5.00

Total ....... $180.90

$2,829.59

$3,010.49

$3,246.42

California ....•.. 177.30

1,254.30

1,431.60

1,807.57

Total U. S... $358.20

$4,083.89

$4,442.09

$5,053.99

117

May 28-William R. Capell, Winnemucca No. 19, Winnemucca, Nev.
July 26-William K. McFeeley, Pentalpha No. 202, Los Angeles, Cal.
Aug. 30-William S. Carpenter, Grove No. 824, Downers Grove, Ill.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBT.

H. N. MOSHER,

Chairman.

G. EvANS,
Secretary.

SAN .JOSE BOARD OF RELIEF.
Foreign.

RECEIPTS.

$

England ........ $ 45.00
Mexico •........•
Portugal ....... .
Nova Scotia .... .
Seotland . . . . . . . .
5.00
Wales
Jersey ......... ·

45.00

5.00

$50.00

Total . . . . . . . $50.00

$

5.00
14.00
10.00
120.40
5.00
12.50
10.00
$176.90

DIMITTED.

Jersey . . • . . . . . . .

. ....

$10.00

Bala.nee on hand ...........•....................... $ 60.14
Donated by 'Mrs. A. M. B ........................... 178.75
Returned by Brother 0. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.00
Returned by Brother C ......................... , .. , . 10.00
Returned by Brother B ....... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.00
Returned by Brother G. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
Returned by Brother 0 ............................ ,,
5.00
Norwood 576, Norwood, Ohio........................
5.00
Returned by Brother 'M .•...••..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • .
2.00
Kansas City 220, Kansas City, for Mrs. F. . . . . . . . . . . . . 15.00
Returned by Brother L ............... ,..............
3.76
$299.65

BURIALS.

During the period covered by this report the following named
brethren, 16 in all, have been buried with Masonic honors, under the
auspices of this Board:
1915Sept. 13-Jno. S. Jones, Las Palmas No. 366, Fresno, Cal.
Oet. 19-Colin Evans, Covenant No. 758, Brooklyn, N, Y.
Dee. 1-,Joseph T. Dennis, Fairmont No. 48, Fairmont, Neb.
Dee. 30-Peter S. Boltz, Union No. 58, Saeramento, Cal.
1916Jan. '5-Alfred L; Rosseter, El Paso No. 130, El Paso, Texas.
Jan. 5-Frederiek Largeson, Acacia No. 92, Coloma, Cal.
Jan. 10-Herman Perlet, St. Cecile No. 568, New York City, N. Y.
Jan. 20-L. L. Viers, Syracuse No. 454, Syracuse, Ind.
Jan. 21-Henry L. Flander, Baalbee Lodge, East Boston, Mass.
Mar. 3-Wm. T. Houts, Metropilis No. 91, Metropilis, ill.
Mar. 13-Josiah Champion, Truckee No. 200, Truckee, Cal.
Apr. 24-John Wade, Georgetown No. 25, Georgetown, Cal.
May 11-F. B. Livingston, Mount Vernon No. 8, Morrisville, Vermont.

DISBURSEMENTS.

Red Oak 162, Iowa ................................. $ 10.00
Mizpah 378, Los Angeles .....•...................... 10.00
Emmanuel No. 318, Biggs, Cal. ............ , ....... .
5.00
Eel River 147 .......................... , ......... . 17.00
Miss B (loan) .................................... . 12.00
Binghamton 177, N. Y ............................. .
3.00
1fiss G....•.•......••.••.....••........•.....•••.• 10.00
Shawnee 526, Ohio ............ , ................... .
2.00
McClay 632 1 Penna ................................ .
5.00
Expense subscription ....... , •......................
1.00
Norwood 576, Ohio ............. , ............... ,, ..
5.00
Cedar 103, Kan ................................... .
5.00
Worth 210, N. Y .................................. .
5.00
373 Sawtelle, Cal. ................................. .
5.00
298 Ann Arbor, Mich .................... , ......... ,
5.00
Care of cemetery plot, 1916 .•........................ 20.00
Kansas City 220 ..........................•........
5.00
Funeral notice .......•............................
1.50
Tyrian 618, Brooklyn ..•.... , .....•.... , .... , ...... .
2.26
Mrs. F ....................•.......................
5.00

118

Brother L .................. ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Cards, postage, etc. . .... · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

1.50
3.60
138.86

$160.79
Balance on hand ........... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
L. M. SIMONSEN,
Secretary.
HONOLULU BOARD OF RELIEF.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
RECEIPTS.

Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 ................ · . · · · · · · · · · · · $150. 72
Oceanic Lodge No. 371 ............ · · .. · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · 68.34
Honolulu Lodge. No. 409 ............... · . · · · · · · · · · · · 84.96
From individuals-repayments ........... · · · · · ·: · · · ·
Hon. Lodge of Perfection No. 1, Honolulu ..... ···.···
Canso Lodge No. 79, N. S., Canada ........ ········•··
Corregedor Lodge No. 1, Manila .... · .... ············

goes without saying, but the policy of the Board is that it is far more
charitable to assist the guilty than to permit any worthy brother to
suffer. The Board, in its communications with Lodges in some jurisdictions, finds that they have eliminated the words "to aid and assist"
from their rituals, and reply that ''our dues are only one or two dollars
a year and we have no funds.''
We have established an Employment Bureau, to which the Board
contributes $25 a month, and many positions have been secured through
the agency of the Bureau for members of the fraternity, their widows,
daughters and sons. Others eontributing to the Bureau are the Chapter
of Royal Arch Masons, the Commandery1 Consistory, and Chapters of
the Eastern Star. Brother Charles H. Wixson is in charge, and he may
be found at Masonic club rooms every day from 9 to 12.
RECEIPTS.

$304.02
225.00
25.00
33.00
12.45
$856.77

DISBURSEMENTS.

Contributed by Sacramento Lodges ................ $ 306.20
Refunded by California Lodges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488.00
Refunded by other jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 650.90
Refunded by individuals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 390.75
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
49.26
August 1, 1915, in bank .......................... 1,824.09
$3,709.20

Total

To individuals ............... · .. · .. · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · $325.00
Corregedor Lodge No. 1, Manila ........... · . · · . · · · · · 12.45
Prince of Wales Chapter No. 10 1 N. S., Canada ....... · 25.00
Canso Lodge No. 79, N. S., Canada ................ ·· 33.00
Cape Breton Preceptory No. 43, N. S., Canada ...... ·· 25.00
Honolulu Lodge of Perfection No. 1. ......... · .. · · · · 25.00
Telegrams, printing, funeral expenses .............. ·.· 27.53
Balance cash on hand .............. · · . · · · · · · · · ·
Respectfully submitted,

119

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DISBURSEMENTS.

472.98

Relief of sick brothers and funerals ............... $1,4 73. 74
Relief of sick wives, widows and children, & funerals 1,507.27
Employment Bureau, 14 months ............... ·. . . . 260.00
Expenses, 20 months.............................
245.00
Printing and envelopes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
25.50
Telegrams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.50

$383.79

c. F. JENKINS.
Secretary.

BOARD OF RELIEF OF SACRAMENTO.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
This Board is composed of the Masters and Wardens of Tehama
Lodge No. 3, Washington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento Lodge No. 40,
Union Lodge No. 58, and Concord Lodge No. 117.
Many cases of relief have been taken care .of during the year, and
many sojourners who have died in this city have been laid away with
the solemn formalities . of the craft. That we have been imposed upon

Total disbursements ....................... .
Cash in bank ......•........•...................

$3,513.01
196.19
$3,709.20

The thanks of the Board are tendered to the physicians of the
fraternity who have so generously and freely donated their services, and
to the undertakers who have always been liberal in reductions of bills.

R. C. IRVINE,
Secretary.

Most Worshipful W. A. M. Van Bokkelen, Grand Master
of Nevada in 1872, was introduced and received with suitable
honors.

120

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS.
Brother Hugh J. Owen, Chairman of the Committee on
Accounts, reported as follows:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts beg to report that since the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge it has regularly met on the
last Saturday in each and every month in the Grand Secretary's office,
examined and audited all bills presented throughout the year, none
having been paid without the approval of .the committee; your committee being at all times most agreeably assisted by our genial, most efficient
and worthy Grand Secretary and his aole Assistant.
H.J. OWEN,
FRED B. Woon,
D. E. F. EASTON,
Committee.

Report Adopted.
AMENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION.
A proposed amendment to Section 210 of the Constitution
was presented by Brother Leo Bruck, as follows:
Resolved, That Section 210 of the Constitution be amended by adding
after the words "a stated meeting next preceding," the following:''and provided further, that whenever a trial has been transferred to a
Lodge other than the one of which the brother is a member, and he is
found guilty and sentenced, he must apply for restoration to the Lodge
of which he was a member at the time of his suspension''; thus making
the whole section and amendment to read as follows:
Sec. 210. All sentences of suspension shall be for an indefinite
period; and a Lodge may, at any stated meeting, by the votes of twothirds of the members present, annul any sentence of suspension pronounced by itself, and restor~ the Mason thus suspended to all his
Masonic rights and privileges; provided, that notice of a resolution for
such restoration shall have been given at the stated meeting next preceding; and provided further, that whenever a trial has been transferred
to a Lodge other than the one of which the brother is a member, and
he is found guilty and sentenced, he must apply for restoration to the
Lodge of which he was a member at the time of his suspension. And,
in case of such restomtion, the Secretary shall at once notify the restored
party and the Grand Secretary thereof.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

121

Brother Ben Levi presented a proposed amendment to
Section 192 of the Constitution, which was referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence. The resolution is as follows:
Resolved, That Section 192 be and is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Sec. 192.

When the charge is for an offense which is the subject
Courts of the land, the Masonic trial may, in the
d1scr~tion of the Master, be deferred until such proceedings are conc)uded,
but m the event of a final judgment of conviction against a Mason in
any State or Federal Court of a crime involving moral turpitude, it shall
be the duty of the Master of the Louge of which such Mason may be a
member, to forthwith obtain a certified copy of such final judgment of
~onviction, and said judgment shall be presentecl to said Lodge and read
mto the reconl thereof at its next statecl meeting, and it shall thereupon
be the duty of the Master of said Lodge to cleclare such Mason forthwith
:xp~lled. Acquittal in said Courts or the refusal of a Grand Jury to
mdict for an offense is no bar to a Masonic trial. In cases other than
those hereinafter mentioned, whencYer it shall appear by the record of
conviction from another Masonic jurisdiction recognized by us, that a
member of one of our Lodges, resident in such jurisdiction, has been
suspended or expelled for unmasonic conduct, in such jurisdiction while
a resident thereof, it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of the
Lod.ge in. this jurisdiction of which he is a member to prefer charges
~gamst him for the acts and conduct alleged in the charges preferred
m the foreign juristliction and of which he was there convicted and
t~e same proceedings shall thereupon be had as in ordinary cases; pronded, that the record of conviction of the foreign juristliction shall be
received on the trial as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the brother
of such acts antl conduct.
o~ pro~eedings in the

A Committee of the Southern California Past Master's
Association presented the following proposed amendments to
the Constitution:
Amend Sec. 165 by striking out all the words after ''Order '' in
the second line, down to and including the worcls ''shall be retur~ed if
the applicant be rejected," and inserting in lieu thereof "Such of
them as desire to restore themselves by affiliation, may do s~ upon payment of a sum equivalent to six (6) months dues of the Lodge to which
they shall apply in a~dition to the affiliation fee, if any, required by
the b~-laws; all of which shall be returned if the applicant be rejected.
In whi.ch case _such application and rejection shall in no wise change the
Masomc standmg of the applicant which existed prior to his application

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for affiliation. The period of good standing shall commence to run from
the date of the dimit, without regard to the time the holder thereof
has resided in the State of Cfalifornia."
Amend Section 41, paragraphs 2 and 3, by adding at the end of
each paragraph, "Provided, that when it becomes necessary for a Lodge
to remit the dues of a member, said Lodge shall be relieved from contributing to the Grand Lodge the per capita tax for the brethren whose
dues have been remitted."
Amend by ·adding a new section No. 112%: ''Should an Entered
Apprentice or a Fellow Craft refuse, fail, or neglect, without good cause,
to qualify or present himself for the remaining degree or degrees, for
a period of one (1) year, the Secretary shall notify such Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft by registered letter or by personal service, that
unless he show cause within sixty (60) days, a dimit will be issued to
him and his name shall be stricken from the roll of members.''

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
OCEANIC LODGE-CHANGE OF NAME.
The following resolution was presented i:n behalf of
Oceanic Lodge No. 371, and it was referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence:

123

CLAIMS FILED.
Claims for reimbursement for account of dues overpaid
were presented from San Benito Lodge No. 211, Burlingame
Lodge No. 400, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, and all referred
to the Committee on Finance.
Claims for reimbursement for account of relief to Masons
outside this jurisdiction were presented from South Pasadena
Lodge No. 367 and Palmyra Lodge No. 26. Referred to the
Committee on Finance.

A claim for burying the widow of a deceased Mason was
presented from Humboldt Lodge No. 79. Referred to the
Committee on Finance.
The Los Angeles Masonic Library Association presented
a communication praying for an annual appropriation of two
thousand dollars for the endowment and support of the
library at that city. Referred to Committee on Finance.

At a stated meeting of Oceanic Lodge No. 371, F. & A. M., held
this evening, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

A claim of the Portland, Oregon, Board of Relief, for
moneys expended for account of Agnes Brown, daughter of a
member of Pescadero Lodge, now extinct, was referred to the
Committee on Finance.

Whereas, this Lodge was instituted April 8th, 1842, by a Deputy
of the Supreme Council of the 33 ° A. A. S. R. of France, under the
name of Lodge le Progres de I 'Oceanie No. 124, and continued and
worked under that style until it entered the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California as Oceanic Lodge No. 371; and

The matter of this Grand Lodge continuing to subscribe
to the Masonic Relief Association of the United States and
Canada was presented by the Grand Secretary, and referred
to the Finance Committee.

Whereas, it was and is desired by all the members to retain the
former name of this body; be it
Resolved, that the Grand Lodge of California is hereby respectfully
petitioned to permit and instruct this Lodge to resume its former name
with its present number.
(Signed)
ED. TowsE, P. M.

Lassen Lodge No. 149 presented a matter involving
moneys expended for account of a brother belonging to a
Lodge in Missouri, from which Lodge no reimbursement has
been made. It was referred to the Committee on Finance.

Honolulu, T. H., May 29th, A. L. 5916.

I am directed by the Worshipful Master to request you to lay the
same before the Grand Lodge of Masons of the State of California at
its next regular communication.

Fraternally yours,
JOHN A. PALMER, P. M.,

Secretary.

A petition was presented from l\Irs. Frederick H. Colburn, Regent San Francisco Chapter, Woman's Section of
the Navy League, asking that Grand Lodge appropriate five
hundred dollars for the repair and upkeep of the monument
to Peter Lassen near Susanville. Referred to the Committee
on Finance.

124

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TE.J!IPLE ASSOCIATION.

DISBURSEMENTS.

Brother William P. Filmer presented the ·report of the
Directors of the Masonic Temple Association, as follows:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
In accordance with its usual custom, the Board of Directors of the
Masonic Temple Association of California presents herewith its annual
financial statement for the fiscal year ending August 31st, 1916. In
doing so we are pleased to report an encouraging eondition, inasmuch
as our income has been increased some $2000.00 over that of last year,
by additional rentals of halls to Masonic bodies, and from the tenancy
of one of the stores on the ground floor.
The statement also shows a marked decrease in the interest charge,
due to the payment of nearly $39,000.00 on the indebtedness.
A further encouraging feature is that while the annual loss for
the fiscal year of 1915 was $7 ,256.69 that of 1916 was $5,344.04, a difference of $1,912.65.
Considering the location of the Temple, which now, and perhaps
for eeveral years to come, is distant from the business center of San
Francisco, the Board of Directors regard the financial showing as very
ss.tisfactory; in fact, were it not for the large annual interest charge,
it would be possible for the Association to pay a small dividend.
This interest charge, which causes our annual deficit, is the chief
reason why there is still need of further assistance from the Grand
Lodge.
Our reports for the years 1914 and 1915 set forth clearly our dependence upon the Grand Lodge to further assist in financing the
Temple, and both reports refer at length to the several resolutions
adopted by the Grand Lodge from time to time, pledging its assistance
to the extent of its financial ability.
We are therefore again obliged to repeat our request for action by
the Grand Lodge tending to permanently finance the Temple, to the
end that the Grand Lodge subscribe and pay for stoek to the amount
of $25,000.00 at this communication, and $25,000.00 at each annual
communication thereafter until the Temple shall be self-sustaining.
RECEIPTS, SEPT. 1, 1915, TO SEPT. 1, 1916.

Rentals from Masonic Bodies ................... $26,249.01
From Grand Lodge F. & A. M., purehase of stoek 40,000.00
From Grand Commandery K. T., purchase of stock 5,000.00
From Golden Gate Lodge F. & A. :M. purehase
of stock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000.00
Payments on subscriptions from individual Masons
135.00

125

Towels .......................•.....•........ $
94.85
Care of Organs, one year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
100.00
Insurance . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
282.72
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,388.45
Fuel Oil • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
290.08
Gas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
178.40
Electricity . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 1,790.10
Repairs to doors and new cables for elevatoi's....
200.65
Water . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
180.48
Cleaning utensils and disinfectants. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
98.13
Telephones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
197.19
R€nt-Piano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
52.00
Janitors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,647.50
Care of elevators-11 months....... . . . . . . . . . . . .
82.50
Scavenger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
62.50
Miscellaneous small bills. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8.65
Taxes . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,466.40
Secretary .................... , . . . . • . . . . . . . . . •
600.00
Lamps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
138.33
Printing and 2c envelopes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
31.50
Paid notes-Bank ....•....................... 27,500.00
Paid notes-Architects in full .•................ 11 1489.00
Refund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5.00
Hose . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9.80
Labor ................... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65.50
Toilet paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
18.00
Repairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
257.19
Improvements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
347.13
Balance cash on hand September 1st, 1916...

70,582.05
$ 1,801.96

STATEMENT SHOWING PRESENT ANNUAL LOSS.

Cost of maintenance ........................... $ 9,455.48
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
282.72
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,388.45
Taxes and franchise........................... 6,466.40

$31,593.05

Income from rentals ...................... .

26,249.01

Annual loss ......................... .

$ 5,344.04

STATEMENT SHOWING ANNUAL GAIN BY ELIMINATION OF INTEREST CHARGE.

Income from rentals ...................................... $26,249.01
Maintenance less .interest. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,204.60
$72,384.01

Annual gain ..•..................................... $10,044.41

126

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
PRESENT INDEBTEDNESS,

Savings Union Bank, San Francisco Mortgage .............. $250,000.00
Crocker National Bank-Note............................. 15,000.00
Sept. 1st, 1916, cash on hand.........................

$265,000.00
1,801.96

Actual indebtedness ............•.......•........ $263,198.04
Sept. 1st, 1915-Actual indebtedness reported ........••.... $303,989.00
Paid Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38,989.00
Sept. 1st, 1916-Due ..................................... $265 1000.00
E. PEABODY,
Secretary.

WM. H. CROCKER,
President.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
ADDRESS.
Brother Jan es, for the Committee to whom had been referred the Address of the Grand ::\laster and the Report of
the Grand Secretary, reported as follows:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the Address of the Grand
Master and the Report of the Grand Secretary, submitted to the Grand
Lodge, beg to report as follows:
After reading the Address of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master with
intense interest, your Committee desires to commend its strength and
instructiveness, for it is a most exemplary and carefully written document, teeming with Masonic virtue, covering in detail the existing conditions in this Grand jurisdiction. Your Committee is particularly impressed with that portion of the Address, referring to a brother's trouble
in Westlake Lodge, J,os Angeles, and to the Grand Master's true
Masonic advice in the Pacscoe case. It is with our deepest gratitude
toward the Great Architect of the Universe, that our Grand Master is
once again restored to health and activity. Your Committee notes with
pride the gifts to the Masonic Home and recommend the thanks of
this Grand Lodge, also the exchange of communications with the Grand
Master of New Jersey.
Your Committee recommends distribution of various matters touched
upon in the address as follows :

127

To the Committee on Jurisprudence: Decisions Nos. 1, 2, 5, 9, 11,
12, 14, 15, 18 and 20; the suggestion at page 23 referring to calling
Lodge from labor; the matter of Oceanic Lodge with reference to variance
from our established ritual.
To the Committee on Ritual: The suggestion regarding degree teams.
To the Committee on Correspondence: The letter of Dr. Francisco
Sanchez Curbelo.
To the Committee on Finance: The matter of Endowment Day, and
the subject of relief.
REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY.

Being mindful of the pleasure which the Grand Secretary has been
the recipient of during the past year and a short vacation incident
thereto, his excellent report shows notwithstanding, faithfulness and
careful detail in the many duties of his office. Special attention is called
to his remarks on suspensions and restorations and a possible remedy.
We recommend the following distribution of matters contained in
the Report:
To the Committee on Charters: The petitions for charters of the
Lodges under dispensation.
To the Committee on Finance: Disbursements and receipts.
To the Committee on Grievances: Transcripts of trial records.
To .the Committee on By-Laws: Proposed amendments to by-laws
heretofore approved by the Grand Master; and all other amendments
to by-laws by Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS I. JA~ES,
PHILIPP JACOBOVICS,
W. W. DOUGLAS,
Committee.

The report was adopted as read.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Wednesday morning.

Ju Oirnuh llnbgr
Morning Session.
Wednesday, October 11, 1916.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of Tuesday's session were read and approved.

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNU

Past Grand Master Alonzo J. Monroe appeared and took
his seat.

MASONIC EDUCATION.

THINGS A ::\!ASTER OUGHT TO KNOW.
Brother "\Villiam A. Sherman introduced the following:
Whereas, the Most Worshipful Grand Master, in his Address, recommends that the letter of advice to Masters of Lodges by Brother Leo
Bruck is worthy of attention and adoption; be it
Resolved1 that "Things a Master Ought to Know," as prepared by
Brother Leo Bruck, be referred to the Grand Secretary and by him
edited and included in the next issue of the ''Constitution and Cere·
monies.''

The resolution was adopted.
WHEN IS A PE'rITION RECEIVED 1
Brother H. E. Verble, Master of Traver Lodge No. 294,
presented the following:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
I would like to call attention to the following occurrence which is
not covered in our Constitution or By·Laws:
A petition for degrees was filed with the Secretary, and read at a
stated meeting. As soon as the Secretary had finished reading said petition, a brother arose and objected to the petition being received.
What decision should the Master have madei Does this applicant
stanQ the same as one objected by a committee or rejected at the ballot
box~ How long a time should elapse before his filing another petition,
and should said objections have been reported to the Grand Lodge'
There is some question as to whether or not the brother had· a
right to file objections at this time. On this occasion the Master merely
stated that the petition would not be received, and instructed the Secreary to return the fee to the applicant. I have also been informed that
there is a parallel case to this, only it being an application for membership.
Further: When is the petition received1 When placed in the hands
of the Secretary, or after being read in Lodge~
I think some decision should be made covering these various questions, so that in future like occurrences may be taken care of.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

129

'l'he Grand Secretary presented, the report of the Committee on Masonic Education, as follows:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Education, continued from last year
to formulate plans for reSBarch aml study, beg to report as follows:
We feel it to be not only a duty but a pleasure to <lo our full part
in furthering the cause whieh should and will he of more and more im·
portance as the years roll by, notwithstanding the action of Grand Lodge
last year in refusing to adopt our then proposed plan of lectures.
We are especially anxious that the Grand Lodge should give its
active and unqualified support to the cause of Masonic Education. Last
year, as indicated above, the essential portions of our report and recom·
mendations were referred to the Finance Committee and not reportetl
back, thus leaving the balance of little effect.
If ever there was a time in the history of our fraternity when men
need enlightenment and understanding that time is now. They neell
the understanding which sball help them to umlerstanll themselves. They
need the understanding which shall deepen their sympathies for their
fellows. They need the understanding which shall broaden their outlook
in life. They need the understanding which shall make them more kind
and tolerant of all men, particularly of those they call their brethren.
The trend of events the past year or so will verify all this.
In our Masonic Lodge rooms the great principles of human brotlier·
hood should be so sanely voiced that our members will see in them real
beauty and understand that they can endure only when harmony prevails.

The basic principles for which we stand should be so earnestly aml
eloquently impressed both on our candidates and our members that all
will be aroused by a mighty inspiration.
In our work, we should depend less oh formalism and more on
enlightenment. We owe more to the camliclates who knock at our doors
than we sometimes give them after they have crossed the portals. Mere
ritualism alone will not suffice--it is appealing so far as it goes-bnt
it does not go far enough; not every man is prepared to grasp its
hidden meaning.
At the very outset of his ).fasonic career, the candidate sbouhl be
thrilled with the 'Vital principles and purposes or the l''raternity-a11ll
tbese should be made known to him as clearly as pure English can define
them. Nor should that interest be allowed to wane and become inactive
through any fault of ours.
We have among our members many men of ability who can ahl
materially in accomplishing this work. How shall we go about iU J,et

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

us only reiterate what we asked for last year, and hope this time we will
receive the hearty co-operation of the Grand Lodge.
We, therefore, sum up this report by submitting the following points
for eonsi<leration, being the same four paragraphs that appeared in our
report last year, and as found on page 508 of the printed proceedings
of 1915, as follows:

First, that a committee on Masonic Education consisting of three
members be appointed by the M.". W.". Grand Master to serve for the
ensuing year. That it shall be the duty of this committee to exercise
a helpful influenee toward all Lodges who desire their counsel and advice.
That this committee shall foster and encourage throughout this jurisdiction the study and research of Masonic tradition, history, literature, law,
philosophy and dominant purposes of this institution.
Second, that a series of lectures to he read in our Lodges at stated
intervals, shall be prepared under the direction of such Committee. Such
lectures to be submitted to the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master for his approval,
and afterward printed. One lecture to be mailed each month to e\•ery
Lodge in this jurisdiction, but only on request.
Third, that a series of three lectures be prepared under the direction
of the Committee on Masonic Education, along exoteric lines, appropriate
respectively to the E. A., F. C. and M. M. degrees. Sueh lectures to be
first approved by the M.". W:. Grand Master and afterward printed.
These lectures to be placed in the candidate's hands after he has received
each degree. The lectures to be sold to the Lodges desiring them at cost.

131

Brother Pardee also introduced the following:
. Resolved, that the jurisdiction of Lassen Lodge No. 149, at Susanville, L~ssen county, shall be bounded on the west and so~th by the
:ou~t~ l~ne bet.ween the eounties of Lassen and Plumas and the present
Jnr1sihet10nal !me between said Lodge and .Janesville Lodge No. 232.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Brothers Olin L. Berry and William A. Sherman introduced the following:
·
Resolved, that the subordinate lodges in the jurisdiction of California be authorized to adopt by-laws providing that members who have
belonged. to the Lodge for a period of not less than twenty-five years and
have arrived at the age of sixty-five years or more, shall thereafter be
exempt from the payment of any lodge dues.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
REPORT OJ:j' I.iIBRARY COMMITTEE.
The Committee on Masonic Library, by its Chairman,
Henry J\I. Owens, presented the following report, which was
adopted as read :

Fourth, that the formation of Stmly Clubs be encouraged, and that
this feature of the work follow a systematic and earefully conceived

To the M.'. W.". Grand Lodge of California:

plan.

After considering the reports heretofore made anu the recommernlations t.herein contained, your Committee has followed the suggestions of
sp.rea(~mg among the brethren of this juris!lietion the necessity of contributing books toward our library, and in following out this general
plan, on January 15, 1916, working in conjunetion with the Committee.
our Grand Secretary, in circular No. 55, had the following:
·

IRVING J.

MITCHELL,
ALFRED W. BUSH,
JOHN WHICHER.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
Brother Pardee, of Lassen Lodge No. 149, introduced the
following:
Resolved. that Section 95 of the Constitution be amended by auding
thereto the following:
Provided, that the petition of an applicant for degrees may be presented to the nearest Lodge, and when the nearest Lodge is not in the
county in which the applicant resides, then to the nearest Lodge in that
county.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Your Committee on Library begs to report as follows:

''GRAND LODGE LIBRARY.

''The. Library Committee requests that the members of your Lodge
s;arch_ their book ~helves and ship to Henry M. Owens, Chairman Library
Committee, Masome Temple, San Francisco, any and all books, new or
?Id, that mig~t be suitable for brethren, for reference or general readm.g. All duplicates and books not directly useful in the general library,
will be sent to the Homes at Decoto and Covina. The donor 's name will
be placed in books and wiU stand as a monument to the brother. Jn
the Committee's Annual Report due credit will be given to all uonors.''
Your Committee has worked exclusively along these lines and b
·
· · of the Committee, the following have' contrib-Y
mason
o f th e soric1tat10ns
uted useful and valuable books:

132

PROCEEDI~GS

OF THE

Our Grand ·Marshal, Brother William Kettner, has supplied our
Library with a full set of our National Congressional Records and the
reports of the several Governmental Departments at Washington, which
to our mind, are a very valuable contribution.
Mrs. Henry M. Owens, Brother Louis Muller, Brother Henry G.
Lawson, Brother William A. Burdick, Brother William P. Filmer, Brother
Jesse M. Whited, Brother John Fischer, Brother J. C. Warren, Brother
Joseph Rosenberg, Brother Albert Ihm, Mrs. William H. Crocker, Brother
G. F. Sand, Brother Otto L. Sues, Brother James H. Duncan, Brother
Frank G. Watson. Among those who have promised books to the Library
are the following: Brother Fred B. Wood, Brother John M. Curtis, Mrs.
Isabelle M. Curtis, Brother Charles Burroughs, Brother J. D. Smith,
Brother W. H. Young and Brother George Madeley.
In order that the brethren might understand what books will be
welcome, we quote a few of those eontributed as follows:
Modern Eloquence: Guy de 'Maupassant: Life of Lincoln: The
World's History and Its Makers: Irish Literature: Library of Oration:
Jewels of Masonic Oratory: Story of the World's Worship: Memoirs of
Napoleon Bonaparte: History of the Augsburg Confession: Lives and
Graves of Onr Presidents: Half Hours with the Best Authors: The
Poems of Schiller: Manual of Forensic Quotations: The .Poems of
Teimyson: The Gospel of Buddha: The Works of Edgar Allen Poe;
Studies in the Scriptures: History of America: Hero Tales of the American Soldier: History of Free !l:[asonry in Maryland: History of Free
Masonry: The Great Wet Way: The Treasure of Shag Rock: Fourteen
Weeks in Chemistry: A Puritan Pagan: Money Magic: Middle-March:
The Right of Way: Conduct of Life: When Knighthood Was in Flower:
With the Mounted Infantry and the Masholand Field Force: Life of
Don Bartholomew: Life of the Martyrs: Rubyat of Omar Khayyam:
Booth Tarkington Stories: Political Thought of Plato and Aristotle:
),fakers of History, and all kinds of paper back magazines and novels.
It is unnecessary to buy new books unless the brother feels like
doing so, as on the book shelves of every member of the Masonic fraternity are many books that will never be read again by the members,
and if he or. his widow should send them to the library, their names
will be placed in the books and there remain as long as the Masonic
Temple shall stand.
NEW BOOKS PURCHASED.

Your Committee has advised, and the Grand Lodge has purchased,
Gould's History of Free Masonry, in five volumes. In all, your Com·
mittee has been able to add about 1000 volumes to our library, and
many hundreds of magazines have been contributed for use at the Homes.
We therefore recommend that this work be kept up, and that the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts keep this work in mind an<l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR~~A

133

advoc~te tl~e forwarding of books to our library at the Masonic Temple,
~an _:E ranc1sco; a_n_d .that the Grand. Secretary follow the plan laid out
m circular No. t>D rn all circulars issued by him during the coming

Masonic year.
HENRY M. 0WENS 1
JOHN

W. Gwrvr,

SIDNEY B. ]'ORCE,

W. B. CAMERON,
Committee.

REPORT OF' TRUSTEES OF HOMES.
. The time having arrived for the consideration of the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, Past Grand Master ·wells moved that the report be adopted as presented and
the motion preyailed._ He also moved that thB UBual per c~pita
tax. of $1.00 be levied for the maintenance of the Homes,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LECTURER.
Brother Fred L. Arbogast, for the Committee to whom
had been referred the report of the Grand Lecturer, presented
the following, which was adopted as read.
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
T

Your Committee to whom was referred the Report of the V.'. w. ',
homas .J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, beg leave to report as follows:

~e mos~ cheer.fully recommend the adoption of the Report as read,
and.' .rn passmg, wish to compliment Brother Baker for having, by his·
nntirmg efforts, made the esoteric work of the fratornitv uniform
throughout this grand jurisdiction.
•
The results and accomplishments of all officers, in whatever station
may be measured by the zeal, the energy and the assicluity with whiel:
they en ~er upon the discharge of their several duties. Imbuerl with th
very
·
e
. spirit of F reemasonry, of even temperament ever read
'11'
and
·
t ·
'
y, w1 ing
. anxious o im~art Maso~ic knowledge, Brother Baker has ~mleared
lnmself to the entire fraternity by his enviable achievement.
Respectfully submitted,

F. L. ARBOGAST,
MARTIN A. SCHJ\UDLI.:i',

W. D. ADRIANCE,
Committ.:e.

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

on By-Laws in 1915, that the Grand Lodge, through the Grand Secretary
and Grand Master, provide some uniform standard form of book, requiring all newly-formed Lodges to use the same.

135

Respectfully submitted,
B. B. TUTTLE,
RICHARD L. HAMMER,

Afternoon Session.
Wednesday, October 11, 1916.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
l\Iaster presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS.
The Committee on By-Laws of Lodges reported as follows:
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws of Lodges recommend the approval by
the Most Worshipful Grand Master, to amendments to by-laws submitted
by the following Lodges, be concurred in:
Changing time of stated meetings: Corinthian No. 9, Santa Cruz
Lodge No. 38, Lassen No. 149, San Simeon No. 196, Magnolia No. 242,
Lodi No. 256} Galt No. 267, Selma No. 277, Mount Shasta No. 281, San
Miguel No. 285, San Fernando No. 343, Germania No. 438, Blackmer No.
442, Van Nuys No. 450, San Pasqual No. 452, Ramona No. 457, Henry S.
Orme No. 458.
Increasing fees: Occidental No. 22, Naval No. 87, Drytown No. 174,
Mendocino No. 179, Solano No. 229, Willits No. 365, Gardena No. 372,
Fillmore No. 379, Dinuba No. 385.
Changing time of meeting and increasing fees: Ione No. 80.
Increasing dues: Eureka No. 16, Meridian No. 182, Hartley No. 199,
Monterey No. 217, Santa Monica No. 307, Delano No. 309, Oxnard No.
341, Brentwood No. 345, Sequoia No. 349, South Pasadena No. 367, West
Lake No. 392, University No. 394, La Mesa No. 407, Elysian No. 418.
Reducing. fees: Pentalpha No. 202, King Solomon's No. 260, Richmond No. 375, West Lake No. 392, Burlingame No. 400, San Pasqual
No. 452, Standard No. 440, Porterville No. 303, Moneta No. 405, Dinuba
No. 385, Silver Trowel No. 415, Coronado No. 421.
The following Lodges under dispensation have adopted the Uniform
Code of By-Laws: Alta Vista, Argonaut, Center, Morgan Hill, Mount
Oso and Paul Revere. The books of by-laws of these Lodges have been
examined and approved by your committee.
In examining the books of by-laws we find they are of various kinds
and sizes, and we heartily indorse the recommendation of the Committee

HARRY E. BURKE,

Committee.

Report adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE O~ RETURNS.
Brother Arthur S. Crites, Chairman of the Committee on
Returns, presented the following report, which was adopted:
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

•

Your Committee on Returns has, with the assistance of the V.'. W.'.
Grand Secretary, ex:_imined the returns of the three hundred and seventyseven Lodges (including the six under dispensation) of this jurisdiction
for the year ending July 31, 1916.
It is gra ti'fying to note that the returns for- this period show a
decided improvement over former years, as, with a few exceptions, they
were transmitted within the prescribed time; were accompanied by the
right amount of <lues; and were properly prepared. The errors, in the
few exceptions, were promptly rectified and the returns of all Lodges are
now on file in the V. ·. vV. ·. Grand Secretary's office and are, in every
particular, correct.

These returns are propc;·Jy preserveil and filed arnl their contents
are conveniently tabulated and recorded in the books of this office.
The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this
jurisdiction were indebted, for the year ending July 31, 1916, and
which have all been paid, are as follows:
General
Fund.

California ···········----····- 1 $
Western Star ····---------- 2
Tehama ------------·----------- 3
Benicia -------·-···------------ 5
Tuolumne ···------------·---- 8
Corinthian ·--·---------------- 9
San Jose ----·-·····-·····----- 10
Yount ··················---------- 12
Nevada ------------------------ 13

602.70 $
94.30
262.10
115.90
] 13.10
197.00
420.30
172:00
151.90

Home
Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

583,00 $
87.00
239.00
111.00
119.00
210.00
427.00
170.00
151.00

291.50 $
43.50
119.50
55.50
59.50
105.00
213.50
85.00
75.50

1,477.20 $--------······
224.80
24.00
620.60
5.50
282.40
1.90
291.60
12.20
512.00
8.05
1,060.80
2.50
427.00
2.80
378.40
13.10

Mainten1tnce

Allowed
Representatives.

136

Home

General
Fund.

Temple ------·----------------··- 14
Eureka -·---··------------------- 16
La Parfaite Union .... 17
Mountain Shade -----··· 18
San Joaquin ................ 19
Washington ................ 20
Hawaiian ·-··············-····· 21
Occidental ------·-·········-·· 22
Madison ·····-·-···-···-·······- 23
Mariposa ··--···-···-·········· 24
Georgetown ·······-·-······ 25
Palmyra ...................... 26
Trinity ·····-····-········---·· 27
Golden Gate ···········-;;·· 30
Gold Hill ---·······----········ 32
Ophir ~--···--···--·-·--·········· 33
San Diego -·-··-········-·-··· 35
St. John's ··-······-··------·- 37
Santa Cruz -····--····--····- 38
Sacramento ·············--··· 40
Martinez ···············-·---·· 41
Los Angeles ................ 42
Hiram ·····-···-----··-········· 43
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Crescent ··-·············---··· 45
Texas ............................ 46
}'orbestown ·············--·-· 50
Illinoistown ··········-···-- 51
Suisun -··---------····-·---·--·· 55
Volcano ····-·--------·--·---··· 56
Santa Rosa ·-··--···---·-·--· 57
Union ···---------··-··-----··--·- 58
Gravel Range ·····----·---· 59
Plumas ·---·-·-······-··--······· 60
Live Oak --·--········---·-···- 61
George Washington --·· 62
Natoma ---····-··········---··· 64
Amador ···············-····-··· 65
Forest ············-······--·-····· 66
Morning Star ··········-·-· 68
Enterprise ·················--· 70
Bear Mountain ............ 76
Calaveras ···-····-············· 78

92.60
129.40
191.90
30.20
366.30
188.70
310.00
719.90
113.60
43.50
48.20
205.30
56.80
566.20
50.00
41.40
421.60
123.10
206.40
276.30
102.80
596.30
26.30
392.40
82.20
29.30
26.10
60.00
94.80
27.40
250.90
295.10
28.80
61.30
763.20
33,30
86.10
73.50
47.30
283.50
145.50
79.50
72.70

Maintenance
Fund.

137

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Home

Building
Fund.

42.00
84.00
58.00
116.00
90.50
181.00
14.00
28.00
163.50
327.00
86.50
173.00
162.00
324.00
290.50
581.00
62.00
124.00
22.50
45.00
24.00
48.00
103.50
207.00
31.00
62.00
274.00
548.00
25.00
50.00
23.00
46.00
207.00
414.00
59.50
119.00
108.00
216.00
108.50
217.00
46.00
92.00
258.50
517.00
13.50
27.00
183.00
366.00
39.00
78.00
13.50
27.00 ,
14.50
29.00
35.00
70.00
51.00
102.00
13.00
26.00
125.50
251.00
129.50
259.00
16.00
32.00
33.50
67.00
369.00
738.00
18.50
37.00
39.50
79.00
37.50
75.00
23.50
47.00
127.50
255.00
72.50
145.00
42.50
85:00
36.50
73.00

Total.

Allow-"d
Represent·
atives.

218.60
303.40
463.40
72.20
856.80
448.20
796.00
1,591.40
299.60
111.00
120.20
515.80
149.80
1,388.20
125.00
110.40
1,042.60
301.60
530.40
601.80
240.80
1,371.80
66.80
941.40
199.20
69.80
69.60
174.00
247.80
66.40
627.40
683.60
76.80
161.80
1,870.20
88.80
204.60
186.00
117.80
666.00
363.00
207.00
182.20

2.00
8.00
28.10
5.20
5.50

12.10
12.20
10.40
34.50
7.50
16.00
44.15
28.50
5.90
2.10
35.70

52.20
6.20
9.60
3.30
14.20
2.80
5.50
19.10
22.35
.20
11.55
7.10
11.20
23.10
5.20
8.20
14.00
11.00

General
Fund.

Humboldt ·-··-···---·-·-····· 79
Ione ··-·················-········· 80
Yolo .............................. 81
Rising Star .................. 83
Vesper -······················-·· 84
Naval ............................ 87
Rose's Bar .................. 89
North Star .................. 91
St. Helena. .................. 93
Henry Clay ·-··---···-····· 95
Howard ........................ 96
Jefferson ·············-·-······ 97
Homitos ...................... 98
Yosemite ...................... 99
Clay ··-··-·······--···········----101
Oroville ........................ 103
Lexington ....................104
Arcata .......................... 106
Pajaro .......................... 110
Chico ............................111
Summit ·---···-······--········112
Eden .....: ...................... 113
Concord ----·-······-···········117
Olinton ........................ 119
Fidelity ........................ 120
Alamo .................. ________ 122
Sotoyome .................... 123
Table Mountain ........ 124
La Fayette ..................126
Hermann ...................... 127
Visalia .......................... 128
Nicolaus ...................... 129
Woodbridge ................ 131
Sincerity ...................... 132
Vacaville ...................... 134
Valley .......................... 135
Pacific ······-·--······-······--·136
Crockett ...................... 139
Curtis .......................... 140
Grafton ........................ 141
Franklin ...................... 143
Oriental ...................... 144
Vitruvius .................... 145

312.80
56.50
48.30
34.20
149.80
453.10
52.90
56.80
94.30
53.30
87.50
36.00
27.30
138.20
60.90
223.30
79.10
131.70
129.70
223.00
34.90
130.80
140.30
54.20
576.90
79.30
203.80
53.10
109.80
221.30
163.10
69.90
90.80
52.40
125.20
40.70
693.50
491.80
50.40
27.00
71.40
350.90
55.30

Home

Home

Maintenance
Fund.

Building
Fund.

Total.

312.00
55.00
47.00
38.00
162.00
419.00
51.00
52.00
97.00
57.00
85.00
40.00
27.00
128.00
61.00
207.00
79.00
123.00
133.00
220.00
31.00
132.00
127.00
48.00
561.00
77.00
192.00
59.00
122.00
207.00
159.00
71.00
92.00
46.00
128.00
43.00
675.00
442.0(}
56.00
30.00
66.00
361.00
57.00

156.00
27.50
23.50
19.00
81.00
2(}9.50
25.50
26.(}0
48.50
28.50
42.50
20.00
13.5(}
64.00
30.50
103.5(}
39.50
61.50
66.50
110.00
15.50
66.00
63.50
24.(}0
280.50
38.50
96.00
29.50
61.00
103;50
79.50
35.50
46.00
23.00
64.00
21.50
337.50
221.00
28.00
15.00
33.00
180.50
28.50

780.80
J.39.00
118.80
91.20
392.80
1,081.60
129.40
134.80
239.80
138.80
215.00
96.00
67.80
330.20
152.40
533.80
197.60
316.20
329.20
553.00
81.40
328.80
330.80
126.20
1,418.40
194.80
491.80
141.60
292.80
531.80
401.60
176.40
228.80
121.40
317.20
105.20
1,706.00
1,154.80
134.40
72.(}0
170.40
892.40
140.80

AJlowed
Represent·
atives.

24.00
8.00
6.10
16.00
2.10
31.90
4.00
28.90
25.50
9.00
10.70
9.90
35.70
24.70
6.20
11.20
.80
5.50
16.40
3.30
3.30
11.00
3.00
18.30
8.20
5.80
23.70
4.40
5.90

6.40
6.00

138

General
Fund.

Abell ............................ 146
Eel River .................... 147
Lassen ............~ ............. 149
Molino .......................... 150
Woodland ....................156
Keystone ............ :....... 161
Harmony ...................... 164
Excelsior ...................... 166
Alameda ...................... 167
Redwood City ............ 168
Mission ........................ 169
Elk Grove .................. 173
Drytown ........................ 17 4
Antioch ........................ 175
Phoenix ........................ 178
Mendocino .................. 179
Petaluma ......... __ ........... 180
Russian River ............ 181
Meridian ...................... 182
Clear Lake .................. 183
Sierra Valley .............. 184
Claiborne ......................185
Evening Star .............. 186
Keith ............................187
Oakland ........................ 188
Northern Light .......... 190
Marin ............................ 191
Santa Barbara ............ 192
J<'erndale ...................... 193
Mountain View .......... 194
Buckeye ........................ 195
San Simeon .................. 196
Wilmington .................. 198
Hartley ........................ 199
Truckee ........................ 200
Silveyville .................... 201
Pentalpha .................... 202
Confidence .................... 203
Salinas........................... 204
Newville ...................... 205
Stanislaus .................... 206
Anaheim· ...................... 207
Rio Vista .................... 208

125.80
117.90
123.60
76.80
178.20
27.30
13.80
430.70
114.10
190.00
859.80
69.90
29.10
118.20
314.50
156.60
246.30
93.90
47.90
27.10
29.70
48.00
47.50
109.20
601.80
78.80
232.00
206.10
81.50
126.30
78.30
53.10
76.60
110.30
111.7078.30
487.10
22.50
155.80
35.10
123.70
129.10
67.30

Home

Maintenance
F11nd.

Building
Fund.

122.00
121.00
104.00
72.00
178.00
27.00
12.00
403.00
109.00
150.00
902.00
71.00
29.00
108.00
275.00
144.0-0
227.00
81.00
51.-00
29.00
33.00
5(}.00
35.00
118.00
572.00
82.00
230.(}0
169.00
85.00
107.00
87.00
39.00
64.00
107.00
113.00
77.00
499.00
25.00
152.00
39.00
113.00

61.00
60.50
52.00
36.00
89.00
13.50
6.00
201.50
54.50
75.00
451.00
35.50
14.50
54.00
137.50
72.00
113.50
40.50
25.50
14.50
16.50
25.0(}
17.50
59.00
286.00
41.00
115.00
84.50
42.50
53.50
43.50
19.50
32.00
53.50
56.50
38.50
249.50
12.50
76.00
19.50
56.50
59.50
33.50

11~.oo

67.00

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total.

308.80
299.40
279.60
184.80
445.20
67.80
31.80
1,035.20
277.60
415.00
2,212.80
176.40
72.60
280.20
727.00
372.60
586.80
215.40
124.40
70.60
79.20
123.0~

100.00
286.20
1,459.80
201.80
577.00
459.60
209.00
286.80
208.80
111.60
172.60
270.80
281.20
193.80
1,235.60
60.00
383.80
93.60
293.20
307.60
167.80

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

7.00
22.70
31.80
12.50
5.80
7.20
33.10
1.60
1.80
5.50
10.70
3.20
35.70
15.50
3.30
7.60
21.30
12.00
4.90
.20
21.10
.70
29.70
22.90
2.50
5.50
22.10
36.50
11.50
18.30
35.70
6.20
7.20
14.90
6.50
35.70
6.00

General
Fund.

King David's .............. 209
Friendship .................... 210
San Benito .................. 211
South San Praneisco....212
San Buenaventura ...... 214
Oak Grove .................. 215
Doric ............................ 216
Monterey ...................... 217
Mosaic ..........................218
Speranza Italiana........219
Downey ........................ 220
Inyo .............................. 221
Granite ........................ 222
Bakersfield .................. 224
Brooklyn ......................225
San Mateo .................... 226
Athens .......................... 228
Solano .......................... 229
North Butte ................ 230
Covelo ..........................231
Janesville .................... 232
Calistoga ...................... 233
Hope .............................. 234
Surprise Valley ............ 235
Hills Perry .................. 236
Guadalupe ....................237
Colusa ..........................240
Santa Ana .................... 241
Magnolia ...................... 242
Eucalyptus .................. 243
Alcatraz ........................ 244
Laurel ..........................245
Pomona ........................246
Fresno .......................... 247
Alturas .......................... 248
Adin .............................. 250
Bodie ............................ 252
Landmark .................... 253
Reading ........................ 254
Welcome ......................255
Lodi .............................. 256
Penrhyn ........................ 258
Evergreen .................... 259

214.00
268.00
92.60
207.20
128.80
459.20
530.70
132.80
98.20
240.00
97.40
55.50
53.10
320.80
416.50
170.80
84.30
318.60
88.90
47.70
49.80
81.70
57.80
55.20
73.00
69.00
86.50
329.00
110.00
97.10
419.60
107.90
258.60
376.50
66.30
46.50
30.00
50.10
136.00
81.70
200.30
81.70
288.40

Home

Home

Maintenance
Fund.

Building
Fund.

Total.

210.00
260.00
94.00
198.00
132.00
448.00
503.00
112.00
98.00
210.00
96.00
55.00
59.00
312.00
385.00
152.0(}
77.00
274.00
91.00
43.00
52.00
83.00
52.00
48.00
70.00
70.00
85.00
330.00
100.00
99.00
384.00
111.00
264.00
355.00
67.00
45.00
30.00
49.00
140.00
83.00
197.00
83.00
306.00

105.00
130.00
47.00
99.00
66.00
224.00
251.50
56.00
49.00
105.00
48.00
27.50
29.50
156.00
192.50
76.00
38.50
137.00
45.50
21.50
26.00
41.50
26.00
24.00
35.00
35.00
42.50
165.00
50.00
49.50
192.00
55.50
132.00
177.50
33.50
22.50
15.00
24.50
70.00
41.50
98.50
41.50
153.00

529.00
658.00
233.60
504.20
326.80
1,131.20
1,285.20
300.80
245.20
555.00
241.40
138.00
141.60
788.80
994.00
398.80
199.80
729.60
225.40
112.20
127.80
206.20
135.80
127.20
178.00
174.00
214.00
824.00
260.00
245.60
995.60
274.40
654.60
909.00
166.80
114.00
75.00
123.60
346.00
206.20
495.80
206.20
747.40

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

19.10
2.50
5.90
29.70
.20
6.60
2.80
35.70
48.20
7.10
23.40
.20
1.20
5.10
2.10
9.50
34.80
2.50
23.70
45.90
7.00
21.60
9.40
35.75
29.60
1.10
.20
10.00
35.70
15.60
40.90
50.00
18.50
17.70
5.50
7.40
35.70

140

General
Fund.

King Solomon "s ..........260
Tuscan .......................... 261
Lompoc ........................262
Besperian ....................264
Orland .......................... 265
North East .................. 266
Galt .............................. 267
Durant .......................... 268
Olive BraMh .............. 269
Snow Mountain .......... 271
Pasadena ...................... 272
Anchor .......................... 273
Arroyo ..........................274
Oakdale ........................275
Selma ............................277
Southern California.... 278
Hanford ........................279
Madera ........................280
Mt. Shasta .................. 281
Callayomi ....................282
South West ..................283
San Miguel .................. 285
Paso Robles ................ 286
Winneuumah ................287
Maxwell ...................... 288
Elsinore ........................289
East Gate .................... 290
Santa Paula ................291
Los Gatos .................... 292
Orange Grove .............. 293
Traver ..........................294
Mt. Jackson ................295
Silver Gate ..........••...... 296
Dunsmuir ...................... 297
Mokelurnne Hill .......... 298
Liberty ........................299
Redlands ......................300
Ontario ..........................301
Santa Lucia ................302
Porterville ....................303
Reedley ........................304
Azusa ............................305
AshJar ..........................306

557.70
59.30
113.40
198.50
84.70
5l.60
61.30
420.50
136.70
38.20
432.20
78.20
45.00
75.90
182.90
663.00
175.70
114.40
52.50
33.70
116.30
74.10
77.90
116.60
34.50
56.10
772.40
151.20
135.00
125.90
76.00
95.30
458.60
121.30
47.80
184.30
255.80
134.10
66.10
169.8()
65.70
85.50
131.30

141

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Jiome
"-fain tenance
Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

513.00
57.00
106.00
195.00
83.00
44.00
47.00
435.00
143.00
38.00
428.00
78.00
50.00
71.00
151.00
680.00
173.00
106.00
55.00
33.00
117.00
79.00
61.00
104.00
35.00
59.00
706.00
138.00
130.00
121.00
70.00
87.00
424.00
107.00
52.00
187.00
252.00
139.00
69.00
172.00
63.00
85.00
127.00

256.50
28.50
53.00
97.50
41.50
22.00
23.50
217.50
71.50
19.00
214.00
39.00
25.00
35.50
75.50
340.00
86.50
53.00
27.50
16.50
58.50
39.50
30.50
52.00
17.50
29,50
353.00
69.00
65.00
60.50
35.00
43.50
212.00
53.50
26.00
93.50
126.00
69.50
34.00
86.00
31.50
42.50
63.50

1,327.20
144.80
272.40
491.00
209.20
117.60
131.80
l,073.00
351.20
95.20
1,074.20
195.20
120.00
182.40
409.40
1,683.00
435.20
273.40
135.00
83.20
291.80
192.60
169.40
272.60
87.00
144.60
1,831.40
358.20
330.00
307.40
181.00
225.80
1,094.60
281.80
125.80
464.80
633.80
342.60
169.60
427.80
160.20
213.00
321.80

Allowed
Represent·

atives.

8.40
24.30
21.70

5.50
.20
18.30
15.60
35.70
36.10
19.00
7.40
16.70
35.70
17.70
17.80
9.50
44.15
113.10
16.70
55.10
8.90
38.10
35.70
31.70
35.70
17.00
3.50
44.15
22.80
14.00
2.50
36.40
35.70
10.30
20.00
17.10
31.40
35.70

General
Fund.

Santa Maria ................ 307
Monrovia ...................... 308
Delano .......................... 309
Sisson ..........................310
Los Banos ....................312
Tehachapi .................... 313
Temescal ...................... 314
Norwalk ........................ 315
Sanger ..........................316
l<'allbrook ......................317
Emmanuel .................... 318
Hollenbeck ..................319
South Gate .................. 320
Alisa} ............................321
Alhambra .................... 322
Whittier ........................ 323 .
Corona .......................... 324
Consuelo ......................325
Needles ........................ 326
Long Beach .................. 327
Redondo ........................ 328
Vallee de France ..........329
Kilauea ........................330
Pacific Grove .............. 331
San Pedro .................... 332
Alta ..............................333
Covina .......................... 334
Wes:t Gate .................... 335
Fruitvale ...................... 336
Carquinez ....................337
San Jacinto ..................338
Fu1lerton ...................... 339
Oxnard ..........................341
San Fernando ..............343
Starr King ....................344
Brentwood .................... 345
Palo Alto ......................346
McKinley .................... 347
San Bernardino ..........348
Sequoia ........................ 349
Palestine ......................351
Sunset ............................ 352
Pinole ............................353

149.60
118.60
123.50
84.00
56.40
135.20
87.10
86.30
94.20
44.60
49.70
947.00
733.80
72.80
257.00
175.60
364.10
77.90
155.60
350.60
135.40
118.40
153.75
61.40
227.10
27.90
152.60
435.80
356.90
112.60
105.30
217.90
174.40
91.90
326.90
95.50
229.30
203.90
324.70
625.70
346.00
470.10
111.70

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

Jiome
Maintenance
Fund.

Jiome
Building
Fund.

Total.

144.00
124.00
95.00
80.00
56.00
128.00
89.00
67.00
88.00
44.00
53.00
810.00
742.00
62.00
260.00
]64.00
369.00
71.00
144.00
344.00
136.00
106.00
173.00
66.00
199.00
31.00
154.00
422.00
291.00
104.00
107.00
201.00
176.00
81.00
301.00
85.00
207.00
181.00
283.00
543.00
320.00
419.00
83.00

72.00
62.00
47.50
40.00
28.00
64.00
44.50
33.50
44.00
22.00
26.50
405.00
371.00
31.00
130.00
82.00
184.50
35.50
72.00
172.00
68.00
53.00
86.50
33.00
99.50
15.50
77.00
211.00
145.50
52.00
53.50
100.50
88.00
40.50
150.50
42.50
103.50
90.50
141.50
271.50
160.00
209.50
41.50

36.40
365.60
35.70
304.60
266.00
20.30
2()4.00
23.80
140.40
8.30
327.20
25.60
220.60
35.70
186.80
35.70
226.20
16.50
.41.70
110.60
9.70
129.20
35.70
2,162.00
35.70
1,846.80
2.50
165.80
35.70
647.00
35.90
421.60
35.70
917.60
41.90
184.40
48.50
371.60
36.50
866.60
36.50
339.40
35.70
277.40
413.25
160.40
7.00
525.60
36.50
74.40
383.60
35.70
1,068.80
35.70
793.40
.20
2.10
268.60
265.80
38.70
35.70
519.40
30.30
438.40
34.70
213.40
778.40
223.00
3.80
~-10
539.80
475.40
1 ..10
749.20
35.70
1,440.20. . . ' . .20
826.00 ;i ;3~. 70
1,098.60
, 35.'lO
236~~,Q . . '. ,1.60

142

Presidio ........................354
Hollywood ....................355
Mill Valley ..................356
Buena Park ..................357
Golden State ................ 358
Loyalton ...................... 359
San Francisco .............. 360
Fort Bragg .................. 361
Charity ..........................362
Berkeley ...................... 363
Olivet ............................364
Willits .......................... 365
Las PaJmas ..................366
South Pasadena ..........367
Unity ............................368
Ocean Park .................. 369
Amity ............................370
Oceanic ........................ 371
Gardena ........................ 372
Veteran ........................ 373
.Jewel ............................374
Richmond ....................375
Francis Drake .............. 376
Artesia .......................... 377
Mizpah ..........................378
Fillmore ........................379
Huntington Beach ........380
Oceanside ....................381
Highland Park ............ 382
Orosi .............................. 383
El Centro ......................384
Dinuba ..........................385
Coalinga ........................387
Parnassus .................... 388
Palos Verdes ................389
Imperial ...... :................. 390
East Belt ......................391
West Lake .................. 392
Balder ............................393
University ....................394
Turlock ........................ 395
Apollo .......................... 396
Rising Light ................397

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Generi>l
Fund.

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

349.80
405.30
205.10
76.30
560.00
32.40
284.00
69.90
102.60
356.30
57.00
112.40
370.80
178.80
196.60
210.20
340.80
171.00
84.00
204.20
114.50
355.20
83.70
105.30
480.00
97.10
63.70
63.30
357.30
60.90
135.20
164.70
157.30
345.00
191.00
79.60
61.40
636.10
231.90
265.20
70.30
166.50
149.70

312.00
357.00
189.00
67.00
480.00
36.00
250.00
71.00
84.00
347.00
60.00
96.00
322.00
172.00
194.00
198.00
322.00
156.00
80.00
168.00
95.00
308.00
73.00
87.00
410.00
89.00
63.00
47.00
317.00
61.00
118.00
113.00
147.00
290.00
160.00
64.00
46.00
579.00
201.00
218.00
67.00
145.00
113.00

143

GRAND LODU.l!l OF CALIFORNIA
Home
Building
}'und.

156.00
178.50
94.50
33.50
240.00
18.00
125.00
35.50
42.00
173.50
30.00
48.00
161.00
86.00
97.00
99.00
161.00
i8.00
40.00
84.00
47.50
154.00
36.50
43.50
205.00
44.50
31.50
23.50
158.50
30.50
59.00
56.50
73.50
145.00
80.00
32.00
23.00
289.50
100.50
109.00
33.50
72.50
56.50

Total.

817.80
940.80
488.60
176.80
1,280.00
86.40
659.00
176.40
228.60
876.80
147.00
256.40
853.80
436.80
487.60
507.20
823.80
405.00
204.00
456.20
257.00
817.20
193.20
235.80
1,095.00
230.60
158.20
133.80
832.80
152.40
312.20
334.20
377.80
780.00
431.00
175.60
130.40
1,504.60
533.40
592.20
170.80
384.00
319.20

Allowed
Represent·
ati"es.

35.70
1.00
35.70
35.70

13.90
.20
14.90
8.00
15.60
35.70
37.90
36.40

35.70
36.40

.70
36.40
35.70
32.40
37.20
39.90
35.70
19.10.
53.20
18.30
19.80
36.50
52.90
13.40
35.70
35.70
7.40
.20
35.70

General
Fund.

Fraternity ....................399
Burlingame ................. .400
Bay View .................... 401
Brawley ........................402
Yerba Buena ............... .403
Glendora ..................... .404
Moneta ......................... .405
Burbank ....................... .406
La Mesa ....................... .407
Sierra Madre ............. .408
Honolulu .......~ ............. .409
Charter Rock ............. .410
Perris ............................411
Calexico ........................ 412
Waucoba ..................... .413
A:rlington ..................... .414
Silver 'rrowel .............. 415
Lindsay ....................... .416
Clovis ........................... .417
J<Jlysian .......................... 418
Upland ......................... .419
Kerman ....................... .420
Inglewood ................... .421
Eagle Roek ................. .422
York ............................. .423
Exeter ......................... .424
Holtville ..................... .425
Midway ........................426
Chino Valley ............... .427
San Dimas ................... .428
Pittsburg ......................429
McCloud ....................... .430
Alpha ........................... .431
Roseville ..................... .432
Hammonton ............... .433
Maricopa ..................... .434
Pairmount ................... .435
Claremon.t ....................436
Lancaster ...................... 437
Germania .................... :.438
Tyrian ......................... .439
Standard ......................440
Coronado ..................... .441

173.30
195.40
243.30
84.40
229.10
46.90
378.70
89.50
60.50
71.40
190.50
424.50
71.00
92.50
28.10
149.00
171.40
62.40
48.70
264.20
72.50
46.80
90.00
49.30
92.60
55.70
59.90
131.80
42.80
58.2(}
67.20
48.90
227.90
91.50
65.60
63.00
511.40
65.50
69.90
83.50
30.20
153.90
69.30

Allowed
Represent-

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

ati"es.

167.00
156.00
217.00
76.00
199.00
51.00
283.00
75.00
65.00
66.00
190.00
355.00
50.00
85.00
29.00
130.00
146.00
56.00
43.00
208.00
65.00
42.00
70.00
47.00
64.00
53.00
51.00
112.00
42.00
58.00
48.00
41.00
181.00
85.00
44.00
50.00
336.00
55.00
41.00
65.00
28.00
101.00
67.00

83.50
78.00
108.50
38.00
99.50
25.50
141.50
37.50
32.50
33.(}0
95.00
177.50
25.00
42.50
14.50
65.00
73.00
28.00
21.50
104.00
32.50
21.00
35.00
23.50
32.00
26.50
25.50
56.00
21.00
29.00
24.00
20.50
90.50
42.50
22.00
25.00
168.00
27.50
20.50
32.50
14.00
50.50
33.50

423.80
429.40
568.80
198.40
527.60
123.40
803.20
202.00
158.00
170.40
475.50
957.00
146:00
220.00
71.60
344.00
390.40
146.40
113.20
576.20
170'.00
109.80
195.0U
119.80
188.60
135.20
136.40
299.80
105.80
145.20
139.20
110.40
499.40
219.00
131.60
138.00
J,015.40
148.00
131.40
181.00
72.20
305.40
169.80

2.50
1.10
.20
51.70
.20
35.70
35.70
35.00
44.50
:-16.40
.20
37.10
54.00
52.90
35.70
35.70
19.30
16.40
:-15.70
35.70
36.20
36.20
36.70
18.90
54.00
27.60
?5.70
35.70
3.00
27.GO

1.10
6.80
10.05
27.10

35.70
30.60
35.70
5.50
.20
44.15

144

General
Fund.

Blackmer ...................... 442
Schofield ......................443
Carpinteria ................. .444
Wilshire ....................... .445
La Puenta ....................446
Torrance ...................... 447
Mt. Diablo .................. 448
Park ............................. .449
Van Nuys ................... .450
Montebello ................... .451
San Pasqual ................ 452
Bethlehem ................... .453
Crocker ....................... .454
Golden West ................455
Kennett ........................456
Ramona ....................... .457
Henry S. Orme............458
Riverbank .................... 459
Mount Oso ................ U. D.
Argonaut .................. U. D.
Paul Revere ............U. D.
Morgan Hill ............U. D.
Center ......................U. D.
Alta Vista ................ U. D.

135.70
101.50
33.90
242.80
47.90
39.00
50.20
301.10
67.70
50.10
78.30
116.60
56.60
257.20
63.10
64.10
161.20
41.00
58.60
119.50
195.60
20.10
20.90
26.20

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

Home
Maintenance
Fund.

Home
Building
Fund.

Total.

113.00
74.00
31.00
212.00
41.00
30.00
38.00
159.00
43.00
39.00
77.00
74.00
34.00
98.00
39.00
49.00
68.00
30.00
34.00
45.00
64.00
19.00
21.00
18.00

56.50
37.00
15.50
106.00
20.50
15.00
19.00
79.50
21.50
19.50
38.50
37.00
17.00
49.00
19.50
24.50
34.00
15.00
17.00
22.50
32.00
9.50
10.50
9.00

305.20
212.50
80.40
560.80
109.40
84.00
107.20
539.60
132.20
108.60
193.80
227.60
107.60
404.20
121.60
137.60
263.20
86.00
109.60
187.00
291.60
48.60
52.40
53.20

44.15
28.40
35.70
35.70
35.70
2.80
35.70
35.70
35.70

19.70
35.70
35.70
6.90
4.40

JOHN

B. "'l>VUERSOHING,
Committee.

4.90
12.60

REPORTS OF 001\DIITTEE OK GRIEVANCES.

The returns disclose the following interesting information:
3513 members raised as compared with ................ 3257 last year
1063 members affiliated as compared with. . . . . . • . . . . . . 1088 ''
''
126 members restored as eompared with. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146 '' ''
4702 members gained as compared with ................ 4491

"

"

738
742
20
811

"
"

"

753 members withdrawn as compared with ............
638 members suspended for N.P.D. as compared with .•
23 members expelled or suspended as compared with ..
814 members died as compared with ..................

The number of members from outside jurisdictions who have affil·
iated with us considerably exceeds the number who have withdrawn. It
would seem, however, that with proper attention given to the nonaffiliated members in our midst, this proportion should be considerably
increased.
The suspension for non-payment of dues should receive attentiQn.
It is to be noted, as a general rule, that the Lodges which are remiss in
making reports have the largest proportionate number of suspensions.
. This leads to the conclusion that if proper attention were paid to the
delinquents the number could be materially reduced. We believe if the
Masters and Secretaries of the various Lodges will give this matter
proper attention this can be accomplished. We think continual effort
should be made by all Lodges toward this end. It would seem that as
much time and effort should be given to maintaining a member on the
rolls in good standing after he is once there as is given to putting him
there in the first place.
Respectfully submitted,
J. D. ABRAMS,
C. D. BARNETT,
GEO. W. LEMOIN,
ARTHUR S. CRITES,

Totals ............................ $62,811.85 $57,856.00 $28,928.00 $149,595.85 $6,381.10

2228 members lost as compared with .....

145

GRAND LODGE OF C.\LIFORNL\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"

"
"

"
"

... . ... . .. ... 2311 "

"

There has been a net gain in membership for the year 2474, making
the total membership at the close of the year 57,856.

The Committee on Grievances presented the "Omnibus"
report of that Committee as follows:
To the M.". W:', Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Appeals and Grievances to whom was referred
the following trial records, to-wit:
Record 179, Moneta No. 405
''
192, Las Pahnas No. 366
''
193, Hawaiian No. 21
"
194, Park No. 449
'' 195, Hawaiian No. 21
'' 196, Nicolaus No. 129
"
197, Amador No. 65
''
1981 Silver Gate No. 296

Record 199, South Gate No. 320
'' 200, La Mesa No. 407
"
201, Blackmer No. 442
"
202, Golden West No. 455
'' 204, South Gate No. 320
''
205, Salinas No. 204
'' 207, Friendship No. 210
"
209, Fullerton No. 339

respectfully reports that after careful examination it finds that in each
of the eases referred to there was at least a substantial compliance with
the Constitution and Regulations; that in those eases where there was a

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

failure to comply strictly with the law and with the procedure governing
trials, the error in no way prejudiced the rights of the accused; that in
none of those cases was any appeal taken, and in every instance sub·
stantial justice has been done.
Your Committee notes with great satisfaction that generally speaking
there has been a material improvement in the manner in which trials
have been conducted, and in the form in which the transcripts have been
prepared.
In this connection special mention should be made of the record
of the trial commission in Record No. 198, from Silver Gate Lodge No.
296. The transcript is not only a model for a record of proceedings be·
cause of the care and exactness with whieh it has been prepared in strict
compliance with the requirements of the constitution (with one exception
to be hereafter noted), but it is in itself, of its kind, a work of art.
The typing is extraordinarily clear and distinct, with no erasures or inter·
lineations, and it appears as a bound book in a handsome leather cover,
lettered in gold. The testimony was reported and the transcript prepared
by Brother Norton Langford; and it is to be especially noted that
Brother Langford made no charge whatever for his services.
The one departure from a strict compliance with the requirements
of the Constitution, to which we have referred (and to which no refer·
ence would ·be made except for the fact that we have declared the record
to be a model), consists in having the transcript of testimony constituting
the reeord signed by the witnesses. The transcript transmitted to the
Grand Secretary is presumed to be merely a copy of the original which
is filed in the archives of the Lodge. It is the original which should be
signed by the witnesses, and not the copy transmitted to the Grand
Lodge. The only originals in that transcript should be the certificates
required by the Constitution. The other practice, however, has become
so common that in recent years it has not been questioned.
We offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the verdict and decision in each of the cases herein
referred to, and the action of the Lodge thereon, be, and the same hereby
are, approved and confirmed.
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
GEORGE L. JONES,

J. P. BERNHARD,
WALTER F. HAAS,

Committee.

Report adopted.
Brother Charles Albert Adams, Chairman of the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:

147

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge:

Y~u~ Committee on Appeals and Grievances to whom was referred
the pet~bo~ for re~t?ration in Trial Record No. 151, respectfully reports:
This is a petition for restoration. Petitioner was expelled on the
2d day of March, 1914, after conviction upon a charge of having obtained
money under false pretenses. The testimony upon which he was con·
victed was a certified copy of the record of his conviction in the Superior
Court; and the action of the Lodge was affirmed by the Grand Lodge
at the Annual Communication of 1914.
No:ice of the petition "for restoration was duly given to the Lodge
as reqmred by the Constitution, and at a stated meeting held on the 4th
day of .September, 1916, the Lodge voted against restoring petitioner
to the rights and privileges of Masonry.
The petitio~~r is now on parole, and accompanying the petition is
a c.opy. of a p~hbon for a pardon, signed by eight members of the jury,
which is no,~ Ill the hands of the Governor, in which it is recited that
there were r:iany. !lXtenuating circumstances and the jury had a grave
doubt as to his ~emg actuated by any criminal intent in obtaining the
money that he did,
and that since that time his conduct has
?een .exemplary, and he is very anxious to embark in business, and it
is believed that. he will prove to be a worthy citizen and a useful member
of the commumty wherever he may reside''·
It appea~s, however, that the only grounds upon which the petitioner
seeks restorat10n are the following:

First. That he was unjustly convicted of a crime of which he was
not guilty.
Seeond.

That the trial was unfair.

Th~rd. That the jury first returned a verdict that was equivalent
to acquittal; and that the trial judge refused to aecept that verdict.
. Fourth.. That the Lodge based its action on the Court proceedin
which were irregular and unfair.
gs
. T~ese were practically the same grounds upon which was based peti·
boner s appeal from the judgment of his conviction in the Superior
Court; and on the hearing of that appeal the District Court of Appeals,
a~ appears from the reported decision, affirmed the judgment of convic·
tion. (142 Pac. Rep., page 495.)
In view of the action of the Lodge, and in view of the fact that
the only grounds upon which is based the petition for restoration are
those determined by a Court of competent jurisdiction to be without
merit, .your Committee feels constrained to recommend that the petition
be demed.
We therefore offer the following resolution:

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolved, that the petition for restorati~n in Trial Record No. 151
be, and the same hereby is, denied.
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

J'. P. BERNHARD,
GEORGE L. JONES,

Committee.

The recommendation of the Committee was concurred
in and the petition for restoration was denied.
Brother Haas, from the same Committee, reported as to
Trial Record No. 203, on appeal from the judgment of the
Trial Commission in Starr King Lodge No. 344, confirming
and approving the action of the Lodge in expelling the accused ; and the report was adopted.
Brother Haas, for the Committee on Grievances, reported
as to Trial Record No. 211, which resulted in a verdict of
reprimand and which had been appealed by the accuser, recommending that the judgment of the Trial Commission in
Live Oak Lodge No. 61, be sustained. The report of the
Committee was adopted.
OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY BY I..iODGES.
Brother Hervey introduced the following resolution,
which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Whereas, the statute passed by the legislature of California in 1911
(Statutes, p. 572), in relation to the ownership, etc., of property by
Lodges, is not adeqnate for the purposes intended, and will require fur·
ther legislation to make the same effective and expedient for use by
Lodge; Now, therefore, let it be
Resolved, that the Grand Secretary, until the laws of California are
further amended with reference to the ownership of property by Lodges,
omit from further editions of the Constitution seetion 87c now contained
therein.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until Thursday
morning at 10 o'clock.

149

]u °'ra:uh ·linhgr
Morning Session.
Thursday, October 12, 1916.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
After music by our veteran Grand Organist and prayer
by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of yesterday's sessions
were read and approved.
Past Grand ~faster Motley H. Flint appeared and took
·
his seat.
Brother \Villiam A. Sherman offered a resolution to
amend section 73 of the Constitution, providing that officers
?f newly~formed Lodges shall show evidence of proficiency
1~ Masomc law as well as ritual, prior to issuance of dispensation to form Lodge. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
REPORTS OF COl\:L~HTTEE ON FINANCE.
Brother Goldaracena, for the Committee on Finance, reported back the report of the Committee on Masonic Education as follows :
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance, to whom was referred the report of the
Committee on Masonic Education, have read and studied said report and
come to the conclusion that it involves nothing more than a matter
of policy; that no appropriation of funds is asked, for which reason
feeling that it is not within the province of the duties of your Finane~
Committee, we hereby refer the said report back to the Grand Lodge for
its action.
GEO.

F. RODDEN,

0. M. GOLDARACENA,

J'. H. STEPHENS,
J. H. BEAN,
WM. A. SHERMAN.

Thereupon, on motion, the report of the Committee on
Masonic Education was again read and adopted as presented.

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Goldaracena also reported appropriations as follows:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to report as follows:
We have received and considered the reports of the Boards of Relief
of San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, Oakland, Sacramento, San
Jose and Honolulu, and offer_the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $7,839.32 be and the same is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as follows:
To the Board of Relief -0f San Francisco ..................... $2,629.90
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,500.00
To the Board of Relief of Oakland .......................... 1,209.42
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 1,500.00
We have also had under consideration the matter of salaries for the
Grand Officers, and beg leave to report thereon as fol_lows, and make the
following recommendations:
The salary of the Grand Treasurer ........................ $ 200.00
The salary of the Grand Secretary ......................... 3,600.00
The salary of the Asistant Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,100.00
The salary of the Grand Organist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
60.00
The salary of the Grand 'riler . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125.00
For the services of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used in defraying actual expenses incurred by him in the performance
of his duties ................ - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,200.00
The salary of the Grand Lecturer ........................... 3,000.00
As it is impossible to know the exact amount of the contingent expenses of the Grand Lecturer, the Committee recommends that the Grand
Lecturer file with the Grand Secretary an itemized account of his actual
expenses incurred in the discharge of his duties, and that when said
account has been audited by the Committee on Accounts, that it be paid
as other accounts are paid.
Resolved, That our M.". w:. Grand Master, Albert G. Burnett, be
requested to sit for his portrait done in oil, and that, when finished, the
V.'. w:. Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed and placed with
the portraits of other Past Grand Masters in the Masonic Temple of
this city.
GEO. F. RODDEN,

J. H. BEAN,
WM. A. SHERMAN,

0. M. GOLDARACENA.

Report adopted.

151

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS.
Brother Frank W. jiosmer, Chairman of the Committee
on Charters, presented the following report:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred the applications of the various
Lodges under. dispensation during the past Masonic year, begs to submit
the following report :
Having carefully examined the rec~rds, minute books and such other
documents as were submitted, and personally interviewed such representatives of the Lodges in question as were present, the Committee found the
records, except in a few unimportant instances, generally kept in a proper,
neat and legible manner. This examination also disclosed that these
Lodges are on a sound financial basis.
Your Committee therefore recommends that Charters be granted to
the following Lodges and numbered as noted:
Mount Oso Lodge No. 460, Tracy, San Joaquin County;
Argonaut Lodge No. 461, San Francisco;
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462, San Francisco;
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463, Morgan Hill, Santa Clara county;
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464, San Francisco;
Center Lodge No. 465, Fresno, Fresno county.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK W. HOSMER,

M. J. NEWBERG,
WILLIAM KAY,

J. P. BASCOM,
A. W. BusH,
Committee.

The report was adopted and Charters ordered to be issued accordingly.
Brother Elmer E. Stone· offered a resolution to amend
section 30 of the Constitution, which was referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Secretary proposed to amend section 17 of
the Constitution, providing that the annual election shall be
held on the second day of Grand ],odge instead of the fourth
day. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

152

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDI:N"GS OF THE

REPORT OF ENDOWMEN'r COMMITTEE.
Past Grand Master Motley H. }flint brought up the report of the Endowment Committee of the Masonic Homes,
and its was adopted as printed.

REPORTS OF COMl\IIITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE.
Past Grand Master Angellotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following reports:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration that
portion of the Address of the Most Worshipful Grand Master which
states the decisions on questions of Masoanic law rendered by him
during the year.
Decisions numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18 and
20 are so clearlv in accord both with the letter and the spirit of our
written law and the decisions made by this Grand Lodge thereunder,
that no comment on our part is necessary. We recommend that all of
the decisions specified be affirmed by this Grand Lodge.
As to decision No. 5, we are of the opinion that there is nothing in
our law that prohibits the conferring by the same Lodge of more than
five degrees in any period of twenty-four hours. There is nothing in
the law as written to prohibit the holding of more than one called
meeting within the period of twenty·four hours, that matter bein~ left
to the discretion of the Master, and the only limitation being as to
the character of the business that may be transacted at such a meeting.
Section 115 simply prohibits the conferring of degrees on more than
five candidates at any one meeting, the conferring of more than one
degree on any one candidate at any one meeting, and the conferring of
degrees on more than one candidate at a time. We are not at liberty
to add by decision to the prohibition thus clearly expressed, and if any
change in this respect is desired it must be accomplished by legislation.
We recommend that the decision be not approved.

Adopted.
Decision No. 12 is in accord with the ruling Grand Master Murphey
in 1914, which ruling was approved by the Grand Lodge. (Sec. 135p.)
We recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.

153

Decision No. 14 is in strict accord with our law. The Grand Master
suggests that perhaps the law should be amended to meet such a situ·
ation as was presented in the case brought before him and discussed
in his decision. Vv e are noting this decision simply to suggest that in
the year 1912 our Constitution was amended so as to provide for a
modification in special cases of the general rule as to territorial juris·
diction of Lodges, such modification to be made by the Grand Lodge.
The amendment is section 92A of the Constitution.
We recommend that the decision of the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.
As to Decision No. 17, we must assume in favor of the ruling of the
Grand Master that the p~oposed candidate, by reason of his physical
defect 1 was not able to conform substantially to the requirements of
the various degrees, and, so assuming, the decision must be held to have
been correct. The test in all cases is whether the candidate is thus
able to substantially conform. It would seem that Lodges should be
able to apply this simple test without the necessity of advice or ruling
on the part of the Grand Master.
We recommend that the decision of the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.
At the last communication of the Grand Lodge it was proposed to
amend our Constitution by making it provide "that the daughter of a
Master Mason, in good standing, under the age of twenty-one years, is
entitled to relief as a matter of right; that the daughter of a Master
Mason who has attained the age of twenty-one years, shall not as a
matter of right be entitled to aid, but may receive aid at the discretion
of the dispensing body.''
If any such amendment is desired it should be added to section
163 of the Constitution, which now provides ''every Master Mason in
good standing, his widow and orphans, when in distress, has and have
the right to ask for and receive relief,'' etc.
The word ''orphan'' as used in this section has always been construed to include a daughter, whatever her age, and regardless of
whether she has been married. If in distress, such a person has always
been considered as entitled to Masonic aid.
We are of the opinion that our law in this regard shonld not be
changed, and especially should not be changed so as to exclude the
daughter of a Master Mason simply and solely by reason of the fact that
she has attained the age of twenty-one years.
We recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Report concurred in.

154

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Jurisprudence make the following report as to
certain matters submitted to them for consideration:

3. It is proposed to amend the Constitution by authorizing subordinate Lodges to adopt by-laws providing that members who have belonged to the Lodge for a period of not less than twenty-five years and
have arrived at the age of sixty-five years or more, shall thereafter be
exempt from the payment of any Lodge dues.

1. A proposed resolution has been introduced, the object of which
is to exempt Lassen Lodge No. 149, at Susanville, from the general rules
as to territory over which it shall have jurisdiction, by giving it jurisdiction over certain specified territory not within its jurisdiction under
such general rules. The change proposed would affect the jurisdiction
of Janesville Lodge No. 232,
No recommendation of the Grand Master has been made in such
matter. No notice of this application or resolution has been given to
Janesville Lodge. Our law on this matter (section 92A, Constitution),
expressly provides that no such resolution shall be adopted except upon
the recommendation of the Grand Master, and further, that notice of
application for any such resolution with a precise statement of the
boundaries of the proposed territory shall be given by the applicant
Lodge at least thirty days prior to the commencement of the Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge at which the same is to be made,
to each Lodge whose jurisdiction will be affected by the proposed resolution.
We recommend that the proposed resolution be not adopted.

Recommendation adopted.
2. It is proposed to amend section 95 of the Constitution which,
among other things, provides that no lodge shall receive an application
for the degrees from a person unless he shall have been a resident
"within the jurisdiction of the lodge ( i. e., nearer thereto than to any
other lodge existing under this Grand Lodge) during six months next
preceding the date of his application'', by adding thereto a proviso
as follows: ''Provided, that the petition of an applicant for degrees
may be presented to the nearest Lodge, or, :vhen the nearest Lodge is
not in the county in which the applicant resides, then to the nearest
Lodge in that county.''
We can see no good object in thus changing the general rule in
regard to jurisdiction of Lodges. One of the effects of this particular
change would be to make the question of jurisdiction dependent to some
extent on the option of the applicant for the degrees. We believe that
if in any particular case the circumstances are so exceptional as to make
it desirable that special rules of jurisdiction should be made for a
particular Lodge, resort should be had to the provisions of section 92A
of the Constitution under which this Grand Lodge, with the approval of
the Grand Master, may prescribe such rules.
We recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Recommendation adopted.

Similar propositions have been made before, and it has uniformly
been thought that any such change in our law was undesirable. The
well-settled policy of this Grand Lodge is that all members of the fraternity who are able to discharge the obligation resting upon them as
Masons of contributing their share in the great work of the fraternity
should continue to do so, regardless of any question of age. It is
doubtless true that there are few, if any, who are thus able to contribute
who desire to shirk such an obligation. We see no good reason for any
change in our policy in this regard and recommend that the proposed
amendment be not adopted.

Recommendation adopted.
4. Certain questions have been submitted to the Grand Lodge and
referred to this Committee as to the effect of an objection made by a
member to a petition for degrees when such petition was read at a stated
meeting, the objection to the petition being received. It appears from
the statement made in connection with these questions, that the Master
ruled that in view of such ob;jection the petition would not be received,
and instructed the Secretary to return the fee to the applicant.
The various questions asked in connection with this matter may be
sufficiently answered by stating that the objection to the petition being
received thus made by a member was under our law ineffectual for any
purpose. This matter is practically covered by a decision made in 1915,
which is reported as foilows: "When objection is made before a ballot,
if the report of the investigating committee is favorable, a ballot must
be had. If the candidate is elected, ob;jection may then be made. An
objection before ballot is not provided for in our Constitution: the
remec1y by a black ball being considered ample to prevent the election
of unworthy petitioners." (lllc)
In the case at bar the Master should have disregarded the objection,
and, at least unless by a majority vote the lodge declined to receive
the application, should have appointed the usual committee on investigation.
The question is further asked ''when is such a petition received f ''

We are satisfied that it cannot be helc1 to have been received by a
Lodge until it is read to the Lodge at a stated meeting. In this connection, however, it is proper to note that the prohibition as to subse-

156

157

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFOR::\'IA

quent withdrawal of such an application is applicable only after the
same has been referred to a committee.
We recommend that these answers be approved by the Grand Lodge.

Lodge le Progres de l 'Oeeanie, has had the matter under consideration
and report as follows:
From the papers submitted it appears over the seal of the Lodge
that all the members desire that the change should be made.
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved: That the name of Oceanic Lodge No. 371, be and it is
hereby changed to Lodge de Progres de l 'Oceanie, No. 371.

Adopted.
Th'e Grand Master in his Acldress has submitted certain correspondence between the Grand Lecturer and the Inspector of the 64th Maf!onic
District at Honolulu relative to a portion of the third degree work as
given by Oceanic Lodge No. 371, at Honolulu. It appears that a certain
portion of that work, namely, the so-called ''French'' work in the
second section, differs in certain respects from our regular ritual. This
particular work, as we understand it, has been followed in that Lodge
ever since its institution, its original charter having been granted over
sixty-five years ago. The departures from our prescribed ritualistic
work, as we understand the matter, in no wise affect the substantial
principles and teachings sought to be inculcated by our ritual. They are
of the same character as the departures that have at all times been tacitly
allowed to our French-speaking lodges in· San Francisco and Los Angeles.
At the same time we cannot question the views of the Grand Master
that these departures are violations .of section 121 of our Constitution.
However, we cannot feel that it is the dfaposition of the Grand Lodge
to actually prohibit the uniform practice in these Lodges, a practice
which has been acquiesced in and practically approved during the whole
history of this Grand Lodge. We do think, however, that if the practice
is to continue it should not be in violation of our written law. This
fraternity cannot witl1 decency or dignity occupy such a position.
We would therefore recommend that section 121 of the Constitution
be amended by adding thereto a proviso reading as follows.
"Provided, however, anything in tl1is section to the contrary notwithstanding, that the Lodges in this jurisdiction whose long established
ritualistic work is in part a departure from the uniform ritual of this
jurisdiction, may continue to perform such work as the same is now being
performed in so far as the same may not be disapproved by the Grand
Master and the Grand Lecturer.''

Section 121 of the Constitution was thereupon amended
as above by unanimous vote.

to

have its name
The prayer of Oceanic I1odge No. 371
changed was granted on the adoption of the following report:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred the petition of Oceanie Lodge No. 371, asking that its name be changed to

Your Committee to whom was referred. the amendment to section
192 of the Constitution, proposed by Brother Ben Levi, have had the
same under consideration and respectfully report as follows:
Brother Levi proposed to amend section 192 by inserting in said
section after the word "duty" in line 6, page 152, the following:
"The Master of the Lodge of which such Mason may be a member,
to forthwith obtain a certified copy of such final judgment of conviction,
and said judgment shall be presented to said Lodge and read into the
record thereof at its next stated meeting, and it shall thereupon be
the duty of the Master of said Lodge to declare such Mason forthwith
expelled.''
We deem this proposed legislation entirely too radical. It would
be inequitable and in a great many cases absolutely unjust to assess the
penalty of expulsion in every case of conviction involving moral turpi·
tude. The fact of conviction in a State or Federal Court should not be
sufficiently conclusive evidence of guilt as to absolutely preclude the
possibility of the facts and circumstances in connection with the offenses
being presented to a Masonic tribunal in order that a just punishment
may be inflicted.
The Grand Lodge placed itself on record last year (proceedings of
1915, page 482) as to its conception of the proper procedure in cases of
this character, and we do not feel disposed to recommend any deviation
therefrom.
It said, "Upon the trial of that charge the record of the conviction
in the State Court, if duly authenticated, may be properly introduced
as prima facie evidence of the proof of the charge. Then if the accused
desires to introduce evidence in his own behalf he may do so, notwithstanding the fact that he has been convicted in the State Gourt. The
Commission is then called upon to decide whether or not, in the judgment
of the Commissioners, the accused is guilty of the offense charged. If
no testimonv at all is introduced on behalf of the accused the Commis·
sion of cou;se has no discretion in the matter and must find a verdict of
'guilty. ' "

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

158

159

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This we think is a rational, logical and satisfactory manner of
procedure in this character of cases. We therefore recommend that the
amendment be not adopted.

The report was adopted and the proposed amendment
was lost.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration Decision No. 19 contained in the Grand ::\faster 's Address, and beg to report
thereon as follows:
The Grand Master decided that it was not proper to hold Masonic
services over the ashes of a brother whose body had been cremated. We
cannot agree with the broad general statement contained in the decision;
but on the contrary, we are of the opinion that when a Masonic funeral
is requested, it is eminently fit and proper to pay respect to the memory
of a departed brother, in whatever form his mortal remains may be
presented for the performance of the ceremony.
We therefore recommend that this decision be not approved.

The report was adopted and Decision No. 19 was disapproved.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year, and
also his approval of resolutions relative to life memberships.
We nnd that all of the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of our Constitution.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand :\faster
therein be approved.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred a resolution presented by Brother Bruck of the San Prancisco Board of Relief,
providing for the amendment of Section 210 of the Constitution, would
fraternally report that the purpose of the proposed amendment is to
provide that a suspended Mason tried by a Lodge other than his own,
might be restored to membership through the vote of his own Lodge.
Section 210 now provides that a suspended Mason may be restored
only by the Lodge pronouncing sentence of suspension. If that Lo(lge
refuses, application may then be' made to the Grand Lodge.
It is to be observed, however, that the latter body restores to membership at large, but that restoration by the trial Lodge, restores to the

Lodge of former membership. It can easily be seen :hat serious objection to such restoration might exist in the last ment10ned Lodge; and
that, under our law as at present, the peace and harmony of t?e f~­
ternity might easily be strained if a Lodge were thus forced agarnst its
will perhaps, by the action of another Lodge, to receive an unwelcome
member into its own ranks.
On the other hand, we think that ordinarily the trial Lodge, presumably impartial and ,possessed of all the facts, i~ best fit:ed to p~ss
upon the question of restoration. An error upon its part rn refusmg
restoration can be corrected by an application to the Grand Lodge. An
error in restoring a suspended Mason, due to partiality or ignora~ce of
the facts, could not be corrected, and might subject the fratermty to
conshlerable criticism.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That Section 210 of the Constitution be and the same
is hereby amended by adding thereto, at the end of the first sentence the
following: And provided, further, that if the Mason suspended was not
a member of the Lodge adjudging suspension, the application for restora·
tion shall be refused unless the consent of the Lodge in which member. ship was held, if it be in this jurisdiction, is given. The request for
such consent shall lie over at least one stated meeting."

Report adopted, and Section 210 was amended by unanimous vote.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referrerl the three
proposed amendments to the Constitution presented by Brothers Dunsmoor, Test and Burke in behalf of the Southern California Past Masters
Association, would fraternally report that the first deals with section
165 of the Constitution and aims to relieve the fraternity in California
of the burden of taking care of Masons demitted from other jurisdictions who, out of standing in their own ;jurisdietions, place and keep
themselves in standing here by the simple device of applying for mem·
bership every six months.
Under our decisions, promulgated many years ago, a non-affiliate
living in this ,iurisdiction, though unable to join any Lodge herein, can
keep himself in standing by making application for membership at least
every six months and accompanying such application with six months
dues.
Your Committee is fairly of the opinion that good standing in this
State should not be based upon such an unsubstantial foundation. They
are equally of the opinion, however, that any legislation of this Grand
Lodge aimed to curtail or abrogate the privilege herein above referred

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to should be limited to those not in good standing upon their entry into,
or' assumption of residence in, California. True Masonic courtesy to
brethren from foreign jurisdictions compels us, in our judgment, to give
full Masonic recognition to those in good standing in such foreign
jurisdictions if they conform to our laws while residing here. We believe
the law should be amended, therefore, so that those coming to California
in good standing in their own jurisdictions, or regaining such good
standing after their arrival here, should be entitled to full Masonic
consideration.
We, therefore, recommend. the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, that section 165 of the· Co~stitution be and the same is
hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
''Provided. further, that a Mason demitted from another jurisdiction who is not ,in good standing therein at the time he enters, or becomes
a resident of this jurisdiction, shall in no case be entitled to any Masonic
rights or privileges unless and until he shall be elected a member of some
Lodge in this jurisdiction, or shall be restored to membership by the
jurisdiction from which he holds his demit.''

The recommendation was adopted, and Section 165 of the
Constitution was amended by unanimous vote.
The second proposal coming from the Southern California Past
Masters Association is intended to relieve subordinate Lodges from the
payment of any per capita tax to the Grand Lodge upon members
whose dues may have been remitted.
With the principle of this purpose we are in full sympathy. Lodges
ought always to remit the dues of their members who are unable to pay
them, and no restraint upon this commendable act of Masonic charity
should be imposed by the Grand Lodge by requiring per capita contributions as for the member whose dues have been thus remitted. Our chief
difficulty, however, has been to devise a plan of procedure calculated to
effect the purpose in mind and yet affording sufficient protection to the
financial affairs of the Grand Lodge.
In this spirit we submit the following resolution and recommend. its
adoption:
Resolved, That section 41 of the Constitution be and the same hereby
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
''Provided, nevertheless, that no contribution of any sort, in the
nature of a per capita tax, shall be payable by a Lodge upon any
Mason whose dues at the stated meeting in ,July of the calendar
year in which such tax would otherwise be payable, shall have been
remitted for the next preceding twelve months period, because of the
inability of such Mason to pay such dues. Each subordinate Lodge's
annual report, in addition to any other matters required, shall contain a

161

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

list of the names of Masons whose dues have been remitted, together
with the cause of such remission, as to whom non-payment of per capita
tax contribution is to be had.''

The recommendation was adopted, and section 41 of the
Constitution was amended by unanimous vote.
The third deals with a proposal to amend the Constitution by adding
a new section thereto, to the effect that any Entered Apprentice or
Fellow Craft who fails, without good cause, for one year, to present
himself for the remaining degrees shall, after notice, be stricken from
the roll of members and a waiver of jurisdiction be given to him. Under
the law an Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft who fails to present
himself for the remaining degrees possesses but one right, and that of
a very unsubstantial nature: He may visit his own Lodge when it is
open in the degree in which he may have been advanced.
The only purpose of the proposed amendment is to relieve the Secretaries of Lodges from carrying these Entered Apprentices or Fellow
Crafts upon their rolls and, since the discontinuance of the publication
of the Roster in Grand Lodge Proeeedings, we are constrained to believe
that this purpose is of but negligible import. Some record, obviously,
should be kept of the fact of the qualified membership attaching to
Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts, and we believe that no permanent
and substantial good can be accomplished by the adoption of the amendment proposed.
We, therefore, recommend that this proposal be not adopted.
F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
S. WEI.LS,
CHARLES L. PATTON,
WM.

DANA R. WELLER,

J01rn D. MuRPH~:Y,
BENJAM,IN F. BLEDSOE,

ALONZO ,T, MONRO~:,

Committee.

'l'he recommendation was concurred and the proposal
wa8 not adopted.

REPORT OF PINANCE COMMIT'fEE.
Brother Geo. P. Rodden, Chairman of the Committt~e on
Finance, presented the following, all which were adopted.
To the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance has carefully examined the documents
offeretl in support of a request for reimbursement submitted by South

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODOE OF C"\LIFORNIA

Pasadena Lodge No. 367. It appears from the evidence that South Pasadena Lodge incurred an indebtedness of $105.00 by the burial of Brother
A. G. H. Wood, an honorable life member of Northern Light Lodge No.
505, of West Chazy, New York. Northern Light Lodge, responding to
telegrams from South Pasadena, arbitrarily and finally refused to pay
more than $50.00 towards the debt. That amount, together with $3.53
(cost of telegrams) was remitted. South Pasadena Lodge has been unrenritting in its efforts to collect the balance of $55.00, but has been
unsuccessful. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:

. Burlingame Lodge No. 400, asks that $4.80 be refunded, an amount
paid as Grand Lodge dues on account of two brothers who had withilrawn from membership, one on November 3, 1914, and the other on
April ~th, 1.915, but whose withdrawal was omitted in the 1915 report.
Your Committee recommends the adoption of the following resolution:

Resolved, that the sum of $55.00 be paid to South Pasadena Lodge
No. 367, wherewith to complete the payment on the bill incurred on
behalf of Brother A. G. H. Wood.
Your Finance Committee has given consideration to the request of
Palos Verdes Lodge Xo. 389 for a refund of $2.40 remitted for William
David Cook as a member of that Lodge. They base their claim upon
the following facts: A certificate of good standing was issued to him,
and it was stated that a dimit would be issued. The Secretary of Olive
.Branch Lodge No. 269 failed to report Bro. Cook's election as a member
of that Lodge until August 31, 1916, at which time he was reported as
having been elected in June, 1916. Section 161 of our Constitution
provides that if an applicant be elected to affiliate with a Lodge, he can
become a member thereof only, by filing with its Secretary, at a stated
meeting, a certificate of his withdrawal from the Lodge of which he was
last a member. Section 128, Note C, says: "But affiliation is not fully
consummated and dues do not begin until dimit is filed with the Secretary at a stated meeting." As there is no evidence to show that a
<limit has ever been issued, we can but assume that Bro. Cook is still
a member of Palos Verdes Lodge, and that his Grand Lodge dues were
properly paid by them. We therefore offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the request of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 for a
refun<l of the Grand Lodge dues of Bro. William David Cook be denied.

163

. Resolved'. that the sum of $4.80 be and the same is hereby ordered
paHl to Burlmgame Lodge No. 400, as a refund of Grand Lodge dues
inadvertently paid.
. Your Committee on Finance has given grave and earnest consideration to the appeal of the Los Angeles Masonic Library for financial
assistance from this Grand Body to the extent of $2000.00 per annum.
. While we ca~ but feel an almost reverential regard for the spirit
~vh1ch. b~ought this magnificent institution into existence, and fostered
1t until 1t has become such a success; while we applaud the sentiment
contained in Bro. Field's letter that the dissemination of Masonic knowledge is next in importance to the dispensing of Masonic relief still we
must reluctant!~ admit the belief that it would be an unwise p~!icy and
precedent? particularly when we consider the many financial burdens
under ~hi:h "".e are laboring, to extend assistance from our general fund
to an msbtution so purely local in its character and benefits.

. We therefore offer the foI!owing resolution and recommend its adoption:
·
Resolved, That the request of the Los Angeles Masonic Library
for an appropriation of $2000.00 per annum be denied.
GEo.
\V'M.

F. RonDEN,
A. SHERMAN,

.J. H. BEAN,
Committee.

The Grand Lodge W<l.'I tlwn called off until 1 :::w o'clock
this afternoon.

3.f tt <£ranh ilnhgt
Afternoon Session.

San Benito Lodge No. 211, asks the return of $4.85, an amount paid
to the Grand Lodge during the years 1914-1915 on account of Bro. R. E.
Shore, who died January 27, 1914, but whose death has just been reported. Your Committee offers the following resolution and recommends
its adoption:

Thursday, October 12, 1916.
The Grand Lodge was ealled on at 1 :30 o'clock, the
Grand }\faster presiding.

Resolved, That the sum of $4.80 be and the same is hereby onlered
paid to San Benito Lodge No. 211, as a refund of Grand Lodge clues,
inadvertently paid.

REPORTS OF COl\LMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES.
The Committee on Grievances presented the following
report!-!:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

165

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

164

At· the trial the accused stated that he was guilty of the charges
and specifications contained in said charges. The Commission by unanimous vote found the accused guilty of all the charges set forth in the
specifications, and imposed upon him the punishment of suspension.

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the following
trial records, to-wit:
No. 188, Hesperian No. 264; No. 208, Westlake No. 392; No. 210,
Palos Verdes No. 3 89; respectfully reports as follows:
These records were not included in the ''Omnibus'' report heretofore presented, as the Committee desired to more fully consider some
matters involved therein. After a careful examination of the records,
we are satisfied that the Constitution and Regulations have been substantially complied with. No appeal has been taken in either of these
cases, and we find that substantial justice has been done.
We feel however that we should at this time call attention to the
'
'
..
fact that in many cases sufficient care is not exercised in the adm1ss10n
of evidence. Thus, in Record No. 210, in which the accused was charged
with the commission of and conviction for the crime of felony embezzlement there was received by the Commission a certified copy, not of the
judg:nent of conviction, but of the entries in the Register of Actions
of the Superior Court affecting the case· of the accused; and the Commission also permitted to be introduced a copy of the report made by
the Probation Officer to the Court. Such evidence was highly improper,
particularly the copy of the Probation Officer's report, as such a document constituted hearsay upon hearsay. !n this case, if it were not for
the fact that the record shows a letter from the accused in which he
admits his guilt, the Committee would feel compelled to recommend a
new trial; but in view of this admission, the Committee concludes that
the judgment should be upheld. The Committee, however, would suggest
that Trial Commissions exercise great care in the reception of evidence,
and that the provisions of Section 202 of the Constitution be followed,
even though there be no appearance by the accused.

There is nothing in the record in mitigation of the offense. The
crime was a felony and was premeditated, and your Committee feels that
the punishment of suspension is inadequate to meet an offense of this
character, and that the accused should be expelled. We, therefore, offer
the following resolution:
Resolved, that the verdict and decision and the action of the Lodge
thereon in trial record No. 189 be and the same are hereby reversed,
and that the accused be and he is hereby expelled from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry.

The report was adopted and Orie Oliver Robertson, the
accused in the above numbered case, was declared expelled
from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Your Committee on Appeals and Grievances, to whom vras referred
Trial Record No. 206, have fully considered the same, and now respectfully reports as follows:
In· the judgment of your Committee never has there been presented
to this Grand Lodge a more serious question than is here involved. The
law of the case is plain; but the application of the law to the facts
as disclosed by the record justifies, if it does not necessitate, the consideration of certain matters outside of, but germane to, the issue raised
in this particular proceeding.

We offer the following resolution:
Resolved, that the verdict and sentence in each of the cases herein
referred to, and the action of the Lodge thereon, be and the same are
hereby approved and confirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Appeals and Grievances, to whom was referred
trial record No. 189, Delano Lodge No. 309, reports as follows:
In this case the accused was charged with unmasonic conduct in
that on a certain day he entered into an agreement to steal and <leliver
to a party named, a certain number of cattle, and that said accused did
steal and deliver a certain number of cattle in accordance with said agreement.

•

This is an appeal by the accuser from a verdict of acquittal. The
accused was brought to trial on a charge of unmasonic conduct preferred,
if not at the direction, at least upon the suggestion, of the Grand
Master. The conduct complained of consisted in the accused having
prepared and caused to be sent by mail to every member of his Lodge
a circular letter seriously reflecting upon the Master of the Lodge and
imputing to him and to the Secretary conduct for which, if guilty, they
should be brought to trial before a Masonic tribunal. In that letter the
writer gave the details of a Masonic trial in which he had been the
accuser and with the result of which he was not satisfied, arnl clearly
intimated, if he did not indeed directly charge, that a notice of appeal
which had been filed by him in the case referred to bad been suppressed
by the Master; and that a review by the Committee on Appeals and
Grievances of the proceedings of that trial had thereby been prevented.
The fact that such a letter had been written was called to the
attention of the Grand Master, who caused an investigation to be made;
and who thereafter rendered his opinion to the effect that even though

166

167

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the ,writer believed that he had cause for eomplaint, the method adopted
by him was illegal and unmasonie, and eould result only in evil.
The aeeused having elaimed that he eould not obtain a fair trial in
his own Lodge, and the Master of that Lodge (the sueeessor of the
Master referred to in the circular), while disputing that claim, having
requesteu that the case should be transferred to some other Lodge, the
aceused was brought to trial in a Louge designated by the Grand
Master.
The case was apparently trieu by the Commissioners upon the theory,
advanceu by the accused and disputed by the accuser, that if the Com·
missioners should find that the accused had given a notice of appeal
whieh had been suppressed by the Master (and which the Master denied),
that then they could not find him guilty of unmasonie conduct, because
he would then have been justified in sending out the letter eomplained of.
That theory, of course, as was indicated by the Grand Master, is
absolutely untenable and would be subversive of the basic principles upon
which is established the government of a Masonic Lodge.
If it were within the province of the members of a Lodge to review
the acts of their Master, the accused might perhaps be heard to say that
his sole purpose was to seek from the members a remedy for a wrong
suffered at the hands of the Master; but the accused, a lawyer and a
Mason of more than ordinary intelligence, as is apparent from the manner
in which he conducted the case, must certainly have known that no action
the members might take as a result of that letter could result in the
reversal by the Lodge of the action of the Master; and that the only
possible effect would be to disturb the peace and harmony of the
Lodge.
As stated by Mackey (Mackey 's jurisprudence, page 240), "there
is no principle of Masonic jurisprudence more familiar to the craft than
that which prohibits an appeal from the decision of a ]\faster to the
Lodge. It is of course true that the power of the Master is thereby to
a great extent rendered despotic in his Lodge; but on the other hand,
by the wise provisions of the same law, this despotism is restrained by
the most salutary checks.. The Master himself is bound by the most
solemn obligations to the faithful discharge of his duties, and the impar·
tial administration of justice and equity; and as a still further safeguard
the Grand Lodge as the Appellate Court of the jurisdiction is ever ready
to' listen to appeals, to redress grievances1 to correct the errors of an
ignorant Master, and to punish the unjust decisions of iniquitous ones."
There would therefore appear to be absolutely no justification for
the writing of such a letter; and the question of the truth or falsity of
the statements therein contained, and the motive which prompted the
action of the accused, ·were material only insofar as they might perhaps

have properly influenced the judgment of the Commissioners in fixing the
punishment.
While we have no doubt that the accused in this case was guilty
of unmasonic conduct in adopting the course he pursued, and should be
by this Grand Lodge held amenable therefor, we c'an not escape the con·
viction that we will not have fully performed our duty with merely thus
disposing of this particular proceeding without a further consideration
of the facts disclosed by the record.
From the fact that a verdict of acquittal was rendered, ..we must
assume that the Commissioners must hia.ve been of the opinion that a
notice of appeal had been filed in the case referred to; and in view of
the fact that this Grand Lodge may, in its discretion, without remanding
the case for retrial, adjudge the accused guilty of unmasonic conduct
and fix the punishment, it is only fair to him to say that there was
testimony introduced upon which might have been predicated a finding
that a notice of appeal had been given. Not only, however, was that
not an issue, but there was no such finding made. It would therefore
not be proper for this Grand Lodge to determine that question upon
this proceeding. If, however, there was in faet an appeal filed in the
case referred to. justice will not have been clone until the proceedings
in that trial shall have been reviewed by the Committee on Appeals and
Grievances and its report thereon rendered to the Grand Lodge.
Indeed, the principle by which we are guided in our decision in this
proceeding is depen<lent upon the doctrine that where there is a wrong
there must be a remedy; and that it is only because there is a proper
and orderly method provided whereby a brother believing himself injured
may seek redress, that he is precluded from adopting other methods which
couhl lead only to discord and confusion.
The humblest member of the fraternity, when he supposes himself
to be injured on unjustly treated by his superiors, is entitled to his redress in an appeal to the Grand Lodge; and no matter what may be his
relation with the other members of the Lodge, or the opinion whieh
they may entertain of him, or the motive by which tlwy believe him
to be actuated, his right to be heard must not be denied. Through mis·
take or otherwise he may have been guilty of the commission of a Masonic
offense for which he should be punished; but he must not on that account
be denied a remedy to which he is entitled.
The accused in this proceeding was the accuser in the case referred
to. Concerning that case it is not necessary, and in the jrnlgment of
your Committee, it is not proper at this time to say anything more than
this: That the offense charged was one of the most serious of which a
Mason could be accused; that there was a verdict of guilty; and that
the sentence was, it was contended by the accuser, grossly incommen·
surate with the nature of the offense.

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In fairness to all concerned (and particularly to the Commissioners),
until the contrary is shown upon a review of the proceedings in that case,
we may assume that there were extenuating circumstances which war·
ranted the infliction of a lighter punishment than otherwise would have
been decreed; but likewise, in fairness to all concerned, this Grand
Lodge should determine for itself whether the sentence in the case re·
ferred to is to be regarded as a commendable exemplification of that
brotherly love and affection which should induce us, when dealing with
an erring brother, to temper justice with mercy, or on the other hand,
as a reprehensible dereliction of ·duty resulting in a gross miscarriage· of
justice.
Whatever may have been the motive by which the Commissioners
were actuated, if the accuser, dissatisfied with the verdict, filed a notice
of appeal, in due time, and in accordance with the provisions of the
Constitution, the proceedings should be reviewed even though, whether
through accident or design, the record itself discloses no notice of
appeal; and it ought to be unnecessary to say that if an appeal having
be.en filed it was intentionally suppressed, the person or persons liable
therefor should be dealt with as the occasion demands.

the receipt thereof, no person except the members thereof being present
in either Lodge.

We therefore offer the follo"'ing resolution:
Resolved, That the verdict of acquittal in Trial Record No. 206 be,
and it is hereby reversed; that the accused be, and be is hereby, by this
Grand Lodge, adjudged guilty of unmasonic conduct, and that his pun·
ishment be, and it is hereby fixed at reprimand to be administered by the
Master of the Lodge in which the case was tried, in the presence of only
the members of that' Lodge, at the first stated meeting after the trans·
mission to that Lodge of this clecision; that the Grand Master be, and
he is hereby requested to either personally make, or cause to be made
by a personal representative by him appointed for that specific purpose,
an investigation of the matters hflrein referred to; that if as a result
of that investigation the Grand Master be of the opinion that in the
case referred to a notice of appeal was actually given, that then in
that event the Committee on Appeals and Grievances at his direction
review the record in that case and report at the next Annual Communi·
cation in the same manner as if a notice of appeal was actually on file;
and that finally, if the Granc1 Master be of the opinion that through the
intentional act or omission of any person or persons the notice of appeal
was suppressed and a review of the proceedings in due course thereby
prevented, that he direct that charges be preferred against the person
or persons responsible therefor:
And be it further resolved, that copies of this decision be by the
Grand Secretary immediately transmitted to both the Lodge of whieh
the accused was a member and the Lodge at which the ease was tried,
with directions that the same be read at the next stated meeting after

169

CHAS ALBERT ADAMS,
GEORGE L. JONES,

,J. P, BERNHARD,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,

Committee.

After full discmision the report was adopted as presented.
ORATION.
Brother Samuel E. Burke, Grand Orator, then delighted
the Grand Lodge with a most scholarly and entertaining oration, at the close of which and after prolonged applause,
Brother Filmer moved that the thanks of Grand Lodge be and
are tended to Brother Burke, that he be requested to furnish
a copy of the oration to be printed in the proceedings and that
it be printed, together with the Address of the Grand Master
in sufficient number to supply all Lodges with copies thereof'.
which motion prevailed. The full text of the oration is as
follows:
Most Worshipful Grand Master, and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
I am honored beyond my deserts by being accorded this opportunity
to address you, and, as I look into your faces, I can say with the ancient
Greek orator, "I have with me the best of Athens."
. Centuries ago our Lodges were composed of operative masons.
W1th trowel and square and plumbline they constructed the temples and
palaces of mediaeval Europe. They were the friends of order and the
allies of religion, and actually labored with the tool as well as the pre·
cept. Ever before the eyes of the humblest Mason who wielded the
trowel was the vision of Grand Master Solomon directing the construction
of that great temple in whose building the founders of our Institution
worked for more than seven years under cloudless skies.
The temple of Solomon 11as crumbled in the grasp of four thousand
ye~rs; the frat~rnity which he aided to organize has ceased to be oper-

ative, and the implements of the craft have become Byplbols instead of
tools. Today we construct temples of character instead of temples of
stone'. and those edific~s which we build will be unaffected by the ravages
of Time, for they will accompany us and shelter us into the Great
Beyond toward which we are fast journeying.
It was well said by a great Mason who long since climbed the path
to immortality, "The Masonic Institution itself is more wonderful than

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

any edifice which it ever eonstrneted from the perishable materials of
earth. It has an unspoken language older than any living language of
Christendom. It has survived wars and revolutions, and is ever ascending
to loftier planes of usefulness. It looks to the heavens for its model,
and in its work imitates the Divine plan of nature.''

the attainment of knowledge. Good is the vital principle of ::\fasonry,
and it is universal good, for the Mason who is good to his brother Mason
is incapable of being bad to the rest of the world.
Time destroys material monuments erected by man. Beneath the
waves of the mid-Atlantic are buried the relics of the cities of the lost
Atlantus. The cities of Palestine are ruins; the pyramids and the sphinx
are slowly decaying; in our own domain the ruins of Casas Grandes and
of prehistoric acqueducts may be seen. But the principles of Truth, of
Justice, of Equity, of Fraternal Love, of Charity, of Faith, of Hope,
are indestructible, and because they are attributes of God, they cannot die.

The sun draws in vapory tributes the moisture from the ocean; the
invisible >Vinds carry it in clouds. over the globe and distribute in refreshing showers the liquid treasures of the skies. In like manner, Masonry
draws its strength and resources from the deep sea of human sympathies,
and employs them to redress the wrongs and relieve the sorrows of
humanity.
The dominating spirit of Masonry is Charity. Down the aisles of
nineteen centulies comes the voice of Paul, saying, ''Though I speak mth
the tongues of men and of angels, and have not Charity, I am become as
sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of
prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I
have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not Charity,
I am nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind; Charity envie th not;
Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. Charity never faileth.''
Said Brother Starr King fifty years ago, in an address: ''Do we
ever get tired of the tolls and tax of charityt Suppose the sun did t
What does he receive in homage or obedience from the orbs that swing
round him in comparison with what he gives-all his light, all his heat,
all his vitality, for the blessing of four-score worldst Shall we complain
of the demand upon our treasulies, or our private purses, for the sacred
funds of the Masonic Board of RelieH What if the sea grumbled at the
assessment which the mighty sun, the Most Worshipful Grand Master of
the solar system, levies upon its substance. Every day the sun touches its
stores with its wand of light, and says, GIVE, GIVE, and the sea obeys.
Evaporation is its tax, constantly demanded, constantly given. Every
eloud we see, whether stretched in a beautiful bar across the east at
sunrise, or hanging in pomp over the gorgeous pavilion of the retiring
day, is part of the contribution for the general relief of Nature, assessed
by the lordly sun. The water which the ocean keeps is salt. Pour a
bucket of it on a hill of eorn or a garden bed, and it kills it. The water
which the ocean gives is fresh, and descends in blessing after it rides in
beauty or majesty on the viewless couriers of the air. Nature tells us
that to give is t<: live.''
Truth is the dominant virtue of Masonry, and Truth is immutable,
immaculate, and immortal. Experience dissolves in its clear light the
eloud-capped fancies of youth, and the passions and plans of manhood
vanish amid the infirmities of age; but neither time nor decay can impair
Truth. In Masonry, allied to this noblest of virtues, are the discipline of
the mind, the subjection of the emotions to the dominion of reason, and

lil

Masonry, in the vast number of its members and in the extent of its
sway in all countries, is the most powerful, the most wonderful and the
most beneficient social organization in all the world. Operative masonry
is the oldest mechanical trade. Deep excavations made in modern
Jerusalem have uncovered massive masonry of the time of King Solomon,
which underlies work done in the age of Zerubbabel. Above these are
specimens of mason work laid in the age of Herod the Great; and finally
there appears, but still below the level of the present city, stones laid
in the reign of Justinian.
The past of speculative Masonry, like that of operative masonry,
is beneath us, but not like the grandeur of a ruin. It is beneath us like
the roots beneath one of the giant sequoias of the Sierras-they still
give life and strength to the great tree which has for four thousand years
given shelter to all who gathered beneath its far-spreading arms.
Solomon's temple, which our ancient brethern constructed, was not
comparable with the living temple of our Institution. Under the direction
of Hiram of old, the stones of the first temple were prepared at the
quarries. They were brought to the temple-site and laid in massive walls
and arches in reverent silence, without sound of hammer or chisel or any
metal tool. Thus have our living temples been constructed in every land
and every age, without boasting and without noise. The best of the
manhood of the land are the stones of this living temple. The strife
and the selfishness of the world may roar outside the Lodge room but
they do not penetrate within its walls, and the sound timber and approved
stones are somewhere fitted to their places daily, without noise or confusion, in tens of thousands of Lodges in our land.
The walls of our Lodges never echo a sentiment that is not kindly
and their doors never open for an evil deed. When those of us who are
here today have been gathered to our fathers, our Masonic Lodges mll
look upon a field of labor and supply larger than we can dream of.
Twenty millions of people will dwell in our California. Temples of art,
and .industry, and science, and religion, and benevolence, will send ten
thousand spires to the skies. The outreaching arms of our iron Briareus
will bring to our doors the trophies of a conquest which commerce shall

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

achieve from Alaska to Patagonia, and which will extend over the western
sea to where sinks the sun.
And stiU as Yosemite in the presence of awe-struck tourists, tosses .
her soft white laee of falling waters into the air, as simply and as purely
as in the days when she was alone with the forests, and the meadows,
and the mountains, so will the maxims and the deeds and lifo of our
Institution bear themselves serene and unchanged amid the din of human
industry and the selfishness of human struggle.
Solomon's temple, where operative and speculative Masonry conjoined
in organization and operations, stood as it was .built, until its pillars and
domes were levelled by the weight of centuries. It could not enlarge
itself or recuperate itself. But our temple of speculative Masonry can
know no decay, for it is a house not built with hands. It is .an edifice of
immortal and ever-rejuvenating vitality. It is like the cedars of Lebanon,
which repair their waste and renew their leaves. Masonry fLlls in its
losses, enlarges its sweep and sway, and stands in its old proportions,
though in greater amplitude, symmetrical, mysterious, sublime.·
Masonry inculcates patriotism-love of country, love of the flag,
and love of freedom. It especially thrives on American soil. Not American in that narrow sense which questions a man's birthplace, or inquires into his theological or anti-theological opinions, but American
in a broader and more comprehensive definition; American as Niagara
is an American cataract; and the Columbia an American river.
There are Masonic Lodges near the icy glint of lakes which lie
far beyond the northern confines of our Republic; there are Lodges
shadowed by the forests where Orizaba's purple summit shines. The
Order invites to its membership all worthy men, whether aliens or citizens, wherever born and of whatever creed. It is American in the sense
that its spirit is the spirit of the mountains, the forests, the prairies,
the cataracts, the white-tipped lightning, and the thunder's voice. It
gathers its tradition from ages and ages gone. Traces even of its pre·
historic existence may be found in this western hemisphere. There are
Masonic symbols in the Casas Grandes of New Mexico, in the ancient
fortifications in the Mississippi valley, in the sculptured monoliths of
Copan, and the ancient· aqueducts of Arizona. Masonry evidently ex·
isted among races whose carvings in stone and whose ornaments in pot·
tery, and metal, in shell, obsidian and porphyry, are often unearthed all
the way from Lake Superi~r to the Belize; races whose temples are
crumbled, whose gods are vanished, and whose records exist only in the
undecipherable hieroglyphics of a language lost and gone.
Our Lodges are dedicated to the use of an order whose chief object
is brotherhood and charity; an order which accomplishes its benign
purposes through the love that comes from knowledge of each other,
and the .strength that is born of association and cohesion.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

173

Perhaps there are not in the whole vast vocabulary of human speech,
syllables more articulate with honorable emotion than the one word
''dedicate.'' In the beginning, when the morning stars sang together,
the first grand dedication w.as made, and I wonder that painters of the
pre-Raphaelite S<lhool did not choose this subject above all others for
their master effort. A new and swinging world, plucked out of the
stilly and starless unknown; her brooks filtrated from the mists of
' chaotic wastes, her fields unblown, her :first-born forests yet succulent
with Nature's milk, her airs .warm with wooing motion, and her freshlytinted skies painting the crest of creation upon new-made lake and
river. Suns unshorn of a virgin beam and moons unpropelled along
unplowed paths, and stars yet untaught in sentinel duty over all the
songless world. What though put a dewdrop hanging from the finger
of the Great Author 'I It was a world set apart for the uses of mortal man,
and dedicated in the presence of the angels to universal brotherhood.
There is no taint of evil in MaB1Jnry. Its temples are dedicated to
Love and Charity, and still retain the master idea of ages old; still
rear their proportions a perpetual rebuke to tyranny, and always a
stronghold of rectitude and justice, catching glints even through the
quagmires of the superstition of heathen nations, or the jungles of
obscure faiths, of that celestial light that shall endure forever.
Wherever there is Masonry, there is progress, and charity, and
good deeds, and kindly words. Where the eloquence of art speaks in
thrilling tones through lips of marble and bronze, or shines through
canvassed walls; where music breathes the symphonies of Heaven's own
tongue; where the dramatic art throbs in lifeful verity its lessons to
men-there the Lodges of Masonry are erected.
Where the doors of hospitals swing open at the sight of human
suffering; where libraries yield their treasures and professors their
erudition without cost to the seeker for learning; where the brandingiron and thong have been banished from penal institutions-there the
spirit of Masonry walks abroad. Where the pageant of power rushes
daily over millions of miles of iron rail, where the lightning sounds the
paean of progress upon Thought's million-chorded lyre, where the iron
barges of commerce smite the abject seas with their conquering foreethere the triumphs of Masonry are sung.
Where the sun draws pictures, and the microscope reveals the
secrets of life, and discovery and invention have made the existence' of
the day laborer more comfortable than that of a barbarian king-'there Masonry is a force for right doing and right thinking. Where
science has pursued unchecked and encouraged, her mighty march unti:l
the voices of the living may be heard through the air thousands of
miles, and the voices of the dead speak from the mouth of the phonograph, and men sail in great ships above the clouds and under the

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

seas-there sits Masonry, smiling, saying to her votaries "Do not believe that of this mighty panorama of human progress, you will eatch
but the fleeting glimpse afforded by the brief life of earth for the ages
live with you and with them you shall live."
Masonry in its march keeps step with civilization, and is the
apostle of liberty, and the conservator of order. Masons have been
inventors, artists, organizers and promoters of industries, authors,·
orators, statesmen,--ever foremost in every field of benifieent effort.
Masonry requires only that its members shall be ''free born and of
good repute. " It demands of an applicant for admission that he shall
be an honest man who believes in the existence of an Almighty God.
It does not ask upon what soil he was born, or to what religious creed
he professes allegiance. In Masonic Lodges kings have obeyed the or·
ders of subjects seated in the Worshipful Master's chair, and major
generals and corporals have clasped hands in fraternal grasp. Multimillionaires and mechanics, college professors and hand-laborers, mer·
chants and clerks, meet on terms of equality which elsewhere is theoretical, but in the Masonic Lodge is actual. By the couch of the sick
and the bier of the dead, Masonry alleviates human suffering and sympathizes with human sorrow, and its succoring ministrations are given
to the widow and the fatherless. :Neither the restlessness of change
nor the march of time have impaired its strength or altered its
principles.
Mutual assistance is a fundamental principle of Masonry. The
man of wealth does not become a member in order to increase his holdings, the politician does not expect to influence the vote of a brother
Mason, nor does the college professor enter our Lodge room in order to
add to his knowledge of Greek or Latin. The help that Masons give
to each other is not sordid and not the result of bargaining. The Mason
seeks and obtains counsel of his brother in health, care in sickness,
assistance in difficulty, and defence when needed. Masonry seeks to
improve the characters rather than the worldly condition of its membership. Unless calamities of Nature, such as :fire or disease overtake
our brothers, they do not apply to their fraternity for aid. Want is
not often a visitor in a Lodge room, for Masons are intelligent, indus·
trious and frugal. Artificial social distinctions which wealth and station
create, have no place in our fraternity. Masonry does not deny ministration to the physical wants of its members, but it seeks to promote an
expansion of their sympathies. It promotes the fellowship of manliness,
not that of political or ecclesiastical or social distinctions. Its basis is
the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God. In the Lodge
room, rich and poor, learned and unlearned, public official and private
citizen, meet upon a basis of absolute equality, and all contribute equally
ta a common treasury.

GRAXD LODGE OF CALIFORXU

175

No man can be a Mason at heart, unless he worships God and loves
his· n~ighbor. No charlatan, no glutton, no adulterer, no hypocrite, no
miser, no man who does not aspire and labor to obey the moral law,
can ever become a true Mason through any process of admission. Perfection in this life we cannot attain, but we can reach toward it with
faithful hearts and steady eyes. It should be our task amidst the team·
ing vitality of California, under the institutions by which we are protected, in the spheres of labor to which we are respectively called, not
merely on holy days, but every day, by the cheerfulness and persistence of
our industry, by the promptness and punctuality with which we keep
our engagements, by the modesty of our pretensions, by the general
probity of our conduct, by our firmness and patience under affliction, by
our unaffected sympathy and charity, by our strong control over appe·
tite and passipn, and by our temperate enjoyment of pleasure, to spread
the light and Wal'mth of Masonry.
Whether a man is a Christian, a Jew, a Buddhist, a Parsee or a
Mahomedan, if he believes in a God, in an existence after death;
and in the supremacy of good, he may become a Mason. If he is an
Athf>ist, who denies the existence of an Almighty Power, lie cannot
become a Mason.
Masonry teaches that ''it is not all of life to live, nor all of death

to die.'' Masonry teaches its members to lead clean lives and to respect
the rights of others. Masonry is a bulwark of order and a dove of
peace. Masonry is the foe of ever materialistic philosophy.
We are steadily toiling up the mountain-heights seeking knowledge.
Below us are the tangled undergrowth out of which our fathers crawled.
Above us tower the star-lit peaks which our children may ascend. And
now there steps from out the wayside shadows the gloomy presence of a
cold, and pitiless philosophy. It says, "Fatigue not yourself with trying
to climb higher. There is no future. There is no Divine Law. Faith is
a folly. Hope is a delusion. Good and Evil are only words. The uni·
verse is only a charnel house of dead languages, dead faiths and dead
gods. Go back to the bliss of ignorance. Eat, drink, and be merry, for
tomorrow you die.''
A Mason will not accept this creed of these apostles of Annihilation.
He says, ''I decline to consider myself as an intelligence unfit to survive
the death of my body. I prefer to believe that there is ceaseless and
progressive life. I prefer to believe that the Almighty has placed by
every bed of death a waiting cradle for the soul, and that death itself is
but ''that first breath which our souls draw when we enter Life, that is
of all life, center." Masonry believes that materialistic philosophers
are mischief-makers. They are like the ruffian who kicks the crutches
from under the arms of a cripple and leaves him no other support by
which he can limp away from the storm. Their dogmas tend to paralyze

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the consciences and strangle the nobler impulses of men and banish tl:~em
from the white light of later centuries, to grovel among the cave dwellers
of a prehistoric age.
Masonry believes that faith in a future existence where a man shall
reap what he has sown in earthly life, is an armed guard, whose arresting hands are laid upon the selfish, the savage and the criminal impulses
of man, and that even from a more worldly and economic point of view,
society cannot afford to snatch .the star from the breast of the Invisible
Guardsman, and trust for protection to a creed of personal irresponsibility based upon the hypothesis of personal annihilation after the
death of the body.
Masonry says to the Materialist: "Have all the formative forces
of the universe been exhausted in producing Man' Is he the crowning
and ultimate feat of all creation f Of course, we of the human race are
very wise and very great, but after all, we are far from perfect, even
physically. Even with our aeroplanes any wild goose can outfly us, any
dog or rabbit outrun us, and relative weight considered, any grasshopper
can outhop us.
Masonry places God's message to man upon its altars and emblazons God's initials on its walls, because Masons believe that Man is
but one link in the endless chain of existence which stretches out over
the purple path of space from the depths of night to the home of the
singing stars. Masonry says that if evolution demonstrates that man
has been developed from a lower order of being, does it not follow that
in turn a higher order of being will be evolved from man f If we start
with the mollusc, must we stop with the human f Surely the difference
between a clam and a materialist is greater than. the difference between
a materialist and almost any kind of an angel. If an advocate of materialism can trace himself backward to the time when he was an. invertebrate, wriggling a slimy argument against a future life, or a saurian insisting that beyond crocodilism there could be no further development, or any icthyosaurus babbling to his fellow-fishes about the impossibility of there being any other world than the watery one in which
they were swimming, why cannot he project himself forward into another
existence where he will have an opportunity to explain to the other
devils how it was that he came to make such a mistake in this one'
I cannot better conclude this address than by a quotation from a
brother who long since journeyed on: ''There is,'' said Frank Tilford,
"no eternity to matter. No work of man can resist the ruthless hand
of violence or the unsparing scythe of time. Even the temple which
our ancient craftsmen erected on the sacred mountain. that marvellous
structure of consummate beauty, bas not escaped the universal doom.
Note the changes wrought on our planet since the era of authentic
history. Science reveals to us the unchangeable decree of the Infinite

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNL\.

177

tba t. the time must arrive in the grand procession of the ages, when
all hfe shall cease upon our globe. The atmosphere with its gorgeous hues
and banner of clouds will pass away; the rivers and oceans will disappear; the myriad voices of nature will no longe rise to the heavens
in songs of rejoicing, and the mighty monuments of the past will remain, tombs of generations that have died amid the awful solitudes of
a dead world; but the principles of Masonry cannot die. They must
survive. They are rays from the eternal light, drops from the river of
everlasting life, and, like their deathless original, they, too, possess the
attribute of immortality.''
. 0 Mas~nry ! with. origin vested in mystery, yet whose pathway is
lum1~ous with the love of humanity; whose life is the spirit of everworking benevolence; whose mission is the divinest charity; may thy
standards advance, thy temples rise, until Truth, Justice, Faith, Charity
and Fraternal Love encompass with their holy influences every tribe
and every nation.

Brother Lemuel L. Test offered a resolution providing
that Lodges be prohibited from conferring more than five
degrees in any one day, which was referred to the Committee
-0n Jurisprudence.
Past Grand Master William P. Filmer, in behalf of Gen-eral Shryock, Grand Master of the jurisdiction of Maryland
.and with the compliments of the Grand Lodge of Maryland:
presented to Grand Lodge an oil portrait of Past Grand
Master Charles Gilman of Maryland, who had the distinguished honor of presiding over the deliberations of the Convention of Masons held at Sacramento on the 17th, 18th and
19th days of April, 1850, (he represented California Lodge
No. 13) which eventuated in the organization of the Grand
Lodge of California. This thoughtful and kindly evidence of
fraternal regard for our Grand Lodge by the Grand Master
of ~aryland was received by manifestations of joy, and on
mot10n the Grand Secretary was appointed a committee of one
to prepare and transmit suitable resolutions of thanks for
the gift.
The letter of acknowledgment from the Grand Secretary
to the Grand Master of Maryland is as follows:

1'78

PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General Thomas J. Shryock,
Grand Master of Masons in Marylanil.

Do you think that I fear •
Then ·
Jou, good man Death 'U
' sir, you do not know
l"or you grim wh't fu
'
A d
i e ce and your frosty breath
. n your mantle of driven snow
'
Bring naught to me but a signal o; I
Mv fath
ove:er sent you, He dwelleth above
nd I am ready to go.
'

MosT W o&sHIPFUL AND DEAR BROTHER:

I am directed by our Grand Lodge to acknowledge your gift of an
oil portrait of Brother Charles Gilman, Past Grand Master of your jurisdiction, w1:1o bad the distinguished honor of presiding over the Convention
of Masons at Sacramento in April, 1850, which eventuated in the organization of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California.
Your splendid gift was presented by Past Grand Master William P.
Filmer in his usual felicitous manner, and it was received with manifestations of joy not only for the portrait itself, but because of the
kindly and thoughtful evidence of your own regard for the brethren of
California.
Masons and :Masonry in the far West owe much to just such men as
Brother Gilman, who in the turmoil and hurry of gold-getting, in the
disorganized condition of society, stood like adamant against the hordes
of evil and preached and practiced the stern morality of Masonry, and
in the organization of our Grand Lodge set an example in their daily
lives and actions that did much to bring order out of chaos, and make
California a State composed of men whose fame is second to none for
all that goes to make our common country truly great.
In behalf of our Grand Lodge I thank you and your brethren of the
great jurisdiction of Maryland for this gift.
With person.al assurances of my high esteem for you as a man and
a Mason, I am.
For the Grand Lodge of California,
Fraternally and sincerely yours,

A

The battle is over and we ha\'e
p h
won.
er aps you did not know
That just tonight the setting sun
Saw the turning of the f
If ~ou had come in the thicko~.f the fra
I might not have wanted t t
y
o urn away·
Now I am ready to go.
·
Please steady me into your little boat
I y ?ur arm,-yes, thank you,-there .
thmk, when we are well afloat
'
I '11 sleep, if you do not care '
If I'm no t awak e when we reach· the sh
Tell Father I stayed till the b ttl
ore,
:\. d t ·
a e was o 'er
. • n r1ed to do my share.
'
Quartette-' 'G th ·
a ermg Home One by 0
''
Eulogy, William Ab b
.
ne.
ra am Davies-Samuel C. D
Master.
Quartette-• 'It Is Well with ~fy Soul ''
Recitation-Brother Gunzend orfer. .

JOHN WHICHEI!. 1 .

Grand Secretary.

Niglit eame
Releasing him' f~om lab
W
or,
T hen a hand, as from darkness
ouched him,-and he slept.
'

MEMORIAL SERVICES.
Memorial services were now held in honor of the late Past
Grand Master William Abraham Davies, who died June 20,
1916, and John Morton Eshleman, who died February 28,
1916, and who at the time of his death held the office of Grand
Orator. The full program being as follows:
Organ prelude, introducing Pleyel 's hymn-Samuel D. Mayer, Grand
Organist.
Praye~-John A. B. Fry, Grand Chaplain.
Recitation, ''The Passage' '-Gustave Gunzendorfer, Past Master
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260.

enson, Past Grand

His l~fe was gentle, and the elements
So mixed in him Nature
might stand up
And say to all the world
'' This was a man. , , '

S

Eulogy, John Morton Eshleman H
an Francisco Lodge No. 360.
arvey D. Loveland, Past Master
Organ postlude--•' Aloha oe. ''
Benediction-Grand Chapl am.
.

179

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN MEMORIAM
WILLIAM ABRAHAM DAVIES

By Samuel C. Denson, Past Grand Master.
William Abraham Davies was born in Utica, Oneida eounty, in the
State of New York, on the fifth day of February, 1827, ?f parents who
.
of South Wales He was the first-born of his parents, who
were naive
t 8
··
·
eame from Cardigan, \Vales, to Ameriea in the year 1818, and settled m
Utica in 1820.
·
He was educated in the schools of the day nad learned. the watch·
maker's trade with his father, Thomas Davies, honest Welshman.
After learning his trade, and after several ventures in busine~s. at
or near his birthplace, he, like thousands of others, broke the pohtieal
fetters binding him to the place of his nativity, ventu~ed upo~ the lo~g
and perilous journev around Cape Horn in the good ship Harriet Hoxie,
bound for the fam;d land of gold, and arrived in San !rancisco. on the
4th day of August, 1852, and found a new world then JUSt budding but
soon to bloom.
Broad and benevolent man that he was at heart, he was raised to
the sublime degree of Master Mason in the year 1849 when he was put
twentv-two years of age, and came to the bustling, boisterous. land ~f
mining, inspired by the humane and ennobling principles of .this mystic
fraternity.
He was invested with every degree known in :1fasonry; and learned
every lesson and appreciated every allegory and every moral precept and
the full significance of it all. Of course he did not accu~ulate great
wealth, for such a thing was not possible with a man of his broad and
generous nature.
His sterling qualities naturally . attracted the .a~tention ?f his
brethren, and he was frequently called to official po~iti~n, and it m~y
be said, he, during his long life occupied every .chair m the Masome
orders always with fidelity and rare competency.
B~other Davies received his first three degrees in Little Falls Lodge
No. 181, New York. the third degree being conf~rred on St. Joh~'s
49 He affiliated with Columbia Lodge No. 28, at Columbia,
18 ·
·
cd ay,Jifornia
in 1859 and was elected Master in 1860, servmg
cont'muous1Y
a: such u~til 1866. He affiliated with San Joaquin Lodge No. 19; at
Stockton, in 1870, where he was elected }faster in. 18.71. He remained
a member of that 1,odge during the remainder of his hfe.
In Grand Lodge he was appointed Senior Grand Deacon ~n 1862;
elected Junior Grand Warden in 1863; Senior Grand Warden rn 1864;
Deputy Grand Master in 1865, and Grand Master in 1867.
.
His Chapter degrees were conferred in Oneida ?hapter No: 40, Utica,
New York, in 1850, and afterwards affiliated with Columbia Chapter
No. 8, serving as Secretary in 1859.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

181

He held office in the Grand Chapter of Califorina as follows: Grand
Captain of the Host, 1862; Grand Scribe, 1863 and 1864; Grand King,
1865; Deputy Grand High Priest, 1866, and Grand High Priest, 1873.
He was elected Grand Secretary from 1899 until 1915.
He was anointed in the Order of High Priesthood in 1861; elected
Conductor o.f the California Convention of High Priests in 1864, serving
as sueh until 1871; elected Vice President, 1883, and President in 1884,
serving in that capacity until bis death.
Received the Council degrees in Sonora Council No. 5 in 1860, and
and was Recorder in 1865. Affiliated with Stockton Council No. 10
in 1870; Thrice Illustrious Master in 1870-1876. Grand Illustrious
Master, 1862; Deputy Grand Master, 1863; Grand Master, 1864; Grand
Recorder, 1878-9, 1899-1905.
received the Orders of Red Cross, Temple and Malta in Cali·
fornia Commandery No. 1, in 1866. Affiliated with Pacifie Commandery
in 1867; served as Prelate in 1868. Affiliated with Stockton Commandery
No. 8, in 1873, and Sacramento Commandery in 1881. Was elected
Grand Captain General of the Grand Commandery of California in 1871 ·
Grand Generalssimo 1872; Deputy Grand Commander in 1873, and Grand
Commander in 187 4. Was Grand Recorder 1899 to 1914.
The Scottish Rite degrees were conferred upon him by Ebenezer H.
Shaw in 1869; elected to serve in the organization of the Grand Consistory in 1870, as Lieutenant Commander. At the expiration of three
years as Commander in Chief of the Grand Consistory, the Supreme
Council ordered the thirty-third degree conferred as an honorarium which
was done in 1885.
'
His fellow citizens, in high appreciation of his sterling qualities
called him to the performance of the duties of political office, and h~
always performed his duties faithfully and well, and he was alwavs
greeted with the approval, "Well done, thou good and faithful servant:"
In the year 1867, in the glory of his superb manhood he became
Most Worshipful Grand Master of California and occupied the chief seat
in this Grand Lodge.
He was always one to be relied upon and revered by his brethren in
every place. He devotedly aecepted and believed in all the tenets of
Masonry, and, by his sincerity of mind and his dailv conduct was a
shining exemplar of Masonic teachings.
'
' ·
He lived a good, clean and wholesome life, without friction dissen·
sion or antagonism, and while always admired and reverentially r~spected
was never the object of jealousy or envy. Of few men can this be truth~
fully said.
His conduct toward his associates and brethren was always marked
by warm and generous impulses, and everybody lovetl him.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

182

He never'aspired to special distinction among his. fello:Vs, and never
posed for popular applause, but always desired to do right srmply because
it was right.
His good right hand was ever ready to be extended to the dis·
eouraged, the distressed, the needy, the dese~ing, a_nd he never passed
a sufferer on the highway without rendering aid. His memory needs no
panegyric. His whole life constitutes one continuous picture of ma~ly
honesty patriotism good citizenship and clinging and constant :fidelity
to, and' exemplifica~ion of, those noble characteristics that make a true
and genuine Mason. He was one.
.
The good Lord preserved him in his physical manhood ~o~ a hfe
of more than eighty-nine years, and his mind and moral qualities were
·
preserved to the last.
But the corporal body became worn and weak, and many of us remember the scene when, one year ago, h_e came into this Grand Lodge
room in darkness, guided and sustained by the eyes and hands of younger
brethren.
At last on .Tune 20th, 1916, his light went out, his bod! failed and
his noble spirit, relieved from the earthy burden, took _fhght to that
heavenly mansion that house not made with hands, eternal m the heave~s,
where the Suprei~e Grand Architect of the universe presides, and we laid
his body to rest.
we must not mourn him as one lost, for he has only passed ~n and
if we emulate his noble example he will greet us when we follow hrm.

IN MEMORIAM
JOHN MORTON ESHLEMAN
By Harvey D. Loveland, Past Master San Francisco Lodge No. 360.
''Friend after friend departs,
Who hath not lost a friend~''

Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of .the Grand Lodge.:
i\. we turn back 0 'er the pages of Memory's book, upon wh1eh the
assin~ years have stamped their indelible record, as we read t~ere the
~ames of those who no longer answer to our roll-call, as we realize that
in th'e language of the Persian astronomer and poet,
''The moving :finger writes, and having writ,
Moves on· nor all your piety nor wit
Can lure it back to cancel half a line,
Nor all your tears wash out a word of it,"
the truth comes home to us with startling distinctness that ''man was
made to mourn.' '

Gathered as this Grand body is at this time to direct the destinies
of this great Order within the jurisdiction of our beloved commonwealth,
it is peculiarly meet and fitting that these brothers for whom we mourn
today, who have left their ''footprints upon the sands of Time'' should
be remembered. I am asked to speak to the memory of one whom I
knew and loved. Of one whom to know was to love. Of one whose life
offered convincing evidence of the truth of the oft-repeated saying that
''war is not necessary to the development of heroes and heroism.' ' Aye,
and of one whose passing into the Great Beyond proves the truth of
that other adage that ''Death loves a shining mark.'' It seems but
yesterday, my brethren, that we felt the honest, sincere clasp of his hand
in friendship and in fe11owship, and listened to his kindly voice, which
ever uttered words of thoughtful and disinterested helpfulness. It seems
but yesterday that many of us gathered around his bier with a great
concourse of those who loved and respected him in life, to pay our last
sad tribute to his earthly remains and to listen to the beautiful eulogy
pronounced by his friend, the honored Chief Executive of our State, who,
next to our brother's immediate family, probably felt his loss most
keenly. It seems but yesterday that, with bared heads and heavy hearts,
we stood around his last resting place in the beautiful cemetery down
there in that fair city of sunshine and flowers where he had chosen to
make his future home, and listened to our beloved Grand Master im·
pressively repeat in a manner which stamped them as coming from his
heart, the last touching words of our burial service, ''Soft and sweet
to thee, our brother, be thy earthly bed'', and as we turned from that
lonely grave the thought must have come to others, as it came to me,
that the green graves of our own loved ones on different hillsides bore
mute but eloquent testimony to the depth and sincerity of the sympathy
which we felt and still feel for those nearest and dearest to our brother,
and there echoed in our hearts the beautiful plea that o'er that silent
tomb "may the sweetness of the summer's last rose linger longest."
Tenderly we laid him away under a wealth of beautiful flowers, last
silent offerings of love and friendship.
The gentle breeze wafted from o'er the bosom of the broad Pacific,
whose mighty, resistless energy his character seemed to typify, wedded
to the rustling leaves of the trees which spread their shadows o'er his
grave, seemed fitting requiem to a soul at rest and as, with a last lingering look, I turned from the grave of my friend, unbidden there came
to my mind the words of the old sweet hymn sung to you and to me
in years gone by, by voices now members of the celestial choir,
"Sleep sweetly,, brother; far from thee
Thy kindred and their graves may be;
And yet it is a blessed sleep
From which none !rl'er wake to weep."

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Although all this seems but the events of yesterday, two-thirds of
that larger period by which we measure the seasons have passed since
we left him to his last long sleep. Yet such is the nature of genuine
grief, his memory lives in our hearts in unfading tenderness.
Thus, my brethren, I have spoken of his death. What shall I say of
his life and character and of the great work which he crowded into the
few short years allotted to him i Born in Illinois, of parents rich in
honesty and purity of life, but poor in material wealth, his life from
childhood to man's estate was ever and always a struggle to respond to
that honest and exalted ambition which spurred him on. With a mind
that knew no limits in its aspiration, with a soul attuned to the music
of the spheres but with a body weakened by tuberculosis and by his
prodigious mental effort in securing an education, in early manhood he
sought health and opportunity in California. While he did not find the
one permanently, he created the other. Improved in health by a season
of outdoor life in a railroad construction camp, he again answered Ambition's call to fit himself for the larger and richer life to which he
aspired, and entered the University of California.
That great institution, Alma Mater to many who are writing their
names high in the halls of Fame and Success, points with pride to his
scholastic record, and at a meeting of the faculty and the student body
shortly after his death, a beautiful eulogy of the life and work of
Brother Eshleman was pronounced by Senator Guy C. Earl, one of the
regents of the University.
Graduating with distinguished honors, he entered upon the practice
of law, but even that jealous mistress, devoted as he was to his profes·
sion, could not blind him to the fact that life has large responsibilities
incident to our complex civilization, which can only be accepted by sacrifice, and he became a member of the Legislature. There he at once took
bis place as a leader of men of moral aspiration, who were willing to
engage in the battle of life for high ideals and pure polities. Again his
health failed and, accompanied by she who had been his classmate in
college, with whom he had selected to go hand in hand alo_ng life's
pathway, he was taken from the halls of legislature to the Imperial
Valley, as his friends feared, to die.
Indomitable will power and life-giving, life-sustaining sunshine prevailed, and his health again improving, he entered upon the practice
of his profession and became District Attorney of Imperial county, a
county which he was largely instrumental in creating.
Later he was elected to the office of Railroad Commissioner. Of his
work in that :field, where for four years I was in daily association with •
him, I need not speak. You all know that he became a State and
National figure and authority in public utility regulation.

Answering again that which he regarded as duty's call, he accepted
the nomination for Lieutenant-Governor, and the majority by which he
was elected attested the esteem in which he was held. Here I may
properly refer to Brother Eshleman 's Masonic record. He was initiated
passed and raised in Durant Lodge No. 268, F. and A. M., of Berkeley;
California; reeeived the :Master's degree on May 26, 1905. The following
year he became a member of Berkeley Chapter No. 92, R. A. M.; received
the Royal Arch degree on December 12, 1906. In 1908 he became a
member of El Centro Lodge No. 384, and was Master of that Lodge in
1909. He withdrew from Berkeley Chapter in 1910 and became a
charter member of El Centro Chapter No. 109. Brother Eshleman,
shortly before his death, was elected to membership in Imperial Valley
Commandery, U. D., at El Centro, and was .on his way to receive the
Orders of Knighthood when he died.

185

Brethren, the tale is almost told. As was said in the beautiful
eulogy delivered at his funeral, "ever and always the grim spectre of
death stalked at his side.'' Bravely he fought, like a hero he died.
Alone in the early morning hours, just as the dawn of another day was
breaking, separated from those nearest and dearest, he made his last
fi~ht and lost.. Shall we say "lost," or rather shall we say, in keeping
with the sentiment of the beautiful poem recited by Brother Gunzen1
dorfer, ' He made his last fight and won, won the crown of immortality,'' for there was in him that nobility of character and faith in the
ultimate which robs the grave of its victory. and death of its sting.
That dawn was to him the morning of eternity.
. Our ea~thly associations with him have ended, but his memory rema1?s and is a monument in the hearts of his friends prouder than
stoned urn or chiseled marble pointing to the skies. I would, indeed,
my brethren, that in the brief moments remaining to me, I could impart
to you that knowledge of his character which fntimate association gave
me. I cannot, and hoping still to fail not in the performance of the sad
yet pleasureable duty assigned to me upon this occasion, I appeal to one
of the master minds of other times, and say in the language of Tennyson,
''He had in him that gentleness which, when
wed to manhood makes the man.'' .
I close my simple tribute to my friend and our brother with a little
story appropriate because of its allegorical application in keeping with
the manner in which the science of our Order is taught. It is called
the Story of the Immortal Bell:
Upon the side of one of the steepest and highest of the mountains
of Switzerland a monastery is located. So inaccessible is it that few
tourists ever visit it, but from the reports of the few who have braved
the dangers incidental to reaching it, it is famed for three things: First

186

187

·,,'?ROCEl<JDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and second, for a cordial and a liqueur made by the monks, dear to the
hearts of the epicures; and third, for the possession of a bell east three
hundred years ago. So fine was it C',ast and so perfect of tone, that
although rung for the first and only time three centuries ago on Christmas
morning, it is still giving out its sweet and perfect tones to the wonder
and awe of all who behold it.

Denson and Past Master Loveland, together with the entire
program, were ordered printed in the Proceedings.

Comparable to the perpetuity and sweetness of the notes of that
perfect bell, is the inftuenee ·which proceeds from the life and efforts
of our brother, whom we mourn today. Like the notes of the bell, that.
influence will go sounding down through the corridors of time with the
·influence of other men of pure anc1 high ideals, and our children's children
will reap what he and others like him have sown.

In life we honored :rnd respected Brother John M. Eshleman; in
death his memory is a heritage worthy of the respect we are today according it.
Just a word in closing of our brother in that sacred relation of
husband and father, whieh relation the teachings and tenets of Masonry
cherish and respect; and brethren, quoting from the immortal bard, I
would say, ''If you have tears, prepare to shed them now,'' nor think
it unmanly should Nature bid you weep through feelings of genuine
sorrow, for never yet was manhood shamed by permitting the eye to
pay tribute to grief that wrings the heart.
Down there in that once happy but now lonely and desolate home,
are those upon whom this dispensation of an all-wise Providence has
fallen most hi;avily. To that sorrowing girl-wife, for she is scarcely
more than a girl, and to the little ones who in childish innocence still
speak of daddy and wonder why he does not come, we extend our continued heartfelt sympathy, the depth and sincerity of which is measured
by sorrow second only w their own. May God in his infinite love and
mercy watch o'er and care for them even as he "tempers the wind to
the shorn lamb.''
Lost to sight, but to memory dear, there is left to us, his brothers
of the Mystic Tie, the fond hope, aye, the abiding faith, that up there
in that Lodge not made with hands, in the glorious presenee of our
Supreme Grand Master, our brother has found that light eternal which
was ever the objeet of his ~fasonic pilgrimage here on earth. Brethren
of the Grand Lodge, I respectfully ask that, with bowed heads and
reverent hearts, you join with me in the beautiful words with which
Masons ever conclude their supplications to the Throne of Grace, "So
mote it be. "

On motion of Past Grand Master Bledsoe, the thanks of
Grand Lodge were extended to all who participated in the
memorial service, and the addresses of Past Grand Master

REPORT OF COJYIMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES.
The Committee on Grievances reported as follows:
To the M.". W:. Grand Lodge of G,alifornia:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Record
No. 163, being the retrial of a member of Amity Lodge No. 370 by
Alturas Lodge No. 248, begs leave to report as follows:
At the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge of two years ago the
.
Jndgme.nt of the Trial Commission was reversed, with a direction for a
new t:ial. On. the second trial evidence was introduced which your
~omm1ttee considers warranted the conviction and a sentence of suspens10n. We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved, that the verdict and sentence in said ease and the action
of the Lodge thereon be and they are hereby approved and confirmed.
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,

,J. P. BERNHARD,
GEORGE L. JONES,
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
WALTER

F. HAAS,
Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.
The Grand 'Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Friday morning.

lfu ~rnuh 1£nh.gr
Morning Session.
Friday, October 13, 1916.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and
adopted.
The matter of the petition of Joseph Pascoe, suspended
by Rising Star Lodge No. 83, March 30, 1901, for non~pay­
ment of dues, referred to in the Address of the Grand Master
was brought to the attention of Grand Lodge, and it appear~
ing that Rising Star Lodge was within its rights in suspending
the brother, the action of that Lodge was approved.

189

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

188

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Brother Jimmie N. Hall, Chairman of the Committee on
Credentials, reported the following officers and representatives of 356 chartered Lodges, delegates from six Lodges
under dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this
jurisdiction, as being present, viz :
California ............No.

L .. Jessie M. Whited, Master;

Raimon F. Conlisk, Junior Warden;
H. Ascroft, Past Master;
H. A. Cline, Past Master;
W. Crocker, Past Master;
H. L. Dewey, Past Master;
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master;
H. A. Marvin, Past Master;
H. M. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Grand Master;
E. Peabody, Past Master;
R. H. Wilcox, Past Master.

Nevada .................. No. 13 .... Ge~rge W. Ogden, Master;
F. L. Arbogast, Inspector and Past Master·
J. F. Colley, Inspector and Past Master. '
Temple .................. No. 14.... Benjamin Bordson, Master.
Eureka

.................. N 0 •

16 ....J. G. Bisbee, Rep. and Past Master.

La Parfaite Union .. No. 17.... Alfred Gehret, Master;
Joseph Henri Plate, Senior Warden;
Albert Jules :F'abre, Junior Warden;
B. F. Ames, Past Master·
M. E. Diebold, Past Mas~er·
' an d p • M .;
0. M. Goldaracena, Inspector
A. Huguenin, Past Master·
H. Mottet, Past Master. '
Mountain Shade .... No. 18 .... E. L. Case, Inspector, Master and P. M.
San Joaquin .......... No. 19 .... Daniel W. Beatie, Master.
Washington .......... No. 20....C. H. Brown, Rep. and Past Master.
Hawaiian .............. No. 21....•James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Occidental ............ No. 22 .... Martin A. Schmidlin Master·
George E. Kammerer,' Senior 'Warden·
Fred'k. W. Nish, Junior Warden·
'
0. C. Baldwin, Past Master·
'
W. K. Fletcher, Past Master;'
C. P. Fonda, Past Master;
F. W. G. Moebus, Past Master·
H. F. Wilson, Past Master.
'

Western Star ......No.

2 .... August Tillman, Master.

Tehama .................. No.

3 ... ,Albert Greilich, Master;
W. E. Baughman, Jr., Past Master;
J. Mcindeor, Past Master;
T. J. Milliken, Past Master.

Benicia ..................No.

5... .Harry B. Carr, Master;
J. DeForest, Past Master.

Madison ................ No. 23 ....G. L. Jones, Rep. and Past Master·

Tuolumne ..............No.

8 ....William E. Burden, Master;
G. T. Black, Past Master.

Mariposa .............. No. 24....LE. AP. C. H. Kylberg, Inspector and P. M.;
· · Wason, Past Master.
Georgetown .......... No. 25....I. G. Swift, Rep. and Past Master.

Corinthian ............No.

,.,

9....John R. Young, Master;
E. E. Stone, Past Master.

I'
San Jose ................No. 10 .... Allan 0. Matthew, Master;
.i

Albert E. Sandbo, Senior Warden;
George B. Stevens, Junior Warden;
F. Doerr, Past Ma·ster;
J. P. Jarman, Inspector and Past Master;
R. Lowe, Past Master;
J. H. McGehee, Past Master;
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master..

Yount .................... No. 12 ... .James Craig, Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Master;
F. W. Williams, Past Master.

'

Palmyra ................ No. 26 .... Harry E. Burke, Master;
W. F. Bray, Past Master.
Trinity .................. No. 27 .... Geo. F. Gehm, Representative.
Golden "'Gate ........ No. 30 .... William P. Caubu, Master.
Robert W. Dewar, Senior Warden.
W. A. T. Argard, Past Master·
'
'
A. F. Heuer; Past Master·
E. L. Meyer, Past Master'.
'
W. G. Wright, Past Master.·
Gold Hrn .............. No. 32 .... Hans P. Jens.en, Master and Past Master;
J. Gerber, Past Master.

190

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIlll

Ophir •.....................No. 33 .... D. B. Driver, Past Master;
J. T. Morley, Rep. and Past Master.
San Diego ............ No. 35 ....Rainsford W. Belding, Master;
E. C. Bangs, Inspector and Past Master;
W. Kettner, Past Master.
St. John's ............No. 37 ....Herbert M. Edmonds, Master;
G. .A. DeWitt, Past Master.
Santa Cruz .......... No. 38 .... Henry Rhein, Master.
Sacramento ..........No. 40 ....R. P. Burr, Rep. and Past Master;
W. D. Knights, Past Master;
•T. H. Stephens, Past Master.
Martinez .............. No. 41....William R. Sharkey, Master;
W. S. Wells, Past Grand Master.
Los Angeles ........No. 42, .... Robert L. Van Zandt, Master;
C. E. Mitchell, Past Master.
Mount Moriah ...... No. 44....Henry N. Clift, Master;
Roy A. Pratt, Senior Warden;
Karl :h""'. HolzmuUer, Junior Warden;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
J. C. Jens, Past Master.
Crescent ................No. 45....0. Dudley, Past Master;
G. C. Walton, Representative.
Texas ....................No. 46 ....William R. Flint, Master and Past Master;
! !!!
~' i. i'lliThos. Flint, Past Grand Master.
Forbestown ·... :.~ .... No. 50....M. G. Hill, Past Master.
Illinoistown ..........No. 51....Henry C. Bush, Senior Warden.
Suisun .................... No. 55 ....J. R. Chadbourne, Jr., Master;
Thomas O. Dowdell, Junior Warden.
James Giannini, Representative.
56
....
Volcano ................No.
57
....•
Tohn M. Boyes, Master;
Santa Rosa .......... No .
.i Ross C. Moodey, Senior Warden;
J.
C. D. Barnett, Past Master;
H. W. Beardin, Past Master;
A. G. Burnett, Past Master;
J. T. Mailer, Past Master;
E. R. Sawyer, Past Master;
A. G. Burnett, Grand Master.
Union .................... No. 58 ....Jesse P. Bascom, Master;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
S. C. Denson, Past Grand Master;
W. W. Douglas, Pai!t Master;
J. F. Morgan, Inspector and Past .Mast.n;
C. A. Root, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

191

Gravel Range ...... No. 59....Fred'k. J. Joubert, Master.
Plumas ..................No. 60 ....George H. Stephan, Master.
Live Oak .............. No. 61....Lee S. Griswold, Master;
Charles II. Vietor, Senior Warden;
Charles A. Anderson, Junior Warden;
E. W. Decoto, Past ::\faster;
W. J. Garibaldi, Inspector and Past Master;
A. B. Webster, Past Master.
Geo. Washington.... No. 62 ....Henry M. Menke, Senior Warden.
Natoma .................. No. 64.... William J. Waites, Senior Warden •
Amador .................. No. 65 .... William K. McFarland, Senior Warden.
Forest ....................No. 66 ....John F. Lotspeich, Master.
Morning Star ...... No. 68 ....John R. Humphreys, Master;
0. S. Henderson, Past Grand Master;
I.
·,' G. A. 1:t:eKenzie, Past Master.
Enterprise ............ No. 70 ....Edward T. Hughes, Master.
Bear Mountain ...... N o. 76 ....Thomas H. Davey, Master and Past Master;
F. W. Clough, Inspector and Past Master.
Calaveras ..............No. 78 ....•Tohn A. Smith, )faster and Past Master;
C. Preston, Past Master.
Humboldt .............. No. 79....Eldred H. Connick, Senior Warden;
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master;
.A. J. Monroe, Past Grand Master.
Ione ........................ No. 80 .... Arthur S. Cunningham, ?.faster;
J. F. Martin, Inspector and Past Master.
Yolo ...................... No. 81....John D. Woodward, Senior Warden.
Vesper ..................No. 84.....Arthur H. Pickert, Master.
Naval ....................No. 87....Harry .A. Holmes, Master;
Thomas Brown, Senior Warden;
Fred 'k. Graff, Junior Warden;
W. Brownlie, Past Master;
J. E. Wilson, Past Master.
North Star .......... No. 91.... H. V. Ley, Inspector and Past Master;
Felix Kttnz, Representative.
St. Helena ............ No. 93 ....J. S. Noble, Rep. and Past Master.
Henry Clay .......... No. 95 .... M. Brinn, Past Masiter.
Howard ................ No. 96~ ... A. S. Burrill, Representative.
Jefferson .............. No. 97.... Arthur M. Beever, Senior Warden;
G. May, Past Master.
Yosemite .............. No. 99 .... Julius II. Ellis, Master.
Clay ........................ No. 101.... Charles Kempster, Master.

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Oroville ................ No.103 .... A. E. Boynton, Past Mast.ir;
C. G. Crowe, Rep. and Past Master.
Lexington ............. No. 104 .... John Sotow, Senior Warden.
Arcata .................. No. 106 .... John F. Benton, Master;
F. E. Morrell, Inspector and Past Master.
Pajaro .................... No. 110.... Martin Lindsey, Junior Warden.
Chico ...................... No. 111.. .. Charles W. Cha·se, Master;
Ha.le H. Lathrop, Senior Warden.
Eden ...................... No. 113 .... S. B. Foree, Rep. and Past Master .
Concord ................ No. 117 .... Fred Hunt, Senior Warden;
Rywll C. Eyerly, Junior Warden;
J. M. Chapman, Past Master.
Clinton .................. No. 119 .... Thadius A. Jones, Senior Warden.
Fidelity ................ No. 120 .... Sholom Silverstone, Master;
Vietor Aaron, Senior Warden;
Herman M. Wallenstein, Junior Warden;
J. D. Abrams, Past Master;
P. Jaeobovies, Past Master.
Alamo .................... No.122 ....William R. Meese, Senior Warden;
A. E. Clark, Past Master.
Sotoyome .............. No. 123 ....0sear A. Frellson, Master;
E. Bush, Inspector and Past Master.
Table Mountain .... No. 124 .... Henry F. Bader, Master and Past Master.
La Fayette .......... No. 126 .... Fred F. Ames, Master.
Hermann .............. No. 127 .... Hermann P. H. Schmidt, Master.
L. Muller, Inspector and Past Master.
Visalia .................. No. 128 .... James Griffin, Master.
Nicolaus ................ No. 129 .... 0ttis K. Roddan, Master.
Woodbridge .......... No. 131.. .. Robert G. Williams, Master.
Sincerity .............. No. 132 .... Hugh C. Chamberlain, Master.
Vacaville .............. No. 134 ....Frank E. Dickie, Master;
F. H. Clark, Past Master.
Valley .................... No. 135 .... Frank A. Creary, Senior Warden.
Pacific .................... No. 136 .... Thomas Anderson, Master;
Prank Mueller, Seni9r Warden;
Charles B. Bond, Junior Warden;
•T. W. Anderson, Past Master;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
W. H. Edwards, Past Master;
T. Penlington, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Grand Master;
A. W. Turpin, Past Master;
E. L. West, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

193

Crockett ................ No. 139 .... Walter E. Sammis, Master;
James W. Davies, Senior Warden;
Arthur H. Canaris, Junior Warden;
J. 0. L. Brunswig, Past Master;
C. Cellarius, Past Master;
H. J. Lloyd, Past Master;
H. W. Maass, Past Master;
H. McBirney, Past Master;
T. Rowlands, Past Master.
Grafton .................. No. 141.. .. Alex. L. Kennedy, Senior Warden.
Franklin ................ No. 143 .... Charles L. P. Gardiner, Senior Warden;
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master;
J. H. Hyde, Past Master.
Oriental ................ No. 144 .... J ohn F. Clute, Master;
Thomas Harris, Senior Warden;
Alfred J. Snow, Junior Warden;
0. L. Berry, Past Master;
C. W. Dobie, Past Master;
R. C. Jewell, Past Master;
F. B. Ladd, Past Master;
J. Tonningsen, Past Master.
Abell ...................... No. 146 .... Perey W. Handy, Master;
J. M. Mannon Sr., Past Master.
Eel River .............. No. 147 .... George W. Long, Master and Past Master.
Lassen .................... No. 149 .... Samuel L. Damon, Master;
J. E. Pardee, Past Master.
Molino ................... No. 150.... John T. Youles, Master and Past Master.
Woodland .............. No. 156 .... Frank W. Weaver, Senior Warden;
H. H. Gable, Inspector and Past Master.
Keystone .............. No. 161.. .. Chandler Huntingtun, Master and P. M.;
Horace B. Allen, Sen. War. and Past Master.
Harmony .............. No. 164 .... William A. Lavery, Master and Past Master.
Excelsior ................ No.166 ....C. A. Adams, Past Master;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Inspector and Past Master;
D. A. Hare, Past Mas.t.er;
H. J. Owen, Past Master.
Alameda ................ No. 167 ....Frank B. Hartman, Master;
A. Norris, Past Master.
Redwood City ...... No. 168 .... William H. Kelso, Master;
C. G. Landseheit, Inspector and P. M.;
F. K. Towne, Past Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

194

Mission ----------·-··-·--No. 169.... Thomas I. James, Master;
Lew E. Wallace, Senior Warden;
William H. Worden, Junior Warden;
R. E. Allan, Past Master;
R. S. Allen, Inspector and Past Master;
E. F. Crosett, Past Magter;
H. Hall, Past Master;
E. B. Hallett, Past Master;
J. R. Hillman, Past Master;
H. E. Leland, Past Master;
G. W. Lunt, Past Master;
W. W. Moore, Past Ma1!ter;
M. H. Renwick, Past Master;
O. L. Sues, Past Master;
F. H. Thrall, Past Master;
E. W. Tucker, Past Master.
Elk Grove ............ No. 173 .... Claude D. Tribble, Master.
Drytown ................No. 174....Henry Osborne, Master and Past Master.
Antioch ..................No.175 ....George O. Kennerily, Master.
Phoenix ................No.178 ....John Culbertson, Senior Warden;
w. B. Howes, Ingpeetor and Past Master;
M. J. :Newburg, Past Master.
~fmdoeino ............ No.179 .... Henry A. Atwood, Master;

C. Banker, Past Master;
J. W. Fraser, Past Master.
Russian River .... ~.No.181.. .. Chester Yan Grafen, Master;
G. T. Trowbridge, Past Master.
Meridian ..............No.182 ....George G. Meckfessel, Master.
Sierra Valley ........ No.184 ....Jamea M. Turner, Master and Past Master.
Claiborne ..............No.185 .... Frank W. Reynolds, Master and P. M.
Evening Star ........ No.186 ....Charles W. Nutting, Master and P. G. M.
Keith ....................No.187 ....Charles Hornbeck, Sen. War. and P. 1'L;
F. H. Sebire, Past Master.
0akland ................No.188 .... Howard N. Mosher, Master;
,John R. Sutton, Senior Warden;
Don Fred'k. Harris, Junior Warden;
R. B. Gaylord, Past Master;
H. T. Moore, Past Master;
C. :N. Walter, Past Master.

~orthern Light ....No. 190 ....Henry H. Butzbach, Master and P. M.
Marin

....................

No 191....John Clute, Senior Warden;
.
F. M. Angellotti, Past Grand Master;
G. F. Rodden, Inspector and Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

195

Santa Barbara .... :N"o. 192 .... Richard L. Hammer, Master.
Ferndale ................:No. 193.... Edwin H. French, Master;
H. :N". Briggs, Past Master.
Mountain View .... No. 194.... Howard H. Ainsworth, Master.
Buckeye ................ No.195 .... W. A. Brinck, Rep. and Past Master;
.r. E. Sackett, Past Mall!ter.
San Simeon .......... No. 196.... Edward Righetti, Master and Past Master;
A. Frankl, Past Master.
Wilmington .......... No. 198.... Charles F. Harrold, Senior Warden.
Hartley ................ No. 199.... C. J. Monroe, Rep. and Past Master.
Truckee ................ No. 200 ... :George Carson, Past Master and Jun. War.
Silveyville ............ No. 201.. .. F. F. Marshall, Insp., Rep, and P. M.
Pentalpha .............. No. 202 .... Melville A. Sheldon, Master;
W. R. Hervey, Past Master.
Confidence ............ No. 203 .... Walter C. Buttle, Master and Past Master.
Salinas .................. No. 204.... Robert D. Logan, Master.
Newv:iille ................ No. 205 .... Z. P. Dyer, Representative.
Stanislaus ............ No. 206 .... Sylvan S. Latz, Master.
Anaheim ................ No. 207 .... David T. Gillmor, Senior Warden.
Rio Vista .............. No. 208 .... M. Stewart, Rep. and Past Master.
King David 's ........ No. 209 ....John C, James, Master and Past Master;
Walter D. Ardiance, Sen. War., Past Master and Insp. ;
.T. 'Whicher, Past Master.
Friendship ............ No. 210 ....•Tohn L. Schmidt, Master and Past Master;
William W. Paull, Senior Warden.
San Benito ............ No. 211.. .. Riehard W. 0 'Bannon, MaSlter;
J. P. Davis, Inspector and Past. Master.
S. San Francisco .. No. 212 .... William G. Green, Master;
Charles C. Thomas, Senior Warden;
Carl L. Boehringer, Junior Warden;
M. J. Iverson, Past Master.
S. Buena Yentnra No. 214.... D. J. Reese, Inspector and Past Master;
J,ouis C. Drapeau, Representative.
Oak Grove ............ No. 215 ....Henry C. Lassen, Master;
Henry G. Ilderton, Junior Warden.
Dorie ...................... No. 216.... Manuel Lafee, Master;
·
Leonard T. Pockman, Senior Warden;
Martin L. Haines, Junior Warden;
W. B. Cameron, Past Master;
B. Levi, Past Master;
W. P. Read, Past Master;
A. A. Rosenshine, Past Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

196

Monterey .............. No. 217 .... W. Kay, Rep. and Past Master;
F. O. Massie, Past Master.
Mosaic .................. No. 218 .... T. F. Brady, Representative.
Speranza Italiana No. 219 .... Sisto Rasori, Master;
Giovanni Fisealini, Senior Warden;
Paul Capurro, Junior Warden;
A. Cogliandro, Past Master;
E. V. Lonigo, Past Master;
G. Scalmanini, Inspector and Past Master.
Downey ................ No. 220 .... Hugh W. ]1,foKelvey, Senior Warden.
Inyo ........................No. 221.. ..J. E. Eibeshutz, Rep. and Past Master.
Granite .................. No. 222 ....Lyman H. Barber, Master and Past Master.
Bakersfield ............ No. 224 .... Charles R. Dennen,. Master;
.
Henry Eissler, Semor Warden,
Dallas Haves, Junior Warden;
A. S. Crit~s, Past Master;
E. P. Munsey, Past Master;
B. B. Thomas, Inspector and Past Master.
Brooklyn ............... No. 225 .... Louis Sutter, Master; .
.
Allan M. Wickland, Senior Warden,
William F. Woods, Junior Warden;
F. J. Rennie, Past Masterj
C. E. Stowe, Past Master;
G. D. Warren, Inspector and Past Master.
San Mateo ............No. 226 ....Jaeob E. Divelbiss, Master;
Francis J« Cochran, Senior Warden;
Edward C. Aldwell, Junior Warden;
F. }J. Beer, Past Master;
H. M. Taylor, Past Maffter;
C. A. M. Vandenbos, Past Master;
C. A. Wainwright, Past Master.
Athens
Solano

..................
..

No. 228 .... Thomas J. Bowcock, Senior Warden;
B. B. Tuttle, Past Master.

..................No. 229 ....0sgood H. Hilton, Master;
Samuel Ly·ttle, Senior Warden;
Henry A. Frahm, ,Junior Warden;
A. S. Hail.liday, Past Master;
•T. 11,L Inglis, Past Master;
R. J,. Robertson, Insp. and Past MaRter;
J. E. Sanderson, Past Master;
J. F. Walter, Past Master.

North Butte ........ No. 230 ....Thomas J. Long, Master and Past Master.
Covelo ....................No. 23L.. H. S. Lovell, Rep. and Past Master..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

197

Janesville .............. No. 232.... N. V. Wemple, Master;
S. H. Crow, Inspect.or and Past Master.
Calistoga ..............No. 233 .... Peter Hopkins, Jr., Senior Warden;
F. Ashton, Past Master.
Hope ...................... No. 234.... Lester B. Yarrington, Master and P. M.
Surprise Valley .... No. 235 .... R. J. Turner, Representative.
Hill's Ferry .......... No. 236 .... Guy B. Stoyell, Master and Past Master.
Guadalupe ............ No. 237 .... George W. Moore, Senior Warden;
J. Giaeomazzi, Past Master;
·w. T. Lucas, Past Grand Master.
Colusa .................... No. 240 ....Hermann Jacobson, Master;
G. P. Ahlf, Past Master.
Santa Ana ............No. 241 .... F. W. Mansur, Rep. and Past Master;
E. B. Trago, Inspector and Past Master.
Magnolia .............. No. 242.... Emmet F. Rodenbeck, Master.
Eucalyptus ............ No. 243 .... George W. Madeley, Sen. War. and Rep.
E. F. Musson, Past Master.
Alcatraz ................No. 244.... Elbert W. Garrity, Senior Warden;
James G. Kane, Junior Warden;
L. T. Corwin, Past Master;
J. Crossman, Past Master;
W. G. Davidson, Past Master;
W. G. Mobley, Past Master;
N. Searles Jr., Past Master;
J. L. Vandenbos, Past Master.
Laurel ....................No. 245 .... Bayard Knoek, Master;
L. M. Benoit, Past Master.
Pomona ..................No. 246...•W. A. Lewis, Past Master;
W. A. Vandergrift, Insp. and Past Master;
gar} Fredendall, Representative.
Fresno .................... No. 247....Carl A. Lisenby, Master.
A!lturas ..................No. 248 .... Ernest C. Bonner, Master and Past Master;
C. S. Baldwin, Inspector and Past Master;
C. L. Brown, Past Master.
Bodie ...................... No. 252 .....John E. QinviMe, Master and Past Master;
Harvey H. Boone, Senior 'Varden, Past
Master and Inspector.
Landmark ............ No. 253 ..•.T. Hail, Past Master.
Reading ................ No. 254....Harry E. Thompson, Master and P. M.;
MeCoy J<"'itzgerald, Senior Warden.
Welcome ................ No. 255 .... R. E. Shore, Inspector and Past Master;
M. C. Carter, Representative.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

198

No. 256 .... J ohn Perrott, Master;
Lodi ························
G. w. LeMoin, Past Master;
W. J. Thomayer, Insp. and Past Master.
Penrhyn ................No. 258 .... Prederick I. Adge, Master.
E

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
No 259 .... Adam H. Winder, Master;
vergreen ............ .
H. D. French, Inspector and Past Master.

King Solomon's .... No. 260....John F. Campbell, M~ster;
Henry L. Green, Semor Warden;
George E. Weaver, Junior Warden;
E. E. Conn, Past Master;
L. N. Davidson, Past Master;
G. :M:. Davis, Past Master;
W. P. Filmer, Past Grand Master;
G. Gunzendorfer, Past Master;
F. w. Hosmer, Past Master;
R. v. Whiting, Past Master;
F. B. Wood, Past Master.
N 0 . 261 ....J. F. Fouch, Rep. and Past Master.
Tuscan ..................
.
N
Delbert R. Daniels, Senior Warden.
Lompoc .................. o. 262 ····
•
N 264 Francis E. Hebard, Senior Warden.
Hesper1an .............. o.
····
Orland .................... No. 265.... W. Clark, Inspector and Past Master.
Galt •.......................No. 267 ....J. Ellis Maxwell, Master.
No. 268 ...:Walter A. Sloan, Master;
Durant ··················
Elmer E. Myers, Senior Warden;
Edward L. Soule, Junior Warden;
W. W. Anderson, Past Master;
w. s. Co~eman, Past Master;
R. Edgar, Past Master;
D. Finley, Past Master;
R. Greig, Past Master;
w. H. Waste, Past Master.
.
B
ch ........ No · 269 ... .Harry H .. Beckwith, Senior Warden.
01 ive ran
t .
No 271 Charles Alexander, Representative.
,.,.
Snow u:.1.oun a1n .... ~ ·
····
Pasadena ..............No. 272 ....Lucius A. Parmele, Master.

Anchor ..................No. 273 .... Frank B. Hyatt, Senior Warden.
Arroyo ..................No. 274 ....Geo. P. Ide, Past Master and Rep.
Oakdale ................No. 275 ....Elmer R: Clark, Master.
Selma ········-··········No. 277....Walter B. Glenn, Master.
South. California No. 278 ....Robert H. Bacon, Master;
..
E. B. Spencer, Inspector and Past Master;
D. R. Weller, Past Grand Master-.

Hanford ................ No. 279 .... Arthur P. Hammond, Master;
J. C. Ensign, Past Master.
Mount Shasta ...... No. 281.. .. Fred S. Fields, Master.
Callayomi .............. No. 282 .... R. P. Newcomb, Past Master;
J. B. Preble, Representative.
South West .......... No. 283 .... Frank M. Chase, Master.
San Miguel .......... No. 285.... George Parker, Senior Warden;
C. Forbes, Past Master.
Paso Robles .......... No. 286 .... Sanford M. Barber, Master;
Herbert C. Sutton, Junior Warden;
C. J. Trussler, Past Master.
Winnedumah ........ No. 287.... Clarence H. Rhudy, Master;
I. 0. Clark, Insp. and Past Master.
Maxwell ................ No. 288 .... Samuel E. Crutcher, Master.
Elsinore ................No. 289 .... Jesse S. Cobb, Master.
East Gate ..............No. 290 .... Thomas B. Becanon, Master;
M. H. Flint, Past Q:rand Master;
P. C. Mulkey, Past Master.
Santa Paula .......... No. 291.. .. Eugene H. Decker, Master.
Orange Grove ...... No. 293 .... Charles 0. Field, Master.
Traver .................... No. 29L ..Henry E. Verble, Master.
Mt. Jackson .......... No. 295 .... Francis D. Trosper, Master.
Silver Gate .......... No. 296 .... John P. Brogle, Master.
Dunsmuir ..............No. 297...• Frank L. Weamer, Master;
G. A. Hutafl', Inspector and Past Master;
A. Levy, Past Master.
Mokelumne Hilt. .. N o. 298 ....Clarence A. Berry, Master and Past Master.
Liberty .................. No. 299 .... Nels A. Linderoth, Master;
'H. A. Myers, Past Master;
W. C. Raymond, Past Master.
Redlands .. :........... No. 300.... J. A. Stone, Rep. and Past Master.
Ontario .................. No. 301...• William H. Gorbett, Master.
Santa Lucia .......... No. 302 ..•• William J. Hamilton, Master.
Porterville ............No. 303 ....Herman S. Templeton, Master;
Charlie T. Holston, Senior Warden.
Reedley ..................No. 304.•.• J. C. McCubbin, Representative.
Azusa .................... No. 305....John W. Calvert, Master.
Ashlar ...............•.... No. 306..•• William E. Vaughn, Master.
Santa Monica ...... No. 307.... Edwin C. Bouquet, Master.
Monrovia ..............No. 308 ....F'rank 0. Eager, Master.

200

201

PROCEEDIXGS OF THE

GRA.J.."ifD LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Delano ....................No. 309 .... 0tto A. Clasen, Master and Past Master.
A. S. Kramer, Past Master;
A. Sheppard, Past Master.

Pacific Grove ..- ....No. 331••.•Edwin S. Johnston, Master and Past Master;
R Chivers, Past Master;
C. K .•Johnston, Past Master;
D. •T. Leary, Past Master;
C. K. Tuttle, Inspector and Past Master •
San Pedro ............No. 332 ....'Harry G. Weaver, Master.
Alta ........................ No. 333 ....•r. D. Murphey, Rep. and Past Grand Master •
Covina .................... No. 334.... Malcolm J. McCarthy, Master.
West Gate ............No. 335 .... Henry S. Brown, Master and Past Master;
D. Cave, Inspector and Past Master.
Fruitvale .............. No. 336 .... Henry C. Schwinn, Master;
Roddy C. Black, Senior Warden;
Samuel L. Bishop, Junior Warden;
H. Bercovich, Past Master;
C.H. Greenman, Past Master;
J. C. Hammel, Past Master;
J. C. ]\foEwen, Past Master;
F. 0. Schullerts, Past Master.
Carqninez .............. No. 337.... Chandler H. Smith, Master;
Francis P. Doughty, .Junior Warden;
J. E. Hughes, Inspector and Past Master;
G. Jones, Past Master.
San Jacinto ..........No. 338 .... G. Matthews, Rep. and Past Master.
Fullerton ..............No. 339 .... Charles S. Chapman, Master.
Oxnard ..................No. 341.. .. Jonathan F. Fulkerson, Master.
San Fernando ........No. 343 .... George "\V. Bates, Master.
Starr Kingi ............No. 344 .... Charles Baer, Master;
J. W. Gale, Past Master;
J. Goodman, Past Master.
C. 0. Munson, Past Master;
C. M. Wolilenberg, Past Master.
Brentwood ............No. 345 .... H. W. Heidorn, Rep. and Past Master.
Palo Alto .............. No. 346.... Ralph W. Follmer, Master;
A. Searle, Past Master.
McKinley .............. No. 347 .... Hiram E. Jacobs, Master.
San Bernardino....No. 348.... Albert Glatz, Master;
B. F. Bledsoe, Past Grand Master.
Sequoia .................. No. 349....James B. Wood, Master;
Charles C. Young, Senior Warden;
G. W. Bacon, Past Master;
J. C. Cole, Past Master;
F. D. Dolbier, Past Master;
J. W. Gwilt, Past Master.

Sisson .................... No. 310 .... Henry McGuinness, Representative.
Los Banos ............ No. 312.... John P. Idiart, Master;
William E. Whittington, Junior Warden;
J. E. Place, Inspector and Past Master.
Tehachapi ............ No. 313 .... Harry J. Beauford, Master;
L. T. Jenkins, Past Master;
1-'. Marx, Past Master.
Temescal .............. No. 314.... Luther Patton, Master.
Norwalk ................ No. 315 ....John B. Reeve, Master.
Sanger ....................No. 316 .... l!red M. Garrison, Master.
Fallbrook ..............No. 317 .... 0minus A. Anderson, Master.
Emmanuel ............ No. 318.:.. Millard F. Neff, Master and Past Master.
Hollenbeck ............ No. 319 .... Charles F. Clark, Master;
John Swanfoldt, Senior Warden;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
W. J. Sanborn, Inspector and Past Mas,ter;
L. V. Youngworth, Past Master.
South Gate ............ No. 320 ....Willie F. Oliver, Senior Warden;
R. E. Dill, Inspector and Past Master;
M. L. Griffith, Past Master.
Alisal .................... No. 321.. .. James
Cope, Master and Past Master;
William H. Graham, Senior Warden;
W. J. Dakin, Past Master.
Alhambra .............. No. 322 ....Clifford H. Everdon, Master;
J. N. Hall, Past Master.
Whittier ................ No. 323 .... Arthur J. West, Junior Warden;
L. C. Sawin, Inspector and Past Master.
Corona ....................No. 324 .... Edward L. Eliot, Master;
J. V. Eliot, Inspector and Past Master;
L. L. Test, Inspector and Past Master.
Consuelo ................No. 325 .... Wi11iam W. Carpenter, Senior Warden.
Needles .................. No. 326 ....F. B. Krallman, Rep. and Past Master.
Long Beach .......... No. 327.... Reginald B. Skinner, Master;
C. H. Shaw, Inspector and Past Master.
Redondo .......•........No. 328....John A. Seargeant, Master.
Vallee De France No. 329 .... Francis Selkinghous, Master.
Kilauea .................. No. 330 ....James F. Fenwick, Representative.

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Palestine ................ No. 351.. .. W. F. Haas, Rep. and Past Master.
Sunset .•..................No. 352 .... Charles A. Blair, Senior Warden;
.
S. E. Burke, Inspector and Past Master.
Pinole ....................No. 353 ....Rasmus H. Kerr, Master.
Presidio •............... No. 354.... John E. Butterfield, Master;
Johnson S. B. Smith, Junior Warden;
H. K. McKevitt, Past Mast.er;
w.· A. Sherman, Past Master and Inspector;
F. G. Watson, Past Master;
J. B. Wuersehing, Past Master.
Hollywood ............ No. 355 .... William W. Anderson, Master.
Mill Valley .......... No. 356 .... Ludwig C. Koster, Master;
Thomas S. Watters, Senior Warden;
Edwin S. Merriman, Junior Warden;
A. Coffin, Past Master.
Buena Park .......... No. 357 .... Albert S . .b'eagan, Master.
Golden State ........ No. 358 .... Russe11 B. La 'Fontaine, Master;
.T. II. Bean, Inspector and Past Master.
San Francisco ......No. 360 .... Victor E. Perry, Master;
Charles II. Roddan, Junior Warden;
H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
H. D. Loveland, Past Master;
.T. C. Perry, Past Master.
Fort Bragg ............ No. 361.. .. Alfred A. Lord, Master and Past Master.
Berke'ley ................ No. 363 .... Robert P. Arnold, Master;
Edgar R. Nash, Senior Warden;
Edward C. Forbes, Junior Warden;
F . .T. R. Dawson, Past Master;
C. A. McKelvey, Past Master.
Olivet ....................No. 364.... Bertram L. Reynolds, Master.
Willits ....................No. 365 .... George C. Lewis, Master;
.T. .T. Wilson, Past Master.
Las Palmas ..........No. 366 .... William Dick, Master;
.T. P. Bern.hard, Past Master.
South Pasadena .... No. 367....Harry M. Agnew, Master.
Unity ....................No. 368 .... Donald S. Erskine, Master.
Ocean Park ..........No. 369 .. '..John V. Dunsmore, Master.
Amity .................... No. 370.... Riehard II. Thompson, Master;
William B. Curtis, Senior Warden;
Walter G. Campbell, Junior Warden;
H. C. Klevesahl, Past Master;
P. F. Schaffner, Past Master.
W. E. Wood, Past Mastel'.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

203

Oceanic .................. No. 371.. ..Thos. .T. Baker, Representative.
Gardena ................No. 372 .... William II. Wood, Master.
Veteran ................ No. 373 .... Gerald A. Porter, Master.
Jewel .................... No. 374 .... Thomas F. Hearn, Master;
Curtis Benton, Senior Warden;
Clarence .T. Shipaugh, Junior Warden;
L. Bruck, Past Master;
J. E. Levin, Past Master;
.T. A. Snell, Past Master.
Richmond .............. No. 375 .....Toshua .T. Harcom, Master;
Charles F. Werner, Senior Warden;
Grant Fee, Junior Warden;
W. E. Bidwell, Past Master;
D. B. Crane, Inspector and Past Master;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master;
·
A. MacKillop, Past Master.
Francis Drake ...... No. 376.....Toseph G. Walker, Master;
George A. D. Kneese, Senior Warden;
G. F. McDonald, Past Master.
Artesia .................. No. 377.... Horace H. Rockwell, Master.
Mizpah .................. No. 378.... Forney E. Burt, Master.
Fillmore ................No. 379 .... Caswell, C. Elkins, Master.
Huntington Beach.No. 380....Clarence E. KutyneT, Junior Warden.
Oceanside .............. No. 381.... Chester A. Craig, Senior Warden.
Highland Park ...... No. 382 .... Ernest E. PieTce, Master.
Orosi ...................... No. 383 ....Walter A. Oxford, Master and Past Master.
El Centro .............. No. 384.... Nort .T. Reid, Master;
.T. S. Ross, Inspector and Past Mastel'.
Dinuba .................. No. 385....Samucl E. Burum, Master;
.T. D. Pillsbury, Past Master.
Coalinga ................ No. 387 .....Toseph B. Wright, Master.
Parnassus .............. No. 388 .... Henry L. Todd, Master;
W. W. Allen, .Tr., Past Master.
Palos Verdes ........ No. 389 .....Tames .T. Harvey, Master.
Imperial ................ No. 390.....Tohn T. Rice, Senior Warden.
East Belt .............. No. 391.. ...Tames M. Burgess, Senior Warden.
West Lake ............ No. 392 .....Tames F. Dixon, Master;
Samuel Silverman, Junior Warden;
W. T. Osterholt, Past Master.
Balder .................... No. 393 .... Earl F. Strandberg, Master.
University ............ No. 394.... F. B. Comfort, Rep. and Past Master.

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Turlock ..................No. 395.... Donald McKenzie, Representative.
Apollo ....................No. 396 .... Wilbert S. Condon, Master;
E. N. Clintsman, Past Master;
P. C. Windham, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elysian ..................No. 418 .... Reginald W. Clapp, Master;
E. A. Troxel, Past Master.
Upland .................. No. 419.... William A. Lucas, Senior Warden.
Inglewood .............. No. 421.... Frank S. Friend; Master.

Rising Light ..........No. 39L .. James C. Barr, Master.

Eagle Rock ............ No. 422.... F. M. McNab, Representative.

Fraternity ............No. 399 .... Louis T. Smith, Master;
Walter F. Lillick, Senior Warden.

York ...................... No. 423 .... James E. Rose, Master,
Exet.er .................... No. 424.... Richard H. Owen, Master;
F. W. Mixter, Past Master.

Burlingame .......... No. 400 .... Arthur J. Belton, Junior Warden;
W. J. Kidd, Past Master;
C. Jellinek, Past Master.

Holtville ................No. 425 .... Clarence H. Eckert, Senior Warden.

Bay View .............. No. 401.... Harry E. Jarman, Master;
Harry E. Long, Junior Warden.

Chino Valley ........ No. 427 .... E. C. Daniels, Rep. and Past Master.

Brawley ................ No. 402 .... W. T. Dunn, Rep. and Past Master.
Yerba Buena ........No. 403 .... Robert G. Arlett, Master;
John M. Hencken, Senior Warden;
Russel~ L. Countryman, Junior Warden;·
A. A. Gifford, Past Master;
F. W. LeBallister, Past Master.
Glendora ................No. 404 ....Fred 'k. H. Nusbickel, Junior Warden.
Moneta ..................No. 405 .... Wallace A. Ward, Master.
Burbank ................No. 406.... Ray R. Sence, Master.
La Mesa ................ No. 407 .... John H. Mallery, Senior Warden.
Sierra Madre ........ No. 408 .... Franklin Biederman, Master.
Honolulu ..............No. 409 ....James F. Fenwick, Past Master and Rep.
Charter Rock ........ No. 410.... Ralph W. Myers, Master;
William A. Louis, Senior Warden;
Henry R. Braden, Junior Warden;
P. Nicklas, Past Master;
M. A. Plumb, Past Master;
A. M. Poulsen, Past Master;
S. W. Smith, Past Master;
E. S. Valentine, Past Master.
Perris ....................No. 411.. ..0tto J. Hanzlick, Master;
H. M. Hanford, Past Master and Sen. War.
Calexico ................No. 412 ....Lewis H. Webber, Master.
Waucoba ................No. 413 ....John M. Connor, Master.
Arlington .............. No. 414....Charles P. Lyndall, Master and P. M.
Silver Trowel ......No. 415 ... J~'rank E. Judy, Master.
Lindsay ................No. 416 ...•William J. Gardner, Master.
Clovis ....................No. 417 .... A. S. Kirkpatrick, Representative.

Midway .................. No. 426 .... Edward H. Williams, Senior Warden.
San Dimas ............No. 428 .... Samuel J. McDonald, Master.
Pittsburg ..............No. 429....Harry W. Reinhart, Master.
McCloud ................ No. 430.... F. B. Nichols, Rep. and Past Master.
Alpha .................... No. 431.... Richard E. Slattery, Master;
Franklin I. Gardner, Senior Warden;
T. Thayer, Past Master.
Roseville ................ No. 432....•Teremiah ]J. Stine, Senior Warden.
Hammonton .......... No. 433 .... Alfred R. Dole, Master;
.T. H. McGill, Past Master.
Maricopa .............. No. 434....John A. Dyson, Master.
Fairmount ............ No. 435 .... William O. Purdy, Master;
George E. Ralph, Senior Warden;
Henry F. Harwood, .Junior Warden;
J. D. Ralph, Past Master;
D. S. Wagstaff, Past Master.
Claremount .......... No. 436.... William L. Smith, Master.
Lancaster .............. No. 437....J. A. Searing, Representative.
Germania •..............No. 438 .... Rudolph G. Kiesling, Junior Warden.
Tyrian ....................No. 439....Thomas F. Craig, Master.
Standard ................No. 440.... Edward M. Jones, Master.
Coronado ................ No. 441.. .. Alfred W. Bush, Master.
Blackmer .............. No. 442.... C. G. Briggs, Rep. and Past Master.
Schofield ................No. 443.... Geo. W. Moffitt, Representative.
Carpinteria ............ No. 444 .... DeWitt C. Humphrey, Master.
Wilshire ................No. 445.... Elbert E. Crandall, Master.
La Puente ............No. 446 .... George E. Cross, Master.
Torrance ................ No. 447 .... Chester A. Paxman, Senior Warden.

205

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mt. Diablo ............ No. 448.... Michaeilis Neusteadter, Master;
Charles W. Thissen, Senior Warden;
L. L. Martin, Past Master.
Park ·........................ No. 449 .... James E. Addicott, Master;
Frank R. Jackson, Senior Warden;
E. B. Power, Past Mast,er.
Van Nuys ..............No. 450 .... Lincoln L. Whitson, Master.
Montebello ............ No. 451.. .. William L. Mulford, Master.
San Pasqual ..........No. 452 .... Edward J. Wheeler, Master.
Bethlehem ............ No. 453 .... Clarence F. Bovee, Master;
Charles K. Harper, Senior Warden;
Adolphus E. Gaupner, Junior Warden.
E. Squier, Past Master;
H. G. Squier, Past Master;
C. Haydock, Past Master.
Crocker .................. No. 454.... Andrew McN. McKeown, Master.
Thomas Madgwick, Senior Warden.
Golden West ........ No. 455.... George R. Brockman, Master;
Adolph L. W. Zillmer, Senior Warden;
Elner M. Hundley, Junior Warden.
Kennett ................No. 456.... Edward C. Thompson, Senior Warden.
Ramona ..................No. 457.... William E. Cole, Master.
Henry S. Orme...... No. 458.... James H. Andrews, Master and P. M.;
Lyle W. Rucker, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

207

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS.
Brother Howard D. Kercheval, Chairman of the Committee on Pay of l\Iembers, presented the following report, whieh
was adopted :
'fo the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers
or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing Committees, and
Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for transportation to and
from the Grand I1odge, report that they have carefully discharged that
duty, and submit the following statement:
GRAND OFFICERS.

Albert G. Burnett, Grand Master, Sacramento .................. $ 5.50
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Senior Grand Warden, Los Angeles........ 35.70
William Kettner, Grand Marshal, San Diego ....•.............. 44.15
David J. Reese, Grand Standard Bearer, Ventura .............. . 29.70
Horace Y. Ley, Grand Sword Bearer, Yreka ................... . 29.15
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible Bearer, San Jose ..•............•
2.50
Francis W. Mixter, Junior Grand Steward, Exeter ..•........... ]8.90
5.50
Theo. J. Milliken, Grand Pursuivant, Sacramento ............. .
Samuel E. Burke, Grand Orator, Los Angeles ................. . 35.70

,Riverbank ............No. 459....James E. Williams, Junior Warden.
Mt. Oso ......................U. D ..... Victor Mayer, Senior Warden.
Argonaut ..................U. D .....Purcell Rowe, Master;
Rex E. Gilbert, Senior Warden;
Harry W. Reis, Junior Warden.'
Paul Revere ..............U. D ..... Louis T. Cranz, Master;
George W. Kennedy, Senior Warden;
W. A. Gerder, Junior Warden.
Morgan Hill ~............. U. D..... Andrew S. G. Rasmussen, Master.
Alta Vista ................ U. D.....Wm. C. Elliott, Master;
Harold Y. Heckman, Senior Warden;
Harry G. Hansell, Junior Warden.
Center ........................U. D ..... Casper N. Torp, Junior Warden.

The report was adopted.

Total ................................................. $206.80
PAST GRAND MASTERS.

William T. Lucas, Santa Maria .......•....•..................
Thomas Flint, Hollister ..................................... .
Orrin S. Henderson Stockton .................•...............
Charles W. Nutting, Etn& Mills .............................. .
George W. Hunter, Eureka .•...............•.................
Motley H. Flint, Los Angeles ............••...............•..
Dana R. Weller, Los Angeles ....................•............
Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka ................................... .
John D. Murphey, Berkeley ........•.........................
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Los Angeles ............................... .

21.70
5.90
5.20
33.90
35.70
35.70
26.40
20
35.70

Total ..................•..•........•..............•... $200.40

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CHAIRMAN OF' STANDING

COMMIT~'EES.

Jimmie N. Hall, Brawley, Credentials ......................... $ 51.70
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield, Returns ......................... . 23.40
Howard D. Kercheval, Courtland, Pay of Members ............. .
6.00
Total ................................................. $ 81.10
INSPECTORS.

Frank E. Morrell, First District, Arcata ..................•.... $ 24.70
Gustav A. Hutaff, Fourth District, Dunsmuir ................. . 22.80
Charles S. Baldwin, Sixth District, Alturas ................... . 40.90
Willard Clark, Seventh District, Orland ....................... . 14.00
Samuel H. Crow, Eighth District, Lassen ..................... . 34.80
Ha,rvey H. Boone, Eleventh District, Bodie .................... . 50.00
James F. Colley, Twelfth District, Nevada City .........•..•... 13.10
3.30
Eli Bush, Eighteenth District, Healdsburg .................... .
2.10
Robert L. Robertson, Nineteenth District, Vallejo ............. .
5.50
J. Frank Morgan, Twentieth District, Sacramento ............. .
5.80
Hayes H. Gable, Twenty-first District, Esparto ........ : ....... .
,John F. Martin, Twenty-third District, Ione .................. .
8.00
Fred 'k W. Clough, Twenty-fourth District Angels Camp ....... . 14.00
William J. Thomayer, Twenty-fifth District, Lodi .............. .
5.50
Jacob E. Hughes, Twenty-sixth District, Crockett .............. .
2.10
Francis F. Marshall, Twenty-seventh District, Dixon ........... .
4.70
.20
Fred 'k L. Arbogast, Twenty-eighth District, Oakland .......... .
Wm. J. Garibaldi, Twenty-ninth District, Oakland ............ .
.20
.20
Granville D. Warren, Thirtieth District, Oakland ............... .
Geo. R. Rodden, Thirty-fifth District, San Rafael. ............. .
.70
Chas. G. Landscheit, Thirty-sixth District, Redwood City ....... .
1.80
James P. Davis, 'rhirty-eighth District, Hollister .............. .
5.90
Charles K. Tuttle, 'rhirty-ninth District, Pacific Grove ......... .
7.00
L. A. C. H. Kylberg, Fortieth District, Merced ...........•.....
9.00
Joseph E. Place, Forty·first District, Los Banos .............. .
8.30
Ira 0. Clark, Forty-second District, Laws .................... . 55.10
Richard E. Shore, Forty-sixth District, Lemoore ............... . 17.70
Benj. B. Thomas, Forty-seventh District, Bakersfield ••...••••••• 23.40
Walter D. Adrianee, Forty-eighth District, San Luis Obispo ..... . 19.10
John H. Bean, Fiftieth District, Los Angeles ................. . 35.70
Edward E. Spencer, Fifty-second District, Los Angeles ......... . 35.70
Robie E. Dill, Fifty-third District, Los Angeles ............•..• 35.70
Wilfred J. Sanborn, Fifty-fourth District, Los Angeles ......... . 35.70
Lemuel L. Test, Fifty-fifth District, Pasadena ................. . 35.70
Wm. A. Vandegrift, Fifty-sixth District, Pomona .............. . 35.70
John V. Imiot, Fifty-seventh Dtstrict, Covina .................. . 35.70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

Lee L. Sawin, Fifty-eighth District, Whittier .................. . 35.90
Clark H. Shaw, Fifty-ninth District, Long Beach ............. . 36.50
Eli B. Trago, Sixtieth District, Santa Ana .•.................. 35.70
Walter B. Howes, Sixty-first District, San Bernardino .......... . 35.70
Henry D. French, Sixty-second District, Riverside .. ,.": ........ . 35.70
Egbert C. Bangs, Sixty-third District, San Diego .............. . 44.15
J. Stewart Ross, Sixty-fourth District, El Centro .........•..... 50.20
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles ...........•......... 35.70
Total ......•.•.. • ..•...............•.......•.......... $972.75
RECAPITULATION,

*For Represent!ltives of Lodges ......................•...... $6,381.10
For Grand Officers ....................................... , 206.80
For Past Grand IYiasters ...... , ............................ . 200.40
For Chairmen of Standing Committees ...................... .
81.10
For Inspectors ........................................... . 972.75
Grand Total .......................................... $7,842.15
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of the
State of California for the current fiscal year, in addition to the dues prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of 15 cents for each member borne
upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said levy
shall be for the payment of Representatives, Grand Officers, Past Grand
Masters, and Inspectors, and shall be paid at the same time and in the
manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
H. D. KERCHEVAL,

c. A. BERRY,
JNo. H. McGEHEE,

Committee.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE.
Past Grand Master Angellotti, for the Committee on
Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the Jf:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Brother William A. Sherman proposes to amend section 73 of the
Constitution by adding thereto the following:
''Resolved, that Section 73 be amended to read in the following
manner: '.l'o strike out the word 'and' in the last line but one, and add

* For items, see Report of Committee on Returns.

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

at the end of the section the following: 'and are thoroughly proficient
in those portions of the Constitution and General Regulations of the
Grand Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge.' ''

The recommendation was adopted and section 115
amended by unanimous vote.

"As amended the section to read as follows:
Sec. 73. Upon the petition of twelve and not more than twenty-five
Master Masons in good standing, accompanied by the demits or certificates of the signers in the forms prescribed in Sections 159 aud 161,
being presented to the Grand ·Master, in the form prescribed in Section
235, he may in cases of manifest propriety and necessity grant them a
dispensation to open and hold a Lodge at the place therein to be named,
under such name as shall be approved by him, which shall not be the
name of any living person or chartered Lodge, with power to make
Masons and receive members by affiliation; and he shall therein appoint
the Master and Wardens of the new Lodge. But in no case shall such
dispensation be issued unless the petition be accompanied by a recommendation from the nearest or most convenient chartered Lodge (if from
a city or town where more than one Lodge exists, then from a majority
of such Lodges), setting forth, in the form prescribed in Section 237,
that the petitioners are all Master Masons in good standing, that the
establishment of the new Lodge is of manifest propriety and will conduce
to the good of the order, and that a safe and suitable Lodge-room has
been provided therefor; nor unless the petition shall also be accompanied
by a certificate from an Inspector whom the Grand Master shall select,
declaring that the Master and Wardens, proposed in such petition are
fully competent properly to confer the three degrees of Masonry, to
deliver entire the lectures thereunto appertaining, and are thoroughly
proficient in those portions of the Constitution and General Regulations
of the Grand Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge.''

Brother Elmer E. Stone proposes an amendment to section 30 of
our Constitution by adding thereto the following:

The effect of the proposed amendment would be to make the
requisite qualifications of the Master and Warden of proposed Lodges
U. D. the same as those of the Master and Warden of chartered Lodges.
We, therefore, recommend its adoption.

The report was adopted and section 73 amended by unanimous vote.
Brother Lemuel L. Test proposes to amend our Constitution so as
to prohibit the conferring of more than five degrees by any Lodge in any
one day. It has been decided that the law as now written contains no
such prohibition. Believing that no Lodge can confer more than five
degrees in one day in an effective and creditable manner, we are in
entire sympathy with the proposed amendment. We therefore recommend that section 115 of the Constitution be amended by adding thereto
the following:
"Nor shall it confer more than five degrees in any one day."

211

"The Committee on Jurisprudence, on Grievances and on Finance
shall convene at the place of holding the annual communication of G;and
~o.dge, at l:ast twenty-four hours previous to its opening. All propositions subJect to reference to the above said Committees· must be
presented in writing and delivered to the Grand Secretary prior to the
time of convening of said Committees.''
As will be seen, this proposes quite a radical change one of the

effe~ts ~hereof being to prevent the consideration at any Annual Com·
mumcat10n of any resolution or proposition subject to reference to the
Committee on Jurisprudence or Finance or Grievance unless presented
to the Gran~ Se~retary at least ~~enty-four hours before the opening of
the Commumcat10n. The propos1hon was not introduced until the third
day of this Communication and, as is apparent, consideration thereof at
this· Communication may well be held to be inconsistent with its terms.
In any event, we believe that we should not act hastily in the matter
and recommend that consideration be deferred until our next Annual
Communication.

The recommendation was adopted.
A proposition is made to amend section 17 of the Constitution so
as to fix the time of t.he ~lection of Grand officers for the second day of
each Annual Commumcation. The proposition was not introduced until
the third· day of this Communication. As at present advised we can
see no good reason for making the change in our existing law's in this
~atter; but we feel that the proposition is entitled to more consideration than can properly be given to it at this Communiootion and recomme~d that its consideration be postponed to our next Annu~l Communication.

The recommendation was adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCE8.
Brother Walter F. Haas, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of'California:
Your Committee on Grievances and Appeals, to whom was referred
the communication relating to the advancement of. certain moneys claimed

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to have been paid out in the organization of Crocker Lodge Ko. 454,
begs leave to report as follows:
The data which has been furnished this Committee is insufficient
for the determination of the matters in controversy. There appears to
be a conflict in the affairs which will require a trial of the matter for a
proper determination of the question, and this Commit.tee is also of the
opinion that it will be impracticable for the Committee to hear the
testimony and that an investigation should be made by the Inspeetor of
the district in whieh the J,odge is situated, and a report made by sueh
Inspector to the Grand Master; the Grand Master to thereupon take sueh
steps in the matter as to him may seem best; we therefore offer the
following resolution:
Resolved, That the matter of communication with relation to moneys
advanced in ,the organization of Crocker Lodge No. 454 be referred to
the Inspector of the District within which said Lodge is situ~ted, such
Inspector to investigate and report to the Grand Master relative to the
matter, and that upon receipt of such report the Grand Master take
such steps as to him may seem proper.

On motion of Past Grand Master Bledsoe the record was
ordered to be returned to Fairmount Lodge and the officers
of that Lodge requested to certify what took place at the trial.

212

Adopted.
Brother Bernhard from the same Committee reported as
to Trial Record No. 191 as follows:
The case was tried by Bakersfield Lodge No. 224. At the trial
there were six Commissioners, and the accused was found guilty as
charged and the penalty fixed as suspension. T?e vote ~n the penalty
of expulsion was 3 to 3 and the vote on suspension was D to 1.
Your Committee feels that the evidence in this case juatifies the
severest penalty in our power, that the punishment of suspension was
inadequate to meet an offense of this kind and that the accused should
be expelled. We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the verdict be sustained and the sentenee of suspe~­
sion be and the same is hereby reversed and the accused be and he is
hereby expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

The resolution was adopted, and Hiram C. Hamilton of
Tehachapi Lodge No. 113 was thereupon expelled from
all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Your Committee also reports on Trial Record No. 190, from Fairmount Lodge No. 435, that the record is so incomplete and defective
and in such a condition that the Committee has never acquired jurisdiction of said matter and reports it back without action.

On motion· of George L. Jones, a vote of thanks was extended to Brother John C. Coleman for presenting to Grand
Lodge a bronze bust of the late Edward Coleman.
The matter of this Grand Lodge c~ntinuing its subscription to the Masonic Relief Association in the United States
and Canada, was called to the attention of Grand Lodge, and
the Grand Secretary moved that we do continue our subscription. The motion was lost.

REPORTS OF FINANCE COMMITTEE.
Brother Geo. F. Rodden, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the following reports, all which were adopted:
1'o the M.". w:. Grand. Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance has examined the financial report of
the Masonic Homes of California and find them to be correct and in
order.
We have also considered the question of the maintenance of our
Homes at Decoto and Covina, and believe that the per capita tax of
one dollar should be continued.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the usual per capita tax of one dollar be levied on
our membership for the maintenance of said Decoto and Covina Homes.
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Coromittee on Finance desires to introduce and recommend the
adoption of the following resolution:
Whereas, owing to the ravages of the fire of 1906 this Grand
Lodge lacks portraits of twenty-two of its Past Grand Mastyrs.
Now, therefore, be it resolved, That a special committee of three,
to consist of the incoming Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary and Chairman of the Finance Committee, be appointed by the incoming M.". W.".
Grand Master. That said Committee be and it is hereby authorized and
directed to secure appropriate portraits of those faces now missing;

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to have them reproduced in oil at the rate of not more than four each
year and to have them suitably framed.
Your Committee on Finanee bas devoted considerable time to the
study of the conditions surrounding the claim of Lassen Lodge No. 149,
of Susanville, California.
They are in brief as follows: Bro. L. S. York, a member of
Cement Lodge No. 431, of· th.e Grand Jurisdiction of Missouri, came
to Susamille in the fall· of 1914, and in a very short time became so
ill that he was unable to work for a period of seven or eight months.
His family consisted of a wife and six small children. They were entirely destitute. Lassen Lodge immediately took charge of the brother
and tenderly eared for him during his long illness. They expended on
behalf of his family $385.64, and have been reimbursed by Cement
Lodge to the extent of $50.00. Cement Lodge eonfesses inability to
pay more, and the Grand Lodge of Missouri will not assist. We therefore offer for adoption the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of $335.64 be and the same is hereby
ordered paid to Lassen Lodge No. 149 as reimbursement for moneys
expended on behalf of Bro. L. S. York.
The Masonic Board of Relief of Portland, Oregon, in its fraternal
ministrations, has extended aid to Agnes Brown, daughter of Wm. A.
Brown of Pescadero Lodge No. 239 (charter surrendered). The amount
advanced was $125.00 as evidenced by vouchers at hand.
We therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That payment be made to the Masonic Board of Relief
of Portland, Oregon, in the sum of $125.00 for moneys advanced on
behalf of Miss Agnes Brown.
There has been presented for the consideration of your Committee,
the claim of Humboldt Lodge No. 79, for $143.00 expenses incurred by
the burial of Mrs. Celia Benton, who died within the jurisdiction of
that Lodge on January 81 1916. Mrs. Benton was the widow of a nonaffiliated Mason in good standing at the time of his death, August 16,
1871 . .
While admitting that the claim, as such, is a proper. one against
this Grand Lodge, we are impressed with the belief that Humboldt Lodge
incurred a greater expense than conditions demanded, and the items of
the bill accompanying would seem to confirm that belief.
We feel that our subordinate Lodges should be admonished that in
similar cases no greater expense should be incurred than is eonsistent
with decency and respect.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

215

We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption;
Resolved, That the sum of $143.00 be allowed to Humboldt Lodge
No. 79 for the payment of the expense of burial of Mrs. Celia Benton;
Your Committee has given consideration to the elaim of Santa Ana
Lodge No. 241, against Shiloh Lodge No. 1 of Fargo, N. D., for assist·
ance rendered Mrs. Hellman, the widow of a deceased member of the
last named Lodge.
It would appear from the documents at hand that Shiloh Lodge
had become disgruntled by the attitude of the lady towards their efforts
to relieve her needs. They resolved to do nothing further for her, and
consequently declined payment of the bill presented by Santa Ana Lodge.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That tlie sum of $65.87 ·be and the same is hereby ordered
paid to Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 for debts incurred on behalf of
Shiloh Lodge Ko. 1, of Fargo, N. D.
Your Finance Committee, to whom has been referred the annual
report of the Masonic Temple Association of California, has earefully
considered the same, and is pleased to notice the progress made during
the past year and hopes that in the near future the Association will be
self-sustaining. However, as the Association still faces an annual deficit
and the recommendation of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, also
that of his predecessors, pledges the positive obligation of the Grand
Lodge to this commendable enterprise, we are of the opinion that this
Communication of the Grand Lodge should aid as far as the finanees will
consistently perrni t.
·
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That this Grand Lo<lge purchase 3000 shares of the capital
stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California (par value ten
dollars per share) in addition to the stock already owned.
Your Committee has examined a most voluminous correspondence
between the Grand officers of Nevada; Douglas Ledge No. 12, of Genoa,
Nevada; Carson Valley Lodge, and Palmyra Lodge No. 26 of Placerville, California, referring to a claim by Palmyra Lodge for moneys
expended on behalf of the widow of Bro. James W. Small, who was, at
the time of his death, a member in good standing of Douglas Lodge.
The amount involved was $415.00 of which $166.00 was returned, leaving
a balance due of $249.00.

216

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The evidence gives conclusive proof of diligent effort on the part
of Palmyra Lodge to recover and of the fairness and fraternal spirit of
both the Grand and subordinate Lodges of Nevada, in their efforts
to reimburse. Financial inability on the part of Douglas Lodge prevented the complete liquidation.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That Palmyra Lodge No. 26 be reimbursed in the amount
of $249.00 for moneys expended on behalf of Mrs. Susan Jane Small.
There has been referred for out consideration a letter signed by
Mrs. Frederick H. Colburn, Regent San Francisco Chapter, Woman's
Section of the Navy League, asking that the sum of $500.00 be set aside
for the purpose of erecting and protecting a monument, to replace one
which now marks the grave of Peter Lassen, a distinguished man and
Mason, near Susanville, Lassen County.
Your Committee is of the opinion that this matter, being one
wherein sentiment alone is involved, becomes largely a matter of policy
which should be determined by this Grand Lodge without regard to its
Committee, but owing to the many practieal and necessary demands upon
our resources, we cannot approve it.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the request of Mrs. Frederick H. Colburn that the
sum of $500.00 be appropriated for the erection and protection of a
monument to Peter Lassen be regretfully denied.
GEO. F. RODDEN,
0. M. GOLDARACENA,
J. H. BEAN,
WM.. A. SHERM.AN,
Committee.

Brother Rodden, for the Finance Committee, also reported the following:
Your Committee having had occasion to critically analyze the reports
of the several Boards of Relief, feels impelled to offer an especial word
of commendation. By careful study of and close attention to the conditions, they have succeeded in so systematizing their work that their
percentage of refund has been materially increased, as is evidenced by
the fact that notwithstanding additional demands from Boards that heretofore have not made, applications for assistance amounting to approximately $2500.00, the total appropriations to the bodies at this session,
are approximately $4000.00 less than those of last year.

217

ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The Grand Master announced that the annual election of
officers for the ensuing year was now in order, and appointed
the following tellers: Brothers Bean, Hutaff, Doerr, Owen,
Levi and Mulford. The election resulted as follows:
The R. ·. W. ·.Francis V. Keesling of California Lodge
No. 1 was unanimously elected Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. ·. William R. Hervey of Pentalpha Lodge,
No. 202 was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.'. w:. Bradford Webster of Live Oak Lodge No.
61 was elected Senior Grand ·warden.
The w:. Charles Albert Adams of Excelsior Lodge No.
166 was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V:. w:. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was unanimously re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V. ·. W. ·. John Which er of King David's Lodge No.
209 was unanimously re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V:. W:. Thomas J. Baker of Union Lodge No. 58
was unanimously re-elected Grand Lecturer.
TRIBUTE TO SAMUEL D. MAYER.
Past Grand Master Bledsoe introduced the following
which was adopted by unanimous vote :
1'o the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, this Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Cali·
fornia will witness the forty-ninth installation of Brother Samuel D.
Mayer as Grand Organist; and
Whereas, Brother Mayer, during the term of his service in that
capacity, has ever held and maintained the love and affection of his
brethren, not only because of the grace, fidelity, dignity and effectiveness
with which he has presided at the organ, but also because of his sweet
and endearing character, and his unsullied and truly Masonic life.
Now, therefore, be it Resolved, that it is the sense of this Grand
Lodge that the occasion of Brother Mayer's fiftieth induction into office
as Grand Organist, in case through the beneficent dispensation of an allwise Providence he shall be spared to us, should be made the occasion•

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of a ceremonial of this Grand Lodge befitting the event, and in keeping
with the love we bear our faithful friend and brother; and
Be it further Resolved, that the incoming Grand :\faster be requested
to appoint a Committee, with full power to act, who shall arrange for a
suitable and appropriate ceremonial and testimonial for the Annual
Communication of 1917, in honor of Grand Organist Sa:muel D. Mayer.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS.

LIST OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
The Grand Master-elect then caused to be read the list of
the appointed officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. John A. B. Fry of Charter Rock
Lodge No. 410.
Grand Orator, Robert B. Gaylord of Oakland Lodge No.
188.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Harry S. Johnson of San
Francisco Lodge No. 360.
Grand )farshal, Jam es F. Fenwick of Honolulu Lodge
No. 409.
Grand Standard Bearer, David J. Reese of San Buena
Ventura Lodge No. 214.
Grand Sword Bearer, Arthur 1,V. Gluckman of Corinthian Lodge No. 9.
Grand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman of San Jose Lodge
No. 10.
Senior Grand Deacon, Joseph E. Levin of Jewel Lodge
No. 374
Junior Grand Deacon, Frank K. Towne of Redwood City
Lodge No. 168.
Senior Grand Steward, Fred B. Wood of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260.
Junior Grand Steward, James C. Ensign of Hanford
Lodge No. 279.
Grand Pursuivant, Theodore J. Milliken of Tehama
Lodge No. 3.
Grand Organist, Samuel D. Mayer of California Lodge
No. 1.
Grand Tiler, George P. Adams of California Lodge No. 1.

219

The Grand Officers, excepting the Junior Grand Deacon•
and Grand Sword Bearer, t were then duly installed in their
several stations and places by Grand Master Albert G. Burnett
assisted by Past Grand Master Charles L. Patton, aB Master
of Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand MaBter was presented with a silver
coffee and tea set of 40 pieces by the Grand Lodge, Past Grand
Master Bledsoe making the presentation.

STANDING COMMITTEES.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Standing Committees for the ensuing year aB follows :
Jurisprudence:
Frank M. Angellotti
William S. Wells
Charles L. Patton
Dana R. Weller
.John D. Murphey
Benjamin F. Bledsoe
Albert G. Burnett
Griei•ances:
Joseph P. Bernhard
George L. Jones
Randolph V. Whiting
Walter F. Haas
E. B. Power
Accounts:
Hugh J. Owen
E<lward E. Conn
Daniel E. F. Easton
Benjamin Kraus
John B. Wuersehing

Finance:
George P. Rodden
John H. Bean
Orel M. Goldaraeena
Ralph Lowe
William A. Sherman
Credentials:
Jimmie N. Hall
Frank C. Mulkey
Fred L. Arbogast
Clark H. Shaw
Franeis W. Mixter
Returns:
Arthur S. Crites
Horace A. Meyers
George W. Le Moin
Joseph D. Abrams
Charles D. Barnett
Ritual:
Thomas J. Baker
Dana R. Weller
Edward H. Hart

*Was duly installed Saturday evening, October 14, l!H6.
t Was duly installeil Friday evening, October 27, 1916.

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Trustees of Masonic Homes:
William S. Wells (1920)
Edward B. Spencer (1919j
Elmer E. Stone (1921)
:\fotley H. Flint ( 1917)
Thomas Flint (1918)

Correspondence:
Edward II. Hart
Lemuel L. Test
Alonzo J. Monroe
George A. De Witt
Wilham Kay

Endowment Comm,ittee of Masonic
Homes:
Motley H. Flint
Lee C. Sawin
Clayton F. Draper
Robert Greig
Edward F. Louideck
Alfred R. Dole
Frederiek W. Clough
Edward F. Delger
Fred Doerr
Mawnic Education:
Irving J. Mitchell
Alfred W. Bush
William Maccormack

Pay of Members:
Joseph H. Stephens
Gustav A. Hutatf
Hugh K. McKevitt
John H. McGehee
Walter D. Adriance
Library:
F. H. E. D 'Donnell
Henry M. Owens
Martin A. Schmidlin
Sidney B. Foree
Harry E. Leland

At 2 :45 o'clock, all business being now completed, the
Grand Lodge wa.s closed.
JOHN WHICHER,

FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
Grand Master.

Grand Secretary.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
Proposal to amend section 17 of the Constitution so as to fu: the
time of election in Grand Lodge for the second da; of each Annual
Communication.
Proposal to amend section 30 of the Constitution by adding the
following: "The Committees on .Turisprudence, on Grievances, and on
Finance shall convene at the place of holding the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge at least twenty-four hours previous to its opening.
All propositions subject to reference to the above said Committees must
be presented in writing and delivered to the Grand Secretary prior to the
time of convening of said Committees.''

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

221

APPROVED DECISIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO
CONSTITUTION.
See. 41. (Add) Provided, nevertheless, that no contribution of any
sort, in the nature of a per capita tax, shall be payable by a Lodge
upon any Mason whose dues at the stated meeting in July of the calendar
year in which such tax would otherwise be payable, shall have been remitted for the next preceding twelve months period, because of the
inability of such Mason to pay such dues. Each subordinate Lodge's
annual report, in addition to any others matters required, shall contain
a list of the names of Masons whose dues have been remitted, together
with the cause of such remission, as to whom non-payment of per capita
tax contribution is to be had.
Sec. 73. (Add at bottom) And are thoroughly proficient in those
portions of the Constitution and General Regulations of the Grand
Lodge which relate to the government of a Lodge.
81d. The two-thirds required to amend is a two-thirds vote of all
the members present. It is not a two-thirds of the votes cast.
81e. An amendment to the by-laws to .become effective at an indefi·
nate elate will not be approved.
82c. A Lodge in an incorporated city which is entirely surrounded
by another city, has no jurisdiction outside its own municipal limits. A
Lodge cannot be within the corporate limits of two cities at the same
time.
88a. (Add) The matter of a suitable testimonial to a retiring
Master is a "matter or thing" Masonic in its nature, and members of
a Lodge may properly make a contribution or solicit one among themselves for such purpose.
89f. The term ''total revenue'' means gross revenue.
lOla. A petition is received when it is read by the Secretary at a
stated meeting, unless by majority vote of the members present the
Lodge declines to receive it. (The decision of 1900 is now void.)
104c. In balloting for a candidate, two cubes were in the box. A
mistake had probably been made in placing therein one of the eubes.
The Master properly declared the candidate rejected. The mistake
can only be remerlied by application for a dispensation to reballot.
115. (Add) Nor shall it confer more than five degreE's in any one
day.
118k. It is proper for the Secretary to read the names of all who
owe for dues, but needless humiliation should be ;,tvoi<led.
121. (Add) Provided, however, anything in this section to the
contrary notwithstanding, that the Lodges in this jurisdiction whose longestablished ritualistic work is in part a departure from the uniform

222

ritual of this jurisdiction, may continue to perform such work as the
same is now being performed, in so far as the same may not be disapproved by the Grand Master and the Grand Lecturer. (This affects La
Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17, Vallee de }'ranee No. 329, and Lodge le
Progres de l 'Oeeanie No. 371.)
125h. Examinations of visiting brethren shall be had ~thin the
jurisdiction of the Lodge which the visitors desire to attend.
135q. Where installation -is to take place in a building other than
where the Lodge regularly meets, the Lodge should open in the Lodgeroom and then repair to the place of installation.
1640. Out of respect to the wishes of the deceased, and as a courtesy to another fraternal organization, the Master might properly request
the other organization to render its service or a part of it, it being
understood that the Masonic Lodge shall have charge of and conclude
the service.
164p. It is proper to hold Masonic services over the ashes of a
brother whose body has been cremated.
165. (Add) Provided, further, that a Mason demitted from another
jurisdiction who is not in got>d standing therein at the time he enters,
or becomes a resident of this jurisdiction, shall in no ease be entitled
to any Masonic rights or privileges unless and until he shall be elected
a member of some Lodge in this purisdiction, or shall be restored to
membership by the jurisdiction from which he holds his demit.
210. (Add) And provided, further, that if the Mason suspended
was not a member of the Lodge adjudging suspension, the application
for restoration shall be refused unless the consent of the Lodge in which
membership was held, if it be in this jurisdiction, is given. The request
for such consent shall lie over at least one stated meeting.

223

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"MOON" DATES.
For the benefit of Lodges whose by-laws fix stated meetings on
or preceding the full moon, the following table of dates has been
prepared:
Jan. Feb. Mch. AJ.Jl. May June Jnly Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Dec.

1917

Monday ....-...

8

5

5

2

28

4

Tuesday ........

2

6

6

3

1

5

·-2 -27- -24- -29- -26- -243

28

25

30

27

25

Wednesday ..

3

28

7

4

2

27

4

1

26

24

28

26

Thursday......

4

1

8

5

3

28

26

2

27

25

22

27

Friday ..........

5

2

2

6

4

1

27

3

28

26

23

28

6

3

3

7

5

2

28

25

1

27

24

22

Saturday ......

Stated Meetings ••on or Succeeding the Full Moon.' '
Monday ........

8

12

12

"Tuesday
.
........

9

6

13

Wednesday ..

10

7

14

3

1

5

31

7

4

2

6

4

4

8

5

3

28

5
6

9

7

11

10

8

5

10

11

9

6

9

6

Thursday ......

11

8

8

12

10

7

5

9

6

4

29

Friday ..........

12

9

9

13

11

8

6

a

7

5

30

28

Saturday ......

13

10

10

7

12

9

7

4

1

6

3

29

Lodges whose stated meetings are fixed for December 27, 28, 29
and 31, 1917, must hold their annual election at the stated meeting
in November.

i..

"
Z

1:S

,,,

own.

0 ount y.

San Francisco . . . • . • San Francisco . . . . . •
Shasta ...........•• Shasta . . . . . • . . . . • • •
Saeramento . .. . .. .. Sacramento . .. • .. . .
Benicia • .. . .. .. .. . . Solano . .. .. . .. . .. • •
Sonora . . . . . • . • . . . . Tuolumne .. .. . . .. . •
Marysville . • . .. . . • • Yuba .. . . . . .. . .. . . .
San Jose ........... Santa Clara . .. .. . . .
Napa ... _. .......... Napa .. . . .. . . .. . . ..
Nevada City .. . • . .. • Navada .. .. . . . • . . • .
Sonoma • . . . . . .. .. .. Sonoma . . . . .. .. . . • •
Auburn ............ Plaeer . . . . . . . • . .. . •
San Francisco . • . . . . San Francisco . . . . . •
Downieville .. . . . . . . Sierra .. . . . .. . • • • • .
Stockton • . . . . . . . • .. San .Joaquin . .. • . .. .
Sacramento . . . . . . . . Sacramento .. .. .. . •
Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter........
San Francisco • • . . . . San Francisco . . . . . .
Grass Valley ...... Nevada • • . .. • • • • • ..
Mariposa . . . • . . . . . . Mariposa • • . . . . . • . . •
Georgetown . . . • • • . . El Dorado . . . . . . . . . •
Placerville . . . • . . . • • • El Dorado . . . . . . • • . •
Weaverville . . . . . • . • Trinity . . • • . . . • • . • •
San Francisco . . • • • . San I~raneisco • • • • • •
Lincoln . . . . . • . • • • . • Placer . . . . . . . • • • • • •
Murphy's • • . • • • • • .. Calaveras . . • • • • • • • •

T

Places of Location.

28 Santa Cruz . . . . . . 38
29 Sacramento ...... 40
30 Martinez .....•.. 41
3l Los Angeles ....• 42
82 Hiram .......... 43
33 Mount Moriah . • • 44
34 Crescent ........ 45
35 Texas ..•........ 46
36 }'orbestown . . . . . . 50
3i Illinoistown ..... 51
:)8 Suisun ......... " 55
3!'.l Volcano ......... 56
40 Santa Rosa ...... 57
41 Union .......... 58
42 Gravel Range .... 59
43 Plumas ......... 60
44 Live Oak ......• 61
45 Geo. Washington .. 62
46 Natoma .......•. 64
47 Amador ......... 65
48 Porest .......... 66
49 Morning Star .... 68
50 F.nterprise • . . . . . . 70
51 Bear Mountain ..• 76
52 Calaveras ....... 78
53 Humboldt . . . . . • • 79
54 Ione ...........• 80
55 Yolo ............ 81
56
Star ...... 83
57 Vesper .......... 84
58 Naval .......... 87
59 Rose 's Bar . . . . . . 89
60 North Star ...... 91
61 St. Helena . . . . . . . 93
132 Henry Clay ... •• . • 95

......

..........

~

.

San ta Cruz .........
Sacramento ........•
Martinez ...........
Los Angeles ........
El Dorado .......••.
San Francisco ......
Crescent City ...•.._.
San Juan ..........
}'orbestown .........
Colfax .............
Suisun . .. ... . . . . . ..
Volcano ............
Santa Rosa .........
Sacramento .......•.
Cam ptonville
quincy .............
Oakland ...........
Chinese Camp ...•...
}'olsom .............
Jackson ............
Alleghany .......•••
Stockton ............
Yuba City .........
Angel's Camp ......
San Andreas .......
Eureka ............
Ione .....•...•.•...
Yolo ...............
~'orest Hill .........
Red Bluff ..........
Vallejo ............
Smartsville
Fort Jones .........
St. Helena ..........
Sutter Creek . , ..•...

............. s

•

....

~

~

......

.... . ...
. .... ....
... ......

~

. ..........
. .. .....

..........

..............

w

Santa Cruz .........
Sacramento .........
Contra Costa .......
Los Angeles .•...•..
El Dorado .......•..
San Francisco ......
Del Norte ........•.
San Benito .......•.
Butte .......•.•...•
Placer
Solano
Amador ..........••
Sonoma ""
Sacramento .........
Yuba . ...............
Plumas .. ,. ..........
Alameda
Tuolumne
,.
Sacramento .......••
Amador ..•.........
Sierra ..............
San Joaquin ........
Sutter ...............
Calaveras . .
Calaveras
Humboldt
"
Amador .......•...•
Yolo .... ...........
Placer
--·"
'l'ehama .....•...••.
Solano . ............
Yuba . .......... .....
Siskiyou ........•...
Napa ........•.••••
Amador .....•....••

261
San Diego ..•.... 35 San Diego .......... San Diego ..........
27 St. .r ohn 's . . . . . . . 37 Yreka ............. Siskiyou ...........

1

California . . . • . . 1
2 Western S tr..... 2
3 Tehama: . • . • .. . 3
4 Benicia . . . . .. . 5
5 Tuolumne . . . . . . 8
6 Corinthian . . . .. . 9
7 San .Jose ....... 10
8 Yount .. ...... 12
...... 13
9 Nevada
10 Temple . ...... 1411 Euerka . ...... 16
12 Parfaite U oion. . . 17
13 Mountain !hade .. 18
H San Joaq in ..... 19
..... 20
15 W ashingto
16 Hawaiian ....... 21
17 Oeciclenta . . . • . . 22
....... 23
18 Madison
19 Mariposa , • . . . . • 24
. . . . • 25
20 Georgetow
. . . . . . • 26
211
. • . . . . . 27
22
23 Golden Ga e ..... 30
24 GolO Hill . • . • • • • 32
25 Ophir •• . • • • • • • 33

Nameso f L o d ges.

---------···-

April
''
"
"
Nov.
"
"
May
"
"
Nov.
May
"
"
"
"
''
"
''
''
"
''
"
''
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

May

"
July

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

1855.
1856.

"
"
"
"
"4,
1,
8,

"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"

"
"

"
"
2,

"
"3,

"

1855.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1853.

"2,

3,

"'
"4,

3'

"5

"
"
"

1,

19, 1850.
''
''
"
"
"
"
27,
"
"
"
"
"
6, 1851.
"
"
"
"
7,
"
5, 1852.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
••
20,
''
5, 1853.
1
'
''
''
''
6,
"
''
''
"
"
''
''
"
"

Date when Charter
was Issued.

May

. .,

<

""""

.,~

o.....

4

50

10
1
10
6
1

30 ......
30
5
50 ......
75 10
50
5
35
5
30
1
40 ......

30 ......
50 . .....
50 ......
30
5
75
5
75 10
30 ......
50
5
75 25
50
2
50
5
50 ······
50 ......
50 ......
50
5
50
3
50
5

:-lo

50
30
75
50

50 ......

I

50

i}OI
5
50 ......
50
1
75 10

10

5
5

50
50
75

3C

9
9

G

12
9
6

6

12
6

.::
<

.:i

-;

8
7
(i
(i

59
691

'~

!-17
57

6
6
6
6
6
6

6

1819

9
61
91

47
38
162
419
51

67
738
37
79
75
47
255
145
85
73

6

t;j

32
7

9
6
9

Ql

Ni

N)

.......

z

:?:)

0

~

~
.....

~

n

0

Q
l;;1

0

t;j

t'

251
259

...z

Q
:?:)

l;;1

~

>-3

~

414
1J9
216
217
92
517
27
366
78
27
29
70
102
2()

46

0

2
I: 8

~

m

6
12
6
9
6

6
6

9
6
6
!:I
9
9
6
12
!:I

6

6

9
12

1 4
45

10
6

~

~ '4

5 1
12

8
3 7
1 3

4

z

~

0

§

g
~

~

1 6
1 1

l;;1

2

1
1 :J
2 0
4 7
1 0
1 ,]

>-3

;i

t:
~

~

Ni

~

5

"');

..,, "

ca ,..

,.. 11

~~

!:I
12

6

12
6

21129

100 20
50
6
75 lO
30 . . . .. .
50
2
50 ......
50 ......
40i......
50 ......
30
50 ......
75
5
30 ..... :
50 ......
75 10
50 10
75 10
53
3f:
5

w~

"

~:::;

,~ "
~A

i:i

J.t 0

~

.

.f ~ £~

1.4 fll

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and :Membership for the :Ma.some Year ending July 31, A. L. 5916.

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES

91
92
!)3
94
95
96
97
98
99
00
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
1 08
109
1 IO
111
112
113
114
1 15
1 16
1 17
118
119
1 20
1 '21
1 22
1 23
1 24
125
126
1 27

67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90

G6

63
64
65

z"

El
Town.

I

Places of Location.

.. ... ..
············
············
.......
··········

County.

Curtis ........... HO
Grafton ......... 141
Franklin ........ 143
Oriental ......... 144
Vitruvius ........ 145
Abell ........... 146
Eel River ....... 147
Lassen .......... 149
Molino .......... 150
Woodland ....... 156
Keystone ........ 161·
Harmony ........ 164
Excelsior ........ 166
Alameda ........ 167
Redwood City .... 168
Mission ......... 169
Elk Grove ....... 173
Drytown ........ 174
Antioch ......... 175
Phoenix ......... 178
Mendocino ....... 179
Petaluma ........ 180
Russian River .... 181
Meridian ........ 182
Clear Lake ...... 183
Sierra Valley .... 184
Claiborne ....... 185
Evening Star .... 186
Keith ........... 187
Oakland ......... 188
Northern Light .. 190
Marin ........... 191
Santa Barbara ... 192
Ferndale ........ 193
Mountain View ... 194
Buckeye ......... 195
San Simeon ...... 196

········
.............

·····
.............

......

·······

Cloverdale .......... : Sonoma ............ ;
Grafton ............ Yolo ...............
Courtland .......... Sacramento .........
San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
Bloomfield .......... Sonoma ............
Ukiah .............. Mendocino ..........
Fortuna ....•....... Humboldt ..........
Susanville .......... Lassen .............
Tehama ............ Tehama ............
Woodland .... ······ Yolo ..............•
Milton ............. Calaveras ...........
Sierra City ......... Sierra ..............
San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
Centerville .......... Alameda ...........
Redwood City ....... San Mateo ..........
San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
Elk Grove .......... Sacramento ........•
Plymouth .......... Amador ..........•.
Antioch . . .. .. . ..... Contra Costa ........
San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino .....
Mendocino .......... Mendocino ..........
Petaluma .......... Sonoma . ...........
Windsor ............ Sonoma ............
Arbuckle ........... Colusa .............
Lower Lake ........ Lake ...............
Sierraville .......... Sierra .............
Point Arena ........ Mendocino .........
Etna Mills ......... Siskiyou ............
Gilroy ............. Santa Clara ........
Oakland ............ Alameda ...........
Millville ........... Shasta . ... ········.
San Rafael ......... Marin ..............
Santa Barbara ...... Santa Barbara ......
Ferndale ........... Humboldt . .........
Mountain View ...... Santa Clara ........
Winters ............ Yolo ...............
Cambria ........... San Luis Obispo .....

..........

...........

...........

Howard ......... 96 Yreka .............. Siskiyou ............
.Tefferson . . . . . . . . 97 La Porte ........... Plumas .............
Mariposa ...........
Hornitos ........ 98 Hornitos
Yosemite . . . . . . . . 99 Merced ............. Merced . . ...
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer .
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte .
Lexington ....... 104 El Monte ........... Los Angeles
Arcata .......... 106 Arcata ............• Humboldt
Pajaro .......... 110 Watsonville ......... Santa Cruz .........
Chico ........... 111 Chico .............. Butte .... ·········
Summit ......... 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus ..........
Eden ........... 113 San Leandro ........ Alameda ....
Concord ......... 117 Sacramento ......... Sacramento .........
Clinton .......... 119 Igo ................ Shasta .............
Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco ...... San Francisco
Alamo .......... 122 Walnut Oreek ....... Contra Costa .......
Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma ............
Butte ...........•.•
Table Mountain ... 124 Cherokee
La Fayette ...... 126 · Sebastopol .......... Sonoma .......
Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
Visalia .......... 128 Visalia ............. Tulare
Nicolaus ........ 129 Wheatland . ........ Yuba ..............
Woodbridge ..... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ........
Plumas ....
Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville
Vaca ville ........ 134 Vacaville ........... Solano
Valley .......... 135 Linden ...........•. San Joaquin ..•..•..
Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
Crockett . . . . . . . . 139 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......

Names of Lodges.

.0

""

...

.;

"
"
15,
13,

"
"

"
"

"
"

"

"
"

"

"

"
"
12,

"

"
"
"

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
14,

"

15,
Oct.

"
"

"
"
"

. ""10,

"

11,

13,

"
"
"

"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
""

"

"
1865 .
"
"
"
"
1867.
"
"
"
"
1868.
"
"
"
"
1869.
"
"
"

1865.

"
"
"

1864.

"
Oct.

"

"
"
13,
14,

May

"
"
"
1863.
1862.

17,
15,

"
"

"
1861.
"
"
May

"

"
"

"
16,

"
May

"

1860.
10,
May

"

"
"
1860.

"
"
"
11,

"
"
13,

"

"
"
"
May

"
"
"
"
"
"
1859.
"
"
"
"
"
14,

1858

"

"
"
"
"
"
May

"

"

"

1857.

15,
14,

"
"

"

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

1856.

"
"
"
"
"
"
May
"
"
"
"
"
May

8,

May

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued

""

.;

";;

"

A

5'
30
50
1
75 10
30
1
50
5
50 . .....
50
1
50
1
50 ......
30 2V2
30
5
50 10
2
50
50
1
100
5
50 10
50
5
50
5
50
3
50
5
50
5
30
1
50
1
30 .....
30 . .....
30 ......
30 ......
50
1
50
1
35
3
50 ......
50 ......
50 ······
50 ......
50
5
30 ......

;~) ...... :

12
6
9
12
6
12
6
9
6
6
6

0

6
6
12
6
6
6
6
12
9
12
6
12
12
12
12
6
9
6
6
6
6
6
9
6

ti

1
6
50
6
6
30
9
5
36
6
50 ......
6
60 ......
5 12
50
1
6
40
6
3
50
9
50 10
9
50 20
5
6
50
50 2V2 12
9
75 IO
6
5
30
100 50 12
6
50 ......
6
5
50
1
6·
50
6
40 ......
75 10 12
9
8
50
5
6
50
6
30 ······
5
6
30
30 ......
6
6
30 ......
9
100
5
75
5 12

""A r:!S< ""
<"

..

~§
0"" .s~
""'""
~~ Q).s

...

"""
"'"'

.....
""
;?1~

-o

87
39

107

56
30
66
361
57
122
121
104
7'2
178
27
12
403
109
150
902
71
29
108
275
144
227
81
51
29
33
50
35
118
572
82
230
169
85

42

6

i:':1

~

>'3

>rj

0

~
Ul

t"
0
t:I

i:'j

>'3

~
z
>

0

~

t-:l
t-:l
-1

;;.

~

0

>rj

>--<

>
t"

0

>rj

0

~

t:I

s

zt:I

Q

g

Ul

i:'j

~

>'3

>rj

~

>'3
0

t-:l
t-:l
O'l

~

""a'"
Town.

Places of Location.

County.

..

Solano
........ 229
North
.... 230
Covelo . . . . . • . . . • 231
Janesville ......• 232
Calistoga ..•...•. 233
Hope ........... 234
Surprise Valley , ,235
IIill 's Ferry ••... 236
Guadalupe ...... 237
Colusa .......... 240
Santa Ana ...... 241
Magnolia ....•.. 242
Bilealyptus .....• 243
Alcatraz ....•... 244
Laurel .....•..•• 245
Pomona ..•..•.•• 246
J!'resno •••..•..•• 247
Alturas ......... 248
Adiu .•.•..••••. 250
Bodie ........... 252
Landmark ..•.... 253
Reading ....•..• 254
W eleome ..•...•• 255
Lodi ............ 256
Penrhyn ........ 258
Evergreen ..•.... 259
King Solomon's .• 260
Tuscan ••...•..• 261
Lompoc .•....... 262
IIesperian ....•.. 264
Orland ..••...•• :265
North East •..••. 266
Galt • ... ••. .•.• 267
Durant •••...••• 268
Olive Branch ..•• 269
Snow Mountain •• 271
Pasadena ..••...• 272

......
. ............
. .........
............

.........
...........

............
...........

..............

...............

............

..............

..........

Solano .••..•.••••••
Butte ..•.....••••••
Mendocino
Lassen ..•..•••.....
Napa .......•.•...•
Plumas ······
Modoc
Stanislaus ....••••••
Santa Barbara ..••••
Colusa
Orange ...•...•..•••
Santa Barbara ....••
Alameda ............
Alameda ....•.••.••
Glenn ..•.•.••••••.•
Los Angeles ••••••••
Fresno ..••••..•.•••
Modoc ••.••••••••.•
Modoc .••••..•.••••
Mono ....••••••••••
Yolo ......•...•..••
Shasta .•••...••••..
Kings ..............
San Joaquin •......•
Placer . .............
Riverside ...••.•.•••
San Francisco ..•••.
Colusa ...................
Santa Barbara ..•..•
Santa Barbara ..•.••
Glenn ......••••••••
Modoc ..•..•.••••••
Sacramento .••.•••••
Alameda •••••••••••
Tulare ..••••.•.••••
Colusa .
Los Angeles ••••••••

............

....... ······...
...........

.... ······
...........

··········
·········

... .

.............

~

Vallejo
.........
Gridley ................
Covelo ........ ,. "
Lassen .....
Calistoga •••..••..••
Beckwith .....•••.••
Ce<larville "
Newman
Guadalupe ..••.•••.•
Colusa
Santa Ana .•••••.••
Santa Barbara •••.••
Haywards ..•...•••.
West Oakland ••.•..
Willows ..•.•..•••••
Pomona ..•.••••••••
Fresno ..............
Alturas ... ,.
A din
Bodie •..•...•.•••••
Madison
Redding ..............
Lemoore ..............
Lodi ..•..•••.••...•
Penryn
Riverside ..•..•.••.•
San Francisco ••.•••
Williams •••..•••.••
Lompoc ..•..•••..••
Santa Maria
Orland ...•.•••••.••
Fort Bidwell ..•.•••
Galt .......••••.•..
Berkeley .. "
Tulare ..•.•••••••••
Stony J!'ord
Pasadena •••••••••••

...

~

............

.............

....

······ ...
.........
............
······· ....

········

~

128 Wilmington ...•.. 198 Wibnington ......... Los Angeles .••...••
., .....
129 Hartley ........• 199 Lakeport ..•....•... Lake .......
Nevada ....
mo Truckee ......... 200 Truckee ............ Solano
..•.....•.•••
rn1 Silveyville ...•... 201 Dixon ....
132 Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles .......• Los Angeles ..•...••
Monterey
133 Confidence ....... 203 Castroville
Monterey .
134 Salinas .......... 204 Salinas
135 Newville • . • . . . . . 205 Paskenta .........•• Tehama .......•••••
Stanislaus .....•.•••
136 Stanislaus •...... 206 Modesto
137 Anaheim •.••...• 207 Anaheim ..•.•..•.•• Orange ..............
138 Rio Vista ..•..•• 208 Rio Vista ..•...••.. Solano ..•..•..•.••.
139 King David •••.. 209 San Luis Obispo .•.•. San Luis Obispo ...•.
. •. . . . 210 San .Tose •.•...•...• Santa Clara •.•.•..•
140
San Benito .........
...... 211 Hollfater ....... .,
141 San
142 So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ..•..• San }'rancisco ••....
Ventura •••..•..•.••
143 San Buenaventura. 214 Ventura
144 Oak Grove •.....• 215 Alameda ............. Alameda ............
145 Doric ........... 216 San Francisco .••.•. San Francisco .••..•
Monterey
146 Monterey .•...... 217 Monterey
147 Mosaic ..•.....•. 218 Lh-ermore .......••• Alameda
148 Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco ......
149 Downey •.......• 220 Downey .....•..•... Los Angeles ..•....•
150 Inyo ............ 221 Independence ..••••. Inyo ...........•...
151 Granite ....•.•.. 222 Rocklin . ............ Placer
,.
152 Bakersfield •..•.. 224 Bakersfield .......... Kern
Alameda
153 Brooklyn ...•...• 225 East Oakland
San Mateo •••••••••
154 San Mateo ••..•• 226 San Mateo .........
Yolo •.••••.••••••••
155 Athens •........• 228 Davis •••.••.•••••••

Names of Lodges.

~

1876.

Oct.

"
"

"

"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
1884.

"
"

1883 •

"
"
11,
"
"
16,

"

12, 1882.
Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
16, 1879.
"
"
"
"
"
"15, 1880.
"
"
"
"
"15, 1881.
"
"
"
Oct .
"
"

"

"

"

Oct.

"
"

"
"
1877.
"
"
"
10, 1878.
"
"
11,
"
"
Oct.

"

12,

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
16, 1874 .
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
14, 1875.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"11, 1872.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"18, 1873.
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
1871.

"
"

"
"

"
"

1869.

"
"
Oct.

"

""

Oct.

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"

14,

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

14,

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued

l

75

~

......

~

~

10

50 ......
30 ......
50
I
30
4
50 10
30
1
50 ......
50 10
50 ......
50
1
50
3
50 ······
50 ......
75
5
50
3
50
3
40
1
30 ······
60 ......
30
1
50
5
50 ......
50 .....
30
3
50 ......
50 15
50 . ....
1
35
1
3.5
2!
50
30
5
30 .....
100 IO
50 . ....
I
30
50

5
50
30 ......
5
60
5
00
50 20
40 ······
40 ······
1
35
50 ......
50 ......
1
50
1
35
50 ......
1
30
50 ......
50 ......
1
75
100 IO
5
50
50 ······
75 10
30 ......
1
50
50 21/2
75 ......
50 ......
75 ......
50 •+••••

12
12
6
12
12
6
6
6
6
6
6

()

()

12
6
12
6
6

tl

6

{)

6
9
18
8

{\

{)

()

9

6

()

61
12!
9
6
6
8

9
9
9
9
6
6
6
6
6
6
9
12
9
12
12
6
9
12
9
12
12
6
tl
6
12
9
12
9

""
~

'"'A

"

"'

A
<!

';""'
.,.,t

.....

..
'""'
"'"'

... 00

gg

140
83
197
83
306
513
57
I06
195
83
44
47
4.35
143
38
428

49

52
83
52
48
70
70
85
330
IOO
99
384
111
264
355
67
45
30

43

274
91

113
119
67
210
200
94
198
132
448
503
112
98
210
96
55
59
312
385
152
77

64
I07
113
77
499
25
152

':"'"
!1::;1

~.,

l'!l

[',,:)

<:.::>

N:>

z
....
µ;..

t;Q

0

t:"
....
'1j

;...

Cl

~

0

0
0
0
i:':l

t:"

z0

~

t;Q

0

t9

III

>-3

'1j

0

w.

0
t9

0
0

t:"

i:':l

e3

z

0
.....

t;Q

td
0

Ci

w.

>-3
..,..
.....

0
":I

>-3

t:

00

00

[',,:)
[',,:)

.z

~

.c
"
Town.

County.

"

5
l:l
7

4

3

1
2

[)

tl

5
l:l
i
B

2 5
2 f}
23 i
2 g
2 )
24 [)
2 1
2 2
2 3
4

1

2 2
2 3

2 I

2

[)

2 [)
2 7
2 3
2 i}

2 5

1
2 2
2 3
2 4

1

.............

.............
..............

~

...... ....

...........

...
.... .. . .. .
.. . . ... .. .

Portenille .....•. 303 Porterville .......•••
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ..•.....•..•
Azusa ........... 305 Azusa .............
Ashlar .......... 306 Colton . . . . ....
....
Santa Monica .... 307 Santa Monica .....••
Monrovia .......• 308 Monrovia .
Delano .......... 309 Delano •...........•
Sisson .......... 310 Sisson . . .
Los Banos •...... 312 Los Banos ..........
Tehachapi .. , .... 313 Tehachapi ........••
Temescal ........ 314 Corona ..•..........
Norwalk ........ 315 Norwalk
Sanger .......... 316 Sanger .............
Fallbrook ....... 317 Fallbrook ..•....••.
Emmanuel ....... 318 Biggs ...........•••
Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ........
South Gate ...... 320 Los Angeles ....••..
Alisa! ......•..•• 321 Pleasanton ..•.....•
Alhambra ....... 322 Alhambra ...........
Whittier ........ 323 Whittier
Corona .... , ..... 324 Pasadena
Consuelo . . . . .. . . 325 Escondido .......•••
Needles . . . . . . . • . 326 Needles
Long Be.ach ..... 327 Long Beach .....•..
Redondo ........ 328 Redondo ....•••....
Vallee de l•'rance .. 329 J,os Angeles .•......
Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo ...............
Pacific Grove .... 331 Pacific Grove ....•••
San Pedro ...... 332 San Pedro ..•...••..
Alta ..•.......•. 333 Bridgeport .••....•.
Covina ........•. 334 Covina ..•....••.•••
West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles .....•••
Fruitvale .•...... 336 Oakland ..•.....••••
Carquinez ......• 337 Crockett ......•.•..
San Jacinto ..... 338 San Jacinto ••••••.•
Fullerton ..•..... 339 Fullerton, ..•......••
Oxnard ••.....•• 341 Oxnard

..................

...........

........

.............

'l'ulare •....•.•.•..•
Fresno ............•
Los Angeles ....•..•
San Bernardino ...•.
Los Angeles ..•.....
Los Angeles .........
Kern ..•........••.
Siskiyou
Merced .............
Kern •••••• •••••9 ••
Riverside ..........•
Los Angeles ....•..•
Fresno ..•.....•...•
San Diego
"
Butte ..............
Los Angeles ..•.•.••
T,os Angeles ........
Alameda
Los Angeles .......•
Los Angeles .......•
Los Angeles ........
San Diego .....•..••
San Bernardino .....
Los Angeles ..•..•..
Los Angeles .....•..
Los Angeles ........
Hawaiian Ter .......
Monterey ...........
Los Angeles ..••...•
Mono .........•••••
Los Angeles .....••.
Los Angeles •••••..•
Alameda ••..••.••.•
Contra Costa ....•••
Riverside .••...•••••
Oange
Ventua .••••••••••••

1885.

"

''

''

"

"
"
"

"
"

"

Oct.

11,
10,

"

"
"

"
"
"
Oet.

1900.
1901.

"

"

"

1899.

14,

Oct.

"
""
"

"
"
"14, 1898.
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
11, 1894.
"
"
"
"
"
"
11, 1895.
"
"
"
"
13, 1896.
" 1897.
"
rn,

"
"

"
"
"
12, 1892.
"
"
"
"
"
"11, 1893.

1891.

J:-4.,

"

'' "
'' "
"
''
14, 1886.
"
"
'' ''
"
''
''
''
l l, 1888.
''
,,
'' "
'' ''
"10, 1889.
''
"
''
"
''
" ''
"
"
16, 1890.
"
"
"16, 1890.
"
'' ''

''

''
"16,

"
"
"
Oct.

"

Oct.

"
"
"
Oet.
"
Oet.
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
Oet.

"
"
Oct.

"

Oet.

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"

"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"

1884.

16,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Oct.
Los Angeles .......•
193 Anehor ......... 273 Compton .•.•...•••. San Luis Obispo ....•
194 Arroyo ...•...... 274 Arroyo Grande ..•.•. Stanislaus ......••..
"
Hl5 Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale .....•..•..• Fresno ..•........••
Oct.
196 Selma ........... 277 Sehna .....•..•..•.. Los Angeles ....•...
"
197 Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ....... . Kings .............•
"
198 IIanford .....•.. 279 Hanford .......... . Madera .•.......•..
199 Madera ..•...... 280 Madera .....•.....• Shasta ..•........•.
200 Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson ....••.... Lake .............. .
Oct.
201 Callayomi ....... 282 Middletown .....••.. San Diego .........•
"
Nattonal
City
....••.
202 South West ...... 283
San T,uis Obispo .... .
203 San Miguel ....•. 285 San Miguel ..•..•... San Luis Obispo .... .
"
204 Paso Robles ..... 286 Paso Robles ....... . Inyo .............. .
205 Winnedumah .... 287 Bishop ............ . Colusa ............ .
Oct.
206 Maxwell ......•. 288 Maxwell .......... . Riverside ..........•
207 Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore ........... . Los Angeles .......•
208 Ea.~t Gate ....... 290 Los Angeles ..•..... Ventura .........••.
209 Santa Paula ..... 291 Santa Paula ....... . Santa Clara ....... .
2LO Los Gatos ....... 292 Los Gatos .......•.. Orange ..........•..
Oet.
211 Orange Grove .... 293 Orange ............ . Fresno ............ .
"
Kingsburg
.........
.
212 Traver ..•..•..•• 294
Sonoma ........••..
Guerneville
........
.
213 Mt. Jackson ..... 295
San Diego ......... .
214 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego ........•. Siskiyou .•.........
Dun~muir .....•.••.
215 Dunsmuir .....•. 297
Oct.
Calaveras ... , ....•.
216 Mokelumne Hill .. 298 Mokelumne Hill ..... Santa Clara . . . . .. .
"
217 Liberty ......... 299 Santa Clara .•...... San Bernardino .... .
"
218 Redlands ........ 300 Redlands .......... . San BenardinQ. •.....
Oet.
219 Ontario ....••.•. 301 Ontario .......•.••. Monterey ••••••...••
220 Santa J,ueia •.••. 302 Kings' City .•••••.•

Names of r,odges.

~l~~~~~~~~~-1

Places of Location.

Liet of the Subordinate Lodges, ete.-Continued
0·~

,..g
-;~

50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
2
50
50 . .....
50
I
2
50
30 ......
50 ......
:m 5
35
5
50 10
50 15
35 ......
50 ......
30
3
75 10
30 ......
1
50
.50 ......
50 ······
50 12
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
53 ......
30 ......
50 20
50 , .....
50 ......
40 ......
50 ......
50
1

30 .....

501 15
30 ......

50
401 ..

501 ......

30

9

6
6

9
12
6

6

6
12
12
6
fl
9

6
6

9
8
6

6·
6

199
31
154
422
291
104
107
201
176

66

44
53
810
742
62
260
164
369
71
144
844
136
106
173

6
6
6
6

88

172
63
85
127
144
124
95
80
56
128
89
67

69

117
79
61
104
35
59
706
138
130
121
70
87
424
107
52
187
252
139

33

71
151
680
173
106
55

50

78

:::l::;j

6

(i

6
9
9

6

9
6
9

6

6

6

6

6

6
6
6

6

6
6

50 .... ..
50 ..... .
50
3

30 ..... .
30 ..... .

6
6
6
6

9

6
6
6
6

50 ..... .
30
1

50

50 ..... .

30 ..... .
30 .... ..
30 .... ..

3

50

6

12

1

10

6

6

6

6
6

6
6
6

6
6

i:l

<

1

.;

..., 0

! ........"""....

30
30
30
30

61
3
15

50 ......
401 3

30\
30
30
751

501 ...... 1

"'"
i«i:i

"'"' r:~

~.;

....o"'~

~

~

~
I:,;)

......

:;.

I

:;.

a

~

l;l

.;:i

0

0

t"'

z
0

:;.

ale

~

8

~

~

0

s

~

z

~

txl

d

[f2

8

~

r§

!:::

0

~
I:,;)

San Fernando ... 343
Starr King ...•.. 344
Brentwood .•.... 34.5
Palo Alto .....•• 346
McKinley •.....• 347
San Bernardino .. 348
Sequoia .....•... 349
Palestine ..•..•.. 351
Sunset ••..•..... 352
Pinole ....•..... 353
Presidio ....•..•. 354
Hollywood ....•.. 35.5
Mill Valley ...... 356
Buena Park ...•. 357
Golden State .... 358
Loyalton ........ 359
San J;'raneisco .•. 360
Fort Bragg ..... 361
Charity ....•...• 362
Berkeley .....••. 363
Olivet ........... 364
Willits .......... 365
Las Palmas ...... 366
South Pasadena .. 367
Unity ......•.... 368
Ocean Park ...... 369
Amity .......... 370
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie • , ... 371

'S
z"'

Hawaiian Ter. . ..•••

Honolulu

..............

Los Angeles .....••.
San Pranciseo .... , .
Contra Costa •••... ,
Santa Clara .•..•• , .
Contra Costa
San Bernardino ....•
Alameda .......... .
Los Angeles ..•.••.•
Los Angeles ..••••..
Conta Costa .••..•. ,
San l"aneiseo ••.••••
Los Angeles ..•.•.••
Marin ............. .
Orange ..•..•.. , •.•
Los Angeles .•..••.•
Sierra . , •.....•...••
San Prancisco ....•.
Mendocino .....•..••
Santa Clara . . . . . . •
Alameda •.....•••..
Tehama ..•.........
Mendocino .....•••.•
Fresno ..•.....•.•••
Los Angeles ....•.. ,
Los Angeles ..•.....
Los Angeles ..•.•.. ,
San Francisco

County,

Fernando ..•..•..••
San Praneisco .....
Brentwood ..•....•
Palo Alto ....••....
Richmond .....•...
San Bernardino ..•.
Oakland .....•.•.••
Los Angeles •••....
Los Angeles ..•.•••
Pinole ·...••.....•••
San Praneisco ...... .
Hollywood .••.•...•
Mill Valley
Buena Park ....••..
Los Angeles ..•..••
Loyalton ......... .
San Francisco ...•.
Fort Bragg ..•.••..
Campbell ..•.••..••
Berkeley •...•..•••
Corning ......••..•
Willits .•.....••••.
Fesno ...........••
South Pasadena ..•.
Glendale .....•..•.
Ocean Park ..•..•.
San Franeiseo .•..•

Town.

Places of Location.

I

............

............

..........

.

~

.. ...... ...
.............
.............

.

..............

286 Gardena ..•.• , ••• 372 Gardena ............ Los Angeles ..•..•••
287 Veteran ..•..•• , .373 Sawtelle
J!,os Angeles ..••••.•
288 .Jewel .......•.•. 374 San Francisco .. , ••• San Francisco ......
289 Richmond . . . . . . •375 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco ......
290 Francis Drake ... 376 South San Francisco, San Mateo ........•
291 Artesia ..•...•• , .377 Artesia ....••..•..•• Los Angeles .. , ••.••
292 Mizpah •.......• 378 Los Angeles .....•.. J,os Angeles ..•..•..
293 Fillmore . . . . • . . • 379 Pillmore ..•..•.••.. Ventua ..••••......
294 Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach •. , Orange .............
29f> Oceanside .....•• 381 Oceanside
San Diego .....•.•.•
296 Highland Park ••. 382 Los Angeles ..•.•••. Los Angeles .•.•....
297 Orosi ... , ..•.••. 383 Orosi ..... , .....•.. Tulare ..•..•.......
298 El Centro ....... 384 El Centro .....•.••• Imperial
299 Dinuba ......... 385 Dinuba
Tulare ........•...•
300 Coalinga ........ 387 Coalinga ............ Fresno
...........
301 Parnassus ....... 388 San Francisco .••... San Francisco , , ....
302 Palos Verdes .... 389 Long Beach .•...•.. Los Angeles .....•.•
303 Imperial .•.••.•. 390 Imperial ............. Imperial ...........
304 l<Jast Belt ....•..• 391 Tuolumne
Tuolumne . .........
30f) West Lake ..•••. 392 Los Angeles ..•..•.. I,os Angeles ..•..•..
306 Balder .......... 393 San Francisco ..•.•• San Francisco .•••••
307 University , ..•..• 394 Los Angeles ..•...•. Los Angeles .••.•••.
308 Turlock ..•..••.. 395 Turlock ..• , , • , •.. , • Stanislaus .........•
309 Apollo .......... 396 Alameda ...•••.••.• Alameda .....•....•
310 Rising Light •..•• 397 Huntington Park •... T,os Angeles ..••••..
311 Paternity ..•••... 399 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ..•..•..
112 Burlingame •... .400 Burlingame ..•..•..• San Mateo ..•....••
us Bay View .. , •.. .401 Oakland .....•••..•• Alameda . .
&14 Brawley , ...•..• .402 Brawley ..••••.••..• Imperial
315 Y erba Buena ..•. 403 Oakland ..•.....•••. Alameda
316 Glendora •• , .••.. 404 Glendora .. , ..•..••• Los Angeles .•...•••
317 Mon eta ..•..•••• 405 Los Angeles ••.•..•• Los Angeles .••....•
318 Burbank .....••. 406 Burbank •.•..•••••• Los Angeles ••..••..
3l!J La 1\Iesa ..•..•.. 407 La Mesa .••..••.••. San Diego ..•.•••..•
320 Sierra Madre •..• 408 Sierra Madre •••.••. Los ~~geles ........
321 Honolulu •..•••• .409 Honolulu ..••.•..••• Hawan .•..•...••••
322 Charter Roek •••• 410 Berkeley ...•••••.•• Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . * ..

276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285

258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269

Names of I.odges.

~I

"

,,
"

12,

"

1906.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

1909.

"

"

"

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
13, 1910.
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

14,

Oct.

"
"
"

"
14, 1909.
"
"

"
"
"
"
15, 1908.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
,,"" ""

"

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"
"

"
"

"
Oet.

"

"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"

"

''
"
"

190.5.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"10, 1907.
"

10,

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
12, 1905.
"
,,

"

"
"
"
"
"
13, 1904.

"
"
"
"
16,

"
"

Oet.

""

''

1902.

"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
16, 1903.
"
"

''

15,

" .

Oct.

"
"
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
Oct.

"
"

"
"

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued

fl

~I

50
6
30
6
75 10 12
50 10 12
I)
50
5
30 ......
50 15
50
1
9
50 ......
8
50 ......
6
50 ......
I.\
30
6
6
50 IO 12
40 ······
6
75 ..... 12
75 10 12
50 ......
6
50 10 12
liO
9
5
50 ......
!J
75 10 12
50 ......
9
40 ......
6.
75
1
9
50 ......
I.\
50 ......
6
50 ······ 12
50
1
!J
50
5
6
50 25 12
so ...... 6
{)
50 ......
50 ......
6
50
8
3
50 ......
8
50 10 12
5C
~

~

,,..; "4§
."'
(:l
0"'
-; ~ ~~
ti).~
~.
""'"'"'
>=i ~~

,,;

....

....;

Ho

3
5
65

,]

5

I 90

~

1 9

7
6

l ()

.

l 5
I 3
l 7

8
3
7
0
60
4
6
I 9
; 1
; 8

1

8
5
8
3
7
0
9
3
7
: 7

0

156

322

19 ~
198

36
250
71
84
347
60
'96
322
172

480

312
3.57
189
67

&~

85
207
181
283
543
320
419

301

81

·"'"'
~;:;\

tn £
~

~

»;!

~

~

I>:)

;..

~

~

£:;

0

0

Q
l:%J

~

s
g

~

8

>;j

0

~

§

>
t;3

iz

00

8

~

8

00

I>:)

~

I>:)

~

Perris . . • .. . . . •• 411
Calexico ........ .412
Waucoba ........ 413
Arlington ....... 414
Silver Trowel .... 415
Lindsay •........ 416
Clovis ........... 417
Elysian • . . • . . •• •418
Upland . . . • . . •. •419
Kerman . . . . . .• •420
Inglewood ....... 421
Eagle Rock ...... 422
York .......... .423
Exeter ......... .424
Holtville ........ 425
Midway .. ..... .426
Chino Valley .... 427
San Dimas ...... 428
Pittsburg .....•• 429
McCloud ....•..• 430
Alpha .......... 431
Roseville ........ 432
Hammonton ..... 433
Maricopa ........ 434
Fairmount ...... 435
Claremont ....... 436
Lancaster ..•.••• 437
Germania ••••••• 438

z

g51 Tyrian ......... .439
352 Standard •..•...• 440
353 Coronado ....••.. 441
354 Blackmer ......• .442
355 Schofield ........ 443
356 Carpinteria .....• 444
3ii7 Wilshire ..••...• 445
358 La Puente .....• 446
359 'l'orrance ...•..•• 447
360 Mt. Diablo ..•... 448
361 Park ..•....•... 449
362 Van Nuys ....... 450
:m3 Montebello .••.. .451
364 San Pa.squel ....• 452
365 Bethlehem ....... 453
366 Crocker ••..•••. .454
367 Golden West ..... 455
368 Kennett •.•..•. .456
369 Ramona .....•.. .457
370 Henry S. Orme ... 458
371 Riverbank ..•..•. 459
372 Mount Oso ...... 460
a73 Argonaut ....... 461
Paul Revere ..... 462
g~i Morgan Hill •...• 463
376 Alta Vista ...... 464
377 Center .......... 465

323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
3.13
334
3.15
336
337
:::.18
3.'19
340
341
342
a43
344
345
346
347
348
349
350

Names of Lodges.

.;
.,...

.

.....

~

.................

. ...........

Alameda
San Diego ..........
San Diego ..........
Hawaiian Ter ...•...
Santa Barbara ......
Los Angeles ..•.....
Los Angeles ........
J,os Angeles ..•.....
Contra Costa .....••
San Francisco .•....
I,os Angeles ........
Los Angeles ........
Los Angeles ........
San Francisco ......
San Mateo ...•....•
San Prancisco ......
Shasta .....••.•..•.
Los Angeles ........
Los Angeles .....•..
Stanislaus .....•.•..
San Joaquin .......•
San Francisco ...•..
San Francisco ......
Santa Clara ..•.....
San Francisco ......
Fresno .............

.. ...

. .......

"

Manteca
"
Oakland .............
Coronado ........ , •.
San Diego .....•..•
Schofield Barracks ..•
Carpinteria .••..•..•
Los Angeles •.......
Puente ..•..•.....•.
Torrance ........•.•
Concord ..•.....•..•
San Francisco ..•...
Van Nuys ..........
Montebello .......•.
Pasadena ...........
San Francisco ......
Daly City ..........
San Francisco •••.••
Kennett
Alhambra .•........
Los Angeles .••.••..
Riverbank ....••....
Traey .. .......... " '"
San Francisco .....•
San Francisco ..•.••
Morgan Hill ........
San Francisco •.....
Fresno •...••..•.••.

..........

. . .. . ..
..........

. ... ...

"

"
"
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"

"
"

"

"
"

Oct.

"

Oct.

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"

"

... ......... San Joaquin .......•

.......

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oet.
"

"
"
1911.

"
"
"
""

1910.

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

1915.
1916.

"

"
"
.""

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1915.

"

1914.

"

"

1913 •

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
1912 .

"
"
"

22,
12,

"

"

"
""
14,
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

15,

II

"

16,

"
"
"
"

12,

"
"

"
""

"

" ""
"
" "
12, 1912.
" "

"
"
11,

13,

Oct.

"
"
"
"

~

County.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Riverside ...........
Imperial ...........
Inyo ..•....... · ..• •
I,os Angeles ........
Los Angeles ........
Tulare ........•...•
Fresno ........•....
Los Angeles ........
San Bernardino .....
Fresno .........••..
Los Angeles ....•...
Los Angeles ....•...
Los Angeles ........
Tulare ...........•.
Imperial ............
., ......
Kern
San Bernardino .....
Los Angeles ........
Contra Costa ..•....
Siskiyou .. ,.
Contra Costa .......
Placer ...............
Yuba . . . ...
.....
Kern .................
San Francisco ......
Los Angeles ........
T,ios Angeles .......•
Los Angeles .......•

Perris .......•......
Calexico .... .
.....
Big Pine ........•..
Los Angeles ........
Los Angeles ........
Lindsay ............
Clovis .............•
J,os Angeles ..•.....
Upland ...............
Kennan ..........•.
Inglewood ........•.
Eagle Rock ........•
Watts ...............
Exeter .....•.......
Holtville .......•...
T.aft . . .
....
Chino ..............
San Dimas .........
Pittsburg ............
McCloud . . .
..
Richmond
Roseville •••.....•.•
Hammonton . .... ......
Maricopa .....•...•.
San Francisco ......
Claremont ..........
J,ancaster
Los Angeles •.......

Town.

Places of Location.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, ete.-Continued

:~

"'

::l

A

"
<"

::l

";;;

3

50

······

40 ······
50
6
.50 ......
50
1
50 10
75
5

50 ......

75 10
100 10
50
5
50 10
50 . .....
50 ......

50

......

50 ......
50
5
50 ......
75 ......
30
1
50 ......
50
5
50 10

50 ......

50 ......
50 ......

121
12
12
12
9
6
6
6
6
12
12
6
12
6

6
6
9
6
6
9
12
6

i

30
3 10
50
5
6
30 ...... ......
50 .....
6
50 ......
6
50
6
5
. 50 ......
6
50 15
9
50
6
3
6
35 ......
50
6
3
50 10
9
50 ......
6
50 ...... 10
50 ......
6
100 ......
6
50 ......
6
35 ......
6
50
1 12
50 ······
6
6
50 ......
50
6
4
6
50 .......
100 10
6
50 ...... 12
50 ......
6
50
6
3
50 10
6

$ ..
...~

... ~ !JJ

.sf!

.;

--57,856

49
68
30
34
45
64
19
21
18

98
39

34

74

77

41
30
38
159
43
39

212

31

74

28
101
67
113

65

n

56

6

0

85
4

8

8

1
2
2

3

0
5
9
0
6
6
3
8
65
2
0
7
4

t-:i

~
:;:;

t-:i

C)l

Ci:>

~:;...

0

0

~

t'l

0

§

z0

~
:;...

~

~

~

~

0

s

>
~

:;ti

g
0
sz

m

~

~

~

~

t:

00

H'-

Ci:>

Location.

jEl

County.

Chartered.

Became Extinct

Remarks.

I

Berryman ....... ·!Sacramento •••.. ·!Sacramento ....•. April 19, 1850 .............. Name changed to Jennings.
,Jennings ......... Sacramento ..•... Sacramento .................... May
6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
Sutter .......•... Sacramento ..•... Sacramento ...... May
7, 1850 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Davy Crockett .... San Francisco ...• San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco.
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
Willamette .....•. Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Oregon.
9, 1851 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
La Fayette ....... !La Fayette, Ore .. j ................. !May
Oregon.
Nashville ..•.... · 1Nashville . . . . . · 1El Dorado ...... · 1Dee. 24, 1851 * .............. Charter never issued.
5, 1853* ...... ., ....... Charter .never issued.
Pacific ........... Valparaiso .....• Chili ......•...•• May
Columbia ........ Columbia •....••• Tuolumne ....... May
5, 1853 Oct.
15, 18911Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
Diamond ..•..... · JDiamond Springs·
Dorado ....... ,May
5, 18!l3 !Oct.
18, 1873 Surrendered.
Mokelumne ..•.... Mokelumne Hill .. Calavems ....... May
5, 1853 Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
15, 1887 Revoked.
Santa Clara ..... · 1Santa Clara .... ·!Santa Clara ..... ,l\fay
5, 1853 Oct.
Butte ....•...... Bidwell ..•.•••.. ,Butte ........... May 3, 1854 Sept.
3, 18641Surrendered.
Yuba .....•...... Marysville ....... Yuba ........... [May 3, 1854 I June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
Michigan City .•.• Michigan Bluff .. Placer .......... May 3, ]854 !Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
Grass Valley ..... Grass Valley .... Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 1May
6, 18fi6 Surrendered.
Lebanon .......•• San Francisco .... San Francisco ... May 3, 1854
29, 18fi7 Revoked
Rough and Ready .. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May 3, 1854
1864 Surrendered.
Franklin ......... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... May 3, 1854
10, 1856 Surrendered.
Saint James ......•Tamestown ..•... Tuolumne ....... May 2, 1855
20, 1857 Surrendered.
Iowa Hill ........ Iowa Hill ....... Placer .......... May
29, 1857 Surrendered.
3, 1855
Minnesota ........ Minnesota ......• Sierra ........... May
2, 1855
14, 1859,Surrcndered.
Intl. Royal Arch ... Marysville ......• Yuba ........... May
2, 1855
2, 1855 Name changml to Corinthian No. 9.
Corinthian ...••.• ,Marysville .•..... Yuba ......••••• May
1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
2, 1855
9, as Corinthian No. 9.

Name.

71
72
73

Nebraska ........ :Michigan Bar .... Sacramento ..... · 1·'1fay
2, 1855 Oet.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
E. K. Kane ..•.... Nevada ....... ;; Nevada ......... May 2, 185fi Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
Tyro .......•..•. Drytown ........ Amador ......... May 2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
Franklin .......•. J.foadow Valley .. Plumas ......... May 15, 1857* .............. Charter never issued.
74 Wisconsin Hill .... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer • · ....... -1May 3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North ... Sierra .......... May
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
77 Petaluma ..•..•.. Petaluma ......• Sonoma ......... May
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
82 Mountain .....••• Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ....... May
18, 1861 Surrendered.
8, 1856 IMay
85 Indian Diggins ..• Indian Diggins ... El Dorado ....... May
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
86 Saint Louis ...... Howland 's Flat .. Sierra .......... May
8, 1856 !Nov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville
No. 158.
88 Unity .........•.. Orleans Flat .... Nevada ......... !May
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
88 Quitman ......•.. North Bloomfield . Nevada ......... May
8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13.
90 Polar Star ..•.... Poorman's Creek. Plumas .....•... May
8, 1856 May
8, 1858 Surrendered.
92 Acacia ...•...••• Coloma ....•.... El Dorado ....... May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26,
as Palmyra No. 26.
93 Cayrnus ...•.•....
Yountville ....... Napa ........... May
8, 1856 Oct.
IO, 1867 Removed and name changed to
St. Helena.
94 Mount Hermon ..• Elizabethtown ... Plumas ......... May
8, 1856 Dec.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
98 Quartzhurg ...•.. Quartzburg ...... Mariposa ........ May
8, 1856 .............• Name changed to IIornitas.
99 La Grange ....... Merced ........• Merced ......... \fay
9, 1856 Oct.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
100 Campo Seco ...... Campo Seco ..... Calaveras ........ May
8, 1856 Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
102 Manzanita ....••• North San Juan .. Nevada ......... May
8, 1856 10ct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
105 Siskiyou .....•.•. Henley .......... Siskiyou •....... May 15, 1856 Oet.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
No. 37.
107 Mount Jefferson .. Garrotte ........ Tuolumne ....•.. May 14, 1857 1Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol·
umne No. 8.
108 Owen ........•.. Scott's Bar ...... Siskiyou ........ May 14, 1857 Oct.
15, 1908 Consolitlated with North Star
No. 91.
109 Dibble ........... Omega .......... Nevada ......... May 14, 1857 Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
•
114 Mt. Zion ......... Urizzley Flat .... El Dorado ...... 'lfay 14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26.
115 Saint Mark's ..... F'iddletown ...... Amador ......... May 14, 1857 June 26, 1894 Revoked.

47
48
49
52
53
54
63
67
69
69

34
36
39

29
31

28

15

4
4
6
7
7
11

No.

EXTINCT LODGES

-:i

w

t..:>

~

6

t

<'.')

~

t>:I

~

~
zt:I

t>:I

~

>-3

~

171

t>:I

C'l

g

>-3

<'.')

2

~

t<:l

°"

o.:l

Nl

.........
.... . .. ....
. ... .. ...

116

~

.
........

Location.

..........

County.
Chartered.

..........

San Luis Obispo .• San Luis Obispo .. San Luis Obispo .. May
Palmyra ....•.... Placerville ...•..• El Dorado ....... May

..........

398

386

350

270
276
284
311
340
342

263

249
251
257

213
218
223
227
238
239
240

185
189
197

180

177

...........

now known as Yosemite No. 99.

1862 Surrendered.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
16, 1861 Dee.
2, 1865 Surrendered.
16, 1862 Oct.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
15, 1862 Oct.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 ,July
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug. ] 6, 1872 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Oct.
15, 1908 Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863 ,Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction o! Nevada.
15, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction nf Nevada .
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
25, 1864* Oct.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
12, 1865 . .............. Name changed to Antioch .
12, 1865 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.

10, 1860 June,
10, 1860 Oct.
10, 1860 April

* Date of Dispensation.

Aztlan .....•..... Prescott • , ••••••• Arizona Ter.••... Oct.

rn;

,0ct.

11, 1866 I:'.larch 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Arcturas ......•.. Petaluma .......• Sonoma .•....... Oct. 11, 1866 !Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Petaluma No.
77 as No. 180.
Arenas .....•...•• Punta Arenas ..•. Mendocino ..•.... Oct. 10, 1867 .............. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe ......•... Latrobe .......•. El Dorado ....... Oct. 15, 1868 Dee.
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
Paradise ..... , .•. Haywards ....... Alameda ..•..... Oct. 14, 1869 .July
20, 1872 Surrendered.
Rocklin ..•....•.. Rocklin ......... Placer .. .. . . .. . . .ruly 30. 1870* .......•...•.. Charter never issued.
Bodega ....•..•.. Bodega •....•..• Sonoma ..•...... Oct. 14, 18il Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
Pleasanton ....•.. Livermore ....•.• Alameda ........ Oct. 11, 1872 Oct.
18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.
17, 1877 Surrendered.
Maui .•.....•.... Wailuku ...•.•.• Hawaii .....•..• Oct. 18, 1873 Nov.
Contra Costa ..•.. Somersville ....•• Contra Costa ..... Oct. 18, 1873 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
Tyre ..•..•...••• Gold Run ...•.... Placer .......... Oet. 14, 1875 Oct.
16, 1884 Surrendered.
Pascadero ....•..• Peseadero ..•.... San Mateo ...... Oct. 14, 1875 Sept. 26, 1890 Surrendered.
Equality ......••. Colusa .•........ Colusa .......... Oet. 14, 1875 A.pril
l, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
Greenville ..•..•.. Greenville ......• Plumas ........... Oct. 10, 1878
16, 1896 Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132
Brotherhood ....•. Duncan's Mill .•• Sonoma ......... Oct. 10, 1878 April 19, 1888 Surrendered.
Arizona •....•..•• Phoenix ......... Arizona Ter. . .... Oct. 16, 1879 March 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Solomon ......... Tombstone ••.••• Arizona Ter...... June 4, 1881 "IMareh 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Tucson .......... !Tucson ........•. !Arizona Ter...... !Oct. 15, 1881 March 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
1 O, 1895 Revoked.
Fall River ......• Burgettville ...•• Shasta .......... Oct. 11. 1883 Oct.
1884 May
.
26, 1888 Surrendered.
Westport ......•. Westport ........ Mendocino ....... Oct.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Woodland No.156
Tyrian .........•• Dunnigan •...... Yolo ............ Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
16, 1902 Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341.
Hueneme ..•..•..• Hueneme ........ Ventura ......... Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264.
Santa Maria ...•. Santa Maria ..... Santa Barbara ... Oct. 11, 1900 Oct.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Manila ..•.....•• Manila .........• Philippine Islands. Oct. 10, 1901 Dee.
Philippine Islands.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Ca~ite .........•. Cavite ..••.••••• Philippine Islands. ,Oct. 15, 1903 ,Dee.
Philippine Islands.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Corregidor ....... Manila ......... Philippine Islands. !Oct. 10, 1907 Dec.
Philippine Island.s.
14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.
Fowler .......... Fowler .......•.• Fresno .......... Oct. 15, 1908 IOct.

... ....

. ....

152 .Josephus ....•••.. Brush Creek ..... Butte ........... May
153 Rising Sun ....... Brandy City ..... Sierra .......... May
154 Carson ..•.•....•. Carson City ..••.. Nevada Ter ...... May
155 Mount Carmel ••.. Red Dog ........ Nevada ......... May
157 Washoe ..•..•.•.. Washoe City .•.•• Nevada Ter...... May
158 Gibsonville ....... Gibsonville •..... Sierra .......... May
159 Gilroy ....••... , . Gilroy •.....•... Santa Clara ..... May
160 Pilot Hill ........ Pilot Hill .....•. El Dorado ....... May
162 Virginia City ••.•• Virginia City .•.. Nevada Ter...... May
163 Silver City ....•.. Silver City ...... Nevada Ter...... May
165 Silver Star ....••. Gold Hill ....... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
170 Esmeralda .. .
Aurora .........• Nevada Ter...... Oct.
171 Escnrial .......•• Virginia City .... Nevada Ter...... Oct.
172 Lander .....•.••. Austin .......... Nevada Ter...... Oct.
Alpine .........•. Markleeville ..... Alpine .•........ May
175 Claiborne .
Antioch
Contra Costa ..... Oct.
176 Merced ....•..... Snelling ..••..•.• Merced .......... Oct.

148
151

...........
..........

137 Oro Fino ..•....• Oro Fino ........ Siskiyou ..•..... May
138 Violet
Spanish Flat ..... El Dorado ....... May
142 Colusa
Colusa
Colusa
May

Remarks.

18, 1861 Surrendered .
28, 1858 Charter never issued .
5, 1859 Surrendered.
8, 1905 Surrendered.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1863 Revoked.
16, 1913 Consn1idated with La Grange No. 99,

Became Extinct

Windsor .
Windsor
... .... Sierra . ......... May 14, 1857 May
Folsom
Folsom ..•....••• Sacramento ...... Feb. 14, 1857* Jan.
118 Valleeito · ........ Valleeito
Calaveras ........ May 13, 1858 Jan.
121 Ionic ....
.
Iowa Hill ......• Placer
May 13, 1858 Oct.
125 Progress ......... San Francisco .... San Francisco ...
1858 Oct.
130 Unity .•..•.••..• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May 13, 1859 May
133 Yosemite ......... Coulterville ...... Mariposa ........ May 13, 1859 Oct.

Name.

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued.

w

NI

>l

::.;

w

<.t:;

NI

~>

0

5

>

0

~

0

gj

§

zt:;I

>

0

"'t>:l"'

..,"J,.,..

0

U'1

t;J

0

t:;I

s"'

a

~

j

t"i

00

240

Year
Elected.
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M.". w:. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

Grand Master.

*Jonathan D. Stevenson ...
*John A. Tutt ..........•
*Benjamin D. Hyam ..... .
*Charles M. Radcliff ..... .
*William H. Howard ..•..•
*William H. Howard ..... .
*William H. Howard ..... .
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
*James L. English ....... .
*William C. Belcher ..... .
*William C. Belcher ..... .
*William C. Belcher ..... .
*Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... .
*Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... .
*William A. Davies ...... .
*Charles Marsh ..•......•
*Leonidas E. Pratt ...... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt ...... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt ...... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt ...... .
*Isaac S. Titus .......... .
George C. Perkins ....... .
*John M. Browne ........•
*John M. Browne ....... .
*John M. Browne ........•
*John M. Browne ........ .
*William W. Traylor ..... .
Samuel C. Denson ..•....
*Clay W. Taylor ......... .
*Clay W. Taylor ......... .
*Jonathan D. Hines ...... .
*Jonathan D. Hines ...... .
*Wiley J. Tinnin ......•••
*Edmund C. Atkinson .....
*Hiram N. Rucker .•......
*Morris :M. Estee ......•.•
*Morris M. Estee ........•
* Alvah R. Conklin ....... .
*William Johnston ....... .
*Charles R. Gritman ..... .
*Henry S. Orme .......•..
James B. Stevens ....... .
*Edwo•1 M. Preston ..... .

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

*John A. Tutt ........ .
*Benjamin D. Hyam ..•
*Charles M. Radcliff ...
*Townsend A. Thomas .•
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ...
*Townsend A. Thomas.
*John A. Raymond ... .
*Charles Marsh ...... .
*Philip W. Shepheard ..
*Philip W. Shepheard ..
*Philip W. Shepheard ..
*William C. Belcher .. .
*Gilbert B. Claiborne .. .
*Gilbert B. Claiborne .. .
*Gilbert B. Claiborne .. .
*William A. Davies ... .
*Henry H. Hartley ... .
*Henry H. Hartley ... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt ... .
*Isaac S. Titus ......•
*Isaac S. Titus ...... .
*Charles L. Wiggin ... .
*Benj. H. Freeman ... .
George C. Perkins ... .
*John M. Browne .... .
*Charles L. Wiggin ... .
*Charles L .. Wiggin ... .
*Charles L. Wiggin ... .
*William W. Taylor ... .
Samuel C. Denson ... .
*Clay W. Taylor ...... .
*John Q. Adams ..... .
*Jonathan D. Hines .. .
*Wiley J. Tinnin ..... .
*Wiley J. Tinnin ..... .
*Edmund C. Atkinson ..
*Hiram N. Rucker ... .
*Morris M. Estee ..... .
*Alvah R. Conklin .... .
*William Johnston .... ,
*William Johnston ....•
*Charles Ray Gritman ..
*Henry S. Orme ..... .
James B. Stevens .... .
*Edward M. Preston ..•
William T. Lucas ....•

*Caleb Fenner.
*E. F. W. Ellis.
*Adolphus Hollub.
*John R. Crandall.
*Rector E. Cole.
*John A. Raymond.
*Lemuel Lyon.
*Aaron D. Park.
*William McCormick.
*Ebenezer Lane.
*William C. Belcher.
*John W. Harville.
*John W. Harville.
*Louis Cohn.
*William A. Davies.
*Isaac S. Titus.
*Wm. H. Peterson.
*Thomas Beck.
*Theodore G. Cockrill.
*.Tohn S. Wa·rd.
*Charles L. Wiggin.
*Benj. H. Freeman.
George C. Perkins.
*John M. Browne.
*\Villiam B. Parker.
*Wiley J. Tinnin.
*William S. Wells.
*\Villiam W. Traylor.
*William H. Crane.
*Clay W. Taylor.
*John Q. Adams.
*Jonathan D. Hines.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Hiram N. Rucker.
*Morris M. Estee.
* Alvah R. Conklin.
*William Johnston.
*Charles R. Gritman.
*Charles R. Gritman.
*Henry S. Orme ..... .
James B. Stevens.
*Edward M. Preston.
William T. Lucas.
Thomas Flint.

*Deceased.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

*Sashel Woods ..••..• *Levi Stowell ......... *John H. Gihon ..•...•
*Benj. S. Olds ....•.•• *Townsend A. Thomas. *Levi Stowell .•...••••
*John R. McConnell ..• *Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell .•...•.••
*Richard F. Knott .... *Addison Martin .....• *Levi Stowell ...••••••
*Robert N. Wood ..••.. *Addison Martin ....•• *Levi Stowell ....••.••
*Samuel A. Merritt ..•• *Addison Martin ...... *Levi Stowell .....•..•
*Peter W. Randle .•..• *Addison Martin ....•. *Alex G. Abell ..••.•..
*John B. Bope ......•• *Addison Martin .•...• *Alex G. Abell ......••
*James W. Bicknell ... *Addison Martin ....•. *Alex G. Abell ......••
*Thomas P. Hawley •.• *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ...•••.•
* Alvinza Hayward ..•• *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell .....••.
*Caleb E. Wilcoxon ...• *James Laidley ...•... *Alex G. Abell ......••
*John B. Hewson ..•••• *James Laidley ....... *Alex G. Abell .••...••
*William A. Davies .... *James Laidley ....... *Alex G. Abell ......••
*Isaac S. Titus ....••• *James Laidley ..•...• *Alex G. Abell ...••...
*Henry H. Hartley ...• *James Laidley ...•••• *Alex G. Abell .....•••
*Thomas Beck ....••• *James Laidley .••...• *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Leonidas E. Pratt .•.• *James Laidley •.....• *Alex G. Abell ....... .
Frederick F. Barss .•• *James Laidley ......• *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Richard Dale ....•••. *James Laidley ......• *Alex G. Abell ......••
*Benj'. H. Freeman .••• *James Laidley ..•.•.• *Alex G. Abell ....••.•
Geo. C. Perkins ....•• *James Laidley ......• *Alex G. Abell .....•••
*John M. Browne .••.• *James Laidley ..••..• *Alex G. Abell .•.••...
Chas. E. Mitchell .•..• *James Laidley ......• *Alex G. Abell .......•
*Wiley J. Tinnin ....•• *James Laidley ......• *Alex G. Abell .•...•••
*Jacob H. Neff ....••• *James Laidley ..•...• *Alex G. Abell .•...••.
*Solon W. Craigue ..•. *James Laidley ....... *Alex G. Abell ......••
*Wm. H. Crane ...•••• *Moses Heller ........ *Alex G. Abell .•••....
*Robert C. Broder ....• *Moses Heller ........ *Alex G. Abell .•.•..••
*John Q. Ad,.ms ....•• *Moses Heller ......•. *Alex G. Abell ....•..•
*Orrin W. Hollenbeck .. *Moses Heller ........ *Alex G. Abell ....•..•
*Thomas J. Bowers .... *Moses Heller ...•.... *Alex G. Abell ....•.••
*George Hinds ...•.•• *Moses Heller ........ *Alex G. Abell .•..•..•
*Hiram N. Rucker ....• *Moses Heller ........ *Alex G. Abell .....•••
*Hiram N. Rucker ..••• *Moses Heller ........ *Alex G. Abell .•••••••
*Henry H. Knapp ..•.• *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex G. Abell .....•••
* Alvah R. Conklin ....• *Nathan W. Spaulding.* Alex G. Abell .....•••
*Wm. Johnston •••••• *Nathan W. Spaulding.*Alex G. Abell ...•••••
*Marcus D. BDTuck .••. *Nathan W. Spaulding.*Alex G. Abell •••••.••
*Henry S. Orme .•.... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex G. Abell ...•••••
*Henry S. Orme ..•.•• *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson .•.•.•
James B. Stevens ....• *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ...•••
*Edward M. Preston ..• *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..••••
Wm. T. Lucas ...•••• *Edward Coleman •.•.• *George Johnson .•••••
Thomas Flint ...•••• *Edward Coleman .•••• *George Johnson .•.•••
Frank M. Angellotti.. *Edward Coleman ....• *George Johnson ..••••
*Deceased.

241

Grand
Lecturer.

242

Yea.r.

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M:. w:. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

Grand Ma.star.

Deputy
Grand Ma.star.

Senior
Grand Warden.

Junior
Grand Wa.rden.

Gra.nd Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

243

Grand
Lecturer.

Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Flint ...... •
William T. Lucas ....... .
1896
Charles L. Patton.
Frank
M.
Angellotti
..•
Thomas Flint •.•........
1897
Charles L. Patton ... . *James A. Foshay.
Frank M. Ange!iotti. . • ...
1898
William S. Wells.
Charles L. Patton .... • . • • •James A. Foshay .... .
1899
William S. Wells .... • Orrin S. Henderson.
1900 *James A. Foshay ..•.•..•
Charles W. Nutting.
William S. Wells ....... . Orrin S. Henderson ..•
1901
George W. Hunter.
Charles
W.
Nutting
..
•
Orrin S. Henderson ..... .
1902
Motley H. Flint.
George W. Hunter ...•
Charles W. Nutting ..... .
1903
Edward H. Hart.
Motley H. Flint ....•.
George W. Hunter ......•
1904
George M. Perine.
Edward H. Hart ....•
Motley
H.
Flint
.....••..
1905
Geo. M. Perine ..... . *Reuben H. Lloyd.
Edward H. Hart ..... •··
1906
Oscar Lawler.
George M. Perine .......• *Reuben H. Lloyd ....•
1907
Dana R. Weller.
•W. Frank Pierce .... .
Oscar
Lawler
.....•....
1908
Dana B. Weller ..... ·. Alonzo J. Monroe.
*W.
Frank
Pierce
.......
.
1909
Wm. P. Filmer.
Alonzo J. Monroe .... .
Dana R. Weller ........•
1910
John D. Murphey.
Wm. P. Filmer ...... .
Alonzo
J.
Monroe
.......
.
1911
Benj. F. Bledsoe.
John D. Murphey ....•
Wm.
P.
Filmer
.....•....
1912
Albert G. Burnett.
Benj. F. Bledsoe .....•
John
D.
Murphey
......•
1913
Francis V. Keesling.
Albert G. Burnett ...•
Benj.
F.
Bledsoe
.......
.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
1914
Francis V. Keesling ...
Albert
G.
Burnett
......•
Bradford Webster.
1915
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .•
Francis
V.
Keesling
.....
.
1916

Charles L. Patton ...• *Edward Coleman ....• *George Johnson ..... .
*James A. Foshay ..•.• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ...•.•
William S. Wells ....• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson .•...•
Orrin S. Henderson ..• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ....••
Charles W. Nutting ... *Edward Coleman ...•• *George Johnson ...•.. Wm. H. Edwards.
George W. Hunter ..•• *Edward Coleman ....• *George Johnson ...•.. Wm. H. Edwards,
Motley H. Flint ..•..• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ....•. Wm. H. Edwards,
Edward H. Hart ....• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ...... Wm. H. Edwards.
George M. Perine .•.• *Edward Coleman •.... *George Johnson ...... Wm. H. Edwards.
*Reuben H. Lloyd .... *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ...... Wm. H. Edwards.
Oscar Lawler ....•.•• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ...•.• Wm. H. Edwards.
*W. Frank Pierce •.••• *Edward COieman ..•.• *George Johnson .•.••. Thomas J. Baker.
Alonzo J. Monroe ..•• *Edward Coleman .••.• John Whicher ..•••••• Thomas J. Baker.
William P. Filmer ..• *Edward Coleman .••.• John Whicher .••••••• Thomas J. Baker.
John D. Murphey ..•• *Edward Coleman •••.• John Whicher .•...•.• Thomas J. Baker.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ..•.• *Edward Coleman .•••• John Whicher .••••••• Thomas J. Baker.
Albert G. Burnett ..•• *Edward Coleman ..... John Whicher ....•••• Thomas J. Baker.
Francis V. Keesling .• Wm. P. Filmer ..•...• John Whicher ..•••.•. Thomas J. Baker.
W. Rhodes Hervey ..• Wm. P. F'ilmer ..•...• John Whicher ..•••.•. Thomas J. Baker.
Bradford Webster .... Wm. P. Filmer ..•...• John Whicher .•..•.•. Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. Albert Adams. . . Wm. P. Filmer ..•..•• John Whicher .•.••••• Thomas J. Baker.

*Deceased.

*Deceased.

•

244

GRAND l,ODGES OF THE UNITED STATES A::-;-D BRITISH AMERICA.
GRAND LODGE OF CA.LIFORNL\

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES AND
BRITISH AMERICA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Lodge.
Grand Lodges.

Grand Secreta.ries.

Residences.

Organized.

Alabama ••••• • •• • George A. Beauchamp •• Montgomery •••••• June 15, 1821
Alberti> ....•• · · • • Geo. Macdonald ....••• Calgary •.•..••••• Oct. 12 1905
.Arizona ...•• · • • • • George J. Roskruge .••. Tucson ....••••••• Mar. 25: 1882
.Arkansas ••.. •. • · • • Fey Hempstead ...•..• Little Rock ..••.•• Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia •.. W. A. DeWolf Smith .. New Westminster •. Feb. 22, 1832
Canada .....• •• • · R. L. Gunn ..••....•.• Hamilton •••.••••• Oct. 10, 1855
2, 1861
Colorado ••...••.• Oha·rles H. Jacobson .•• Denver .•••••••••• Aug.
Connecticut •.•..•• George A. Kies .....•. Hartford ..•..•••• July
8, 1789
6, 1806
Delaware · .. • · · • • • H. J. Guthrie ..•.•...• Wilmington •••..•• .Tune
Dist. of Columbia •• Arvine W. Johnston ..• Washington ...•.•. Feb. 19, 1811
5, 1830
Florida ...••...• · Wilber P. Webster .•.. Jacksonville •.••••• July
Georgia. •.• • · · • • · • Frank F. Baker ..•.... Macon ....••••••• Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho ••• •. · · · • • • • Geo. E. Knepper ..•..• Boise ..•.••..•••• Dee. 17, 1867
Illinois .••...• • •• • Isaac Ou tter ..•..•.•• Camp Point ...•••• April 6, 1840
Indiana .•.••. ·• ·• Calvin W. Prather ..... Indianapolis •••••• Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa •••.•••••.•• Newton R. Parvin ••.•.. Cedar Rapids ..••• Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas •••..••.••• Albert K. Wilson ..... . Topeka ..•.••...•• Mar. 17, 1856
Kentucky •..•••..• Dave Jackson ... , •..• Louisville ..• , ••.. Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana ......... . John A, Davilla ..•.••• New Orleans ..•••• June 20, 1812
l, 1820
Maine ..••••• • · · • • Stephen Berry . , •..•• Portland ..•.•••••• June
Manitoba .....•.•• James A. Ovas ......•• Winnepeg , •••.•••. May 12, 1875
Maryland ....••••• George Cook ......••. Baltimore •...••••• April 17, 1887
:lii'assachusetts •.•.. Ji'red'k W. Hamilton •.• Boston ..•.••••••• Mar.
8, 1777
Michigan ••••••.•• Lou B. Winsor ..•.•••• Reed City •.•••••. Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota ..•.•••. John JJ'ishel .......•• Saint Paul •.•.•••. Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi •••.••. JJ'rederic G. Speed ....• Vicksburg •.•..••. July 27, 1818
Missouri .•••.••.• John R. Parson .....•• St. Louis ..•..•.•• May
4, 1821
Montana •••••..•• Cornelius Hedges, Jr... Helena ..•.••.•••• Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska .•••••••• Francis E. White ..•... Omaha .......... . Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada .••...••..• Edward D. Vanderleith. Carson ••.•..••••• Jan. 16, 1865
New Brunswick ...• J. 'rwining Hartt .....• Saint John •••••••• Oct. 10, 1867
New Hampshire •••. Harry M. Cheney .•...• Concord .•••.••.•• July
8, 1789
New Jersey ...••••• Theo. B. Townley ..•..• Trenton ............. . Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico .••.•.• Alpheus A. ].\:een •.•..•
Aug,
7, 1877
New York ..••••..• Edward M. L. Ehlers .•. ~~~'l!f~~re
Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina •••.• John C. Drewry ..•..•• Raleigh ..•.••••••• Dec. 12, 1777
North Dakota .....• Walter L. Stockwell •.• Fa;rgo .•••••.••••. June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ..••.•• Th<>mas Mowbray ..••• Halifax ..•.•••••• Jan. 21, 1866
Ohio ..•..•.•••.•• Jacob H. Bromwell ..•• Cincinnati ..•..•.• Jan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma •.•..••• Wm. M. Anderson .••.. Oklahoma City .••• Nov. 10, 1909
Oregon .••..••••.• James F. Robinson ...• Portland . , •••••.•• Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvania ••.•• John A. Perry .. , ...•• Philadelphia .••••. Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. Island ..• Walter P. Doull ...•••• Charlottetown .••.. June 24, 1875
Quebec ..••••.•••• Will H. Whyte ..•••..• Montreal .....•••. Oct. 20, 1869
Rhode Island .•..•• S. Penrose Williams ..• Providence •.••.••• June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan .•.•• W. B. Tate ....••..•.. Regina ...•••••.•• Aug.
9, 1906
South Carolina. .••• 0. Frank Ha.rt ....... . Columbia .••.••.•• Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota ..••• Geo. A. Pettigrew ..••. Sioux Falls ••••••• July 21, 1775
'l'elmessee ..••••.. Stith M. Cain ..•..•..• Nashville .••.••••• Dec. 27, 1813
Texas .....•..•.•• W. B. Pierson ..•..••. Waco ........... . Dec. 20. 1837
Utah-..•.......•.. Freeman A. McCarty ..• Salt Lake City •••.• Jan. 17, 1872
v.erl!'o.nt •..•.•••• Frank A. Ross ....... . Burlington .••••••• Oct. 14, 1794
Charles A. Nesbitt .••.• Richmond ••• : ••.•• Oct. 13, 1778
V1rg1n1a. .......
Washin!jton .•..••• Horace W. Tyler .....• Tacoma ........... . Dee.
8, 1858
West V1rginia .•••. John M. Collins ..••••• Charleston ..•.•••• May 11, 1865
Wisconsin .... ~ ... William W. Perry ..•.• Milwaukee ..•••••• Dec. 18, 184S
Wy<>ming .•••••••• Jos. M. Londes ••••.•• Casper .•••••.•••• Dec. 15, 1874

.. : : : : : :

5

•

••

,.

No. Post Office.

County.

Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ..•.•••••••.•• Mendocino.
Adin .•••••...•••.. 250 Adin .•••.....••..•. Modoc.
Alamo ..•••.•...... 122 Walnut Creek .••••... Contra Costa.
Alameda ..•.••..••• 167 Centerville .....••••. Alameda .
Alcatraz .....•...•• 244 Oakland ..........••• Alameda.
Alhambra •.•..•.... 322 Alhambra .....•..••• Los Angeles.
Alisa! ............. 321 Pleasanton .....•.... Alameda.
Alpha ............. 431 Richmond ..•........ Contra Costa.
Alta ....••....•.... 333 Bridgeport ..••.•.... :Mono.
Alta Vista .••......• 464 San Francisco ..•.... San Franeiseo.
Alturas •..•••.•..•. 248 Alturas ..•••....•••. Modoc.
Amity .••...••..... 370 San Francisco .....•. San Francisco.
Amador ..•.....•... 65 .Jackson .....••.•.... Amador.
Anaheim ..••....••• 207 Anaheim .••...•••... Orange.
Anchor .....•....•• 273 Compton ..•......... Los Angeles.
Antioch .••..•.•...• 175 Antioch ......••.•••. Contra Costa.
Apollo •••.•••...•.. 396 Alameda •......•..•. Alameda.
Arcata ..•..•......• 106 Arcata •...•......... Humboldt.
Argonaut ....•....• 461 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Arroyo •••••...•..• 274 Arroyo Grande ....... San Luis Obispo.
Arlington •••••..•• .414 Los Angeles .••..•..• Los Angeles.
Artesia . . • . • •••.... 3 77 Artesia ••.....•..•.•. Los Angeles.
Ashlar •••..•..•.•.. 306 Colton .............. San Bernardino
. , .......•..•..•• Yolo.
.
Athens .•••••..•••• 228 Dav1s
Azusa .....•..••.••• 305 Azusa .....•••..•.... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ..•.....• 224 Bakersfield ..•.....•. Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco ••••.... San Francisco
Bay View .......... 401 Oakland ..•••..••...• Alameda.
.
Bear Mountain ..... 76 Angels Camp .•...•... Calaveras.
B ..
emcia . . . • . . . . • . . • 5 Benicia ..•...•••..... Solano.
Berkeley .•••...•... 363 Berkeley ........••.•. Alameda.
Bethlehem .••.••..• 453 San Francisco ....•... San Francisco.
Blackmer •......... 442 San Diego .••........ San Diego.
Bodie .•••••..••... 252 Bodie .......•.••...• Mono.
Brawley •••••..••.. 402 Brawley ....••.•..... Imperial.
Brentwood ••••...•. 345 Brentwood ....••••... Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ..••••••.• 225 East Oakland ..•••.•. Alameda •

245

246
• Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No. Post Office.

County.

Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park ....... 357 Buena Park .......... Orange.
Burbank ........... 406 Burbank ............ Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame .......... San Mateo.
Calexico ........... 412 Calexico ..........•.. Imperial.
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayomi .......... 282 Middletown .......... Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carpinteria ......... 444 Carpinteria .......... San ta Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............. Contra Costa.
Center ............. 465 Fresno .............. Fresno.
Charity ............ 362 Campbell ....•....... Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ....... 410 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Chico .............. 111 Chico ..........•.... Butte.
Chino Valley ....... 427 Chino ............... San Bernardino.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Claremont .......... 436 Claremont ........•.. Los Angeles.
Clay ............•.. 101 Dutch Flat .......•.. Placer.
Clear Lake .•••••••• 183 Lower Lake •...•.•••. Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ................. Shasta.
Clovis ............ .417 Clovis ............... Fresno.
Coalinga ......•..•. 387 Coalinga ............ Tulare.
Concord .....•...... 117 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Confidence ..•.....• 203 Castroville .....•..... Monterey.
Consuelo •.......... 325 Escondido ........... San Dieg,o.
Colusa ..•.•.....•.. 240 Colusa ..•..........• Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ..•....•...• Los Angeles.
Coronado ..•........ 441 Coronado .......•...• San Diego.
Covelo ............• 231 Covelo .......••..... Mendocino.
Covina ..•.......... 334 Covina ..•....•.....• Los Angeles.
Crescent ...•..•.... 45 Crescent City ........ Del Norte.
Crocker ....•....... 454 Daly City ....•.•..••• San Mateo.
Crockett •......•... 139 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Curtis ........ ; .... 140 Cloverdale .•..•.•..•. Sonoma.
Delano ............. 309 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba ..•.•••....... Tulare.
Doric .............. 216 San Francisco .....•.. San Francisco.
Downey .....•...... 220 Downey ..•.•...•.... Los Angeles.
Drytown ........... 174 Plymouth ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir .......... 297 Dunsmuir .....•...... Siskiyou.
Durant ............ 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Eagle Rock ...•...... Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

East Belt ..... .' .... 391 Tuolumne ....•...... Tuolumne.
East Gate .......... 290 Los Angeles ..•..•... Los Angeles.
Eden · · · .. · ........ 113 San Leandro ......... Alameda.
Eel River ..•....••. 147 Fortuna ............. Humboldt.
El Centro .......... 384 El Centro .......•.... Imperial.
Elk Grove .......... 173 Elk Grove ..•........ Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore .....•....... Riverside.
Elysian ........... .418 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Eucalyptus ......... 243 Haywards ..•........ Alameda.
Eureka · · . · . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
Evening Star ....... 186 Etna Mills .......... Siskiyou.
Evergreen .......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Exeter ..........•.. 424 Exeter .............. Tulare.
Fairmount ......... 435 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fall brook .......... 317 Fallbrook ............ San Diego.
Ferndale ........... 193 Oakland ............. Humboldt.
Fidelity · · · . · ....... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Pillmore ............. Ventura.
Forbestown . . . . . . . . 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Porest . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg .......... Mendocino.
Franklin ........... 143 Courtland ............ Sacramento.
Francis Drake ...... 376 South San Pranci~co ... San Mateo.
Praternity ......... 399 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Presno ..•......... 247 Fresno .............. Presno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .......... 336 Oakland ... , .. , ...... Alameda.
Pullerton .......... 339 Pullerton ............ Orange.
Galt ............... 267 Galt ...............• Sacramento.
Gardena ........... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown . . . . . . . . 25. Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington. . 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne.
Germania .......... 438 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Glendora ........... 404 Glendora ............ Los Angeles.
Golden Gate . . . . . . . . 30 San Francisco ........ San Prancisco.
Golden West ........ 455 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden State ...•... 358 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill .. . . . . .. . . 32 Lincoln .............. Placer,
Grafton ......•..... 141 Grafton ..........•.. Yolo.
Granite .....•...... 222 Rocklin .......•..•... Placer.
Gravel Range • • • • • • • 59 Camptonville ..•...... Yuba.

247

248
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF 1,0DGES
No. Post Office.

County.

· 7 Guadalupe ..•.•..•... Santa Barbara.
Guad a1upe .•...... · 23
Hammonton •....... 433 Hammonton .......... Yuba.
Hanford •.......... 279 Hanford ............. Kings.
Harmony ..•........ 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ....•.••...• 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian .....•..•. 21 Honolulu ..•......... Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay .......• 95 Sutter Creek .•....... Amador.
Hermann ..•........ 127 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
·
Hespenan
•......... 264 Santa Maria .......•. Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..... 382 Los Angeles ...••..... Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry .....••. 236 Newman ..•.......••. Stanislaus.
Hiram . . . . . . . • . . • • • 43 El Dorado •.•........ El Dorado.
H enry S . 0 rme ..... . 458 ·Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck ..•...... 319 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood •........ 355 Hollywood ..........• Los Angeles.
Holtville ..••..•.... 425 Holtville .......•..•. Imperial.
Honolulu ..•........ 409 Honolulu ....•....... Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith ..........•. Plumas.
Hornitos ....••....• 98 Hornitos ..•......... Mariposa.
Howard .......••••• 96 Yreka ..•••.......... Siskiyou.
Humboldt ....•..••• 79 Eureka ...•••.......• Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beach .•.. Orange.
Illinoistown .......• 51 Colfax ..........•... Placer.
Imperial ...••...... 390 Imperial ..........••. Imperial.
Inglewood ...•...... 421 Inglewood ........... Los Angeles.
Inyo ............... 221 IndepeI\dence ........ Inyo.
Ione ...........•... 80 Ione .......••....... Amador.
Jefferson .....•.•.•• 97 Laporte .............. Plumas.
Janesville .....•.... 232 Lassen .............. Lassen.
Jewel .....•...... , .374 San Francisco .....•.. San Francisco.
Keith .............. 187 Gilroy ............... Santa Clara..
Kennett ..•........ 456 Kennett ........•.... Shasta.
Kerman ............ 420 Kerman .......•..... Fresno.
Keystone . , •. , ...•. 161 :Milton .• , ..•••... ,. .. Calaveras.
Kilauea ......•..... 330 Hilo .....•....•...•. Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ..... , .209 San Luis Obispo ...... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .. , . 260 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
La Fayette ••......• 126 Sebastopol ....••••.•• Sonoma.
La Mesa •••........ 407 La Mesa .....•.•.•••. San Diego.
Lancaster ..•.. , .... 437 Lancaster .•......•... Los Angeles.
Landmark •.•....•.. 253 Madison ............. Yolo.
La Puente ....•..... 446 Puente ......••...... Los Angeles.
I.as Palmas .......• 366 Fresno .••........... Fresno.
Lassen ............. 149 Susanville ..•..•..... Lassen.

Lodge.

No. Post Office.

County.

Laurel ............. 245 Willows •••..... , .... Glenn.
le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu .....•....... Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington •......... 104 El :Vfonte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara ..•....... Santa Clara.
Lindsay ...........• 416 Lindsay ............. Tulare.
Li:ve Oak . . • . . . . . . . 61 Oakland ... : ......... Alameda.
Lodi ............... 256 Lodi · ................ San Joaquin,
Lompoc ...•.•.••.•. 262 Lompoc ......•...... Santa Barbara.
Long Beach .....•.. 327 Long Beach ...••.•.. Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . • 42 Los Angeles ..•.•.... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ........• 312 Los Banos ......•.... Merced.
Los Gatos .......•.• 292 Los Gatos ..•.•...... Santa Clara,
Loyalton .....•..•.. 359 Loyalton ............ Sierra.
Madera ..•••....... 280 Madera .............. )fadera.
Madison .••••...... 23 Grass Valley ......... Nevada.
Magnolia . , • , .....• 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa ..•......• 434 Maricopa ............ Kern.
Marin ..........•.. 191 San Rafael .....•.... Marin.
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Mariposa .....•...... Mariposa.
Martinez . . . . . . . • . . . 41 Martinez ..•......... Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ............. Colusa.
McCloud ..•........ 430 McCloud ............. Siskiyou.
McKinley ...•..••.. 347 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Mendocino .......•. 179 Mendocino .. , ........ Mendocino.
Meridian .......... 182 Arbuckle ......•..... Uolusa.
Midway ............ 426 Taft ....... ,. .•.. , .. Kern.
:Yfill Valley ........ 356 )fill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah ............ 378 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill ..... 298 Mokelumne Hill ...... Calaveras.
),folino .. , .......... 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles
Montebello ......... 451 Montebello .......... Los Angeles
Monrovia .. , . : ..... 308 Monrovia ............ Los Angeles
:Yfonterey .......... 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morgan Hill .•..... .463 Morgan Hill ......... Santa Clara.
Morning Star ....... 68 Stockton ............ San Joaquin.
Mosaic ..•.......... 218 Livermore ........... Alameda.
::\fount Diab lo ....... 448 Concord .......•..... Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville .......... Sonoma.
Mount Moriah . . . . . . 44 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mount Oso ........ .460 Tracy ............... San Joaquin.
Mountain Shade . . . . 18 Downieville •.•....... Sierra.

249

250
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No. Post Office.

County.

Mount Shasta •..•... 281 Anderson ....... ~ •... Shasta.
Mountain View ...•. 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma ...........• 64 Folsom ....•......... Sacramento.
Naval . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles .......•.... 326 Needles ............• San Bernardino.
Nevada ............ 13 Nevada City ......... Nevada.
Newville ....•...... 205 PaSkenta ............ Tehama.
Nicolaus '. .......... 129 Wheatland . : ..•...... Yuba.
North Butte ........ 230 Gridley .............. Butte.
North East.- ......•. 266 Fort.Bidwell ....•.•.. Modoc.
Northern Light ..•.• 190 Millville ....•........ Shasta.
North Star . . . • . . . • . 91 Fort Jones .......... Siskiyou.
Norwalk ........... 315 Norwalk ............. Los Angeles.
Oakdale ..•.•.•...•. 275 Oakdale •............ Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .•....... 215 Alameda ..•...•...... Alameda.
Oakland ....•...... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental . . . . . . . . . • 22 San Francisco .•...... San Francisco.
Ocean Park ........ 369 Oceanpark ..•......•. Los Angeles.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ............ San Diego.
Olive Branch •...... 269 Tulare ..•........... Tulare.
Olivet ....•........ 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario .....•...... 301 Ontario ..•.......... San Bernardino.
Ophir . . . . . . • • • . . . . . 33 Murphy's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ....... 293 Orange .............. Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland ........ , .... 265 Orland .............. Glenn.
Orosi ...•.•........ 383 Orosi ................ Tulare.
Oroville ..... , ... , .. 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Oxnard .....•...... 341 Oxnard ..•........... Ventura.
Paciftc ......•• , .... 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ..•.... 331 Pacific Grove ......... Monterey.
Pacific ..••...•..... 136 Watsonville .......... Santa Cruz;
Palestine ..•......... 351 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Palmyra ...•. , . . . . . 26 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Alto ..•....... 346 Palo Alto ............ San ta Clara.
Palos Verdes ....... 389 Long Beach ..•....... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union ..... 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Park .............. 449 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Parnassus ....... , .. 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles .......... San Luis Obispo.
Paul Revere ........ 462 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Penrhyn ... , ....... 258 Penryn .............. Placer.
Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.

Lodge.

No. Post Office.

County.

Perris ....... , , ... .411 Perris ............... Riverside.
Petaluma .......... 180 Petaluma ............ Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ...... San Bernardino.
Pinole •... , ........ 353 Pinole •............. Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ......... .429 Pittsburg ...•........ Contra Costa.
Plumas . , . . . . . . • • . . 60 Quincy .............. Plumas.
Pomona .• , ...•.. , . ,246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville .......•. 303 Porterville .......... .'fulare.
Presidio .......... , 354 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ramona . , •....... , . 457 Alhambra ..•........ I,os Angeles.
Reading • , ......... 254 Redding ............. Shasta.
Redlands , . , ........ 300 Redlands .........•.. San Bernardino.
Redondo .....•..... 328 Redondo ............. Los Angeles.
Redwood City •..•.. 168 Redwood City ........ San Mateo.
Reedley ............ 304 Reedley ............. Fresno.
Richmond .......... 375 San Franciseo ........ San Francisco.
Rio Vista .....•.•.. 208 Rio Vista ..........•• Solano.
Rising Light ....... 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star ........ 83 Forest Hill ..•....... Placer.
Riverbank . , ........ 459 Riverbank ....•...... Stanislaus.
Rose's Bar , . .. .. . . . 89 Smartsville .......... Yuba.
Roseville ........•.. 433 Roseville ............ Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ............. Sonoma.
Sacramento ........ , 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's ....... 37 Yreka .............. ,Siskiyou.
Sali:11as ............ 204 Salinas .............. Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister .....•....... San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura ............. Ventura.
San Diego .. . . . .. . . 35 San Diego ........... San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas .......... Los Angeles.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .............. Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino ...... San Bernardino.
San Fernando ...... 343 Fernando ............ Los Angeles.
San Francjsco ...... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San Jacinto ...... , .338 San Jacinto .......... Riverside.
San ,Joaquin .. , .... , 19 Stockton .............. San Joaquin.
San Jose . . . . . . . . . . . 10 San Jose .•...•...... Santa Clara
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo ........... San :Mateo.
San Miguel ........ 285 San :Miguel .......... San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
San Pedro ......... 332 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana ......... 241 Santa Ana ........... Orange.
Santa Barbara ...... 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.

251

252
Lodge.

AJ,PHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No. Post Office.

County.

Santa Cruz ....•.... 38 Santa Cruz ....•..•... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ........ 302 Kings City ........... Monterey.
Santa Monica ....... 307 Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles
Santa Paula ..•..... 291 Santa Paula ..•...... Ventura.
Santa Rosa ......... 57 Santa Rosa •......•.• Sonoma.
San Simeon ..•..••. 196 Cambria ............. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield ..••....... 443 Schofield Barracks .... Hawaiian Ter.
Selma .....•....... 277 Selma ..........•.... ]'resno.
Sequoia .......•.... 349 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Sierra Madre ...... .408 Sierra Madre ........ Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ..•..•. 184 Sierraville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ....•..... 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate ......... 296 San Diego ..•.. '. .•... San Diego.
Silver Trowel ...... .415 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Sincerity ........... 132 Greenville ........... Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain ..•.. 271 Stony Ford ......•... Colusa.
Solano ............. 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome ........•. 123 Healdsburg .......•.. Sonoma.
Southern California .. 278 Los Angeles ..•...... Los Angeles.
South Gate •.•...... 320 Los Angeles ..•...... Los Angeles.
South Paaadena ..•. 367 South Pasadena .•.... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South West ..•••... 283 Xational City •....... San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Franciseo ........ San Francisco.
Standard .....•..... 440 Oakland ...........•. Alameda.
Stanislaus ..•.•..... 206 Modesto ..........•.. Stanislaus.
Starr King ......... 344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun .•.....•...... Solano.
Summit ..•......... 112 Knights Ferry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset ...........•. 352 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley ..... 235 Cedarville ........... Modoc.
Table Mountain .... 124 Cherokee ..•......... Butte.
Tehachapi ..•....... 313 Tehachapi ........... Kern.
Tehama . . . . • . . • . . • . 3 Sacramento .......•.. Sacramento.
Temescal ..••....... 314 Corona .............. Riverside.
Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ............. Sonoma.
Texas .............. 46 San Juan ............ San Benito.
Torrance .•••....•. .447 Torrance ............ Los Angeles.
Traver ............. 294 Kingsburg ........... Fresno.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville .......... Trinity.
Truckee ............ 200 Truckee ............. Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora .............. Tuolumne.
Turlock .....•...... 395 Turlock .......•..... Stanislaus.

GRAh'D LODGE OF CAUFORNIA
Lodge,

No. Post Office,

County.

Tuscan ............ 261 Williams ............ Colusa.
Tyrian ............. 439 Manteca ............ San Joaquin.
Union ...........•. 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Unity .............. 368 Glendale ............. Los Angeles.
University ......... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Upland ..........•. 419 Upland .....•..•..... San Bernardino.
Vacaville ........... 134 Vacaville .....•...... Solano.
Vallee de France ..... 329 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Van Nuys ..•....•.. 450 Van Nuys ........... Los Angeles.
Vesper ......•..•... 84 Red Bluff ........... Tehama.
Veteran ..•....•.... 373 Sawtelle ..........•.. Los Angeles.
Visalia ............ 128 Visalia .............. Tulare.
Vitruvius .... , •.... 145 Bloomfield ........... Sonoma.
Volcano ............ 56 Volcano ............. Amador.
Washington ••...... 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Waucoba ...•....•• .413 Big Pine ..........•. Inyo.
Welcome ........... 255 Lemoore ............. Kings.
Western Star . . . . . . . 2 Shasta ....•..•...... Shasta.
West Gate ......•.. 335 I,os Angeles ........• Los Angeles.
West Lake ..•...... 392 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Whittier ..•........ 323 Whittier ............ Los Angeles.
Willits ..•..•....•.. 365 Willits .............• Mendocino.
Wilmington ...•.... 198 Wilmington : ......... Los Angeles.
Wilshire ..•.•..•... 445 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ..•.... 287 Bishop .............. Inyo.
Woodbridge ..•..... 131 Woodbridge .. , ....... San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yerba Buena ....•. .403 Oakland ..........•.. Alameda.
Yolo .............. 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
York .............. 423 Watts ............... Los Angeles.
Yosemite ........... 99 ~forced .............. Merced.
Yount .......•..... 12 Napa ............... Napa.

253

254

LOCATIOX OF LODGES
Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES

Alphabetically Arranged
Post Office.

Lodge.

255

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA ,

No.

Adin ...•...•....••...... Adin .........•............• 250
Alhambra •..•.•.....•..•. Alhambra .....•............. 322
Alhambra ..•..•..•.....•• Ramona ..........••....... .457
Alameda ...•.•........... Oak Grove ...•.........•.... 215
''
.................. Apollo ················~····396
Alleghany •...••..•..•.... Forest . . . . . • • • • . . . • . . . • • • • . • 66
Alturas ••••..•.•.••.••.•• Alturas .....•...••• , ••.•.••• 248
• Anaheim ••.••..•......•.• Anaheim .....••......•.•..• 207
Anderson ..•.••..••••.... Mount Shasta •......•••....• 281
Angels Camp ............. Bear Mountain . . • . • • . . . . . . • . 16
Antioch .....•..........• Antioch .......•....•.•..... 175
Arroyo Grande •.•........ Arroyo •........•.•.••••.... 274
Auburn ................•. Eureka . . . . • . . . . • • . . . . . • • . . . 16
Arbuckle .....•........•. ·Meridian ....••.•••• , ..•.••. 182
Arcata ....•........•.... Arcata .......•.•••..••....• 106
Artesia .•...•.•....•....• Artesia .........••.......... 377
Azusa .•......•.......... Azusa .....•..•.........•... 305
Bakersfield ............... Bakersfield ................. 224
Beckwith •....•..•....... Hope .....•.......•......... 234
Benicia •................. Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . 5
Berkeley ................. Durant .............•......• 268
Berkeley ...•....•.......• Berkeley ..........••.....•.. 363
Berkeley ....•....•..••.•• Charter Rock ..••.......•.... 410
Big Pine .••...••..••.•... Waucoba .........•...•..... 413
Biggs ..•••.....•........ Emmanuel .••.•.•••......... 318
Bishop ....•• , ........... Winnedumah ................ 287
Bloomfield ............... Vitruvius .........•........• 145
Bodie .......•...•....... Bodie ...........•••...••... 252
Brawley .....•.•....•...• Brawley ...........••...••.. 402
Brentwood •.............. Brentwood ....•.....•....... 345
Bridgeport .....••.......• Alta .....•...•.........•... 333
Buena Park .............. Buena Park ................• 357
Burbank .••••......•..... Burbank .............•...... 406
Burlingame .........•...• Burlingame ....•.•..•••....• 400
Calexieo ••...••••....•... Calexico .............•••••. .412

Lodge.

No.

Calistoga .........•...... Calistoga .......•..•...•...• 233
Cambria ....•.......•.•.• San Simeon ........•.......• 196
Campbell ...•..•..•...•.• Charity ••...•......••...•..• 362
Camptonville ............. Gravel Range ............... 59
Carpinteria ••...•..••••.. Carpinteria .••.•.•.••••..•• .444
Castroville •....•..•....•. Confidence .....•..•••.•....• 203
Cedarville .•...•...•...••• Surprise Valley .............. 235
Centerville .••••....•.•... Alameda ..........•.•.....• 167
Cherokee ••.•...•.••••.••• Table Mountain ........••..• 124
Chinese Camp .•..•....•.. George Washington .••......• 62
Chico .....•..•••...•...•• Chico .....•..••....•..•.... 111
Chino .•.•••..•.•..•....• Chino Valley ....•••..•....•• 427
Claremont .•..•••••.....•• Claremont .....•..••...•.... 436
Cloverdale ............... Curtis ...................... 140
Clovis .....•...........•• Clovis .•......•..••..••••.•• 417
Coalinga .....•......••.. Coalinga .................... 387
Colfax ....•••.•••..•..••. Tilinoistown • • . . . . . . • . • . . . . . . 51
Corona ..••........••.... Temescal ................... 314
Courtland .•...••..•....•. Franklin ................... 143
Covelo ••....••.•••••••••• Covelo ................••.... 281
Colusa •••......•••••••• ~ • Colusa ........•...•......•. 240
Colton .................•• Ashlar .......•......•...... 306
Covina .....•....•..•.... Covina ..........•.•..•..... 334
Compton .•••.•••.•.•••... Anchor ..•........••....••.. 273
Concord ••.......•.....•• Mt. Diablo ....•.••....•.••. 448
Corning .•••••...•.•..•.• Olivet ................•.•... 364
Coronado ••.......••••••. Coronado ..•.....••....••... 441
Crescent City .........•.. Crescent .........•....•..... 45
Crockett ....•...........• Carquinez .....•......•.•...• 337
Daly City .•••.••.••.•.... Crocker .............••.....• 454
Davis .•....•.•....•.•••• Athens .................•••. 228
Delano ..............•... Delano .....•.......•......• 309
Dinuba .........••••..... Dinuba ..................... 385
Dixon ................... Silveyville .................. 201
Downey ...•...•.......•.. Downey ............•••..... 220
Downieville ......••...... Mountain Shade ..•.......... 18
Dutch Flat .....•........ Clay ....................... 101
Dunsmuir .•.......•.•••.. Dunsmuir ..••............... 297
Eagle Roek .............. Eagle Rock ................. 422
Elk Grove ................ Elk Grove ........... , •..•.. 173
Elsinore ...••••......•... Elsinore .................... 289
J;Jl Centro ................ El Centro .................. 384
El Dorado ............... Hiram . . . .. .. . .. . . .. . .. . . . . 43
El Monte .•.............. Lexington .......•..••.•...• 104

256

LOCATION OF LODGES
Post Office.

Lodge.

257

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.

Escondido ................ Consuelo .................... 325
Etna Mills ............... Evening Star ............... 186
Eureka ................. , Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Exeter ................... Exeter ..................... 424
Fallbrook ................ Fallbrook ................... 317
Fernando ................ San Fernando ............... 343
Ferndale ............... ; . Ferndale ................... 193
Fillmore ................. Fillmore .................... 379
Forbestown .............. Forbestown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Folsom .................. Natoma .................... 64
Fort Bidwell ............. North East ................. 266
Fort Bragg .............. Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones ............... North Star ................. 91
Forest Hill ............... Rising Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Fortuna ................. Eel River ................... 14 7
Fresno .................. Fresno ..................... 247
''
................. . Las Palmas ................ . 366
''
................. . Center ........................ 465
Fullerton .............•.. Fullerton ................... 339
Galt .................... Galt ....................... 267
Gardena ................. Gardena .................... 372
Georgetown .............. Georgetown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Gilroy ................... Keith ...................... 187
Glendale ................. Unity ...................... 368
Glendora ................• Glendora .................... 404
Grafton ................. Grafton .................... 141
Grass Valley ............. Madison .................... 23
Greenville ................ Sincerity ................... 132
Gridley .................. North Butte ................ 230
Guadalupe ..............• Guadalupe .................. 237
Guerneville ............... Mount Jackson ............. 295
Hammonton .............. Hammonton ................ 433
Hanford ................. Hanford ................... 279
Haywards ................ Eucalyptus ................. 243
Healdsburg .............. Sotoyome ................... 123
Hilo, T. H ................ Kilauea .................... 330
Hornitos ................. Hornitos .................... 98
Hollister ................. San Benito ................. 211
Hollywood ............... Hollywood .................. 35f\
Holtville ................. Holtville ................... 42f\
Honolulu, T. H ............ Hawaiian ................... 21
Honolulu, T. H .. .......... le Progres de 1 'Oceanie ....... 3 71
Honolulu, T. H .. .......... Honolulu ...............•.. .40ll
Huntington Beach ........ Huntington Beach ..•........ 380

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Huntington Park ......... Rising Light ................ 397
Igo ..................... Clinton ....•................ 119
Imperial ................. Imperial .................... 390
Independence ............ Inyo ....................... 221
Inglewood ............... Inglewood .................. 421
Ione ..................... Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jackson ................. Amador .................... 65
Kennett ................. Kennett .................... 456
Kerman ................. Kerman .................... 420
Kingsburg ............... Traver ..................... 294
Kings City ............... Santa Lucia ................ 302
Knights Ferry ............ Summit ....... ·............. 112.
Lakeport ................ Hartley .................... 199
La Mesa ................. La Mesa .................... 407
Lancaster ................ Lancaster .................. 437
Laporte .................. Jefferson ................... 97
Lassen .................. Janesville .................. 232
Lemoore ....... : ......... Welcome .................... 255
Lincoln .................. Gold Hill . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Linden .................. Valley ...................... 135
Lindsay ................. Lindsay .................... 416
Livermore ................ Mosaic ..................... 218
Lodi .................... Lodi ..........•............ 256
Lompoc ................. Lompoc .................... 262
Lower Lake .............. Clear Lake .................. 183
Long Beach .............. Long Beach ................. 327
''
............. . Palos Verdes .............. . 389
Los Angeles .............. Los Angeles ................ 42
.............. Wilmington ........•........ 198
.............. Pentalpha .................. 202
.............. Southern California .......... 278
.............. East Gate .................... 290
.............. Hollenbeck .................. 319
.............. South Gate .....••........... 320
.............. Vallee de France ............ 329
.............. West Gate .................. 335
.............. Palestine ................... 351
.............. Sunset ..................... 352
.............. Golden State .•.............. 358
.............. Mizpah ..................... 378
.............. Highland Park .............. 382
.............. West Lake .................. 392
.............. University .................. 394
.............. Moneta ..................... 405

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

259

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
LOCATION OF LODGES

258

Post Office.
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles .............. Arlington .........•...•...• 414
''
.............. Silver Trowel .•..•.......... 415
''
.•..•......... Elysian ......•.............. 418
''
•............. Germania ......•...•........ 438
''
.............. Wilshire .....•.............. 445
"
.............. Henry S. Orme .............. 458
Los Banos ............ : .• Los Banos .................. 312
Los Gatos ...•..........•. Los Gatos ............ · · .. · .292
Loyalton .........•...... Loyalton .....•............. 359
Manteca ........•....•.. · Tyrian ............. · · · · · • · · 439
Maricopa ................ Maricopa .............••..•. 434
Marysville .....•.•....... Corinthian ............ · · .• · • 9
Madison ................• Landmark .... ·.............. 253
Maxwell .....•..........• Maxwell .................... 288
Madera .................. Madera ...........•....... · • 280
Mariposa •....•.......... Mariposa .......... · . · · · · · · • 24
Martinez ................. Martinez .....••.•. · · • · · · · · • 41
McCloud •................ McCloud ....... : .•..... ·. · .. 430
Merced .....•............ Yosemite ............ · · · · · · • 99
Mendocino ....•.........• Mendocino .....•..... · . · . · · .179
Middletown .............. Callayomi ............. · · · · · · 282
Milton ...•....... ·........ Keystone ............. · . · · · .161
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley .........•....... 356
Millville ................• Northern Light ............• 190
Mokelumne Hill .......... Mokelumne Hill ............. 298
Monrovia ...•.•.......... Monrovia .......... · · · · · · · · · 308
Montebello .............•. Montebello ......•...•...... .451
Monterey ................ Monterey ........•.. · · · · · · · · 217
Morgan Hill .............. Morgan Hill ............... .463
Mountain View ........... Mountain View .............. 194
Modesto .............•... Sta.nisla us .................. 206
Murphy's ......•......... Ophi.r ............ · · · · · · · · · · 33
National City ............ South West .......... · ·. · ... 283
Napa ................•.•. Yount .....................• 12
Newman .........•....... Hill's Ferry ................. 236
Needles .................. Needles ..........• · · · · · · · · · .326
Nevada City ............. Nevada ............ · · · · · · · · · 13
Norwalk .....•..........• Norwalk ............ · · · · · · · .315
Oakland ................. Live Oak ............ · · . · . · · 61
"
................. Oakland .................... 188
''
................. Brooklyn ................... 225
"
................. Sequoia .................... 349
................. Alea traz .................... 244
''
''
................. Fruitvale .............•..... 336

Lodge.

No

Oakland ...........•.••.. Bay View ........•.......... 401
''
................. Yerba Bt1ena ................ 403
''
................. Standard ................... 440
Oakdale .....•.••••...... Oakdale .................... 275
Ocean park ............... Ocean Park ................. 369
Oceanside ................ Oceansid·e ............. : •.... 381
Ontario .•...........•.... Ontario .................... 301
Orange .....•.......•.... Orange Grove .....•...•..... 293
Orland .•.......•.•...... Orland ..................... 265
Orosi .............•...... Orosi ....................... 383
Oroville .....•............ Oroville '. ................... 103
Oxnard .........•........ Oxnard ..................... 341
Pacific Grove ............. Pacific Grove ............... 331
Palo Alto ••............•. Palo Alto ................... 346
Pasadena ................ Pasadena ................... 272
''
............... . Corona .................... . 324
''
................ San Pasqual ................ 452
Paskenta ....••.......•.. Newville .................... 205
Paso Robles .•........... Paso Robles .........•....... 286
Penryn .................. Penrhyn .........•.......... 258
Perris ......•......•..... Perris ..................... .411
Petaluma ................ Petaluma .... ~ .............. 180
Pinole .............•...•. Pinole ...................... 353
Pittsburg ................ Pittsburg ................... 429
Placerville .....•........• Palmyra .................... 26
Pleasanton ............... Alisal ...................... 321
Plymouth ..............•. Drytown .................... 17 4
Point Arena .....•....... Claiborne .....•............. 185
Pomona ................. Pomona .................... 246
Porterville .....•......... Porterville .................. 303
Puente .....•............ La Puente .................. 446
Quincy ....•............. Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • 60
Redondo .....•........... Redondo .........•.......... 328
Redding •................ Reading .................... 254
Redlands ........•....•.. Redlands ............•...... 300
Reedley .................. Reedley · .................... 304
Redwood City .........•.. Redwood City ..•..••........ 168
Red Bluff .•.............. Vesper ·. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Richmond ••.......•...•.. Alpha ...................... 431
''
............... . McKinley .................. . 347
Rio Vista ..•............. Rio Vista ................... 208
Riverbank ..•..••...•.•••. Riverbank .................. 459
Riverside .••.....•..•.... Evergreen .........•...••... 259
Rocklin .................. Granite ...........•.•.•.•... 222

260
Post Offlee.

Lodge.

No.

:Roseville ................. Roseville ..........•......... 432
Sacramento ....•....•.•.. Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
.............. . Washington ........ ~ ........... 20
............. . Sacramento ................. 40
••.........•.. Union ...................... 58
............. . Coneord ..................... . 117

''
''

''
''

Saint Helena ......•... , .. Saint Helena . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 93
San Andreas .•••......... Calaveras ......•............. 78
,San Bernardino ........... Phoenix .................... 178
''

.......... . San Bernardino ................ . 348

San Diego .•............. San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
''
''

............... . Si1ver Gate ................. . 296
............... Blackmer ... ~ ................. 442
San Dimas ..•............ San Dimas ................. .428
San Francisco ............ California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

"

............. . Parfaite Union .... ~ ............. 17

''
''

............. Occidental . ~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
........ ~ .... Golden Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

''

............ Mount Moriah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44

''
''
''
''
''
''
''

............... Fidelity ................. ~ . . 120
............. . Hermann .................. . 127
............ . Pacific ........................ . 136
................ Crockett ................... . 139
............ . Oriental ............ ,. ....... ,. .144
.... ,. ,. ........ Exeelsior ................... . 166
. "........... Mission ....................... . 169

"

•.......•... South San Franciisco ......... 212

''
''
''
''
''
''

····~·······Doric ........................ . 216
........... . Speranza Italiana ............. ~219
.............. King Solomon 1s ............... 260
........... . Starr King ...... ~ .......... . 344
.............. Presidio ...................... 354
............. San Franeiseo ................. 360

"

•..•........ Amity .•...............•.... 370

''
''
''
''

............. . ,Jewel .... ~ ................... . 374
..... , . ....... . Richmond .................... . 375
....... ~ .....Parnassus .................... . 388
............ .. &Ider ....................... . 393

''

............ Fairmount .................. 435

''

............ . Park ......................... . 449
•.•......•.. Bethlehem .....•......•.... .453
............ . Golden West ................. . 455
.......... ~ .. Argonaut .................. . 461
............ . Paul Revere ............... ~462

"
''
''
''

261

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES
Post Ofll.ee.

Lodge.

No.

San Francisco •........... Alta Vista .....•.......•... .464
San Jacinto ..••••......•. San Jacinto .....•........... 338
San Jose ................. San Jose ................... 10
''
''

....................... Friendsl1ip ..................... 210
....................... . Fraternity .................... . 399

San Juan ...••••..•.••••. Texas .....••.......•.•..... 46
San Leandro •••.•.•.••••. Eden .............••....•.•. 113
San Luis Obispo •••• ·...... King David's ............... 209
San Mateo .•••....•.••••. San Mateo .•.•.••.....•..... 226
San Miguel ........•..... San Miguel ......•.......... 285
San Pedro •••..•.•.•...•• San Pedro .....•..•.•...••.. 332
San Rafael .•....••••••.•. Marin •...••.•••....•...... 191
Santa Ana ••.••...••..... Santa Ana •.....••••.•.••••• 241
Santa Barbara ••......•.•• Santa Ba:rbara ....•••.••••.. 192
''

.............. Magnolia .......................... 242

Santa Clara •••••••••••..• Liberty ........•••..•....•.. 299
Santa Cruz .............. Santa Cruz .. . ... . • .. • . . • . • . . 38
Sant.a Maria ••••.•....••.• Hesperian .•......••••.....• 264
Santa Monica ••..•....•.• Santa Monica ............... 307
Santa Paula ............. Santa Paula ................ 291
Santa Rosa ..••••••.••••.. Santa Rosa . • • . . . • • . • • • • . . . • 57
Salinas ..••.....•••.•••.. Salinas ..•••.....••••....... 204
Sanger •...••••••••.•.••• Sanger ......•••••...•••••.. 316
Sawtelle ...•••••...•••.•• Veteran ...•.•••.•..••.••... 373
Schofield Barracks .•.....• Schofield ..•.•..••.•.•••.•. .443
Sebastopol •...••••••.•.• ,La Fayette .•••.••.•...••••• 126
Sebna ••••.••......••••.. Selma •....•••••.•.•.••••••. 277
Shasta .••..••...•••••••. Western Star • • . • • • • • • • . . . • • 2
Sierra City .•.••••.•.•..•• Harmony .....•••••..•••••.. 164
Sierra Madre ••••..•••••.• Sierra Madre ••••......•..••. 406
Sierraville : .••••.•••••••• Sierra Valley ....•••.••..•.•• 184
Sisson •••.....••.•..••••• Sisson .......•.•••••.••••..• 310
Smartsville ...•...•••.•••• ~se 'a Bar ...••...••••....•• 89
South Pasadena ••.••••.•• South Pasadena ....•••.••••• S67
South San Francisco ....... Francis Drake .............. 376
Sonoma .••.•••••••.•••••• Temple . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 14
Sonora ••••••.....•.•.••• Tuolumne . . . . . • • . . • . • . . • • • • • 8
Stockton •....•.•.•.•••.•. San Joaquin .•...•.........• 19
''

................... . Morning Star ................ 68

Stony Ford •...••••••..•. Snow Mountain .•.••••...••. 271
Susanville ......... , ....• ,J,assen .•..........•...•.... 149
Sutter Creek .............. Henry Clay • • . . . .. .. • • .. . . . . 95
Suisun .•.•.••.•••.•.•..•. Suisun . . . . • . . . . • . . . • . . . . • . . 55
Taft .••••••.••..•....••. Midway ..•..•..••.•••.••••. 426

262

LOCATION OF LODGES
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Tehama. ••••••••••.•••••• Molino ••.••••.•• , •••••••••• 150
Tehachapi ••••••••••••.•• Tehachapi .•..•••.•••••••••• 313
Tonance ................. Torrance ................... 447
Traey ••.••••••••.••••••• Mt. Oso •.•.••...••••••.•••• 460
Truckee ................. Truckee .................... 200
Tulare .•.••..•••..•••..•• Olive Branch .••.•••.•••.•••• 269
Tuolumne .••.••••••..••... East Belt ..•••••.••••• , ••••• 391
Turlock .•••••••••••••.••• Turlock •• .'••.••••••••••.••• 395
Ukiah ..••••••.••.•.••..• Abell ••...•.••.•••.•.••••.. 146
Upland ••••.•..•••.••.••. Upland ••..••••••••••.••••. 419
Vallejo ••.•.••..••••..•.. Naval ..•••••.•••••••••••••• 87
''
.... ·.................. Solano ........................ 229
Vacaville ..••.•...••..•.. Vacaville •.•••••••.••••••••. 134
Van Nuys .•.•.•..•••..•.. Van Nuys .•..••.•••••••••• .450
Ventura ....••••••..•••.. San Buenaventura •••••.•••.. 214
Visalia •. , •.••.•••..•...• Visalia , .....•.•••••••••.•.• 128
Volcano •...••. -. •..••.•.. Volcano • . • . • • . • • • • • • • . • • • • • 56
Walnut Creek ••••....•••. Alamo ......•.•.•••••.•••.• 122
Watsonville ••..••..••...• Pajaro ••.•...••••.••••••••. 110
Watts ..•.•.•.••...•..••• York .••..••..•••.•••.•••.. 423
Weaverville ....•.•••.•.... Trinity . • . • . . . • • . • • • • • • • • • . • 27
Wheatland •••.••••••..... Nicolaus .••.•.••••••.••.••• 129
Whittier ••..••.•••.•••..• Whittier ••.•••••.•••••••.•.. 323
Winters ...•••..••.•.••••. Buckeye •.•..••.•.•••••••••• 195
Willit1:1 ••..••••••.•••..•. Willits ..•••••.••••.•••••.•• 365
Willows .•••..•.••..••... Laurel .•.•••..••••••.••••••• 245
·Windsor .•.•.•.•••.••..•. Russian River ••••.••••••.•• 181
Williams ••.•••••. ; .••...• Tuscan .•.•••••••••••••••..• 261
Wilmington ••.••••.••••.. Wilmington •••••• ·.•••••.•••• 198
Woodbridge .............. Woodbridge ................. 131
Woodland .••.•••..•.•.•.. Woodland ................... 156
Yolo •.•.•••••••••••.••.. Yolo .••••.•••••••••••••••• , 81
Yreka ................... St. John's .................. 37
'' ..•••••.•••.•.•.•.. Howard ••.••••••••.•••••••• 96
Yuba City ............... Enterprise ................... 70

Report of the
Committee on Correspondence

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1916

By EDWARD H. HART, P. G. M.
To THE GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA,
AND BRETHREN OF THIS JURISDlCTION:

INTRODUCTION.
I submit herewith my eighth annual report on Fraternal Correspondenee, whieh includes a review of sixty-five jurisdictions (two for
two years), being those whose proceedings are printed in the English
language, which have reached our table within the past year, Arizona
and Alberta volumes have not been received.
The proceedings reviewed are as follows:
LODGE-

YEAR.

Alabama .......•..•..•.... 1915
Arkansas .•..••••..••.•.•.• 1915
British Columbia ........•.. 1916
Canada, in the Province of
Ontario ......•...•...... 1916
Colorado .................. 1915
Connecticut ................ 1916
Delaware .................. 1915
District of Columbia ........ 1915
England ....••............. 1915
Florida .................... 1916
Georgia .•..•............... 1915
Idaho ..................... 1915
Illinois .................... 1915
Indiana ................... 1916
Iowa .....................• 1916
Ireland .......•....••.•... 11H5

LODGE-

YEAR.

Kansas ...•................ 1916
Kentucky ................. 1915
Louisiana ................. 1916
Maine ..................... 1915
Manitoba .................. 1916
.Maryland ............•..... 1915
Massachusetts ......•....... 1915
Mexico ............... 1915-1916
Michigan .................. 1916
Minnesota ................. 1916
l\fosissippi ................ 1916
Missouri .................. 1915
Montana .................. 1915
Nebraska .................. 1915
Nevada ................... 1915
New Brunswick ............. 1915
New Hampshire ............ 1916

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

2
LODGE-

YEAR.

LODGE-

YEAR.

New Jersey ................ 1916 Saskatchewan . , ............ 1915
New Mexico ............... 1915 Scotland ................... 1915
New South Wales .......... 19\lo ' South Australia ............ 1916
New York ................. 1916 South Carolina ............. 1915
New Zealand ............... 1915 South Dakota .............. 1916
::-forth Carolina ............ 1916 Tennessee ................. 1916
North Dakota . , ........... ·.1915 ' T(lxas ..•.... , ...........•.. 1915
Utah ..................... 1916
N o;a Sc.otia ....... : .' ...... 1915
Vermont .................. 1916
Ohio ...................... 1915
Oklahoma ................. 1916 Victoria, Aus. . ............. 1915
Oregon .................... 1916 Virginia ................... 1916
Pennsylvania .............. 1915 \Vashington ................ 1915
Philippine Islanc1s .. ~ ....... 1916 Western Australia .......... 1915
Prince Edward Island ... 1915-1916 West Virginia .............. 1915
Quebec .................... 1916 Wisconsin ................. 1916
Rhode Island ............... 1915 Wyoming .................. 1915
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD

H. HART,

Chairman of the Committee.

ALABAMA.
1915.

95th Annual, Montgomery, Dec. 1 and 2.
Lodges, 554; Membership, 27,916; gain, 368.
ful

The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshfp·
C. :!'.filler, Grand Master.

After the opening of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master delivered
his annual address, replete with information touching masonic activities
during the preceding year. He mentions the formation of nine new
lodges under dispensation, as one of the evidences of pronounced masonic
activity and growth.
The Grand Lodg<i suffered within the year a severe loss in the death
of the distinguished and beloved Brother Angus M. Seott, for fifteen
years the Grand Lecturer of the Grand Lodge, probably the most generally known and best beloved mason in the jurisdiction.
Reference is made, with especial pride to the :Masonic Home, a
creation of comparatively recent years in this jurisdiction, and the
Grand Master assures the brethren that they are absolutely unable to
form any idea of the good accomplished by this institution except
through a personal visit to the Home. This institution is accomplishing
magnificent masonic woi;.k, and has in store for it a career of vast benefi·
cence and good.
The Grand Master falls in line with the tendency of very recent
years to get away from the idea of physical perfection, and disregard,
to a large extent, this tradition, which we have inherited from operative
masons, to the end that emphasis be placed upon our teaching that it is
the 'internal and not the external qualifications which recommend a man
to be made a mason. Grand Master Miller fails to see why a stiff knee,
or the loss of a first joint of a thumb, or some equally unimportant circumstance, should prevent a good man from becoming a mason.
The Grand Master is unquestionably correct, and, as stated, his
thought is simply in line with the drift of masonic opinion almost everywhere.
In connection with the visitation to subordinates, Grand Master
Miller appreciates, as possibly some Grand Masters do not appreciate,
the very great benefit which a subordinate lodge receives from official
contact ·with the ruling Grand Master, and he states that it is his firm
conviction that the Grand Mast<ir can accomplish great good, and render
a most genuine service by coming in contact with the members of the
several lodges, greeting them personally, and allowing them to feel the

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

warmth of his presence, and the genial friendship conveyed in the cordial
hand-grasp.
He voices his conception of the high ideal of masonry in the following paragraph from the conclusion of his splendid address:
''Today, as never before, has Masonry had the respect and admiratiQJl of all thinking people. Its stand for morality and right-living;
its stand for education and enlightenment; its stand for independence
in free thought and free speech and the right to worship our God according to the dictates of our own conscience, without infringing upon the
rights of any man, has endeared it to the hearts of all good and true
men, who honor their home, their God and their country.''
This jurisdiction has, in our opinion, an excellent method of passing
upon constitutional amendments, in that hasty action is prevented by
the method adopted in changing the fundamental law of the jurisdiction.
For instance, before an amendment can be considered, it must have a
vote of one third of the members present in the Grand Lodge when the
amendment is offered, and then the amendment is submitted to all of
the lodges of the jurisdiction, who are required to vote thereon within
the year following the submission of the amendment and make returns
of their vote upon the amendment to the Grand Secretary, and the
returns are then announced at the next Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge, and amendments can only be adopted by an affirmative
vote of two thirds of all of the lodges in the jurisdiction. This method
forces every lodge to consider carefully in its own meeting the proposed
amendment, and this affords an opportunity for all master masons to
express their opinions as to the wisdom of the proposed change. This
method of constitutiunal amendment prevents, as stated, hasty action,
and compels a knowledge upon the part of all of the lodges as to changes
that are made in the organic law.
In accordance with recommendations of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, fraternal recognitio"n was extended to the Grand Lodge
of Queensland, and fraternal recognition was also extended to the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands, and in this connection it is worthy of
comment that the pretensions of the so-called Regional District Lodge
of the Philippine Islands, presided over by one Mendoza, were decided
as being without foundation or merit, and the protest against the recognition of the regular Grand Lodge of the Philippines was disregarded.

We have in some of our comments in former years, referred to what
has seemed to us the incongruity of the reception in the Grand Lodge
of masons, even when at ease, of delegates from the Order of the Eastern
Star.
We would not presume to criticise any jurisdiction for anything it
might, in its judgment, approve, yet, as stated, the reception of a dele-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

5

gation of ladies seems incongruous. This circumstance is mentioned
because in the afternoon of the second day of the Annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge, the Grand Secretary presented to the members of
the Grand Body a communication from the Grand Chapter Order of
E~stern. Star of Alabama requesting that the Grand Lodge adopt a
smtable token and pass-word whereby the members of the Order of
Eastern Star could make themselves known to Master Masons who were
~ot. themselves ~embers of that Order, and upon the same afternoon,
it is recorded m the Proceedings that Sister Elizabeth Salter Past
Grand Ma.tron, etc., presented on behalf of the delegation of ladies' which
~rpeare_d m Grand Lodge representing the Order of the Eastern Star a
beautiful bunch of lovely roses" to the Grand Master.

~he Grand Master was, no doubt, more or less overcome with
emot10n, y:t _he recovered himself sufficiently to express his gratitude
and apprecrnt.10n, and congratulate the good women upon the great work
they _were do1~g, and the beautiful ladies retired singing ''Blessed be
the tie that bmds' '· Fine stuff, but, as stated~ incongruous in a Grand
Lodge of Master Masons.
T~e report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by the Chairman
Worshipful Nathaniel L. Mewhinney. He uses the topical form bel·
.
h
·
·
,
IeVmg, as e states m his preface, that it is the form best adapted t
· f
t•
t th
o convey
m orma 10n o e members of his own jurisdiction and upon the th
h" h h
'
eory,
w ic
e advances, and which is no doubt the correct theory that th
correspondence report is intended for the benefit of the memb'
f h"e
ers 0
IS
• • d" •
~uris ict~on, he presents the best method of enabling members to gather
~nformat10n upon any particular topic in which they may be personall
mterested.
y
We have· no criticism to offer of the method pursued, although it is
contrary to the form of review almost universally adopted.
M. ·. W. ·. WALTER SMITH, Grand Master Tuscaloosa.
R. · · W. · · GEORGE A. BEAUCHAMP, Grand Secretary, Montgomery.

ARKANSAS.
1915.

74th Annual, Little Rock, Nov. 16-17.
Lodges, 563; Membershi.p, 27,660.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful Charles E. Rosenbaum, Grand Master.
. ~~e Gr~n~ Master's Address is a carefully prepared report of his
activities w1thm the year. He mentions at the outset th 1
h"
·
'
,
e oss w ich

7

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

6

the G!'and Jurisdiction had suffered in the passing onwaxd of Most
Worshipful A. J. Witt, Past Grand :!Yiaster, and Most Worshipful Christopher C. Ayers, Past Grand Master, in whose honor suitable memorials
are presented.
Dispensation to form one new lodge was granted, and several dispensations asked for for this purpose were refused.
Reference is made by the Grand Master to the refusal on the part
of his Grand J,odge, several years since, to officially endorse or make an
appropriation in aid "of the George Washington National Memorial proj·
ect, but the Grand Master believes that, since that time the progress that
the enterprise has made, and the merit which it is generally conceded to
possess, entitles the matter to another hearing which "he recommends be
given.
In passing we may say that the subject was continued under advise·
ment at the next Annual Communication.
Under the section devoted to "decisions", he states that he has
not rendered an opinion within the year that he deems worthy to desig·
nate as a decision, and he" gives expression to the opinion that bis
decision in that respect is no different than that of many of bis predecessors, and he cherishes the hope that the practice, so prevalent in the
jurisdiction, of passing up to the Grand Master for decision the most
simple and elementary questions may cease, and that the brethren will
undertake in future to inform themselves, by a little study, of the funda·
mental laws, rules, and regulations of the jurisdiction.
He refers approvingly to the Masonic Orphans' Home and School
which he regards as one of the outstanding featurei; of the jurisdiction,
in which the brethren may tak.e just pride.
Reference is made by him to the approaching seventy-fifth anniversary of the foundation of the Grand Lodge to take place a year
hence, and recommends that suitable provision be taken to celebrate that
auspicious event.
In concluding his excellent address, the Grand Master expresses bis
deep appreciation of the cordial co-operation and support which be has
received from the Grand Officers, Past Grand Masters, and particularly
of the cordial good will and friendship of the brethren which he bas
felt bas been accorded him from all quarters of the jurisdiction.

At the evening session of the first day of the Grand Communication, the Grand Orator, Brother Louis Bauerlein, delivered a scholarly
address which was received with marked approval by the Grand Lodge,
the Orator being greeted by "hearty applause and at the conclusion of

his effort, a resolution of thanks was adopted and the address orderetl
to be printed in full in the Proceedings.
"
In illustration of perhaps the main theme of his address· that . the
truly usef~l m~n is the one who" radiates and gives out the good that
c?mes to him, mstead of selfishly absorbing all within himself we quote

~u~-=

'

d
''Tb.ere are tw? great conflicting influences, one uplifts the other
Legrades, one upbmlds,, the other tears down. One is the i~fluence of
ov; ~nd Truth and brmgs peace; the other is the .influence which persu.a e .our :first parents to disobey the divine command, and brou ht
mi~ei;y mt~ the world. One is generous, the other selfish and both ~re
str1kmgly 1llu~tr~ted by nature. If you will bear with 'me for a few
moments, I will m my feeble way attempt to draw the picture. ·
"Let. us, in imagina~io~, ~ravel e~st. Over in Palestine we find two
of wate~, ms1gmficant m sze, but because of their. connection with sacred history, important. One is the Sea of Galilee the
~ther the Dea~ Sea; both are fed by the River .Jordan and the rains from
.eaven fall ahke upon each" In disposition they are as unlike as the
~1ght of ~oon and the darkness of mitlnight. Aroun<l the Sea of Galilee
a luxunant growth of vegetation; flowers bud and blossom tall trees
:n ;vhose branches a!e heard the .songs of birtls warbling th~ir praises'
:n its ?oson'. fish ~hrive; men and beasts come to its waters for refresh'.
mg drmk; _it receives. the waters ~ro1!1 the J ortlan and then gives them
up so that 1t cai; contmue to flow m 1ts course. It receives the blessin
?f nature and m turn blesses all that come within the range of it~
mfluence. The Dead Sea, too, receives the waters from the River
.Jortlan and selfishly refuses to give them up. The banks around the
De~d Sea are ba;r~n, not a blade of grass, flower or shrub can
row
fll Its bosom no hvmg thing can exist and it is said that a bird tt g t ·
mg to fly over the Dead Sea will fall, die and be swallowed ua f:1t~
waters.. It accepts every blessing that comes its wav and gives p
l
that 'Yb1ch nature, through ·evaporation forces from it It · ~p on Y
are evil and produce Death.''
'
·
s m uences
sma~l bod~es

:s

Also:
"\Ve may admire th~ Grand Master who rules in the East the
Grand Orator who can deliver an eloque!)t address the Grand Lecturer
w 10 can repeat ~vord. for word the beautiful Ritual or the wealth.
Mason who can "give bis thousands to the widows and'orphans. but thy
greatest Mason rn the man who ~aily lives his Masonry and who in hi:
rery Rofdf ac~ a;d deed practrnes the beautiful tenets of Brotherlv
otvte, e ie an
ri;ith i:-nd who unconsciously influences others to Jive
be er, purer and holier hves.''
"
We have been unable thus far to avoid the thought of the ·
't
f
.·
mcon?"1i.Y o a delegat10n of ladies from. the Order of Eastern Star appearmg m a Grand Lodge of Mason~ yet this is a cireumstance that is not
of unfrequent occurre~ce in different Grand Lodges, and that such an
e7ent was regar~ed with marked approval by this Grand Lodge at this
hme m~y "be Judged from the following entry in the Journal of
Proceedmgs :

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

6

the Grand .Iurisdiction had suffereq in the passing onward of Most
Worshipful A. J. Witt, Past Grand Master, and Most Worshipful Chris·
topher C. Ayers, Past Grand Master, in whose honor suitable memorials
are presented.
Dispensation to form one new lodge was granted, and several dis·
pensations asked for for this purpose were refused.
Reference is made by the Grand Master to the refusal on the part
of his Grand Lodge,· several years since, to officially endorse or make an
appropriation in aid 'of the George Washington National Memorial project, but the Grand Master believes that, since that time the progress that
the enterprise has made, and the merit which it is generally conceded to
possess, entitles the matter to another hearing which .he recommends be
given.
In passing we may say that the subject was continued under advise·
ment at the next Annual Communication.
Under the section devoted to "decisions", he states that he has
not rendered an opinion within the year that he deems worthy to designate as a decision, and he' gives expression to the opinion that his
decision in that respect is no different than that of many of his predecessors, arid he cherishes the hope that the practice, so prevalent in the
jurisdiction, of passing up to the Grand Master for decision the most
simple and elementary questions may cease, and that the brethren will
undertake in future to inform themselves, by a little study, of the fundamental laws, rules, and regulations of the jurisdiction.
He refers approvingly to the Masonic Orphans' Home and School
which he regards as one of the outstanding features of the jurisdiction,
in which the brethren may tak.e just pride.
Reference is made by him to the approaching seventy-fifth anni·
versary of the foundation of the Grand Lodge to take place a year
hence, and recommends that suitable provision be taken to celebrate that
auspicious event.
In concluding his excellent address, the Grand Master expresses his
deep appreciation of the cordial co-operation and support which he has
received from the Grand Officers, Past Grand Masters, and particularly
of the cordial good will and friendship of the brethren which he has
felt has been accorded him from all quarters of the jurisdiction.
At the evening session of the first day of the Grand Communication, the Grand Orator, Brother Louis Bauerlein, delivered a scholarly
address which was received with marked approval by the Grand J..odge,
the Orator being greeted by hearty applause and at the conclusion of

7

his effort, a resolution of thanks was adopted and the address ordered
to be printed in full in the Proceedings.
In illustration of perhaps the main theme of his address' that the
truly usef~l m.an is. the .one \Vho radiates and
out the good that
c?mes to him, mstead of selfishly absorbing all within himself,· we quote
his as follows :
"There are two great conflicting influences one uplifts the other
d
Legrndes; one up builds,_ the other. tears down. One is the i~fluence of
ove and Truth and bnngs peace; the other is the .influence which ersu.aded .our first parents to disobey the divine command, and bro! ht
m1~e~y mt~ the world. One is generous, the other selfish, and both ~re
stnkmgly illu~tr~ted by nature. If you will bear with me for a few
moments, I will m my feeble way attempt to draw the picture. ·
''Let. us, in imagination, travel east. Over in Palestine we find two
smal;l bod.ies of water, insignificant in sze, but 'because of their connect10n with sacred history, important. One is the Sea of Galilee the
other the Dea~ Sea; both are fed by the River .Tordan and the rains from
~eaven fall ahke upon each. In disposition they are as unlike as the
)ight of n;oon and the darkness ~f midnight. Around the Sea of Galilee
:s a luxuriant growth of vegetation; flowers bud and blossom, tall trees
~n _whose branches a~e heard the songs of birds warbling their praises'
:n its ?oson: fish ~hrive; men and beasts come to its waters for refresh:
mg drink; .it rec01ves the waters from the J'ordan and then gives the
up so that it cai;. continue to flow in its ~ou:rse. It receives the blessinm
?f nature and m turn blesses all th:<t come within the range of it~
mfluence. The Dead Sea, too, receives the waters from the River
.Jordan and selfishly refuses to give them up. The banks around the
Dea;d Sea are ba!r~n, n~t a blade of grass, flower or shrub can row
!n its bosom no hvmg thmg can exist and it is said that a bird att:m
mg to fly over the Dead Sea will fall, die and be swallowed u in 1ts
waters .. It accepts every blessing that· comes its way and gives ~p onl
that which nature, through evaporation forces from it It · ft
y
are evil and produce Death.''
'
·
s rn uences

t:

Also:
"We may a d mue
.
t h e Grand Master who rules in the East

the

G~and Orator who can deliver an eloquent address, the Grand Lecturer
w o can repeat :vord. for word the beautiful Ritual or the wealth
Mason who can .give hrn thousands to the widows and 'orphans. but th~
greatest Mason is the man who ;;Jaily lives his Masonry and who in his
rery wo~d, act and deed practices the beautiful tenets of Brotherly
,otvt·e, Relief and Tri;ith ~nd who unconsciously influences others to live
b e er, purer and hoher hves."
. We have been. unable thus far to avoid the thought of the incongruity
Star appear.
. of a delegation of ladies from the Order of Eastern
'
mg m a Grand Lodge of Mason&, yet this is a circumstance that is not
of unfrequent occurre~ce in different Grand Lodges, and that such an
e;ent was regar~ed with marked approval by this Grand Lodge at this
time m~y · be Judged from the following entry in the Journal of
Proceedmgs:

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"Mrs. Minnie Maxwell, Grand Matron of the Order of .the Eastern
Star of Arkansas, was introduced, and made a most pleasmg Address
on the relation of the Order of the Eastern Star to the work of the
Masonic Fraternity. The Address, delivered with. rare fluency and ease1
was most attentively listened to b;: the large a~d1ence, and ma~,e a profound impression, being greeted with long-contmued applause.
The Superintendent of the Masonfo Orphans' Home at this time
presented and introduced three of the girl pupils of the Home, who
entertained the Grand Body, making, so we are informed, a most favorable impression, as being worthy products of the care and efficiency of
the management of the Home.
After this ceremony, the members of the Eastern Star, so w? are
told, then withdrew, and the Grand Lodge formally resumed its busmess.
Among the pleasing incidents of the last day of the Communieati?n,
after the installation of the newly elected officers, was the presentation
of the Past Grand Master's jewel to Brother Rosenbaum. Brother
Rosenbaum was also highly commended in an address by the Grand
Secretary, Most Worshipful Fay Hempstead, and particular refere~ce
was made to the important part taken by Brother Rosenbaum as an Active
Member of the Supreme Council of the Thirty Third Degree, Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite Mason of the Southern Jurisdiction of
the United States, as Chairman of the Executive Committe_e of that
organization, which had the superintendence _of the cons~ruction of the
$2,000,000 "House of the Temple" in the City of Washmgton, D. C.
Brother Hempstead 's enconiums of praise showered upon Brother
Rosenbaum were received with "pronounced applause by the brethren".

M:. w:. L. P. KEMPER, Grand Master, Siloam Springs.
R:. w:. FAY HEMPSTEAD, Grand Secretary, Little Rock.
BRITISH COLUMBIA.

and were working under disadvantages on account' of the absence, in
many cases, of the most active members.
He visited the subordinate lodges very freely within the year,
inspiring them, no doubt, with the true spirit and exalted ideals of
masonry.
He issued a dispensation to form one new lodge in the City of
Vancouver, and, in closing his Address, voices his deep appreciation of
the invaluable services rendered to him in connection with the discharge
of his duties by the honored and respected Grand Secretary, Very
Worshipful Brother, Dr. DeWolf-Smith.

In the Grand Secretary's report is an incomplete list of members
of the jurisdiction who had enlisted for active service with the armies
of Great Britain in the world conflict in progress upon the Continent of
Europe, and the names of these patriots are recorded upon the Honor
Roll of the Grand Lodge.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge
of the Philippine Islands, this being the second year that this matter
was up for consideration, the action of the preceding year being a post·
ponement of decision of the question of recognition until the present
Communiea ti on.
An exceedingly interesting report on Foreign Correspondence is
submitted by Very Worshipful W. A. DeWolf-Smith, Chairman of the
Committee, his report being characterized by exceedingly intelligent and
timely comment, displaying a vast fund of masonic information and
knowledge.
He reviews two years of California work covering the Grand Annual
Communications of 1914 and 1915.

M:. w:. WILLIAM ASTLEY, Vancouver, Grand Master.
V.". W:. W. A. DEWOLF-SMITH, New Westminster, Grand Secretary.

1916.
45th Annual, Vancouver, June 22nd.
Lodges, 80; membership, 7,797; gain, 100.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, Most Worshipful
Brother William C. Ditmars,· Grand Master, presiding.
The Grand Master's address is brief and businesslike. He reports
tbat the Craft in general is in a very satisfactory cond.ition, althou~h
the numerical growth had not been so great the preeedmg yea: as m
other recent years stating that many of the lodges were feelmg the
effects of the gig~ntic struggle in which the Empire is now engaged,

9

CANADA, IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO.

1915.
60th Annual, Hamilton, July 21-22.
Lodges, 446; membership, 59,748; gain, 2,472.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful William Devid McPherson, Grand Master.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, an Address
of Welcome was made by Chester' S. Walters, Mayor of the City of

10

.REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Hamilton. He referred to the eimumstanee that sixty· years before in
the same City of Hamilton, the Grand Lodge of Canada in the Provinee
of Ontario was organized, and from that. small, beghming the membership in the Grand Jurisdietion had imm.~ased to nearly 60,000.

had existed up to that moment was cast to the winds. Thereafter there
was no hesitation in the British Parliament or throughout the Empire,

He referred with patriotic pride to the 10,000 Canadians masons
fighting for English liberty away upon the fields of Franee _and ~elgium.
The Grand Master. replied to the Address of Welcome .rn fitting and
appreeiative language.
The Address of the Grand Master was made up of a statement of
his offieial aetivities within the year, mentioning especially the four new
lodges to which he had granted dispensations, and to the constitution of
the ten or more lodges to which charters had been granted at ·the pre·
·
ceding Annual Communication.
He speaks feelingly of the Fraternal Dead, referring especially to
thti eminent masonic historian, Right Worshipful Brother Robert Freke
Gould, especially honored among English jurisdictions. '
The Grand Ma)lter refers to a number .of rulings made by him con-.
struing the Jaw of the jurisdiction, and he sets forth a. list of official
visitations. made by him, resulting 1 we doubt not, in great good to the
Fraternity throughout the jurisdiction.
. The most important theme touched upon by the Grand Master was
the great war in which England, and incidentally her colonies, are engaged, and he presents thtJ war, and the conditions which· brought the
war about, so strongly from .the British standpoint that we quote several
paragraphs upon this subject as follows:
''In the ten years preceding 'the prese~t tit~nie contest, Germany
threatened Europe with war on three 0Mas10ns; m 1905· when s?e. demanded and obtained the resignation of :M. Delcasse, the French Mrn1ster
of Foreign Affairs as the alternative; in· 1909 wh'ei;i she thr~w h~r
''Shining Armour' ' into the scale and compell:d Russia to acqu1ese m
the annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina by Austria-Hungary and the tearing up the treaty of Berlin, and again in 1911 when. she e:id~av~,red, at
Agadir, to coerce France and break up her entente with ~ntarn.

*

*

,.,

' ' *'

*

"It is the pride of every British subject that Britai~ was not the

aggressor, but that she was compelle~ to resort to arms m de~enee of
the liberty and civ:ilization, of huinamty .and sacred tre~t:i; obhgat1ons.
She decided to go to. war, and is supported J;>Y ,the Dom1mons oyer-sea,
because her honour was involved, and the existence of the Empire was
at stake.
"Undoubtedly she was unprepared, but the general situation ;yas
that she had no option. .The immediate violatioi; by Germany ::>f. Belgian
neutrality, coupled with King .Albert '.s telegraphic ~ppeal to Kmg George
to safeguard Belgian neutrality demded the question. Whatever doubt

11

"Simultaneously with that event the Empire from one end to the

oth~r s~w wha~ Gerrr;any aimed. at, and realization of it crystalized

feelrng rnto action which has received world-wide approval.

. "To the world gene_rally1 war is a horrible thing-a final resort by
w.hich to defend som.e ~ital rnterest, wh~n all the ordinary methods of
diplomacy and negotiation an~ ~o~promise have failed. To the ruling
clasS!Js of Germany, h?wever, it is JUBt the reverse. They glorify war as
a supreme test of national character. Nations unwilling to risk war in
support of their aims, are branded as inferior, destined to be trampled
over by the superior determination and self-sacrifice of the Germanic
ri:ce. War, therefore, with all its horrors, is the first instrument of their
c11plomacy, to be threatened and declared as it happens to suit the interests of Germany.
·
''That any nation ealling itself a great civilized power should

threa~en to attack a small inoffensive neighbor whose· independence it

had itself guaranteed, should trample it ruthlessly under foot as an
enemy, because it valued its self-respect and refused under threats to
open a right-of-way to the heart of a friendly neighbor-made men
realize what the gospel of 'winning your way by force of arms' really
meant.''

*

*

*

*

*

"She assumed, no doubt that the Belgians would bow to the inevitable and submit to her invasion. She was mistaken. King Albert and
his. people pro~ested. with arms i.n their hands. IIad Belgium been
gmded by considerations of material good and immediate interest she
would instantly have accepted the Kaiser's promise not to mole~t or
injur~ her, i~ he was allowed_ an undisputed passage to the French
fron~1er f?r his troop~. But this easy and inglorious course received no
cons1derat10n by Belgium for even a moment. She unhesitatingly ehose
the path of honour and duty, and made an irreparable sacrifice of
material good for moral glory.
''For the ~oment the Belgia~s stemmed th.e German torrent. Liege
successfully resisted the enemy till overwhelmmg artillery pounded its
fo_rts to ~he ground. Foot by foot the gallant Belgians and their heroic
Kmg resisted, but the mass of invaders irresistible rolled them back.
Brussells the Capital, and Antwerp the citadel had successively to be
abandoned. Finally ahnost all the kingdom was submerged. The ·government was eompelled to retire to France and the King to his unbroken
army.
"Meanwhile the German legions, like a horde of barbarians ravaged, plundered and destroyed the country they had solemnly engaged
themselves to protect. For the moment Belgium was · the bulwark of
Europe and of public law.
''The historfo s~and of Thermoplyae against the hordes of Xerxes
was not more splendid. There has been no desolation like it since the
thirty years' war of three centuries ago."

*

*

*

*

*

"Po~t.erity to the. utmost ends of the earth must pay homage to
the Belgians who saerificed all but honour to preserve their own inde-

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

l'IBPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

pendence, and safeguard the liberties of civilized humanity. Whil.e lo".e
of liberty endures, and the character and greatness of a nation is
measured by its ideals, the valour and heroism of the Belgians shall .be
the exemplar and inspiration to all the generations unborn. Impartial
people of humane instincts will .mak~ it their first duty, when the .deluge
subsides to see to it that Belgium is restored to her own and rises to
eminence as the great and glorious nation she so richly deserves to be."

*
*
*
*
*
"Belgium from the first has been treated brutally. She inflicted
no wrong upon Germany, but was one of. the m?st un?~ending little
countries in the world, peaceable, hard·workmg, thrifty, givmg offence to
no one. Her fields have been trampled, her villages burned, her art
treaBurers destroyed, her men slaughtered, yea, and her women and
children too. Hundreds of thousands of her people, with homes burned
to the ground, are wandering homeless in Belgium and abroad. Their
only crime was that they trusted to the word of a Prussian King.''
As evidence of the feeling of intense sympathy for Belgium, the
masonic Grand Lodge of Canada, raised a cash contribution, within the
year, for the relief of Belgian sufferers, amounting to $45,632.81.
The Grand ]\faster in his address finds it impossible to get away
from the all absorbing subject of the war and the different ideals
animating the warring nations, and contrasting the British Colonial system with the German, the Grand ~faster states as follows:
"We owe it to the Kaiser that this war has demonstrated the
essential unity of our Empire. The German people were told by their
advisers that· the British Empire was decadent. Instead it has proved
itself to be tense with unity and instinct with life. It extends over every
sea and continent and bas unquestionably been the great force in tho
interests of civiliz~tion and humanity. The British ideal of building up
self-governing Dominions has proved itsel~ to be, ,the true one. It. is an
ideal of ,government, not by grace, but of right. lhe German cololl:1es, on
the other hand have been State undertakings, not ruled by the will and
consent of the' people, but by a military autocracy. With us, undoubt·
edly1 it is the spirit of the B.ritish cons.ti~ution which, infused throufth
the mighty mass, pervades, umtes, and vivifies every part of the Empire
even down to the remotest member.''

*

*

*

*

*

'' 'fhe watchword of the British Empire is, and always has been,
not 'Dominion' but 'Liberty.' For the German's belief in Germany it
substitutes a profounder belief in humanity; instead of enforcing a
uniform Germany it looks to the development of €very other race and
people within its boundaries to the highest of which it is ~ap~ble ;. in
place of the dominance of one race as t~1e cei;ient of a?- empire s un:ty,
it inculcates spontaneous loyalty of the mhabitants to its self·govermng
institutions and the free spirit which informs them.
''Today in South Africa we see General Louis. Botha, who fought
against the British a few years ago, now the Premrnr of a .g.reat selfgoverning British ~olony,. and personally the leader ?f the Bnti~h forces
to a magnificent victory m German South-west Africa, conquermg them
and compelling the ab~olute and uncondit~onal surre~der of all their
forces there.. Could there be a gre~ter tribute to wise and sagacious

13

governmentf No other country would have dreamed of giving free gov·
ernment to the Boers after the war, and no nation except Britain would
have dar:d to do it. No Empire ever received a richer harvest from
any seedmg that that which Britain has reaped as a result of her fair
treatment of the South African Colonies. It proves conclusively that if
men are trusted, they will loyally respond.''

Fr~m th.e reports of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary,
one easily discovers that notwithstanding the terriffie strain which the
war has placed upon Canada, masonry has been exceedingly prosperous
and ha~ s~rengthened itself numerically, :financially, moi;ally and spiritually w1thm the year preceding.
The various Funds are in a prosperous condition. The so-called
Semi-centennial Fund, being the principal charity fund, amounts now to
over $210,000 and from the interest of this fund, disbursements are made
in carrying forward the great work of charity of the jurisdiction. We
learn from a perusal of the Proceedings, that elaborate banquets have
largely been cut out during the year, and expense that would otherwise
have been entailed in these functions has been contributed to patrioti(l
purposes.
The .report on Correspondence is by Most Worshipful A. T. Freed,
Past Grand ]\faster. He presents a concise review of the various juris·
dictions. California, 1914, is courteously considered. He states in his
review of our jurisdiction that it is pretty certain that there is no jurisdiction in the world in which masonic relief is so liberally granted to
foreign brethren as in California, and he laments the fact that this liberality is frequently imposed upon, particularly by members from foreign
jurisdictions, such as Scotland, whose Grand Lodges never even pretend
to make any restitution for advances made to their members. California
masons realize how true this statement is, yet they do not shirk their
responsibilities, but endeavor to discharge their obligations as masons,
even if there is an entire absence of probability of financial reim·
bursement.
M.". W.". Bro. SYDNEY A. LUKE, Grand Master, Ottawa.
R.". W.". Bro. R. L. GUNN, Grand Secretary, Hamilton.

COLORADO.

1915.

55tb Annual, Denver, Sept. 21·22.
Lodges, 129; membership, 17,422; gain, 664.
Five Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held within
the year for various purposes, the one perhaps mos~ noteworthy being

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Special Communication of June 19th for the purpose of laying the
corner stone of the New Federal Building at La Junta, Colo.

·Masters; Most Worshipful Chase Withrow, who presided over the Gtand
Lodge in 1866. Brother Withrow made some happy remarks which were
received with cordial approval by his brethren.

The oration upon this occasion was delivered by Acting Grand
Orator Brother Fred A. Sabin, of Euclid Lodge No. 64, and we presume,
inasmuch as the effort was indirectly connected with the Federal Government, the address of the Grand Orator was devoted to a large extent to
a laudation of the National administration, and particularly the Executive at Washington, to whom the Orator referred as the ''Grand Silent
Statesman at \-Vashington "·
The Chief Exeeutive was extolled as superior, or at least the equal,
in excellence, of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln and Thomas
Jefferson; in fact, the Ora tor characterized him as possessing in one
person the supreme qualities that characterized all of these distinguished
characters in American history, yet we never before have heard Woodrow
Wilson described as the ''Silent Statesman''. The impr<ission that we
had received of the present Chief Executive has been that he is anything
but "silent", even departing from the traditions of more than a hundred
years to deliver his messages to Congress by word of mouth, instead of by
messenger, and we venture the opinion, also, that there is not entire
unanimity of approval of the sentiment expressed by the Orator that
our country' is superlatively fortunate in being at this time under the
guidance of this "silent statesman".
The Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form by the Most
Worshipful Charles H. Dudley, Graud Master. He sets forth in his
address a comprehensive statement of his official activities within the
year. The Grand Lodge under his direction constituted the several
lodges that received charters at the preceding Annual Communication;
he issued one dispensation for a new lodge; he dedicated one masonic
temple; he placed the corner stones of four public buildings; he made
numerous official visitations to subordinate lodges; and reports generally
a very satisfactory conditions of the Craft.
The official family of the Grand Lodge was invaded by the Grim
Reaper in that Past Grand Master Harper Orahood was called to his
reward as was also Worshipful George G. Slater, Grand Tiler for many
years of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Orator Worshipful, Clarence M. Kellogg, delivered a
scholarly and eloquent address, for which he received the thanks of the
Grand Lodge and the oration was ordered to be printed in full in the
General Proceedings.
In the afternoon of the first day of the session, the Grand Master
introduced to the Grand Lodge the Dean of the living Past Grand

15

On the second day of the Communic~tion, a~· address was made by
the Grand Chaplain Worshipful_ Brother C.'. X. 'Snyder. He arraigned
in no uncertain language, th<i noI)·citizeil, law-brwi.king elements, importations into Colorado, that have. served in mol'e .than one instance to
bring discredit upon the fair name of his State, and he voices the
opinion that the stable and conservative influence of masonry, and the
patriotic attitude of such men as constitute the back:bone of our Fraternity in this state, would ultimately redeem the 'State from certain
lawless elements that have found shelter therein,
Most Worshipful Lawrence N. Greenleaf presents his thirty-first
report on Fraternal Correspondence. His reviews, as usual, are replete
"."ith intelligent, illuminating comment; he selects with discriminating
Judgment, and sets forth under each jurisdiction the. salient and interesting features.
California, 1914, is generously reviewed with liberal quotations
from Grand Master Murphy's address. ·
·
·
In his conclusion, he refers to the high quality of manhood that is
going into current membership, and draws attention to the fact that
while increase in membership in America in masonic lodges is marked,
yet out of the more than 1,500,000 masons in this country, there are
very. few cases. indeed calling .for masonic .discipline.
He also notes, what is quite true, a marked tendency in recent
times to relax the strict requirements concerning physical qualifications,
and calls attention to even Texas,. which. is . yet a great stickler for
physieal perfectio11 1 which. has let down the bars slightly and. he might
have referred particularly to Cftlifornia which by recent constitutional
amendment has, in harmony with the rule of the ·Grand Lodge of England, referred the matter of physical qualifications to the action of the
subordinate lodges, which ar!l:to be governed by the rule that the applicant should be able to "B\1.bstantially" conform to the requirements of
the several degrees.
He has correctly dise~rned that the s.o-called Na~ional Grand J,odge
of France is reduced 'under the searchlight of investigation to the size
of a pigmy, .as ind~ed' considerable of a hoax, according to latest
developments.
He culls from th{ 1owa proceedings; the followin·g information
concerning· National ·Masonic conventions and conferences of Grand
1\fasters, which hav<i beeri''held at various times in this country, gbing

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

back as far as 1822, with the latent purpose, usually disclaimed, of
forming, if possible, a General Grand Lodge:

1915, and represented the 26th anniversary of the founding of the
Home. He voiced his conception of this benificent institution in the
following expressive language:

"NATIONAL MASONIC CONVENTIONS.

''_My Brothers, o.ur Masonic Home is not a theory, it is a real live,
up-to-date fact. It is a true expression of Masonry in the most concrete form, and is the real ideal and practical objective of the Craft.
Ev:ery member o~ this great Fraternity should realize the magnitude of
this great Masomc undertaking and also his own real responsibility for
the future progress and efficiency of the institution. I trust no Brother
will go home after this Grand Lodge Communication without an· accurate knowledge of the Home, its accomplishments, its needs and a
thorough realization of those things the Craft must do in order to place
our Home in a position to meet future demands.''

16

Held at Washington, D. C., March 9, 1822; May 7, 1842.
Held at Baltimore, Md., May 8, 1843; eptember 23, 1847.
Held at Lexington, Ky., September 17, 1853.
Held at Washington, D. C., January 3, 1855.
Held at Chicago, Ill., September 13, 1859; September 4, 1877;
August 14, 1893.
CONFERENCE OF GRAND MASTERS.
Held at Philadelphia, Pa., June 1, 1908.
Held at Baltimore, Md., November 16, 1909.
Held at Indianapolis, Ind., May 28, 1912.
Held at St. Louis, Mo., May 14-16, 1914."
M.". W.". ROBERT M. SIMONS, Grand Master, Denver.
M.". M.". CHARLES H. JACOBSON, Grand Secretary, Denver.

CONNECTICUT.

1916.
128th Anual, Hartford, Feb 2-3.
Lodges, 110; membership, 25,983; gain, 611.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most Worshipful
Clarence R. Austin, Grand Master, and of the 110 lodges on the roll,
110 were represented, the remarkable percentage of 100.
The Grand Master was able to state, with deep feeling of gratitude,
that within the preceding year the Grand Lodge had suffered through
death but one loss, that being Past Deputy Grand Master Augustus
C. Golding.
Four anniversary celebrations of certain lodges of the jurisdiction
were held within the year ;-Hamilton Lodge No. 54 of Sharon celebrated its lOOth anniversary; St. John's Lodge No. 6 of Norwalk
celebrated its 150th anniversary; as did also King Solomon Lodge No.
7 of Woodbury. When one reads of anniversary celebrations such as
these, he feels that such celebrations as the fiftieth anniversaries are
amateurish.
The Grand Master refers to the one great event of the year in this
jurisdiction, that is "Grand Masters' Day"· This celebration is heltl
at the Masonic Home, and the celebration this year occurred Sept. 25,

The Grand Master protested against the modern tendency of too
much publicity in connection with masonic affairs. Masonry, in his
opinion, should be content to go forward and do its great work without
ostentation or parade, and he is strongly of the opinion that anything
like advertisement, or in the nature of public display, should be frowned
upon and discouraged.
The following is a paragraph taken from his remarks upon this
subject:
'' Mas.onry e~ters into the P1;1bl!c life of the present age in a large
and ever mcreasmg degree. This is due to the high character of the
produc.t of the Order in ev_ery environment in which it is placed, and
never m any case, at least m so far as the principles of the Order are
involved, is any individual put forward for public advancement and
honor on account of his Masonic connections. Therefore why advise the public on matters in which it has no concern, no interest no part and
no un?erstanding ~ Why, for instance, do a possible injury or i'nflict
a possible embarrassment on a candidate by publishing your intentions
when every .memb.er has. the right, and o~ten exerci~es that right, to
make those mtent10ns miscarry~ The public cannot Judge by Masonic
standards, and every principle of Masonry abhors a reflection upon any
member of society either within or without its fold.''
The report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master George A.
Kies, who is also the Grand Secretary, it being his third report of this
character. He reviews the various jurisdictions in a painstaking and
thoughtful manner and his report is replete with judicious comment and
illustration.
California, 1915, is fraternally considered. He refers in his Conclusion to the remarkable growth of masonry in America, and expresses
the hope that in assimilating so much new material, masonry is not
creating a condition that will prove to be its final undoing. He is of
the opinion that Grand Lodges are inclined to over-legislate, in which
opinion we are disposed to concur, as we believe the tendency has been

18

REPORT ON- CORRESPONDENCE

in recent years to take away, from the subordinate lodges initiative and
control in things in which they should be p;irmitted to exercise individual
discretion.
M.'. W.:. THOMAS McKENZIE, Grand Master, Pawcatuck.
M;'. W.'. GEORGE A. KIES, Grand Secretary, Hartford:

DELAWABE.
1915.

llOth Ann~al, Wilmington, Oct. 6-7.
Lodges, 22; membership, 3540; gain, 105.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by Most Worshipful
Wimam E. Valliant, Grand Master.,, He refers in his opening address,
as' do many ,of, the, Grand Masters, to the world war in progress across
the seas. ·He believes that Christian civilization is on trial and that
we are in the midst of a great crisis in the world's history, and he advances the question if masonry has no mission in this momentous epoch.
The principles upon which masonry is founded, that is the Fath~r­
hood of God, and the Brotherho,od of Man1 !J.re, undoubtedly the pnnciples up~n -which universal peace , must ultimately be grounded, but
these principles will be carried into effect finally, not by masonry alone,
but by all of
influences in the world that Will :finally work together
to these great ends,
Brother Valliant ii> one of the few prominent masons who approve
the idea
a General Grand Lodge, A general Grand Lodge of masons
is ,unquestionably contrary to the structural foundation of, our I~stitu­
tion, and the;e will never be General ,Grand Lodge of masons w1~ho~t
a change in masonic land-marks and in the struc~ur~l f~rm of, o~r 1?stitution. "\Ve can readily understand how one behev1ng m the principles
of Universal Brotherhood may ,be ,carried away with the idea of a
General Grand Lodge, but an enthusiasm for the idea , of Federated
fraternities cannot change the, structure of Ancient Craft Masonry;
a~d a federation of all fraternal societies, such as Masonry,. Odd Fellowship, Pythianism, Elkdom, etc., that are aU non-sectarian, and yet
all are founded upon belief in the Supreme Being, a~sembled ,in one
great Federation might be a good thing, but a ,General Grand Lodge
of masons· is imposs'ible 'until masonry chang~s its nature.

a

The , Grand, Master refers to his masonic activities; refers to Cine
or two unimportant official 'opinions rendeTed by him, and calls attention to the fact that the provision of the Grand Lodge Constitution

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

19

which requires the Grand Ml\ster to visit every lodge in the jurisdiction
<luring his incumbency, was complied with with great pleasure to himself and undoubted profit to the fraternity.
He refers in his Conclusion in the following language to the small
fragment of eternity which we experience in what we call life:
"We realize that life at most is a fragment of the great unknown·
a period through which we rapidly pass to an unknown shore. W~
hardly reach the summit of efficiency until our steps decline towards
the universal end. The great mysteries of life and death confront us.
Only the present is ours. Our duty is to put into practice, outside of,
the Lodge room, the great moral and ethical principles therein incul·
cated. Let not a day pass without the endeavor to spread sunshine in
somebody's path, by a kindly word or encouraging smile; by helping
to bear somebody's burden, or by some act of charity and mercy."
Most Worshipful Past Grand Master Harry Jones Guthries again
presents the report on Foreign Correspondence. He reviews in a concise and intelligent manner a limited number of jurisdictions, although
California, as was true a year ago, failed to receive a place.
M. '. W ... W AI,TER W. BACON, Grand Master, Wilmington.

R.·. W.'. VIRGINIUS V. HARRISON, Grand Secretary, Wilmington.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
1915.

105th Annual, Washington, Dec. 15th.
Lodges, 30; membership, 10,171; gain, 247.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful Alexander Grant, Grand J\1aster.
At the outset of his annual address he states that the year has
been one of masonic harmony and tranquillity and had not been, what
one would term, an eventful year. Judged, however, by the splendid
progress made within the year by the Grand Institution in the District
of Columbia, the year was one of real and genuine interest and progress.
In view of the awful conflict raging across the seas, he gives expression to the hope that the prayers of countless thousands of masons
in our land may be an influence in bringing about a just and lasting
peace.
He sets forth in businesslike directness his official acts within the
year, referring particularly to the placing of the corner stone of one of
tlie important church buildings in the District of Columbia; to the dedi-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

20

cation of the temple built by Myron M. Parker Lodge No. 27, also in
the City of Washington.
He particularly gives expression to the great pleasure received by
him in the visits which he paid within the year to all of the lodges of
the jurisdiction.
In speaking of the Masonic and Eastern Star Horne, he refers to
it as a splendid example of the practical side of masonry and what can
be accomplished through these institutions in the way of exemplifying
the ideals of our benificent institution, showing that the "brotherhood
of man" is not a mere phrase.
From an inspection of the Horne, he found it exceedingly attractive,
homelike, and comfortable.
Under the heading of "decisions", he is glad to state that no
questions were presented to him for decision except such as could be
verbally answered by reference to the Constitution, and that he, therefore, has nothing further to report under that head, and he expresses
pleasure to note the evidence of contentment and absence of L·iction
among the Craft, which the absence of requests for decisions, implies.
The Great Masonic Temple of the District of Columbia continues
to be more or less of a financial problem for the Jurisdiction, but progress, even though slow, is being made in connection with the solution
of this important undertaking.
In this jurisdiction, as in many others, we find the protest of one
Ramon Mendoza, alleged Secretary of the so-called Regional Grand
Lodge of the Philippines, against the recognition of the regular Grand
Lodge, and, as in all other cases, without a single exception, 1Vhere this·
protest has been made, it has been disregarded as absolutely without
merit.
The so-called St. John's Day Communication of Dec. 27th was
devoted principally to the installation of the officers chosen at the
Annual Communication held previously in December.
The newly installed Grand Master, Most Worshipful William W.
Jerrnane, entertains, as expressed by him in the following choice diction,
high ideals of the exalted mission of masonry:
''I ask you to join me in a purpose to make the new year a year
of peace, a year of progress, a year of renewed determination to raise
our beloved fraternity to still higher levels of efficient service. Standing
at the focal point ·of a great nation which today contains three-fourths
of the regular Masons of the world; doing our work in the white light
which beats down upon such a point; and with greater opportunities for

and 'f'o;'h!~1 ~~~ t\e new year will be rich with blessings, both for us

o~her St. !oh~ 's ~a~rnc=rnC:i':I:a:fonco~:a~~~ a~~a:a.e ~~all approach angrve a satisfactory account of our stewardship.''
dge prepared to

Past Grand Master George W. Baird presents his sixteenth report
on }-,oreign Correspondence, and as usual' it is filled with incisive and
discriminating comment.
'
'
California, 1915, is courteously reviewed. He refers to the address
of Grand Master Bledsoe as "scholarly and fraternal throughout"
a
he has. words. of praise for the high and genuine masonic spirit :n::ifested m California through its masonic Hornes and otherwise.
Brother Baird has pronounced views upon various subjects and
does not hesitate to give expression thereto. For instance:-'' AntiRornan Catholicism.''
''Though the origin of that w
.
. .
forcible annexation of Slav Bosnia ~~dw~~ m rel~g10us jealous! [the
the effort to change their religion] th
h erz~govma by Aus.trra and
''the Father of Princes and Kin ' R e~e as een no suggest10n from
Saviour Jesus Christ " to aggres~~~ ~ ert ~f tfe World, Vicar of Our
of ~he atrocious Wa~, though Aus~rfa i~st~~a,la ~ reja~h
he\ prosecution
0
Nat10ns, and professing blind obedience.
s
e u tra-rnontane
' ' While the distinguished quart t 0 f b th
.
vindicating the Knights of Columbus e th L r~ ;.e~ m California was
edicting that "priests are to unrna' k ~ or
rs op of Montreal was
nance and stdke at its heart at the s~rne ~~~~a1~~mrJ '~ un\~vely counteprevent any money reaching their coffers.'' ' y omg a they can to
''Anti-Prohibition.''
. ' 'Laws can never regulate the era vin
.
.
thirst for stimulants continues. and when gs ?ft· natyre' the gnawmg
preferred beverage a substitut~ will b
ah vrc irn rs deprived of the
We have invited attention to this greaet:oug ·1t" and g~eater evil follows.
chi~f Chemist of the Department of Agric~~1ur~n P;rte;10u~ re~orts. . The
which he took from his little hand ba
d ' w~ a ew mgredrents
the presence of a committee of Congre;~ ~~·eh a ottle of whiskey in
Any man can repeat the operation in hi~ ow~c di:i~s pronou~ced good:
of laws prohibiting the distillation of liquo
0 gb room, I~ defiance
shallac-varnish is used on the lower decks ~h
n.l oard ships where
water to the varnish which precipitates th e sa1 ors sometimes add
alcohol and water on top, which they drink. e gurn·shellac, leaving the
"The president of the Medico-legal S · t
D
stated at a public meeting in New York r~~~enfI'
r. T.,1 D. Croth.ers,
States there are now full_Y 500,000
addict!a'

p!lrson~

tt:~te :s!h~f 1{~~ft~

22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

forming drugs. More than that, he told the members of the societ~,
at a meeting which took place about the 17th of Novemb~r, l?b,
'that users of drugs are always more or less incompetent; m;pa~red
mentally and unable to judge of their own acts.' He also said the
f t t!la't they do not commit overt acts is no reason they are not
d~~gerou;; in a majority of cases they do things, eventually, that
cause injury to others''·
''The problem of poor lodge attendance'':
''The Shrine, unbridled by any ruling Masonic po;ver, though comosed exclusively of Masons, has attracted the fun-lovmg element and,
iiiore has attracted profanes [it is currently reported] th8:t thei
becor~e eligible for the serio-comic Orders o~ the Anc1~nt r~ lc
Nobilitv; they come to us·and assume the beautiful 8:nd serious obligations, but are conspicuous in our Blue Lodges by the1t absence.

m:y

''Poor attendance in the Blue Lodges, Chapters .and. Commanderies
is not dis uted. Loyal members have expres~ed their views as to ~he
cause. it 1s intimated that if the lodge services were more _attractive
the attendance would be better; this may be brought al~o~t. lil sre~al
wavs and while we mav see the way, we can accomp is it on Y Y
deter~ined and altruistic efforts of individuals. Devotion. to the. Order,
more than to the individual, will do much. In our Ma~omc .acts it were
better than we banish identity of the individual, especially lll the selection of office bearers.
''Masonic Clubs, now becoming popular, are unfet~ered b.y any
or its constitution • They have• come
mto
ru 1.mg Masom'c bodv
o
t'
Th existence
R't
f
for purposes of pleasure, entertainment and 3;8soc1~ ion. .
e .1 et~
Memphis, with its one hundred degrees, amplified its existence rn
e
same way.''
M.'. W.'. WILLIAM W. JERMANE, Grand Master, Washin~ton.
R.'. W.'. ARVINE W. JOHNSTON, Grand Secretary, Washmgton.

ENGLAND.
1915.
The Quarterly Communication of the preceding year were well
attended, although neither the Grand Master nor t~e Pro-Grand Master,
Lord Ampthill, were present. The Most Worshipful Grand Master,
H's
1 Roval Highness the Duke of Connaught, was absent from England
•
• in
•
h's
servmg
i capacity as Governor-General of Canada, and Lord
Ampthill was serving with the army on the Continent of Europe.
His Royal Highness, the Duke of Connaught was re~lec~ed Most
worshipful Grand Master, and, at the various communrnahons, the
reports of the Board of General Purposes and the reports of the several
other Boards were duly presented and adopted.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

23

Large appropriations were voted for the relief of distressed brother
masons in foreign lands, battling' hi Engiand 's cau,5e. The matter that
was naturally uppermost in all of .the· discussions throughout the various
Quarterly Communications was the life and death struggle in which
England is now engaged, and in which every British subject takes a
vital interest, and this paramount subject of vital interest was reflected
in the proceedings of the Grand Lodge. In one of the co.mmunications,
it was moved:
. .
.
''That each Private Lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of England be required to examine the cases of all members who '
are of GBrman birth, to eall upon all such members whose retention of
membership is not approved by the unanimous vote of all the other
members of the Lodge to resign, and failing resignation, to forthwith
exclude such members from membership; or, in the alternative:
''That on the termination of the war each Private Lodge under
the jurisdiction of the. Grand .Lodge of England be required to ex:amine
the cases of all members who are of German .birth,· to refuse permission
to such members to resume attendance at Lodge, unless the resumption
of such attendance is approved by the unanimous· vote of all the otlier
members of the Lodge, to call upon all members of German birth the
resumption of whose attendance is not so approved, to resign, and failing i·esignation, to forthwith exclude su(lh members .from membership.
''The immediate withdrawal of this Grand Lodge's recognition of
the German Grand Lodges.
''The prohibition of the reception iri English ·Lodges of alleged
Masons belonging· to a Lodge under any German Jurisdiction, and the
prohibition of the entry of English Masons irito any Lodge existing
unde.r any German Jurisdiction."
Prolonged debate, in which the entire subject was comprehensively
discussed, took place, and this was adopted:
·
''Grave concern has been occasioned to the Board since the outbreak of the war by differences which have arisen in certain Lodges
owing to the presence therein of Brethren born in alien enemy countries.
These have given occasion not only for internaL diesention, but .in rare
instances for proceedings 1mauthorized by the Book of Constitut.ions.
Tlie Board considers that the time has .arrived when, in order to prevent the peace and harmony of the Craft being d'isturbe<l, it is necessary
that all Brethren of German, Austrian, Hungarian or Turkish birth
should be required by Grand Lodge to abstain from attendance, at any
Masonic meeting under the English Jurisdiction during the continuance
of the war, and a resolution will be submitted to that effect.''.
England is battling for her vetj' existence, and 'no outside jurisdiction has any right to criticise, as some Correspondents have done,
whatever action the Grand Lodge of England may see fit. to adopt in
support of the general obJigation. of common defense.
Recognition was• extended to the Grand Lodge of th\i Philippine
Islands.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRll.SPONDENCE

25

FLORIDA.·
1916.

87th Annual, Jacksonville, Jan. 18-19-20.
Lodges, 233; membership, 12, 724; gain, 663.
The 87th Annual Commul).ication of the Grand Lodge of this
jurisdiction was opened in Ample Form by Most Worshipful Cephas L •
• Wilson, Grand Master.
The Grand Master opens his Annual Address with attractive metaphor and simile, comparing masonry with the various beautiful phases
of nature, etc., all intended to exalt our institution as one of the most
beni:ficent powers and influences established among humankind.
The Grand Master then sets forth in a practical way the usual
Grand Lodge activities, referring with a glow of pride to the continued
prosperity of the jurisdiction, mentioning, among other things, the issuance of dispensations to form eight new lodges, and numerous dispensations to plaee corner stones, and referring particularly to a Special Communication of the Grand Lodge1 held for the purpose of placing the
corner stone of the new temple of St. Petersburg Lodge No. 139.
Apparently a large number of dispensations were granted to ballot
for and confer degrees short of time, a form of dispensation usually,
we believe, discouraged, and as a rule infrequently granted in most
jurisdictions.
Of the so-called rulings or decisions, none, we believe, were of more
than local interest, and are not, therefore quoted.
The Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, Past Grand
Master Wright, reported a request of one Ramon Mendoza, alleged
Secretary of a so-called Regional Grand Lodge of the Philippines, protesting against the recognition of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands, recently established, and requesting recog:Dition for the body
which he represented. The report of Brother Wright was adverse to the
pretensions of this alleged masonic body and recognition was refused.
Brother Past Grand Master Wright presents again the report on
Foreign Correspondence and, as is usual with his reports, it possesses
great excellence.
He again discusses, as he did a year ·ago, the true province of a
Correspondence Committee, and, in his judgment, the correct position
is to steer a middle course between too much criticism upon the one
hand, which may create ill feeling, and too little comment on the other

GEORGIA.

1915.
129th Annual, Macon, Oct. 26, 27.
Lodges, 661; membership, 41,649; gain, 1191.
Most Worshipful N. H. Ballard presided at the openin of t
Grand Lod~e, and was assisted by a full corps of Grand 01ifcers a!:
:ep:eds~nt~ahves of probably six hundred of the chartered lodges of the

JUns lC IOU.

G

T~e ;~an: Master, in opening his address, exalts the character of

w:~~:~

g et orpe, the Founder of Georgia, in the following eloquent

h
' ' One hundred and eighty t
soil a noble man, superb in kn7oh )ears ago t ere lande? up.on Georgia
humanity. He looked through e~e! :fd~e~:h af d gr~at Ill his love for
0
where the strong would not and co
ai
a time and a country
human being could be wrongfully e~l~a no~ oppdredss t~e weak; . where no
epr1ved of his natural
ve an

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

rights and liberties; and where there wo~ld not and_ c?uld not exist ~he
sale or intemperate use of int0xicating drmks, the evil mfiuence of _which
had brought thousands to untimely graves, wrecked happy homes, blighted
the prospects of youth, plucked the rose from women's cheek and set a
seal of sorrow there, and debauched more of the human rac.e than all
other evil influences combined.

and granite wrought in beautiful forms proclaim their profoundest religious conceptions.''
· ·
·

26

"Long before the illustrious Oglethorpe. had reached the end of
life's career, he saw his cherished dearns v~msh as a shadow and co~­
tinued not. He witnessed, with heart-breakmg agony, the return of his
beloved Georgia, "as a hog to his wallow,'! to her former ways.
''.Would that our noble founder could but ":'itn~ss the ~onderful
progress his own Georgia has made toward the reahzahon o_f his dreams.
Imperial Georgia, lifting aloft, higher than her rnountam .tops, that
banner of white, proclaiming to the world ~er freedom from tyranny of
intemperance, and answering in no uncer.tam tone the prayers of Georia 's Motherhood that her offspring should not be debauched by the
Fegalized sale of intoxicating liquors.
"Not only did the spirit of Freemasonry dwell in the heart of the
founder of our State. but he, himself, was an ardent Mason. Many of
the officers whom he had selected to assist him in the government of t~e
Colony were Masons. Thus contemporaneous with the Colony of Georgia
was Freemasonry introduced.''
The Grand Master's Address is a businesslike statement of his
masonic activities within the year. He made an effort to visit every
section of the Grand Juris_diction and apparently with a very large
measure of success.
Two dispensations were granted by him for new lodges. Numerous
corner stone ceremonies were held, a large number of dispensations
granted for various purposes.
He received within the year two thousand requests for construction
of masonic law and sets forth about twenty of these requests which he
'
· ·
" None
considered as being
fairly listed under t h e h ea d o f "decis10ns.
of them, however, appear to be of more than local importance.
He evidences his vast pride in the Masonic Horne of Georgia in the
following expressive manner:
''' When I am dead ' said Mary of England, 'upon my heart. ':"ill
be written Calais.' Upon' my heart, living is deeply engraved an abidi~.g
love for the Masonic Horne. I love it because I love Masonry, ~nd t is
Horne so beautifully illustrates its teachings. I w~nt to see it grow,
expand, until it becomes a great institution-the pride of every Mason
in Georgia.''
A touch of eloquence is disclosed in Grand Master Ballard's conclusion, which we quote:
"We are the descendants of those ancient builders whose cunning
hand and fertile brain have filled the earth with most wo~derful works
of art. Marble blocks touched by their chi,sel speak of faith and hope,

''The hands which wrought, and. the fertile brains that planned these
wondrous works of art have long since perished from earth. A new form
of expression has supplanted the costly type used by our ancient brethren.
Ours is a nobler art, for we build in the hearts of men a living temple,
a temple of truth and honor, a temple as enduring as Eternity and as
everlasting as is truth itself. Beautiful Milan shall perish; magnificent
Cologne shall crumble and not one stone be left upon another; the
wintry blast shall sing a sad requiem over the spot where now. stands
glorious York, yet, the living temple which Masonry is erec,ting in the
hearts of men shall outlast all of these. For an angel's wing shall not
reach its journey's end, nor an angel's eye penetrate its extended destiny.
My brethren, we, as Masons, have a glorious past, a past filled with
wonderful achievements. Let this be to us an ever-abiding inspiration
to achieve nobler things in the future. Let us build as does the
Nautilus:
·
''Build thee more stately mansions, 0 my soul,
'As the swift seasons roll!
Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea!"
Owing to the present crowded condition of the Masonic H,orne,
there is under consideration the proposition of securing another location
with the idea of transferring the Horne thereto, and a committee to
make investigations along these lines and report at the next Annual
Communication, was appointed.
The Most Worshipful Charles L. Bass, presents his fourth report as
Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, in which he
reviews the proceedings of the usual Masonic Jurisdictions, in which
California, 1914, has an hoI)ored place. He refers in complimentary
fashion to Grand Master Murphy's address, and makes liberal quotations therefrom.
He remarks, in his conclusion, that the year, so far as he has been
able to observe, was one marked by tranquility and prosperity with but
little to record out of the ordinary. The growth of masonry, he states,
has not only been gratifying but surprising as the year preceding had
been, in some respects, one of uncertainty and unrest, and contemplation of the awful war across the seas, has made more manifest to our
country the blessings of peace, and has raised in the hearts of the
brethren everywhere a profound. sense of gratitude to the Supreme
Architect of the Universe for the blessings we enjoy.
M. ·. W. ·. N. H. BALLARD, Grand Master, Brunswick.
R.". W.". W. A. WOLIHIN, Grand Secretary, Macon.

28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
IDAHO.
1915.

48th Annual, Boise, Sept. 14-15-16.
Lodges, 64; membership, 4,640; gain, 227.
The Grand Lodge was opeiied in Ample Form by Andrew Christenson, Grand Master. Eleven Grand Officers were present, eight Past
Grand Masters; and representatives from 49 of the 64 lodges in the
Jurisdiction.
The Grand Master's Address is a straight-forward statement of his
official acts during the year. Three new lodges were constituted that
had received charters at the previous annual communication.
Various interpretations of the Masonic law of the Jurisdiction were
rendered by him, and he otherwise discharged in a capable manner the
functions of his high office.
He refers in his report to the somewhat prevalent practice in certain Grand Jurisdictions of electioneering and "log-rolling" for office
in tl:ie Masonic Grand Lodge. He regards this practice as degrading to
the institution of masonry and robbing the fraternity of one of its
greatest glories in that the spirit of the Institution is above the sordidness of selfish aims.
This jurisdiction having a membership of less than 5000, has
accumulated an Orphans Fund, amounting to $76,323.45, from the income
of which disbursements are made to orphans, indigent masons, and
widows of deceased masons, amounting last year to $2581.50, certainly
a magnificent work for a jurisdiction numerically no larger than that
of Idaho.
By amendment to the Constitution, additional safeguards were
thrown about the care and investment of this Fund whereby it is fully
protected from loss through improper investments.
The Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, Most
Worshipful George E. Knepper, who is now the Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge of Idaho, presents his fourteenth annual report, which
is filled with discriminating and interesting comment. California fails
to find a place in his report, our 1914 Proceedings apparently having
failed to reach him.
M.'. W.'. FRANCIS JENKINS, Grand Master, Moscow.
R. ·. W. ·. GEO. E. KNEPPER, Grand Secretary, Boise.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

29

ILLINOIS.
1915.

76th Annual, Chicago, Oct. 12-13-14.
Lodges, 837; membership, 139,271; gain, 7,366.
Preceding the formal opening of the Grand Lodge there was a
musical program delightfully rendered by certain members of the Craft.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most W orshipful Henry T. Burnap, who at the opening of his address announces
glad tidings to the fraternity in that at the close of the second year of
his administration as Grand Master "increasing prosperity and continued harmony" obtain in the jurisdiction.
The Masonic year preceding was a busy one for the Grand Master,
the increasing number of lodges and the phenomenal addition to membership, resulting in a vast increase in the labors of the head of the
fraternity.
Feeling reference is made by him to the death within the year of
Past Grand Master Brother Edward Cook, who was a prominent figure
for a great many years in the Grand Lodge and whose influence was
pronounced in all of the important proceedings of the Grand Body in
the generation to which he belonged.
The Grand Master refers also to the death of Brother John Chas.
Black, Grand Orator. He served the Grand Lodge in this capacity at
the Annual Communication of 1894-5.
Dispensations to form twelve new lodges were granted within the
year. Grand Lodge ceremonies for the dedication of six masonic halls
took place and six corner stones of public buildings were laid by the
Grand Lodge with masonic honors.
Apparently the only decision rendered by the Grand Master, aside
from a few unquestioned interpretations of masonic law, was concerning whether a lodge might lawfully provide and maintain in apartments
adjoining its place of meeting, so-called Club Rooms, where n';embers
might spend leisure hours in reading, or the enjoyment of games or
other amusements in themselves unobjectionable. His decision was to
the effect that such places, if conducted, within reasonable limitations,
being closed during all sessions of the lodge, and such rooms as were
used as reading rooms only to be opened on Sunday, that a lodge might
lawfully maintain such apartments. Unquestionably a very sensible
decision which was endorsed by the Jurisprudence Committee and approved by the Grand Lodge.

30

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON .CORRESPONDENCE

The most important and interesting event of the year, and in some
respects, it is stated, the greatest in the history of the Grand Lodge of
Illinois, took place on the grounds of the Masonic Home at Sullivan on
Monday, July 5th1 the occasion being the dedication of the new Royal
Arch Memorial Hospital. In other words, ·the dedication of a magnificently equipped and thoroughly modern hospital in every respect, donated
by the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch masons of Illinois, a building and
equipment representing an investment of more than $50,000, a gift of
the Royal Arch Chapter Of Illinois, and certainly a magnificent offering
by this fine body of masons to this high form of charity.

Dispensations were granted for twelve new lodges, and to illustrate
the strength .of these new lodges, let it be noted that the charter roll of
Sincerity lodge, one of the new. lodges started in the City of Chicago,
contained three hundred names; another lodge .had one hundred and nine
members to begin with; another, one hundred thirty-seven, and still
another-Brotherhood Lodge- 'three hundred and nine names, as charter
members.

The Masonic Homes of Illinois continue to be administered with
unusual ability. There are now housed at the Orphans' Home at La
Grange, with its sheltering care, 94 children who are being carefully
reared to become useful members of society, and· at the Home for the
Aged and Infirm at Sullivan 150, or thereabouts, are kindly cared for.
The Grand Master refers approvingly to the George Washington
Masonic Memorial Association and bespeaks for it the support and
endorsement of his Grand Lodge.
Acknowledgment is referred to by the Grand ::\faster of the tender
of assistance by Grand Master Bledsoe of California in connection with
the river disaster in Chicago when the steamer Eastland overturned in
Chicago River, causing the loss of hundreds of 1.ives. Grand Master
Burnap gratefully acknowledged the generous tender of assistance by
Grand Master Bledsoe but stated that the Grand Lodge of Illinois coulc1
no doubt give such assistance as might be called for. The tender of aid
was none the less appreciated, and the generosity of California masons,
which is proverbial, was gratefully recognized.
A distinguished visitor in the person of the Grand Secretary
Brother William M. Anderson of Oklahoma was received with the usual
honors. In acknowledgement the courtesy of his reception, he announced
his pride in the state of Illinois, where, it appears, he was born, and
great praise was accorded by him to the wonderful jurisdiction of
Illinois.
Th!) Proceedings recorded the fact that the Grand Orator Brother
Delmar D. Darrah, delivered the annual oration, which met the enthusiastic approval of the Grand Lodge that extended by rising vote its
thanks and appreciation for the scholarly and eloquent effort. An order
was made to print the oration in the Proceedings, but through ·some
misunderstanding between the Grand Orator and the stenograhpic reporter, the oration was not taken down, and the Grand Orator was
unable to furnish a copy, hence we are deprived of the privilege and
pleasure of reading the production.

We have thought in California, if. a lodge started with a hundred
charter members, such as. the Charter Rock Lodge in Berkeley, it was
having a magnificent start, but lodges with an initial membership of
more than three hundred are certainly ''some infants''·
At this Annual Communication 806 lodges were represented, and
only 31 out of the entire jurisdiction that did not have representatives
to the Grand Lodge. This is an evidence of masonic zeal and enthusiasm that in a measure accounts for the wonderful progress of this
great masonic jurisdiction..
The report on Masonic Correspondence is from the gifted pen of
Most Worshipful Owen Scott, "Reviewer" as it is termed. In his
introduction, he estimates the total masonic membership in the world
as 2,221,999, a net increase for the year of 54,910. He states that
these figures are based upon ~fficial sources, except in a few rare
instances. ·we presume, for instance, that the membership of the
Grand Lodge of England is no more than an estimate, because so far
as we have been able to learn, this Grand Lodge does not give figures
as to lodges and membership. We observe that Brother Scott credits
England with 3160 lodges, with a total estimated membership of
210,000.
Concerning the conditions brought about by the war whereby
members of .masonic lodges in England of German birth or parentage
and vice versa members of masonic lodges in Germany of English
birth or parentage are denied the right to visit .their own lodges in
these times of war, Brother Scott has this to say:
''That the terrible, inhuman conflict in Europe would bring dis·
order and chaos was inevitable. Forms, rules and customs have been
wrecked. In this tumult masonry could not escape. In England, men
of foreign birth, though British citizens, have, by action of the grand
lodges been deprived of the privilege of attending meetings .of their
own lodges. Those born in Germany, Austria, Hungary or Turkey,
nations at war against the Allies, are debarred from attending English
masonic bodies during the war. In some cases they have been members
of local lodges for half a life time, but the fact of alien birth casts
them out. Of course there is no right, except that of might, for such
action. To avoid discord and strife this course was adopted. I<'or
further details, see under England.''

33

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Self-preservation is not only the :first law of nature, but it is the
first law of national politics, and we presume is paramount to all
other laws, and it is, of course, the law of self-preservation in a nat1onal sense that has brought about this unmasonic condition where
the Brotherhood of masonry is at least temporarily sub-merged and
made to yield to the law of national expediency and preservation.

The Grand Master callS attention to the fact that in 1918, the
Grand Lodge of Indiana will pass the century mark of its existence,
and recommends that suitable arrangements be made to fittingly celebrate that great event.

32

Brother Scott reviews Califonia, 1914. He quotes from the
address and opinions of Past Grand Master 1\IIurphy. He praises the
oration of Worshipful Brother William H. Waste. He considers "a
doubtful precedent" the presentation of a "solid silver service" to
the retiring Grand Master, and looks upon this as in a sense commercial and mercenary. He approves the idea of a Gand Master's
jewel as a token to the retiring Grand Master, but, as stated, thinks
the presentation of a solid silver service to the retiring Grand Master
unmasonic or unwise, from which conclusion, we presume, it will be
conceded that we, and perhaps others, may dissent.
M.'. w:. RALPH H. WHEELER, Grand Master, Chicago.
R.'. W.'. ISAAC CUTTER, Grand Secretary, Camp Point.

INDIANA.
1916.

99th Year, Indianapolis, May. 23.
Lodges, 560; membership, 73,720; gain, 3,706.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge an open
session was held consisting of a program of music and an address by
Past Master L. Ert Slack upon the spirit of masonry.
The formal opening of the Grand Lodge, in which a full corps of
Grand Officers was present, a large number of Past Grand Masters,
and Representatives of 554 of the 556 chartered lodges, then took place.
The Grand Master Charles P. Benedict presented his Annual
Address or "Allocution ", as it appears to be called in this jurisdiction, although it differs in no respect from the ordinary Grand
Master's address, wherein the Grand Master reports a most gratifycondition of the Craft throughout the State; he duly constituted
the lodges that received their charters at the preceding Annual
Communication; he lists the lodges to which he had granted dispensations within the year preceding; he gives a memorandum of Grand
Lodge ceremonies performed within the year; also masonic halls dedicated, and otherwise enumerates the usual official acts performed by
the Grand Master.

'

The Grand Master was active in visitations to subordinates within
the year, very much to be benefit and advantage of the various lodges.
He gives the Washington Memorial Association the stamp of his approval and expresses the hope that the Gaud Lodge will take some
favourable action looking to helpful cooperation in that worthy
enterprise.
Under the caption of "decisions", he states that numerous questions arose during the year, but in every case determination was made
by reference to the Rules and Regulations.
In concluding his excellent address, he states that he is in no
sense fearful of the future of masonry, that while certain characteristics may change to some extent, the fundamental truths will abide.
In his opinion, masonry is ''pure goM and needs no alloy'',. and therefore he is inclined to discourage the addition of the ''club feature''
used in some jurisdictions to emphasize social benefits and, in his
opinion such additions, thoug:i1 based upon a seeming demand, will
only, weaken our Ancient Institution.
There is in process of erection in this jurisdiction masonic home
buildings for the housing of the Home system, recently adopted.
Something in excess of $200,000, money actually in hand, was appropriated for the creation of the home plant, and of this $200,000, about
$125,000 has been expended in the buildings now approaching completion, and it is expected that within a year, the Home will be open
for the reception of guests.
A great deal of enthusiasm exists in this jurisdiction over .the
home project, and we doubt not that Indiana will take its place in
the front rank of the American jurisdictions that have adopted the
''Home System'' as a means of administering this form of masonic
benificence.
Decided interest has been aroused in the Grand Juriscliction of
Indiana in the last two or three years in the so-called ''study side''
of masonry. Special Grand Lodge committees have been appointed
to carry on this work among the subordinate lodges, and much zeal
and enthusiasm have been awakened.
This, ·we may say, is a subject that is not only arous~ng interest
in this jurisdiction but in many of our American jurisdictions as well,
and it is a subject that may very properly appeal to all American

34

35

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

jurisdictions to the end that the vast army of American masons may
be the best informed masons in the world, and have an appreciation, not
only of the ethical value of masonic principles and precepts, but also
a more complete knowledge of the lore and literature of masonry.

''Certain qualifications of a candidate for initiation are derived
from a landmark which .says that he shall be a man, unmutilated, free
born and of mature age.

The Grand Secretary, in response to inquiries so often addressed
to him relative to what constitute the "land-marks" in masonry, prepared a statement of what in Indiana may be regarded as essential
land-marks,, and inasmuch as this is a subject in which we are all more
or less interested, it will not be amiss to enumerate what the Grand
Secretary considers as masonic land-marks:
''There has been a wide diversity of op1mon among Masonic
writers as to what and what are not absolutely landmarks. In some
jurisdictions they are restricted to. the o~li_g~ti?n, signs 1 tokens a~d
words. Others include the ceremonies of imtiat10n, passing and raising and the form, dimensions and support, orname~ts, furniture and
jewels or their symbols. In others they regard nothing as a landmark
beyond the peculiar secrets.
''The first requisite to a landmark is a custom or rule of action
that must have existed from time immemorial. Its integrity is its
essential element.''

*

*

*

''The mode of Masonic recognition is of all landmarks the most '
unquestioned.
''The division of symbolic Masonry into three degrees is a landmark and has been preserved without question.
''The legend of the third degree is an important landmark, the
integrity of which is one of the essential and important lessons in our
work.
''History tells us there is no rite of Masonry practiced in any
country or language in which the essential elements of the legend are
not taught.
The government of the fraternity by a presiding officer called a
Grand Master, who is elected from the body of the craft, is a landmark of the order, though under different titles in earlier years. The
prerogative of the Grand Master to preside over every assembly of the
craft wheresoever and whensoever held is also a landmark. It is not
from spcial enactment that the Grand Master assumes the chair, which
in England is called the ''Throne.''
"The necessity and privilege of Masons to congregate in Lodges
is a recognized landmark and the government of the brethren when
so congregated as a Lodge is also regarded as a landmark. The necessity that a Lodge when congregated should be tiled is a landmark of
the institution and is never neglected.
"It is a landmark of the order that no visitor unknown to the
brethren present or to some one of them as a Mason can enter a Lodge
without first passing an examination according to ancient usage.

"The belief in the exilltence of God as the Great Architect of the
Universe is one of the most important landmarks of the order.
"The book of the law constitutes an indispensable part of the
furniture of every Lodge and is unquestionably a landmark. It is not
necessarily the Old and New Testament but the book of the law is
meant that volume which by the religion of the country is believed
to contain the revealed will of the Great Architect of the Universe.
In all Christian countries the book of the law is the Old and New
Testament.''
The so-called annual dinner took place at the conclusion of the
Annual Communication, and a number of splendid masonic addresses
were made upon that occasion.
Most Worshipful Elmer F. Gay, Past Grand Master, submits his
third annual review of the Proceedings of foreign jurisdictions. California, 1915, is considered with complimentary reference to the report
of Most Worshipful Grand Master Bledsoe, and approving comment
concerning our Masonic Homes and Boards of Relief. He thinks,
however, that our ''overhead'' Grand Lodge administration expense
is large in comparison with the smaller expense in Indiana. This is a
matter of domestic regulation in each jurisdiction, and we may say
that the California standard of living and expense in general is considerably higher than the standard of most Eastern States, and so
long as California is satisfied, we presume it is not a matter of vital
concern to any one else.
M.'. w:. HARRY B. TUTHILL, Grand Master, Michigan City.
R.'. W.'. CALVIN W. PRATHER, Grand Scretary, Indianapolis.

IOWA.
1916.

73rd Annual, Davenport, June 13.
Lodges, 522; membership, 53,969; gain, 2,184.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most Worshipful }"'rank Seward Moses, Most Worshipful Grand M~ster, and, as
usual- in this jurisdiction, a program of Welcome to the Grand Lodge
was carried out, previous to the formal opening of the Grand Body.
Brother Moses' Annual Address was businesslike and comprehensive, in keeping with the magnificent character of the Grand
Lodge, for which he, in the preceding year, stood sponser.

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In the opening portion of his address, he calls attention to the
foundation of our government by our masonic forefathers, who were,
in fact, the founders of the Republic, and they inaugurated a govern·
ment built upon the masonic precepts of >Equality, Liberty and Fra·
ternity, a country which they framed with the idea that it should
afford a welcome to all who believed in those great fundamental prin·
ciples, and to perpetuate these principles, the American people and the
institution of Freemasonry are at this date striving that this govern·
ment of the people and by the people may be preserved for remote
posterity.
The Grand Master recounts the very great pleasure which came
to him upon the occasion of the official visit which he paid to the
brethren of Burlington in commemoration of the 75th anniversary of
the first regular lodge in Iowa, and from that initial step, taken by
eleven dauntless and faithful brethren, the present Grand Lodge of
Iowa, with its 55,000 masons, has been evolved, and, in a sense,
masonry is still in its infancy in this wonderful jurisdiction.
The Grand Master mentions the constitution of the two lodges
that received charters at the preceding Annual Communication, and
refers to the Masonic enthusiasm with which these lodges have ent.ered
upon their careers of usefulness.
Especial pleasure is expressed by the Grand Master in mentioning
the large number of dispensations issued by him for new lodges, not
especially because the number was unusual but because they repre·
sented in each case a genuine demand for the light which masonry
brings in the several communities where the lodges were established,
and, beginning under such favorable auspices, he ventures the opinion
that they will each fulfil a splendid masonic destiny.
Numerous dedications of masonic halls were made by him; a large
number of corner stones were placed, and otherwise the year was one
of marked activity.
There is perhaps a minor note in his Address of unfulfilled hope,
in that the Grand Charity Fund, the noblest masonic activity of the
jurisdiction, is not receiving the full measure of support which shoul_d
be accorded to it by the Grand Lodge, and he voices the hope that this
magnificent charity may receive perhaps a more cordial, concerted
support by ap the lodges and brethren, than has been recently ac·
corded to it, to the end that the same may have sufficient annual ·reve·
nue to fully meet the requirements of all worthy applicants.
The Grand Charity Fund in this jurisdiction has always been a
source of especial pride, and with the Masonic Library, are the out·
standing features of Iowa masonry, and we doubt not that the breth·

.REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

37

ren of Iowa need only the suggestion of the Grand Master to bring
the Grand Charity Fund up to the high point of efficiency which he
bespeaks for it.
The Library and the study side of masonry, as outstanding fea·
tures of this jurisdiction, receive the attention and consideration of
the Grand Master; and are commended to the continued favorable
consideration of the Grand Lodge.
One or two so-called decisions of a local character were rendered
by the Grand Master, and he is inclined to be what we would call
conservative in these modern days upon the subject of "physical
qua)ifications '',.believing that we should still exercise care to see that
those who enter masonry shall be physically as nearly perfect as
possible.
The Grand Master very properly condemns all forms of "political
advertising" and we presume there will be no disagreement with him
as to the propriety of administering suitable discipline to those who
resort to the use of masonry to advance their political interests.
The reports of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Librarian are
models of excellence and orderly arr~ngement, containing, as they do,
compact and concise information, touching the subjects of which they
treat, and are simply features which make the Report of the Grand
Lodge of Iowa unique, in many respects for its excellence.
The report on Fraternal Correspondence is from the pen of the
gifted Louis Block, Past Grand Master. It is a volume of 250 pages
of masonic information, in which he reviews with rare intelligence the
proceedings of the various Grand Jurisdictions, and in which California, 1915, Grand Master Bledsoe presiding, is treated with extreme
generosity, with particularly complimentary reference to Grand Master's Address, and with liberal quotations therefrom.
M.". W.". THOMAS ARTHUR, Grand Master, Logan.
R.". W.". NEWTON R. PARVIN, Grand Secretary, Cedar Rapids.

IRELAND.
1915.

At the Stated Communication of the Grand Lodge held in Dublin
on St. John, the Evangelist's Day, Dec. 27, 1915, the Grand Master,
the Earl of Donoughmore, was absent from the jurisdiction but sent
a letter of greeting and good will, which was read to the Grand Lodge
by the Deputy Grand Secretary, in which, among other things, he said:

38

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

·REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"I feel that we may all congratulate ourselves on what Freemasonry has done in Ireland during 1915. In spite of the anxieties
inseparable from such a war as we are engaged in, anxieties which I
feel sure every one of our Brethren must have shared in, and in spite
of consequent inordinate public and private pre-occupations, the Order
has been as active as ever, and the great duties we undertake have
been kept in special prominence before us all. I thank the Brethren
warmly for what they have done, and am more than proud to continue
to be associated with them, a)ld I wish them all well during the year
1916 which ·is before us."

KA.1'TSAS.

The Deputy Grand Master delivered an address devoted largely
to a statement of the causes, as understood by him, leading up to the
great war then in progress upon the continent of Europe, in which he
naturally attributed the blame for the awful conflict to the ambitious
designs of Germany, and, he voiced the prevailing opinion that England and her allies are battling in the cause of civilization and liberty
and that their success .is absolutely necessary to the cause of human
freedom.
Reference is made by the Deputy Grand Secretary to the so-called
Masonic War Relief Association of the United States of America, of
which our Brother W. D. Melish. of Cincinnati is the head, and he ex·
pressed the appreciation of the Grand Lodge of Ireland upon the allotment of the war relief funds accorded to the Irish Jurisdiction.
No change was made in the list of Grand Officers, all of the
Grand Officers being reelected.
It is stated the Most Worshipful Grand Master had been unable
to attend the meetings of the Grand Lodge as frequently as in former
years, having been engaged for the greater part of the preceding
year at the headquarters of the Red Cross Society with the British
Expeditionary force in France.

Notwithstanding the strain and stress placed upon the country
because of the existing war, masonry, nevertheless, was prospering,
particular attention being drawn to the fact that six new lodges were
founded within the preceding year, two being attached to the military
corps.
A resolution was passed recommending to the subordinate loclges
that dues be remitted of all members on the active service.
The masonic charities of the jurisdiction a:Te well maintained, and
the great work of masonry goes uninterruptedly forward in Ireland,
notwithstanding the great E'uropean crisis.

39

1916.
60th Annual, Topeka, Feb. 16-17.
Lodges, 412; membership, 441062; gain, 1,650.

T~e 60th . ~nnual Communication was presided over by Most
Wor~hipful Wilham L. Burdick, Grand Master. He refers in the
open:ng paragraph of h~s report to the small beginnings which masonry
had m Kansas at the time of the organization of the Grand Lodge at
~eavenwort~ in 1856, an~ by contrast, shows the magnificent proporti~ns to which t~e orgamzation has grown in the sixty years of its
existence,. posse~smg more than 400 subordinate lodges; and with a
membership rapidly approaching 50,000.

H~ refers with feeling to the death within the year of the Right
Worshipful Brother Erasmus T. Carr, Junior Grand Warden as far
back as 1851, and Grand Secretary from 1861-71. He was the oldest
Kansas made 1'.1ason on the rolls of the Grand Lodge, having been
made a n:as?n m the very year that the Grand Lodge was instituted.
It was said m the official circular of the Grand Lodge issued upon his
death as a Memorial to be read in all of the lodges, that he stood alone
for many years as the only survivor of the pioneers of masonry in
Kansas.
Reference is made also by the Grand Master to the death within
the year of Past Grand Master David B. Fuller, and as an especially
mournful event, the death of Alfred W. Benson, who only one year
?efore stood before the Grand Lodge in its Annual Communication as
its ~rand O~ator, and by his earnest eloquence made vivid the spirit
of his beautiful address, which was entitled ''A Vision of Life and
Brotherhood''.
In our review of Kansas one year ago, we referred to the oration
of ~rother Benson as one of moving interest, in which was manifested
a high orcler of talent, and a genuine display of the true spirit of
masonry.
WitMn the year nine corner stones were laid under Masonic
auspices, six new lodges were constituted, and otherwise the vear ·was
one of decided activity. The Grand Master refers in his add;ess with
marked approval to the George Washington :3-fasonic National J\femorial
Associa~ion,dand, by virtue of his recommendation, the Grand Lodge
approp~rnte at this session the sum of $500 in aid of that laudable
enterpnse.
Decisions, or official opinions, were rendered in only two cases
and one of those of a purely local character, and the other to th~

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

effect that it was not in harmony with masonic usages for the Grand
Lodge to lay a corner stone on Sunday. This decision is no doubt in
acco.rdance with masonic sentiment, in this eountry at least.
Especial praise is rendered by the Grand Master to the Masonic
Home at Wichita, Kansas, which now has a home family of ninetynine, consisting of twenty-nine men, twenty women, thirty boys and
twenty girls. The Superintendent and Matron of the Home, Brother
James and Sister Mary Snedden, who had for fifteen years presided
over the Home circle, were, because of failing health, required to surrender their positions, which they had filled with such a remarkable
degree of satisfaction to the Grand Lodge. The Grand Lodge voiced
the sorrow and regret of the entire Fraternity of Kansas at the misfortunes with which Brother Snedden and his wife had been visited,
and the consequent loss which the Home had suffered, because of their
enforced retirement.
The Grand Master refers to the Home as, in a way, a monument
to Kansas masonry, which stands in the City of Wichita; but gives
expression to the deeper thought that while this, in a sense, is true,
yet the soul and spirit that inspire and make possible this monument
are in the loving, unselfish hearts of the masons of Kansas, and that
this is higher even than the visible monument which can be seen by all.
In his peroration, the Grand Master gives expression to some of
the most exalted sentiments concerning masonry, which we have recently encountered, which justifies this extended quotation:
''We should ever remember that Masonry is not a mere social
organization, not a mere fraternal order, but that it is the oldest,
noblest, most dignified, and most exalted association of men in the
history of the world. It is not mere ritualistic, mere cant that proclaims this Organization more ancient than the Golden Fleece or the
Roman Eagle, and more honorable than the Star and Garter, because
it is both historically and ethically true. If your notion of Masonry
is that it is merely one of many social or fraternal lodge-systems correct it. If your notion of :Masonry is that its mission is the propagation of fanatical doctrines, or the. opposition of any particular ecclesiastical influence, you are absolutely mistaken. If your notion of
Masonry is that it has accepted you as a member because yuu are of
commercial, political, or personal importanc-e, you are in error. If
your notion of Masonry is that it unrighteously protects its members
who have wickedly violated human law, you need to be admonished
that Masonry will knowingly tolerate no such member within its ranks.
If the notion of any non-Mason is that Masonry is an unholy alliance
of men bound together by secret oaths for the purpose of unlawful
advantage or gain, or for the purpose of promoting plans or schemes
of disloyalty, dishonor, or injustice against church, State, or any lawful organization, such one is merely entertaining the false, wicked, and
pernicious calumnies of :Masonry's enemies.
''If, however, on the other hand, your notion of Masonry is that
it is a brotherhood of sincere, loyal, earnest men who believe in the

41

universal Fatherhood o~ God, in Truth, and in Brotherly Love, beliefs
held. not ~s mere sentiments, but translated into deeds of loyalty,
cha;1ty, kmdness, ~ympathy, helpfulness, and forgiveness· if your
!1?hon of Jl;~asonry is that its very first lesson is to be good'and true·
if your n~t10n of Masonry is that its highest desire is to promote th~
true .h'.lppmess o~ man, to enlar&e his nobility, to cultivate his manh?od, if you; not10n of Masonry is that its highest mission is to recogmze the ?mversal Diety and to do good to all· if vour notion of
~asonry is .that by. means of its great and ete~nal fights it would
direct. mankmd to higher and better things, and that it is founded and
established. upon the b.ro8:d, universal, ethical prineiples that pervade
all true religion, that m its temples the children of everv faith mav
g'.lther, the. Pag3:n\ the Christian, and the Jew, each possessing his
~1fferences m opm1on, yet all possessing a unity in Iife and in love·
if. these be your views of Masonry, then ''grapple them to thy soul
with hoops of steel,'' for they are the eternal verities of our Order.
.

''Masonry is a life of service, of duty, and of love. All of the anorders, mysterie~, collegia, guilds, and societies which have contributed t.o the evolu.tioll: of Masonry were dedicated to human service.
M.asonry is an orgamzation of strong and sturdy men who are striving
with the aid of the Divine Light to keep the leaven of truth within
the world. A Mason acts upon the square he keeps his word· he
strives. to walk uprightly before God and m'an; he hears the cail of
humamty refe(ar?less of faith, or seet, or creed; he loves his country
and loyalty is h1~ watchword; above all he is a builder and a preserve;
of home, of State, of country, and of the ideals of brotherhood and
truth.
e1~nt

'' M;y Brethren, these things are the test of our Masonry, and
these thmgs are Masonry. T~ough you or I have joined the Chapter
th~ Comi:iandery, and the Shrme, though you or I have attained to th~
th1rty-tlm? ~legree .of the Scottish Rite, yet if you or I have not
Masonry, it is nothmg. For, my Brethren, one may have all the socalled degrees and all the decorations, insignia, and honors of Masonrv
one maJ'. be v~~y profi~ient in the ritualism of the Order and yet n~t
possess 1ts Sp1r:t and its Truth."
'
One of the outstanding features of this Annual Communication
was the oration delivered by Brother Arthur Capper, Governor of Kansas, a member of Orient Lodge No. 51 of Topeka upon the subJ'ect of
"M
' excellence .of the
~ asonry and Democracy'', and because of the
address, we quote therefrom quite liberally as follows:
"My br.ethren, I realize it is folly to cry "Peace! Peace!"
when there is no peace. That it is worse than folly stubbornly to
close our eyes. to whatever danger may threaten us from a warma?dened, ~mp1re-dri::nkened .foe-if such a foe exists. But the real
peril to this Republic, the immediate danger to this free people is
no~ beyond the bro'.ld Atlantic where so many millions of our fell'owb<'..mgs ar~ engaged m so :vast and cruel a struggle. It is not across the
w_ide Pa~1fic ~h~re the little yellow man is looking for an outlet for
his teemmg .milhons an<,l a large: field for his newly awakened energ
and enterprise. I admit there is not a monarch nor a monarch .Y
all t~e wo~ld which would not rejoice to see the downfall of thi/R~~
pubhc. Kmg and Emperor and Czar, and the satellites of :fiunkeyism,

~EPORT

ON CORRESPONDENCE

43

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

42

the heavens fall, with faith in God and in our fellows democracv in

would welcome the failure of our experiment in self-government, because the failure of the American Republic would mean the doom of
democracy. But it is not Emperor an~ Czar, nor their armies and
navies that we need fear most. The peril that threatens us, very real
and e;er-present, lies not in the cabinets of Europe, but in the hearts
of our own people.''

*

*

*

*

*

"I stood recently, on a summer night, on Broadway-that great
White Way ablaze with light and teeming with humanity. I saw
stockbrokers and clerks millionaires and their cashiers, women from
homes of refinement, ar:d painted, brazen harlots mingling togeth?r in
one wild debauch of extravagance and license. I heard the ribald
songs and saw the suggestive dances; and I asked myself, 'Is this
America, the land of the Pilgrim Fathersf'
''And then in my mind's eye I saw the men and women who
produced the wealth squandered with such profligacy that night. I
saw men stripped to the wai~t, in an inferno of h?at, sto:i:in.g furnae~s
in reeking holds of ocean-gomg vessels. I saw mi!lers d.iggmg co~l rn
tomb-like entryways underground and the hovels rn which they hved
above ground: I saw men slaving at great blast furnaces. I saw the
myriad workers in mills and factories. I saw pallid, joyless women
and children in sweat-shops and cotton mills. And instead of the hum
of happy, contented industry, God's ;vages for wholesome toil, I
seemed to hear the low rumbling of a mighty volcano, a volcano heaving with vast human misery, injustice and bitter discontent.
''As Americans and as Jfreemasons, we believe in democracy. "\Ve
believe in the brotherhood of man. We believe in equality of opportunity. We believe in help for the weak and in charity for the unfortunate and we are pledged to the principles of justice to all mennot th~ cold justice of stern forbiddfog law which decrees 'an eye for
an eye and a tooth for a tooth,' but the justice of our Savior, tempered
by loving kindness that encompasses the whole world. In my deepest
heart I believe America is the testing ground of democracy. I believe
that here is the place and. now is the time for the highes~ devel.opment of humanity. Mankmd has ever come up through difficulties,
been both blessed and cursed by adversity. I have the deepest confidence in the American spirit and the American people. And I be·
lieve that America is destined in God's providence to lead the people
of the wwld to higher planes of life, to nobler aims and richer as·
pira tions. ' '

*

*

*

*

*

'The true spirit of fraternity is not content with. relieving a
distressed brother· it is only satisfied when it prevents distress. Modern fraternity is ~hamed by the bread line. It seeks to prevent any
worthy man becoming an object of charity.''
1

*

*

*

*

*

''And we as Masons, believing in a world-wide charity and a
universal fraternity, must. seek first of all to banish from our hearts
and from the hearts of our fellow-countrymen, those twin devils-Hate
and Fear-the twain that bring war and havoc to nations, and desolation and. despair to human happiness. With that love i.n our hearts
which is the basis of our Order, w~th courage to do the right though

-~merica is safe, an~ that day of 'the parliament of m~n-the federa-

tion of the world,' is not far distant.
"So Mote it Be!"

The Committee on Foreign Correspondence makes a report concerning an elaborate request presented by one Ramon Mendoza of
Manila as ''Grand Secretary of the Grand Regional Lodge of the
Philippines, etc.'', the substance of the request being that Kansas
withdraw the reeognition which it had previously granted to the
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands recently created. The learned
Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence of Kansas,
Most Worshipful Brother Matthew M. Miller, was unable to discove;
that Mr. Mendoza had made oµt a case to the effect that either the
Grand Lodge Regional of the Philippines, or the Grand Orient of
Spain had any particular ground for protest against the formation of
the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands, and as a logical consequence that any reason had been presented why fraternal recognition
to the. Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands should be withdrawn,
and his recommendations accordingly were unanimously adopted by
the Grand Lodge of Kansas.
The Committee which the Grand Lodge of California appointed
several years ago to investigate exhaustively the condition of masonry
in the Philippine Islands, arrived at the indisputable conclusion that
there was no regular masonry in· the Philippine Islands prior to the
establishment there of lodges chartered ·by the Grand Jurisdiction of
California.
The Report on Correspondence, it being his fourteenth annual
review, is presented by Most Worshipful Matthew 1.L Miller, Past
Grand ~faster, committee.

It consists of reviews of the reports of the usual American and
foreign jurisdictions, and is a display of the same keen and active
mental qualities which charaeterise all of Brother Miller's reports.
He reviews California, 1914, with appreciative references to Grand
Master Murphy's address, and the oration of Grand Orator vVilliam.
H. Waste.
M. ·. w.·. GILES H. LAMB, Grand 1\faster, Yates Center.
R:. W:. ALBERT J. WILSON, Grand Secretary, Topeka.

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

KENTUCKY.

Texas to expel a member of the Kentuck jurisdiction, although the
member of the Kentuey jurisdiction was residing in the State of
Texas where the masonic offense which resulted in his expulsion, took
place, Kentucky's contention being that Texas had no right to expel
t~e. K~ntucky men;ber. in the absence of an express reciprocal prov1s10n m the constitution extending to Kentucky the same right over
Texas members.

1915.
115 Annual, Louisville, Oct. 19-21.
Lodges, 594; membership, 43,487; gain, 1,248.

The Grand Lodge was open<1d in Ample Form by the Most Worshipful George B. Winslow, Grand Master.
At the opening of his Annual Address, the Grand Master assures
the brethren of his appreciation of the honor conferred upon him in
electing him to the high office of Grand Master, and congratulates the
Craft that peace and harmony prevail throughout the jurisdiction,
notwithstanding the fact that slight differences are practically unavoidable.
He expresses appreciation of the excellent service given by the
Deputy Grand Master T. J. Adams, as Acting Grand Master, upon
several occasions of the unavoidable absence from the State of the
Grand Master himself.
He feelingly refers to not only the loss which the Grand Jurisdiction suffered, but his own personal loss that occurred within the
year, through the passing away of the beloved and brilliant Past
Grand Master Warren Larue Thomas.
Among the several events which called him from the State within
the year was the annual meeting of the George Washington Memorial
Association which he attended at Alexandria, Va., on Feb. 22nd.
He gives expression to the pleasure which he received upon this
occasion and bespeaks for the project the continued support and approval of the Grand Lodge.
Dispensations for the placing of corner stones to the number of
at least twelve were issued, as were three dispensations to form new
lodges.
He refers to the Masonic Homes, there being in this jurisdiction
an Orphans' Home, and also a Home for Aged Masons, with a feeling
of just pride and gratification, and it may be truthfully stated that
Kentucky occupies a foremost position in the jurisdictions of America in the matter of Masonic Homes, this State being one of the very
first, perhaps the first, to create this form of administering masonic
charity.
A little controversy appears to have arisen between the Grand
Lodge of Kentucky and the Grand Lodge of Texas as to the right of

45

. . It is a ~ittl~ dif~cult to see why a reciprocal constitutional prov1s1on of this krnd is necessary, because we believe it is an almost
u~iversally conceded principle, that any mason is subject to disei·
plme, even to the extent of expulsion, by the jurisdiction where th'e
masonic offense actually takes place; and Texas, therefore, it would
seem to us, had a perfect right to try and punish the offending
mason.
A large number of hypothetical questions are submitted and
opinions rendered that form quite interesting reading, and in addition to the thirty or more of such hypothetical eases, the Grand
Master states that he has on :file something like seventy-five other
opinions which would be furnished for publication, if desired.
. T?e. Grand Master files a supplemental address concerning certam rnc1dents that occurred within the year causing ''confusion
among the workmen'', concerning which we are reminded of the
answer given by the student in an historical examination that he
was undergoing about Ancient Rome, in which he was asked to give
a statement as to the character, etc., of the Emperor Caligula to
which he replied (his knowledge concerning this disreputable character being somewhat vague), "the less said about Caligula the
better'', and so of the Grand Master's Supplemental Address on the
subject to which he refers, probably the less said about it to the
outside world, the better.
The afternoon of the first day of the Communication was devoted to an entertainment of the Grand Lodge by children from the
Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, under the direction of the
Superintendent T. J. Adams. The entertainment was greatly appreciated and displayed a marked degree of talent, by the children.
Most Worshipful Brother William W. Clarke as Grand Secretary
presents another splendid report on proceedings of Grand Lodges.
He reviews California, 1914, and referring to Grand Master Murphy's address, states one of the things that has impressed him in his
review of the various Grand Lodge proceedings is the ability. displayed in so many addresses of Grand Masters, Grand Orators, etc.,
and that among the papers that have particularly impressed .him

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

within the year of his reading is the report of Grand Master Murphy,
from whieh he makes liberal quotations.

received the thanks of the Grand Body, and the address was ordered
printed in full in the Proceedings.

M.'. W.'. T. J. ADAMS, Grand Master, Louisville.
R.'. W.'. DAVE JACKSON, Grand Secretary, Louisville.

LOUISIANA.
1916.

47

The report on correspondence is again presented by the Rev.
Brother Herman C. Duncan.
California, 1914, is fraternally considered with quotations from
the address of Grand Master Murphy.
M ... W. '. BRITTAIN B. PURSER, Grand Master, Amite.
R.'. W.'. JOHN A. DAVILLA, Grand Secretary, ::>rew Orleans.

105th Annual, New Orleans, Feb. 7.
!1odges, 227; membership, 17,768.
The 105th Annual Communication was presided over by the
Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master and Acting Grand Master R. B.
Purser.
In the opening paragraph of his address, we learn that the
Most 'Vorshipful Alfred W. Cheesman, elected Grand Master a year
ago, was, within the year, summoned to the Supreme Grand Lodge
above, whereby the duties of Grand Master devolved upon the
Deputy Grand Master, Brother Purser.
Referring to the material progress of the jurisdietion, he feels
that they have cause for congratulation in that the numerical strength
has gone steadily forward without, in his opinion, in any manner
weakening the high character of the membership.
The Grand Jurisdiction was sorely stricken, however, within the
year by the death of the Grand Master, and for the first time in the
history of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master died in office, stricken
in actual work, so we are told, at his desk.
The year was one of marked activity, and general harmony
throughout the jurisdiction prevailed.
The Grand Jurisdiction is on a substantial financial footing, the
Balance Sheet presented by the Grand Treasurer showing the net
worth of the Grand Lodge to be something in excess of $60,000.
An eloquent address was delivered on the second day of the
Annual Communication by the Grand Ora tor Reverened Brother
John F. Foster.
The address, which we are not able to quote, is referred to in
the Proceedings as possessing rare merit, whose beauty was height·
ened by clear and forcible delivery, leaving a lasting impression
upon the assembled representatives, and at its eonclusion, the Orator

MAINE.
1915.
96th Annual, Portland, May 4.
Lodges, 205; membership, 30,884; gain, 590.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the Most W or·
shipful Grand Master Thomas H. Bodge, assisted by a full representation of Grand Officers, five of the ten living Past Grand Masters
and representatives of 195 of the 205 chartered lodges.
The Grand Master, in his address, expressed his appreciation
of the high quality of manhood represented in the membership of
the lodges of Maine, stating that as an almost universal rule, they
are strong, intelligent, devoted to h~gh ideals, and the recipients of
the confidence of those with whom they come in contact in the
various communities of the Commonwealth.
He feelingly refers to the death within the year of the Most
Worshipful Brother Charles J. Collamore, who served the Grand
Lodge as Grand Master in 1879 and 1880; also Most Worshipful
Brother Elmer P. Spofford elected Grand Master in 1912; also Most
Worshipful Brother Alfred S. Kimball, Grand Master in 1902.
The two lodges to which charters were granted at the pre·
vious Annual Communication were duly constituted. Certain masonic
halls were dedicated and other matters of official routine discharged
by the Grand Master.
In closing his excellent address, the Grand Master exalts the
work of masonry in the following expressive terms:
"But I believe the works of Masonry in this state are advanced, ·
that the brethren measure up a little higher than ever before.
:N'ever in its' history has the world been called upon to 'show such
liberality in giving as during the past six months and nobly hall the

48

REPORT ON

CORRESPONDE.~CE

demand been met. Whatsoever things are good and true and noble
and of good report are ours if we will claim and practice them. ~11
about us are opportunities for making others happier by smoothrng
the path that must be trodden by all. To few is given the oppor·
tunity to do great things, but life is made up of daily tasks, and the
faithfulness with which we perform the work that comes to our
hands is the measure of our usefulness.''
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Brother Albro E. Chase; and· the report as usual bears evidence of
the careful thought which is manifested in everything from the pen
of this scholarly writer.
California, 1914, is generously reviewed with approving com·
ment touching the report of Grand }faster Murphy and other officers
of the Grand Lodge.
THo:>fAS H. BoDCrn, Grand )faster, Augusta.
STEPHEN BERRY, Gand Secretary, Portland.

MANITOBA.

1916.
41st Annual, Winnipeg, June 14th.
Lodges, 77; membership, 7,241; net increase, 1.
The 41 st Annual Communication of the :Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Manitoba, was presided over by Most Worshipful Brother
William Fenwick, Grand Master, presiding.
The opening portion of the Grand Master's Address is devoted
to a consideration of the great war in Europe, and to the duty which
the brethren of the Province of Manitoba owe to the Mother country,
and he is pleased to observe that the jurisdiction has responded loy·
ally, not only in furnishing men to battle iIL the cause of liberty, but
also, contributing funds in aid of the Empire.
The Grand Master makes mention of the formation of one new
lodge, and he recounts a long list of official visitations to subordinates, and otherwise indicates a year of masonic activity.
Notwithstanding the fact that from the standpoint of memberl!!hip the Grand Jurisdiction was practically stationary, the jurisdiction is in a splendid condition of strength and usefulness, and is
discharging in a most capable manner masonic functions in Manitoba.
M.'. w:. HENRY E. Br,ETCHER, Grand Master, Winnipeg.
R:. w:. JAMES A. OvAs, P. G. M., Grand Secretary, Winnipeg.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

49

MARYLAND.

1915.
129th Annual, Baltimore, Nov. 16th.
Lodges, 116; membership, 17,135; gain, 648.
Within the year the Grand Lodge was assembled in Special
Communication on July 5th to celebrate the Centennial of the laying
of the corner stone of Washington Monument, which occurred on
July 4th, 1815. The occasion was in many respects a notable one,
and was honored by the presence of distinguished masons and officials
of the City of Baltimore.
On July 6, 1915, a Special Communication was held for the purpose of conducting the funeral ceremonies of the Most Worshipful
Brother .Tohn M. Carter, Past Grand Master. This Most Worshipful
Brother served the Grand Lodge as Grand Master 1878-79.
The regular Annual Communication was presided over by Most
Worshipful 'rhomas .T. Shryock, Grand Master, and, as usual, in this
Jurisdiction, he made no report, at least no written report, but at
the opening of the Grand Lodge paid a tribute to the memory and
character of Past Grand Master Carter.
Brother Shryock has served the Grand Lodge of Maryland as
Grand Master for thirty-one consecutive years, a world's record. During these thirty-one years, he has never, so far as we know, rendered
a single decision in interpretation of masonic law. At least no decisions by him of masonic law have ever been recorded, and he stated
several years since that it had never been necessary for him in the
course of a quarter of a century or more as Grand Master to render
a so-called decision, and, as stated, has never rendered a written
report, and the fact that the Grand Jurisdiction of Maryland is one
of the foremost masonic jurisdictions in the United States, and is
carrying forward the great work of masonry in a high and capable
manner within the jurisdiction, may be accepted as evidence that
Brother Shryock's methods are masonically very satisfactory, at least
to Maryland.
The one outstanding event within the year was the death of the
single surviving Past Grand Master, Most Worshipful Brother Carter,
and Maryland occupies the unique position among American juris·
dictions of being the only jurisdiction that does not possess a surviving Past Grand Master, and aside from the Grand Lodge of England, is probably the only jurisdiction in the world that does not
;have a number of surviving Past Grand Masters.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE~CE

The report on Correspondence is from the pen of Rev. Henry
· hed Brother
. t•
Branch who several years since suceeeded the d is mguis
'
·
f
b
f
vears
of
the CorreSchultz, who was Chairman or a num er o •
spondence Committee in Maryland.
Brother Branch's report has the merit of brevity.
ments, however, are excellent and to the point.

His com-

M.'. w:. '£HO MAS J. SHRYOCK, Grand Master, Baltimore.
R. ·. W. ·. GEORGE CooK, Grand Secretary, Baltimore.

MASSACHUSETTS.
1915.
182nd Annual, Boston, Dee. 8th.
Lodges, 257; membership, 70,254; gain, 2,353.
The several Quarterly Communications and nearly all of the
· pers on by the )fost
Special Communications were presided over rn
Worshipful Melvin M. Johnson, Grand Master, one .of th~ mo~t ef:fic·
· . t and capable Grand Masters that has ever presided m this great
;:isdiction, that has produced so many able and distinguished men.

:v:.

At the Quarterly Communication of Mareh 10th R.'.
Fr:d·
· k w Hamilton was unanimously chosen as Recordrng Gra d
enc
· .
.
. Th
W Davis deceased.
Secretary m place of R .• W. ·
omas
·
'
At this Communication, the Grand Master in his Address referr?d
to the subject of a Committee on Foreigu Correspondence, a comllllt·
t .
hieh this jurisdiction has never possessed, and referred the subj::tw without reeommendation, for investigation and report to a
coU:mittee consisting of Most Worshipful Brother Charles T. Galla·
gher, and at the Quarterly Communication of Jun~ 9th, Brother
Gallagher presented an exhaustive report, the conclusrnn .and ~ecomis not
.
men d a t ion
of whi'ch was to the effect that such a Committee
.
needed in Massachusetts. '£he report and reeommendahons were
unanimously, and apparently enthusiastically, adopted by the Grand
Lodge.
Incorporated in this report is an artiele eontributed to the "New
England Freemason" in April, 1874, by the forme~ Grand Secretary
of this Grand J;odge, :Most Worshipful Sereno D. Nickerson. Brother
. k
st have been in his day a wonderful man,
. becau.se he
N 1c erson mu
· l h ld the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, durmg the. years
seennng y e
· h d
that he was Grand Secretary, almost in the palm of his an , ver!
much as Al exan d er D . Abel , while he was Grand Seeretary of Cah·

51

fornia, held the Grand Lodge of this State. Both were strong, pow·
erful, virile men, exceedingly eapable, with pronounced convictions,
and opinions buttressed and supported by eomprehensive knowledge;
and the influence of Brother Niekerson 's opinions, concerning subjeets upon which he had expressed himself, is still potent in ).fassaehusetts, and Brother Gallagher in his report follows along very
much the same lines of thought in opposition to this committee as
are disclosed in Brother Niekerson 's writing upon this subject in 1874.
The character of Correspondence Reports has, we believe, materially changed since the earlier days when it was quite the usual
thing for reporters to indulge in hostile and unseemly critieism in
their reviews of other jurisdictions, but this spirit has praetieally
passed away, and it is seldom, indeed, that anything but kindly referenees are made to other jurisdictions, although differences are
oftimes pointed out as to laws or practices of different jurisdictions,
or how the jurisdiction under review may differ from the one to
which the reporter belongs, and so long as this is done in a spirit of
courtesy and good will, no harm results, but rather as is often the
case, a great deal of good.
Another change has taken place in these reports, in that at the
present time, the reports are regarded as primarily for the purpose
of affording information to the reporter's own jurisdiction, whereby
the busy men of his jurisdiction, who do not have time to examine
the Proceedings of sixty-five or seventy Grand Lodges can gain a
knowledge in condensed form of what is taking plaee in the Masonic
world.
It may be quite true that i:f one is interested in going exhaust·
ively into one partieular subject, and knows exactly the subjeet he
wishes to investigate, he ean, as Brother Gallagher points out, go
into the office of the Grand Secretary of his own jurisdietion, and
obtain the report of the particular state, containing the information
he is after; but oecasions of this kind are extremely rare, and, on the
other hand, there are a great many wide-awake masons in every
jurisdiction that are glad to have in a condensed form a report of
what is going forward in the masonic world.

We have a great admiration for the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts; some of the ablest men the Republie has produeed have
• been active in the masonry of that Commonwealth. We partieularly
have a high regard for the personal qualities and great ability of
Brother Gallagher, as we have experieneed the toueh of his charm·
ing character and personality, yet we eannot quite agree with him in
his conclusions as to the value to a Grand Jurisdiction of a Committee on Foreign Correspondenee, and we ean scareely imagine

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

greater pleasure and profi't than that which would come to us from
the perusal of reports of such a Committee, of which Brother Gallagher himself was chairman.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

.

At the June Quarterly, a very learned address on the Causes of
Divergence in Ritual by R. vV. Roscoe Pound, Professor of La~ and
Juris1irudence in Harvard University, was delivered. He traces in an
inexhaustive manner the lineage of every American Grand Lodge
and shows how differences in ritual were inherited, and why, because
of this inheritance, differences in ritual still exist. The treatise, as
stated, disclose much painstaking and careful investigation of the
origin of the different American Grand Lodges.
Brother Gallagher at the June Quarterly makes a further report
upon the so-called ''.Regular and Independent Grand Lodge . of
Prance'' and his further investigation simply confirms the conclusion
he arriv~d at a year ago that this alleged Grand Lodge does not possess the essentials of independent sovereignty as a Grand Lodge, and
the recommendation of a year ago that recognition cannot be extended, is repeated and confirmed.
At the September Quarterly Communication, the Grand Master
takes, what to us seems to be the proper and sensible position upon
the s11.bject of physical qualifications of candidates, and refuses to
cumber the Proceedings with a long list of decisions as to physical
defects the rule in this Jurisdiction being that if a physical deformit; of an applicant for degrees does not amount to an i~ability
to meet the requirements of the ritual, and honestly to acqmre the
means of subsistence,. it shall not constitute a bar to his initiation
and, furthermore, th~t each individual lodge must be the judge in
each particular case, rather than impose upon the Grand Mast~r ~
task of passing upon facts that are better ascertainable by the individual lodges, and the Grand Master quotes approvingly what was
said in 1871 by the Committee to whom this subject was referred,
and which, because of the fine ideas it contains, we quote as follows:
"This regulation is to be interpreted, not a~cording to ~he Levitical law, with which Masonry never had anythmg to. do, eith~r as a
symbol or. a fact 1 but b;r it.s own t~rms and th? lo~ci:l consistenc;y
and proprrnty of its application. So rnterpreted, its sigmficanc~ mamfestlv is that the physical defect of the candidate, whatever it Il!ay
be S'hall' not be such as to render him incapable of receiving and impa~ting instruction, nor of performing any duties that may be ~e­
quired of him in his capacity or vocation as a Mason. No such maim
or defect of the body as the loss of an ey~, an ear,. a finl:\'er, or oth~r
member not essential in the discharge of his Masomc duties, or to his
personal maintenance, does an~ violenc~ !o the spirit and. original
intent of this regulation, and, m t~e opu~ion of y~ur comm!ttee, no
other construction can be put upon it consistently with the higher de-

.53

mands. ~f humanity, justice and equality. 'Not of the letter but of
the spirit; for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life,' '
"You; committee take leave of this branch of their report here,

~n the belief that the regulation of our own Grand Lodge on the sub-

J?Ct may ~e ~afely l?ft as it st.ands, and the interpretation and practical application of 1t, to the mtelligence of the Lodges. With the
cases .before thell! as they arise, they can with more safety and greater
propriety determine the proper disposition of them.''
A very important question was presented by the Grand Master
in his Address at the September Quarterly Communication in the
request received from thirteen Master Masons, including .three Chinese brethren for the establishment of a lodge at Peking, China, to
?e known as the International Lodge, and one of the great questions
mvolved was whether a dispensation should be granted for a lodge
non-Christian in charaeter, in which the Holy Bible is not regarded
as one of the "Great Lights" but in which the Volume of the Sacred
Law is made up of the writings of Confucius and other philosophers.
The Grand Master discussed the unchangeable Ancient Landmark of belief in the Supreme Being, Omnipresent, Omniscient
Omnipotent, the Creating and Superintending Power in monotheism'
and believing in this unchangeable Ancient Land-mark, one ma;
properly be a mason whether he regards as his Sacred Book, the Holy
Bible of the Christian, the Old Testament of the Hebrew, the Koran
of the Mohammedan, or the Sacred Book, whatever it may be, of
other religions whose fundamental belief is in one eternal Supreme
Being.
It was therefore, properly decided that a dispensation for a
lodge under the Grand Jurisdiction of Massachusetts might issue to
these faraway masons in Peking, China, where the Volume of Sacred
Law'' would not be the Christian Bible.

At the Quarterly Communication Dec. 8th, which is also counted
as the Annual Communication, an exceedingly interesting event occurred at the opening of the Communication in the introduction to the
Grand Lodge of Brother Daniel Hollinger. He was introduced to the
Grand Lodge by the Most Worshipful Grand Master as one who is
probably the senior living Mason of America. Brother Hollinger
was, at the time of his introduction, more than one hundred years
of age, having been born in September, 1815, and was at the time of
his introduction 78 years a mason. It is a pretty close race between
Brother Hollinger and Past Grand Master Mitchell of Michigan. We
do not happen to have before us the exact date of birth of Brother
Mitchell, but we remember reading in the Proceedings of Michigan
several years ago of the introduction of Brother Mitchell to the Grand
Lodge at its Annual Communication, who at that time was certainly

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

not less than 96 years of age, and had been a Past Grand Master
much more than half a century. Brother Hollinger, it appears from
a subsequent note in the volume of Proceedings, died in December,
1915, which left Past. Grand Master Mitchell of Michigan, we believe,
the undisputed oldest mason not only of .Ameriea but probably of the
world. (Brother Mitchell died in February, 1916.)
The Grand ]\,faster in the opening portion of his address at this
Communication, refers at length to the controversy that had existed
between Massachusetts and California eoneerning the McGrew ease,
and to the happy solution, so far as the two jurisdictions are concerned, of this perplexing ease.
In our opinion, Massachusetts was extremely generous in her
attitude towards California, and California, we are sure, is very appreciative of the courtesy and consideration of Massachusetts and
of her action in finally restoring to full membership in Massachusetts
our unfortunate Brother McGrew.
The Past Grand officers of California, who visited the Grand
Master, and certain other of the prominent brethren of Massachusetts, will ever remember the kindly treatment extended to them
by these gentlemen in being afforded an opportunity of getting firsthand the Massachusetts side of the controversy, and they were able
to appreciate and understand the very great concessions made by our
Massachusetts brethren, as they understood the case, in order to restore the complete harmony and good will between the Grand Jurisdictions. The sad part of the transaction lies in the fact that while
Brother McGrew was restored to full standing in ]\,fassachusetts
before he passed away, which occurred on the very day following his
restoration, he himself was not acquainted with the fact that the
masonic cloud, which had rested upon him for so many years, had
finally been lifted. His death is recorded in the Proceedings of
Massachusetts in the State Communication of Dee. 28th, with his full
Masonic Title and Honors.
The so-called Stated Communication, at which the Grand Officers
are installed and the annual feast of St. John, the Evangelist, is
celebrated, was held Dee. 28, and, as usual, in this jurisdiction, is the
great event of the year. The Grand Feast is always a notable gathering and the addresses made upon these occasions are always of a
high order.
The Grand Master, Most Worshipful Melvin M. Johnson, pre·
sided at the Grand Feast for the third consecutive year, and himself,
one of the foremost orators of Massachusetts, in addition to presiding at the Feast, delivered an intensely interesting address upon_

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

55

John Marshall, Grand Master of Virginia 1794 5
h
t .
adorned the first page of the menu of th '
- ' w ose por ra1t

~~:ki:;e li:o~s:~e t:har~cter

ju:is~:a:~· m~:n~~~~h::0;~

of this great
1
J h
u Iona system of the new Nation was created b
_o n Marshall, who, with George Washington, and Benjamin Fran:
lrn, he classed as the greatest men of the early period of the Republic~

A brilliant addres
1
Rev. Brother Stiles Bra~l;sD a ~o ~:sented upon this occasion by
was woven a
' . .
e central theme of the address
that runs thr~~~~o~e th:ught thdat there i~ ~ principle of selection
.
na ure, an that optimism and pessimism
not born of circumstances but of th
. .
are
reflects that
h. h h
e sp1nt, and that a man ultimately
by Grand M wt ic
e naturally selects. In other words, as stated
of the lines: as er Johnson, Brother Bradley's address reminded him
'' 'One .ship sails east and another sails west
' :vh1le the self-same breezes blow.
Tis the set of the sail and not the'gale
That determines the way they go.,
So it i~ with .man .in the voyage of life
, ~e his station high or low.
'
T~s tdhe set of the Soul that determines the goal
""n not the weal or the woe. ''
'
o:her. notable addresses were made upon th1·s
to wh h
d
·
occasion, reference
.
IC
in eta1l our space forbids us to make.
. The entire volume of proceedings is one
of great interest, and,
as is always the case in this jurisdiction its
perusal is a source of
pleasure and profit.
'

M:. W:. MELVIN M. JOHNSON ' Grand,,.
t
R · W · ,
.uas er.
• •
• • ]REDERICK W. HAMILTON, Grand Secretary.

MEXICO.
1915.
55th Annual, Mexico, April 1.
I.odges, 18; membership, 1,156. decrease
'
' 38.
Van:h;e Y.;k .Grand Lodge of.'::\fexico, successor to the Grand Lodge
ex1co, assembled m .Annual Communieati . .
Hall, City of Mexico on .April 1st, Most Worsh" f lo~ in Masonic
1
Wayne A. White, presiding.
P u
rand Master

56

57

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The constitutional number of lodges were represented and after
the opening of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master delivered his
Annual Address.

masonry, and in this list are printed the names of twenty-nine American jurisdictions and fourteen foreign jurisdictions,

He spoke at the outset of the great difficulties which had beset
the various lodges in the jurisdiction because of the troubled conditions in Mexico, and because, also, many of the lodges belonging to
this jurisdietion are composed largely of Americans.
The Grand Master states that nearly all of his fellow-countrymen,
he himself being an American, were in the early part of the year
huddled together and escorted to the borders of the Republic, hun, dreds leaving all of their earthly interests behind, being compelled
from motives of personal safety to cross the border back into America.
The Grand Master gives a full description of this visit to the
. convention of Grand Masters held in the City of St. Louis, and refers
with a feeling of appreciation to the marked courtesies which he, as
representative of the Grand Lodge of Mexico, received upon that
occasion.
Two lodges in the jurisdiction were obliged, because of the conditions prevailing in the Republic, and the impossibility of keeping the
membership together, to surrender their charters, yet notwithstanding
the loss of these two lodges, the membership of the jurisdiction
showed but a very slight decrease, there being a net loss apparently
of thirty-eight members, and a total membership still remaining of
1156.
The Grand Master, in concluding his address, gave expression to
the pride whieh he feels in the jurisdiction, stating that he would
rather have the honor of being at the head of the little masonic army
in Mexico, than any other position that the world affords, stating
that the devotion and patriotism of the little group of York Rite
masons, who have stood so nobly by their colors, will never be forgotten, holding their organization, as they have, at the risk of their
lives, and he rests his belief in the perpetuity of masonic organization and principles in Mexico upon his knowledge of the high-class
material of which the membership is composed.
The usual reports of Grand Officers were rendered and in the
annual election the Grand Master was chosen to succeed himself in
that exalted station, the administration of his trust having met with
the universal approval of his brethren.
In the small Volume of Proceedings a list is given of the Grand
Lodges of the world that had extended fraternal recognition to the
York Grand Lodge of Mexico as a sovereign Grand Body of Craft

A brief report on Foreign Correspondence in which California,
1913-14, is reviewed, is presented by Grand Master White as Chairman of the Committee.

M:. W.'. WAYNE A. WHITE, Grand Master, Mexico City.
R.'. W.'. GEORGE B. MCLELLAN, Grand Secretary, Mexico City.
MEXICO,

(York Grand Lodge.)
1916.
56th Annual, City of Mexico, April 20th.
Lodges, 18; membership, 1,149; gain, 65.
The Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form, Most
Worshipful Wayne A. White, Grand Master, presiding.
The Grand Master congratulates the Craft upon the ability of the
organization to not only hold its own, so to speak, during the year
preceding, but to register a substantial gain in membership without
the loss of any lodge.
He reports the arrest of the charter of one of the subordinate
lodges on account of insubordination of the Master, but the infraction of masonic courtesy and custom committed by the Master was
overlooked at the Annual Communication and the charter, that had
been arrested, was restored.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Relations, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
A brief report on Foreign Correspondence is printed by the
Chairman of the Committee, Most Worshipful Wayne A. White, who
states, in his brief remarks that, owing to the increased price of
printing and paper, his report will necessarily be limited.
California, 1915, is referred to.
M.'. W.'. WAYNE A. WHITE, Grand Master, City of :Mexico.
R.'. W.'. C. C. SHANKS, Grand Secretary, City of Mexico.

REBORT ON .CORR~SPONDENCE

MICHIGAN.

-REPORT ON CORRESP01'1>ENCE

59

1916.

to each resident of $4.71 a week, which the Grand Master believes is
above criticism.

72nd Annual, Battle Creek, May 23-24.
Lodges, 436; membership, 82,551; gain, 3,694.

The Home is apparently in prosperous condition and the Masonic
Home funds gradually increasing.

After the opening of the Grand Lodge, an Address of Welcome
to the City of Battle Creek was extended by Brother ;J. L. Hooper,
and also by Brother ;James W. Marsh, the Honorable Mayor of the
City of Grand Rapids, with suitable response by the Grand Master,
George L. Lusk.

Cordial approval is given to the George Washington National
Memorial Association, in which movement Michigan has from the
beginning taken a prominent part.

After the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, a distinguished
visitor in the person of Brother Nat A. Washer, Past Grand Master
of 'fexas, was received, Brother Washer making a happy and witty
address, which was greatly enjoyed by the Grand Lodge. This concluded the ceremonies ineident to the first half day of the communication.
Upon reassembling for the afternoon session, the Roll of Honor,
being a list of the deceased Past Grand Masters of the jurisdiction,
was read.
The last name on the list was that of Past Grand Master William
T. Mitchell, who was Grand Master of the Grand Lodge in 1865, and
who survived his Grand Mastership for more than fifty years, being
at the time of his death Feb. 6, 1916, undoubtedly the oldest Past
Grand Master of masons in the world.
The Grand Master upon this occasion made a feeling address in
memory of Past Grand Master Mitchell, concluding his remarks with
the following apt quotation from Goldsmith:
''Like some tall cliff that lifts its rugged form,
Swells from the vale and midway leaves the storm,
Though 'round its breast the rolling clouds are spread;
Eternal sunshine settles on its head.''
The year was evidently a busy one with the Grand Master; he
visited a large number of subordinate lodges of the jurisdiction;
dispensations were issued to form three new lodges; Grand Lodge
ceremonies were held for the purpose of constituting four new lodges,
which received charters at the preceding Annual Communication; a
large number of corner stones of public buildings were placed, and
not less than eight masonic halls were dedicated within the year.
Referring to the Masonic Home, he states that it is in all material respects in first-class condition, and what is of greater importance, it is in the best sense a home, with home surroundings, and
maintained upon a high plane of excellence, and at a per capita cost

From a perusal of the Volume of Proceedings, one learns that a
masonic oration delivered at Zanesville, Ohio, in 1810 by Lewis Cass,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Ohio, was brought to light, and
the oration fully identified as that of Past Grand Master Cass is
printed in the Proceedings of the current year of Michigan.
The. oration is interesting as bearing evidence that masonic principles and masonic precepts of today are in no sense different from the
spirity of masonry of a hundred years ago.
Masonry in the Grand Jurisdilltion of Michigan illustrates the
keenest, highest type of masonic activity and masonic worth and
.
'
re1ative
to population, there are more Master Masons in good standing in Michigan than in any jurisdiction in the world, and Michigan
masonry is further distinguished by having upon its roster not less
than three of the largest masonic lodges in the world, Palestine Lodge
is the largest, having a membership of 2,350, with perhaps half a
dozen other lodges each with a memb.ership exceeding 1,000.
The report Oii Foreign Correspondence is by the Grand Secretary,
Most Worshipful J,ou B. Windsor, this report being the thirteenth
ann.ual report from his hand. California, 1915, is reviewed, with
copious extracts from Grand Master Bledsoe 's address and reports of
committees.
M.'. W.'. JOHN H. HAWKS, Grand Master, Lansing.
R.'. W .'. Loi: B. WINSLOW, Grand Secretary, Reed City.

MINNESOTA.
1916.

63rd Annual, St. Paul, ;Jan. 19-20.
Lodges, 260; membership, 31,903; gain, 1,461.
The 63rd Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form by
the Most Worshipful Harry M. Burnham, Grand ]\.faster.
From the opening paragraph of the Grand Master's Address, we
are
to understand that his report is to be a concise statement

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of his business activities with no effort whatever to enlarge upon the
beautiful teachings of our beloved institution, nor to dwell, except
for a moment, upon the present prosperous condition of the Craft, and
true to his word, he proceeds at once to inform the Grand Lodge as
to his official acts, mentioning in orderly succession his Grand Lodge
activities at corner stone ceremonies, dedication of halls, constitution
of lodges, etc.
Under the heading of "decisions", only two unimportant rulings
were made, the recent revision of the constitution and code apparently
having thoroughly clarified the legal situation of the jurisdiction.
The Grand Master refers particularly to the subject of the contemplated Masonic Home. This is a project that the Grand Jurisdiction has been looking forward to for several years, having, however, previously agreed that the undertaking would not be entered
upon until at least $100,000 was accumulated for the purpose.
The accumulation of this fund is rapidly approaching the $100,000 mark and it is the expectation of the jurisdiction within the
next two or three years to actually enter upon the construction of
the Home.
On the first day of the Communication, the Grand Orator, Worshipful Brother Albert Lea, delivered an address, replete with tender
and sympathetic illustrations of some of masonic teachings applied to
every-day life. Our space only permits us to excerpt two or three
paragraphs from his· splendid address:
''The Masonic order is not a church, although the Holy Bible is
ever on our altar. It is not a system of religion, although it teaches
the reverential awe which is due from the creature to his creator; to
implore His aid in all laudable undertakings and to esteem Him as the
chief good. It is not a political organization, although it insists that
we be true to our government and just to our country. It is not an
insurance society, although it ever endeavors to afford timely relief to
misfortune and distress; nor is it a charitable organization, although
it enjoins charity, not alone the charity of alms, but the charity that
speaks no unkind word, harbors no evil thoughts, bears no malice or
revenge, which nurtures, loves and protects, which condones, forgives
and forgets.

''It is no one of these things, but rather a great fraternal organization, with the ideal of making its votaries wiser, better and consequently happier, with the ideal of dissolving the artificial cliques and
castes which keep men apart, and bringing them together upon a common platform. Masonic teachings should not only lead us in the great
things, but in every little act of life.''

*

*

*

*

*

''The life of service ever lives. Over in California, so many of
you have visited the mission of San Juan Capistrano. You have seen

61

the old church, racked by earthquake, the arches fallen, the padres gone.
They tell you how the old missions were founded, running from San
Diego, twenty-one of them, clear up to San Francisco, just about a day's
journey apart, and today most of them are in ruins. Here is the mission founded by Father Junipero. But it seems, for the moment, as if
the sacrifice of his life has come to naught. Then you go to the mission
play, over at San Gabriel and watch the expression of so many in that
great audience whose eyes are tear filled, touched by the self-sacrifice
of that eloquent old Francisco friar, of his love, for the Indians among
whom he lived. And though the walls of his mission have crumbled, and
though a great mass of the people are of another faith, his sacrifice and
his service will continue to inspire as long as California shall live.
''My Brothers, may the teachings of Freemasonry become really a
part of the warp and woof of our lives, evidenced by purity of life and
rectitude of conduct by nobler .deeds and greater aspirations. May
our eyes be more keen to observe the needs of our fellow-men, and our
hearts more sympathetic to the touch of misfortune so that when we
have reached the end of our toilsome ,journey, and from our hands have
dropped forever the tangled skein of this present life, it may be said,
of each of us: 'He loved his fellow men. He knew the words of
Masonic wisdom, and .he lived a Mason. ' ''
Worshipful Brother Irving Todd presents the report on Foreign
Correspondence, a condensed and intelligent review of the various jurisdictions in which he considers approvingly California, 1914.
M.'. W.'. ALFRED G. PINKHAM, Grand Master, St. Paul.
R.'. W.'. JOHN FISHEL, Grand Secretary, St. Paul.

MISSISSIPPI.
1916.
98th Annual, Greenville, Feb. 15-16.
Lodges, 376; membership, 20,334; gain, 261.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful Jesse M. Brooks, Grand Master, and preliminary to the formal
opening of the Grand Lodge, a public reception as appears to be usual
in this jurisdiction, took place, at which a program of music and addresses was carried out.
The Grand Master in his Annual Address sets forth his conception of the high ideals of masonry and the ethics of our great institution in eloquent language, from which we excerpt as follows:
"But there is within the heart of every man that God-given principle which leads towards the recognition of an ideal man, who forgets
self and 'seeks his own in another's good', and the nearer an individual
or a collection of individuals a pp roaches this ideal, the more does he or
it command and deserve the admiration of the world.

62

REPORT ON CORRESPOh'DENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

63

the obligation of masonic relief and charity can be best carried forward
through the Masonic Home System.

''Measured by this standard of unselfishness, and disinterested help·
fulness, there is no other organized body in the civilized world that is
more entitled to the respect and admiration of men than the great body
of l!'reemasonry whieh you, my brethren, represent today. Having existed from time immemorial, this noble institution now stands and has
always stood for the noblest and the best in human nature-for the
alleviation of human suffering, the surcease of human sorrow, the en·
hancement of human joys and the betterment of mankind.

The report on l!'oreign Correspondence is again presented by Past
Grand Master, Harry Howard, who at the outset, addressing his brethren
of Mississippi, expresses the hope that those who read the pages of his
report will find pleasure in knowing what is being done in masonry, and
in gleaning the information which he epitomizes for them after his exhaustive perusal of the proceedings of a great many Grand .Jurisdictions.

''Some one has said that two voices are ever calling unto men-one
coming from the swamps of selfishness and force where success means
death, and the other from the hilltops of justice and progress where
even failure brings glory; that two lights are sren on their horizonone the fast fading marsh light of power, and the other, the slowly
rising sun of human brotherhood; that two ways are open before tbemone leading to an ever lower and lower plane, where are heard the cries
of despair and the curses of the poor, where manhood shrivels and possession rots down the possessor; and the other, leading off to the high·
lands of the morning, where are heard the glad shouts of humanitv and
where honest effort is rewarded with immortality.
•

He reviews California, 1914, and quotes liberally from the address
of Grand ]\faster Murphy. He refers approvingly to the great work of
charity carried forward by California in its Homes at Decoto and San
Gabriel.
Brother Howard, in his conclusion, gives expression to his opimon
that the subjects most under discussion in the various Grand Lodges are
four, viz:

"Freemasonry, I?:Y brethren, ever voices that higher call, points
ever to that slowly risrng sun of human brotherhood, and directs man·
kind towards that way leading to the highlands of the morning where
are heard the glad shouts of humanity."
'

The Masonfo Home.
He finds upon this subject that opinion as to its utility is very much
divided, many giving the project unqualified approval and support, while
others regard ·the Masonic Home as a veritable ''white elephant to be
fed and looked after by the Craft'', a "liability instead of an asset'',
and quotes from one of the reviewers the following:

The Grand Master refers with much feeling to the death within
the year of the beloved Grand Lecturer and Honorary Past Grand
Master Allen M. Hicks, and pays a fitting tribute to the sterling qualities of that worthy brother.

''From a careful study of the Proceedings of all the English·
speaking Grand Lodges for the last five years I have reached the conclusion-concurred in by a large number of my brother reviewers-that
a Masonic Home is by far the most expensive way of dispensing Masonic
relief. In many ,jurisdictions the money spent for salary of superintendent and assistants is considerably more than that expended for the
board, clothing and medical attendance of the inmates.

He referred also to the death of Past Grand Master .John Y. Murry,
a man of great nobility of character.
A concise statement of bis official administration is set forth by
the Grand Master; six new lodges were constituted that had received
charters at the preceding annual communication; dispeusations were
issued to form :five new lodges; corner stones were placed to four pub·
lie buildings; and a large number of visitations were made to subordinate lodges.

'' 'l'he per capita cost of inmates in a Masonic Home runs all the
way from a hundred and twenty dollars to three hundred and twentyseven dollars in the different jurisdictions, and this does not include
interest on the money invested in brick and mortar."
The three other subjects mentioned by Brother Howard as engag·
ing the thoughts of masonic writers and Grand Lodges are:

The Grand Master states that numerous questions were referred to
him for decision during the year, but as practically all of these questions were settled either by previous decisions or the clear provisions
of the law, he does not mention the questions in his report.

Perpetual J i~risdioti01i;
Printing Roster of Members:
And in connection with this subject, he calls attention to the commercial houses, and promoters, who desire these lists, as one of the
substantial reasons why rosters of members should not be printed.

The Masonic Home is a matter of intimate concern of this juris·
diction. The institution has been doing work in the field of masonic
charity which it ocupies, and the jurisdiction does not hesitate to cheer·
fully undertake the :financial burdens and sacrifices which the proper
maintenance of the institution necessarily entails, which is a condition
true, not only of Mississippi, but of all jurisdictions that believe tliat

The central grand lodge:
Concerning which he has this to say:

•

65

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"Nearly all the jurisdictions of Canada a~d the ~nited S~ates have
discussed this Oregon proposition of surrendering their Sovereign power
to a central body and have refused to have anything to do with it. And
the Constituent Lodges of the jurisdictions, reduced to mere makers of
)fasons in many instances, look at the meetings of Grand Masters and
Grand Secretaries with surprise, wondering if this is the first step to·
wards 'Kultur. ' ' '

The Grand Master in concluding his excellent address assures his
brethren that if his administrating as Grand Master has accomplished
anything worth while, credit is very largely due to the generous co·
operation and assistance which he received during the year from the
brethren of the jurisdiction, who counted no expense too large, or
sacrifice too great, to aid him in the discharge of his important office.

M:. W:. GEORGE BOYD POWER, Grand )faster, Jackson.
R :. w:. FREDERICK GORDON SPEED, Grand Secretary, Vicksburg.

He referred particularly to the constant support and aid which he
received within the year from the Grand Secretary Most Worshipful
Brother John R. Parson and to the Chairman and members of the Juris·
prudence Committe.

64

From the Grand Secretary's report, we learn that dispensations to
form six new lodges were granted within the year; also that a net gain
in membership of nearly 2,500 took place.

MISSOURI.
1915.

As usual, the magnificent Masonic Home of this jurisdiction, received generous consideration and attention.

95th Annual, St. Louis, Sept. 28th.
Lodges, 639; membership, 63,966; gain, 2,444.

Much time was devoted at this Communication to the adoption of
constitutional amendments and amendments to by-laws.

The 95th Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form by the
Most Worshipful Tolman W. Cotton, Grand Master.

The several decisions of the Grand Master on local masonic law.
were all approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence and by the
Grand Lodge.

An Address of Welcome was made on behalf of tl;te City of St.
Louis by Brother Kiel, :[\fayor of the City, and response to the Mayo~ 's
welcome was given on behalf of the Grand Lodge by the Most W orsh1p·
ful Brother Boyd.

The report on Fraternal Correspondence is by Rev. C. C. Woods,
D. D. P. G. M.

The principal event within the year took place on St. John,
the Baptist's Day, June 24th, at which time the corner stone of the
State Capitol at Jefferson City was laid. The occasion was a .no.ta~le
one and many of the prominent masons from all parts of the '.Jur1sd1C·
tion took part, and the City itself made of the day a gala festival.

He reviews California, 1914, with generous quotations from the
address of Grand Master Murphy, referring particularly to Grand Mas·
ter Murphy's comments on the subject of "physical qualifications" and
to his suggestion that permits the conduct of funeral ceremonies without
the necessity of formally opening the lodge, whereby the Master and
brethren may meet at the residence or place designated for the funeral
and assume the regalia without going through the formal ceremony of
lodge opening.

Reference is made by the Grand Master to his visit to Alexandria,
Va. at the time of the annual meeting of the George Washington
Ma~onic National Memorial Association. He gives the undertaking his
cordial approval with the recommendation that the Grand Lodge give
the project its continued support.

In his ''Conclusion'', Brother Woods comments interestingly upon
a variety of subjects, such as "Masonic Commissions'', "Making a
Mason at sight", "The European War", etc., and he appends a list
of foreign Grand Lodges recognized as regular by the Grand Loclge of
Missouri, whhich list is interesting.

Numerous corner stone ceremonies took place within the year, not
less than nine in numher, and ceremonies incident to the dedication of
not less than sixteen masonic halls took place.
There are two lodges within the jurisdiction of Missouri, each haing
a membership of more than one thousand, and the Grand Master re~ers
especially to the visit of the Grand Officers on :\-fay 29th to the meetmg
of Ivanhoe Lodge when the one thousandth member was added to the

M.'. W.'. FRANK R. JESSE, Grand Master, St. Louis, Mo.
R:. w:. JOHN R. PARsox, Grand Secretary, St. Louis, Mo.

rull.

•

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
MONTANA.
1915.
51st Annual Great Falls, Sept. l5- 16 ·
Lodges, 86; n:embershipJ 8,981; gain, 753.

The Volume of Proceedings of 1915 contains the record of feleven
d
h Id for purposes o conSpecial Communications of the Grand L 0 ge, e
. t
d d d' ating masomc emp1es.
stituting lodges, placing corner stones, a; p e ic d' s of the fifty-first
The Volume also contains the Journal o
rocee mg
d M t
.
'd d over by the Gran
as er
Annual Communication, which was presi e
Most Worshipful Lewis A. Smith.
Offi rs eleven Past Grand MasThere were present fifteen Gran d
ce '
.
.
t d
f the eighty-six char ere
. ht th
ters and representatives of eig y- ree 0
•
• •
lod~es certainly a remarkable attendance for a jurisdiction geographically 'as great and widely scattered as is Montana.
The Grand J\faster refers in his address to his marked official activf the Grand Lodge were
. t'
ities within the year; special. commumca ions ~
held to constitute the five lodges which received charters at the pret
ceding Annual Communication; dispensations were granted to form no
th'ng of a record Numerous
b r
less than eight new lodges; we e ieve, some ' .
.
t. t'
f the
rulings were made by the Grand Master touchmg rnterpre a wn f o
d
law of .the jurisdiction. Many of the subordinate lod~es were. avore
by his official visitation within the year, a~d he .otherwise manifested a
marked degree of zeal in the discharge of his duties.
· ·
· d by his Grand
He calls attention to the commumcat10n receive
.
a
from the Grand Master of Masons of New York, embodymg
L d
reo u~:t that a prayer (form of which was incl?sed) be addressed to t.he
G;eat Architect of the Universe that the war in Eu:ope sh.ould speedil~
d Grand Master Smith remarks that while he is a firm be
~i:~::' i:nthe efficacy of prayer, he still is of the opini~n that th~t'Gra~d
Master of the Universe would act in the matter "without wa1 mg o
hear from us'', and, therefore, the Grand Master was unabl: to understand how any particular good would result from the prmted form
be addressed to the ''Throne of Grace.''
mailed out from ~New York to
Grand J\faster Smith also regarded as of light importanc~ a request
which a certain lodge in New York had made to the various Grand
Lodges that each lodge protest to the warring nations of Europe to put
an end to the conflict. It is fair to state, ~owever, t~at Grand Master
·
d
b · tion to the unrestramed exercise of freedom of
Smith entere no o JeC
b
d
each individual along those lines as each individual may e mo~e ~r
otherwise. He disbelieves that the Grand Lodge should take action m
the fields suggested.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

67

The Grand Master refers approvingly to the return of unused moneys·
contributed for the relief of the Ohio flood sufferers, which, however, has
become quite the proper thing in connection with relief work of masonry,
as this return of unused contributions to relief funds is now the common practice among masonic grand jurisdictions, and we may say that
perhaps this practice was established by the Grand Lodge of California
in 1907 in returning to donors over $60,000 of masonic relief funds contributed to sufferers in the earthquake of 1906. California, in that instance, returned more than 20% of the total of relief funds contributed
by outside jurisdictions.
Montana, notwithstanding the fact that it numerically is not a
strong jurisdiction, maintains a splendid Masonic Home. In this jurisdiction, this is rather an expensive form of masonic charity, there being
maintained at the Home at the present time not more than twelve or
fifteen guests at an average cost for the preceding year of about $350
per member. This average cost will, of course, gradually decrease as
the number of guests increases, and after the. unusual expenses incident
to early operation (the home being only a few years in existence) are
disposed of; but even when that shall have been done, it is, we believe,
a proposition of doubtful wisdom to endeavor to maintain a Homo in a
jurisdiction with a membership no larger than that of Montana.
Eloquent addresses were made in the evening of the first day of the
Annual Communication by the Grand Orator, Most ·worshipful Brother
E. C. Day, and by the Most Worshipful Past Grand Master Brother H.
S. Heppner. These addresses were greatly appreciated and by order of
the Grand Lodge were printed in full in the Journal of Proceedings.
The c:losing ceremony of the Annual Communication was the presentation of the Signet Ring. The retiring Grand Master Most Worshipful Brother Smith presented in a pleasing address the signet ring to
his successor, Most Worshipful Brother W. H. Allen. In the presentation he called attention to the many distinguished men of the jurisdiction that had worn the ring; he called attention to the symbolism of the
ring, and to the high ideals of service which it implied, and the sacredness of the trust which it imposed.
Grand Master Allen fittingly responded and assumed the responsibility which the signet ring impressed upon its bearer.
The report on Foreign Correspondence was presented for the seventh
time by the present chairman, Most Worshipful Past Grand Master
H. S. Heppner.
His report, as usual, is fraught with much of value. He selects with
discriminating judgment, and his comments bear evidence of knowledge
of masonic law.

68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

California, 1914, is generously reviewed. The address of Grand
Master Murphy is referred to in the most compl~mentary teri_ns. He
has generous words of commendation for our magrufieent Maso~ic H~me
establishments and for the prodigal generosity of our people m carmg
for these great masonic charities. He refers to the oration of Broth~r
William H. Waste as especially :fine and well-worthy of perusal, and m
c~nnection with his comments upon our memorial services, he quotes in
full the eulogy entitled "Our Dead", delivered by Most Worshipful
Past Grand ]\faster Orrin Staples Henderson.
In his Conclusion, Brother Heppner believes that contemplation of
the world war has been in a sense a cement that has bound even more
closely together our union of brotherly love, relief, and truth.
He truthfully refers to masonic charity whether expended through
loving homes and asylums for the aged, widowed, and orphans, or
whether as individual aid at homes or residences of friends, as the
essence of our masonic teachings, and trnthfully states that it is the
loving spirit that counts, regardless of the method in which it is man·
ifested.
He also notes, what is true, that there is at this moment an awakened interest in the study side of masonry, a desire among the membership to know more of the traditions, legends, symbolism, history, achievements of masonry, etc., than ever before; in other words, he believes
that the craving for knowledge is almost abnormal and that everywhere
there is a demand for instruction, whereby masonry's mission is becoming a real entity ''pulsating with life and vigor, a~d laboring to a?h~eve
its God given mission of united men of all countries, sects and opinions
into one brotherhood.''

M:. W.". DR. W. H. ALLEN Grand Master, Joliet.

R.". vv:. CORNELIUS HEDGES, ,JR., Grand Secretary, Helena.

NEBRASKA.
1915.

58th Annual, Omaha, ,June 8-9.
Lodges, 267; membership1 22,305;

1,183.

Th~ Grand Master, Most Worshipful Thomas M. Davis, presided,
assisted by a very large representation of Grand Officers, and there were
present, also, an imposing assemblege of Past Grand Masters and Rep·
resentatives of nearly all the lodges of the jurisdiction.
One of the outstanding features of Nebraska masonry is its Ma-,
sonic Home, to which the Grand ]\faster refers in his address as ex-

69

emplifying to a high degree the Masonic tenet of brotherly love. An
effort ~s being made in Nebraska to establish in addition to the regular
J\Iasom.c Home, a home for children, which would result in a system
somethmg along the lines of our California Home Institutions, that is,
one for adults, and the other purely for children. The method of treatment of this subject is both logical and proper.
The address of the Grand Master shows that bis official year was
one of "unexampled prosperity"·
. Dispensations were granted to form five new lodges and dispensation for one lodge, for which application was made, was refused.
Corner stone ceremonies to the number of not less than ten were
conducted by the Grand Master in person, and several ceremonies of this
eharacter by proxies appointed by him.
The Grand Master refers to a request which he received to have
the Grand Lodge insert in the petitions for initiation a question as to
the particular church denomination to which the applicant belonged.
The ~ran~ Ma~ter very properly disposed of this request, by stating that
a behef m Deity is all that is necessary concerning the expression of
religious faith.
A report reached the Grand Master within the year that ciphers
and keys were in use in different parts of the jurisdiction. but careful
inquiry failed to discover any evidence tending to support this report
and he therefore concluded that it was without any substantial founda'.
ti on,
The Grand ~faster rendered a number of decisions interpreting the
law of the jurisdiction, one of them to the effect that a ''Grand Lodge
cannot lay a corner stone for a church on a Sunday". In our opinion
th~re is nothin~ in~erently ineonsistent in a Grand Lodge performing ~
ceremony of this kmd on Sumlay. It is true that one day of rest out
of the seven days of the week is inculcated in our masonic teachings
but whether that one day is Saturday or Sunday or perhaps some othe;
day of the week has not, so far as we know, been deffnitely disposed of.
and inasmuch as masonry is not sectarian, why should it be inconsisten~
with our teachings to perform a service of the kind me,ntioned on Sunday, any more, for instance, than on Saturday,i
The Grand Master reported that within the year of his service as
Grand. Master,. he travelled something like 14,000 miles, which we pre·
sume is somethmg of a record so far as Nebraska is concerned.
The Grand Jurisdiction of Nebraska gives to the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association its cordial official endorsement and
an appropriation of $250,

70

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
Charles J. Phelps, who reviews in a brief and intelligent manner most of
the American jurisdictions, in which California, 1914, finds a place.

In a jurisdiction no larger than Nevada, it is in our opinion, which
opinion, we believe, is concurred in by nearly every one who has given
this subject attention, impracticabl~.

M.'. W.'. SAMUELS. WHITING, Grand Master, Lincoln.
R.'. W.'. FRANCIS E. WHITE,, Grand Secretary, Omaha.

NEVADA.
1915.
51st Annual, Reno, June 8-9-10.
Lodges, 23; membership, 1,975; gain, 36.
The Most Worshipful Charles A. Beemer presided over the Annual
Communbation. 'rhere were represented nineteen of the chartered
lodges. There was a very large representation present of Grand Officers, and in addition thereto, thirteen Past Grand Masters graced the
Communication with their presence.
After the opening of the Grand Lodge, a distinguished visitor from
Califomia1 in the person of Most Worshipful Brother William P.
Filmer, Past Grand Master, was received with Masonic honors, and
after felicitations were exchanged, he was seated in the Grand East,
and was present during a portion of the first day of the Annual Communication.
The Grand Master presented his report, in which he feelingly re·
£erred to the death within the year of Past Grand Joseph E. Miller,
and Past Senior Grand Warden Edward T. George.
The Grand Master paid fraternal visits to a large number of the
subordinate lodges, and otherwise manifested a marked degree of activity along various lines of official duty. He expresses his conception of
the high place which masonry holds in human affairs in the folloV1-ing
paragraph taken from his Conclusion:
"Freemasonrv is worthy of the confidence of the twentieth century
as it is in accord ~ith its p;ogress. It stands for whatever is right and
best for the permanent good. Every virtue is exalted by its teachings,
and every vice condemned. In every community its sublime teachings
are at work, uplifting, inspiring, energizing, and if we, my Brothers,
will yield but a part of our time to positive service and good, Masonry,
in return, will never fail to yield a benediction to Country, Home and
State."
An effort was made, in accordance with the recommendation of the
Committee, to establish a Masonic Home Fund by a per eapita assessment of 25c. The recommendation, however, of the Committee on
Masonic Home was not accepted, and the proposition to establish this
fund was apparently, for the present at least, abandoned.

71

Continued efforts are being made in this .Jurisdcition to standardize the ritualistic work, and these efforts are meeting with a large measure of success.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is for the twelfth time rendered by Grand Master Most Worshipful Brother Edward L. Vander·
lieth, who carries the official title of ''Commissioner of Review ''. His
comments are exceedingly intelligent and discriminating. He gives
California, 1914, fraternal consideration and makes some interesting
observations in his Conclusion, from which we make the following
excerpt:
''\Ve Craftsmen, who stand for the Fatherhood of God and the
Brotherhood of Man, should intercede for peaee, though first honor and
mercy alike cry out that this Nation of ours should stop the selling of
~unitions to the belligerants, and, if necessary, place an embargo on
its ports. Strengthen the hands of those in authority O Lord that in
all things they may seek thy honor and glory!
'
'
''We note an increased recognition that enlightenment and educati~n play 3: most impor~ant pa_rt in Masonry, and that added ways are
berng provided for their obtarnment. Study clubs are multiplying a
lecture bureau has been formed at Helena, Montana, with excellent 're·
sults, the Grand Lodge of Iowa, through a committee, has established
a National Research Society, supplying a pressing want, and our own
Grand Lodg~, .and others, have instituted educational scholarship funds.
All are rec~1vrng the hearty support of the Fraternity. Plato taught
that education was the first and fairest thing that the best of men can
ever h~ve. The Fraternity will be strengthened thereby, and its usefulness wi.dened. .J~s cra~tsmen w~ll be better enabled to pursue the ideal
perfec~1on of ~lhze~sh1p :i-nd with .greater courage and magnaminity to
~arry 1ts teachmgs rnto hfe. An rncreased good in Masonry means an
rncreased good to states and individuals. More light, brethrenl Let the
good work go on! "
M.'. W.'. BENJ. W. COLEMAN, Grand

Carson City.

v:. w:. EDWARD D. VANDERLIETH, Grand Secretary, Carson
NEW BRUNSWICK.
1915.
48th Annual, St. John, April 6-7.
Lodges, 40; membership, 3,685; gain, 149.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most W orshipful Hedley V. B. Bridges, Most Worshipful Grand Master.
By change in the constitutional provision, touching the date of
the Annual Communication, the date has been moved from August to

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

April, whereby only eight months elapsed from the date of the 1914
annual eommunication to the time of the present Annual Communieation.
The Grand Master, as is univer11ally the case in annual eommunications of the current year of jurisdictions affiliated with England, refers at the opening of his address to the "catastrophe incalculable",
and advances the opinion that while Freemasonry bas ever :flourished in
times of peace and bas always deplored the miseries and suffering inspearable from war, yet gives expression to the universal sentiment, in
the jurisdiction, that wishes for peace are inopportune and can only
be fervently desired when the principles of truth and justice have
finally triumphed and the holy cause for which England is battling,
that is the cause of human liberty, is triumphant.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

73

Europe, naught shall we Slj.y, but as was said of old, 'Just and righteous are Thou altogether in Thy works, O Lord,' ''
Among the matters considered at this Communication of the Grand
Lodge was the application of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Is·
lands for recognition, and in accordance with the recommendation of
the Committee on Foreign Relations, which recommendation apparentlv
was based upon the non-action up to that date of the Grand Lodg~
of Scotland, the question of recognition was postponed to the next
Annual Communication.
In the report of the Committee, to whieh was referred the address
of the Grand Master, we quote the following:

He refers to the large number of masons, even from his small
jurisdiction, that have gone across the waters to battle in the cause of
freedom, and it is extremely significant of the loyalty of the Colonies
of Great Britain that, apparently without exception, they are as keenly
and patriotically interested in the success of England in this great war
as are the inhabitants of England herself.

''Grand Lo:Ige has learned with pride of the large number of
Masons at Empire Lodge, London, at which it was stated that five
thousa:i~ members of this organization form part of the First Canadian
~xped1t1onary For~e. If Masonry stands for anything in this Empire
it stan~s .unswervmgly .erect for the Crown and Throne of En land'.
Th~ prt:ic1ples ~au¥~t m our Lodges have clearly tightened th~ ties
which bmd the md1v1dual to King and Country.

The Grand Master refers to the death of Lord Roberts, Field
Marshall of Great Britain. He is referred to with pride as one of the
most distinguished military heroes that Great Britain has produced,
and, while excelling, as he did, as a military chieftain, he was also devoted to the principles of masonry, being a member of Military Lodge
No. 728, Dublin, in which he took a deep interest, being a regular attendant at its meetings, whenever bis military duties brought him to
Ireland.

''. G;rand Lodll'e will fully agree with the Grand Master's e ression
of op~mon re.gardmg the War~ His eloquent words will make ~permanent n~press10n up?n those who were privileged to hear his address
?Xpressmg, as he did, clearly and forcibly the thoughts which lie d d1
m the hearts of all. "
ee

The Grand Master refers to the early history of Freemasonry in
New Brunswick, and finds, by reference to a recently published work
upon masonry, in the Province, that the initial masonic meeting was
held Sept. 1, 1784, being presided over by Rev. J. Beardsley, who bad
been Junior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of New York.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.

The Grand Master recommended that a memorial to Rev. Beardsley be erected by the Grand Lodge, which recommendation was afterwards duly approved by the Grand Lodge.
The subject of the war in Europe being the thought uppermost in
the minds of the brethrenJ the Grand Master closes his excellent address
in the following burst of patriotic diction:
"But if the Supreme Architect of the Universe decrees that this
awful war shall continue until the wrongs of suffering, down-trodden
Belgium shall have been measurably righted, until the forces of the
enemy shall have been driven from the fields of fair France and her
dismembered Empire wholly restored, until the ancient rights and liberties and language have been given back to poor Poland and until the
clang of armor and sword of Prussian militarism be no more heard in

M:. W:. HEDLEY, V. B. BRIDGES, Grand Master, Fredericton

R:. W:. J-. TwrnING HARTT, Grand Secretary, St. John.

.

1916.
127tb Annual, Concord, May 17th.
Lodges, 80; membership, 1,158; gain, 148,
The outstanding feature of this jurisdiction is perhaps the Semiannual Communication, rather than the annual communication
Th
Se1'.1i-annual is more largely attended, and at this Communication the
various degrees are exemplified by different lodges of tlie jurisdiction~
and at both the afternoon and evening sessions which were h Id
th' S .
1 C
e upon
.1s em1-annua
ommunication, magnificent musical selections were
rendered, so the report states, by the Shubert Quartette of Boston.
At the Annual Co.mmunication, the Grand Master delivered the
u. sual address, the espec1al feature of which was the section rel t ·
t
N
1
th . . d' .
a mg o
" ecro o~y,
e .1ur1s rnhon having suffered a visitation of the Grim
Reaper m the removal of several of those who had been £minent · th
masonry of the jurisdiction.
m e

74

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPOXDENCE

The official activities of the Grand Lodge were manifested in cer·
ta'.n Special Communications in the nature of Lodges of Instruction,
also for the dedication of masonie halls.

The Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form by the
Most Worshipful Edward M. Searing, Grand Master, assisted by the
complete staff of Grand Officers, and there being present representatives
of 194 of the 196 lodges of the jurisdiction, only two lodges being un·
represented1 which we believe is the record, so far as representatives of
suhordinante lodges is concerned, in the Grand Lodge meetings held
within the year.

The Grand Master refers to the Masonic Home as being the most
worthy object of masonic endeavor within the jurisdiction, and corn·
mends it to the generous consideration of the brethren.
An attitude of friendly interest is maintained toward the George
Washington National Masonic Memorial Association, at the last meeting
of which the Grand Lodge was ably represented, with the cordial en·
dorsement which this representation carried.
Reference was made by the Grand Master in his report to the first
Grand Master of the jurisdiction,-the soldier, patriot, and stateman,
John Sullivan, and he voiced the opinion that it is doubtful if any other
Grand Lodge in the Republic had so distingnished a man for its first
Grand Master, and he laments the fact that this distinguished citizen
and mason has as yet no fitting memorial to his character and worth,
and he expressed the hope that the masonic fraternity of New Hamp·
shire may at no distant date see that a statue in General Sullivan's
honor is erected in the capital city of the State.
This subject has been agitated in New Hampshire for several years,
and we trust that the hope of the Grand Master that a monument to
Past Grand Master Sullivan may soon be erected by the masons of the
jurisdiction.
Grand Master Harry M. Cheney makes his tenth consecutive annual
report on Correspondence. As usual, it is marked by a high order of
ability.
California, 1915, is generously reviewed, and much of interest
found by Brother Cheney in the Proceedings of our Grand Lodge, particularly in the scholorly address of Grand :\faster Bledsoe.
M. ·. W. ·. GEORGE E. BALES, Grand Master.• Wilton.

R:. w:. HARRY M. CHENEY, Grand Secretary, Concord.
NEW JERSEY.
1916.

129th Annual, Trenton, April 19-20.
Lodges, 196; membership, 42,257; gain, 1,688.
The Volume of Proceedings is embellished with photographs of
several of the Masonic Temples of New Jersey, some of which display
marked architectural beauty.

75

The Grand Master presents a clean-cut, straight-forward statement
of his official acts within the year.
Under the heading of decisions, he states that many questions were.
propounded to him within the year, all of which were amply provided
for in the Digest, and none of them requiring anything in the nature of
an official decision.
He refers with pride to the Masonic Home, characterizing the institution as an_ expression of the ''noble work of the Fraternity.''
Reference is made in his report to an incident that occurred on
Feb. 16th, whereby through the courtesy of one of his subordinate
lodges, he was given the extreme and unique pleasure of a fraternal
visit with Most Worshipful Brother Albert G. Burnett, Grand Master
of California, by means of the great transcontinental "voice railway".
Our
orshipful Grand Master presented, through the telephone, the
comphments of the 60,000 masons of California to the Most Worshipful
Grand Master and brethren of the jurisdiction of the splendid State
of New Jersey, stating that though the two jurisdictions were separated
by more than three thousand miles of territory, they yet are bound
together by the indissoluble bonds of brotherhood, and that the principles which underlie the great Fraternity, whether it be in California
or New Jersey, are as ever-lasting as the Throne of God, and that
though madness and barbarism seem for the moment to dominate a
large part of the so-called civilized world, yet our Grand Master Burnett assured his Brother across the continent, that the madness would
pass and give way to a better civilization, founded upon the eternal
principles of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man.

:1

The Most Worshipful Grand Master of New Jersey expressed to his
brother in California the reciprocal fraternal feelings entertained by the
Craft of New Jersey towards their brothers at the Golden Gate and
that while thousands of miles separated their persons, yet the 'voice
from. across the continent seemed but a few yards away, and that this
was m a sense typical of the close. bond of brotherhood that united
those in the Fraternity, though separated by the width of a continent.
The incident was certainly very delightful, and one that will no doubt
linger in the recollection of the distinguished brothers.

76

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The first day of the Annual Communication was made.notable, in a
certain sense, by the reception of eminent brethren from other jurisdictions, reference being made to a fraternal visit from the Most Worshipful Grand Master of Pennsylvania, and the other Grand Officers
from this jurisdiction and from )Tew York and Delaware. They were
received with the usual Grand Honors and escorted to seats in the East.
The Grand Lodge accepted the custody at this Communication of
what is known as the "Old Masons' Hall" of :N"ew Jersey, the oldest
masonic building in America north of the Mason and Dixon Line.
This building was occupied as one of the :first school buildings in the
State of New Jersey, and was in the very center of the scene of stirring
revolutionary action at the time that Washington crossed the Delaware,
and fell upon his surprised and panic-stricken enemies, marking one of
the notable successes of Washington's military career.
This old masonic building had been acquired through the patriotic
activities of certain of the prominent masons of New Jersey, who at
this Communication handed over to the Grand Lodge the key of the
famous old structure ''almost as dear to the hearts of masons of New
Jersey", the Committee states, "as our :flag is dear to all of us who
love America".
Brother Wilbur F. Sadler, Jr., Chairman of the Committee, received
the grateful thanks of the Grand Lodge, with the assurance that the
old building would be for all times safe-guarded and protected.
Something of an innovation, so far as Grand Lodges are concerned,
obtains in this jurisdiction in that the Grand Master apparently appoints at each Annual Communication a committee of nine ladies who
have oversight of the domestic affairs of the Masonic Home. Very
proper and appropriate and extremely unselfiBh, so far as the ladies
are concerned, to assume this important and responsible task.
Worshipful Robert A. Shirrefs, Chairman, again presents the report
on Foreign Correspondence, and as usual, the report possesses a high
order of merit.

M:. w:. WM. R. }'[EAKLE, Grand Master, Trenton.
R.". W.'. THEO. B. TOWNLEY, Grand Secretary, Trenton.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

77

NEW MEXICO.
1915.

28th Annual, Albuquerque, Oct. 11-12-13.
Lodges, 43; membership, 3,564; gain, 203.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful F. Hare, Grand Master.
The Grand Master sets forth in a businesslike and concise manner
his official activities within the year. He made a limited number of rul·
ings upon the local law of the jurisdiction. He issued dispensations to
form two new lodges, and made a number of official visitations to subordinates. In conclusion, he congratulates the Grand Lodge on its
:flourishing condition, calling attention to the healthy increase in numbers and in funds within the year, ai;id predicts a continued era of
solid and substantial growth and prosperity.
In accordance with the recommendation of a Special Committee on
''Kit Carson Memorial'', the home property of this famous mason was
turned over for preservation and conservation to the care of Bent
Lodge No. 32, with certain reservations in the deed of gift to the
Grand Lodge of a room to be known as Kit Carson Room, to be maintained as a museum, etc.
,
Th~ report on Foreign Correspondence is by Worshipful Brother
John Milne, who succeeded to the chairmanship of that committee, Past
Grand Master '_Yroth, who was New Mexico's correspondent for so many
years.
Dr. Milne presents an excellent report. He reviews with intelligent and discriminating criticism the reports of the various Grand
Jurisdictions, California, 1914, being fraternally considered, with several quotations from Grand Master Murphy's address.

Brother Milne is in error in his statement that the Independent
G.rand Lodge of France was extended fraternal recognition by Califorma ! the reverse of. t~is was what actually took place, although final
action upon the petition of this alleged Grand Body was carried over
from the Annual Communication of 1914 for :final action in 1915
which was, as stated, adverse to the pretentions of this alleged Grand
Lodge.
Brother Milne, in his conclusion, ventures the opmwn in
which we concur, that there are, perhaps, too many misgiving~ on
the part of Grand Masters touching the abuse of the blackball.
. There is, in the opinion of Brother Milne, very little ground for
this alarm, and he ventures the opinion that aubordinate lodges

78

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

should be allowed to retain, without interference, the unquestioned
right to select their own material, or perhaps better say, the right to
reject material not acceptable to them.
M. ·• W. ·. AMOS W. PoLLARD, Grand Master, Deming.
:M:. w:. ALPHEUS A. KEE::;r, Grand Secretary, Albuquerque.

NEW SOUTH WALES.
1915.
27th Annual, Sydney, June 24th.
Lodges, 260; membership, 21,502; gain, 1,024.
The Volume of Proceedings under consideration empraces the
various Special and Quarterly Communications, extending from June
24, 1914, to June 24, 1915, inclusive.
The various Communications were presided over by the Most
Worshipful Grand Master Brother William Thompson, ~nd .the dominent note in all of the Proceedings springs from a reahzat.10n of the
seriou~ and tremendous struggle in which the Mother eountry is engaged, and aside from the performance of routine business, and the
adoption of reports, are expressions of support and loya~ty to th_e
Mother conntry, eouplcd with extremely generous finaneial contributions, amounting to thonsands of dollars, to the patriotic funds.
One of the notieeably pleasant incidents of the administration
of the Grand Master for the current year was the raising on August
6 1914 of the son of the Grand Master by the Grand Master himself,
~ho obligated and raised the eandidate and addressed him in a feeling and impressive manner upon the subject of his attaining the
Sublime Degree.
In addition to appeals for the Patriotic Fund, this Grand Juris·
dietion carried forward during this current masonic year, the building of a magnificent Masonie Temple in :he City. ?f Sydn.ey. This
jurisdiction, however, is in splendid financial condition, as is. t~e ?f
practically all of the Australian jurisdictions, the Funds of this Jurisdiction amounting to nearly $400,000.
Being, no doubt, misled by the reported action of the Grand
Lodge of England, in extending reeognition to the so-calle~ Nation~l
Grand Lodge of France, this jurisdiction extended fraternal recogm·
tion to this so-called Grand Lodge as a sovereign Grand Body. We
have no doubt .that if an independent investigation had been made
as to the qualifications of this alleged body for recognition that recog·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

79

nition would not have been extended, and we believe it is the opinion
of those who have carefully investigated the pretenses of this socalled Grand Body, as a sovereign Grand Lodge of :\:Iasons, that it is
not entitled to recognition as such.
Most Worshipful William Thompson discharged so capably the
duties of Grand Master during the year preceding that he was unanimously chosen to suceeed himself for the next ensuing masonic year.
He refers in one of his addresses to the very great appreciation
which he felt for the reception tendered to him by the brethren of
Sydney at the Town Hall on the 24th of June, when over 3,000 brethren from remote parts of the country and from the City assembled
in his honor.
Reports of the various Quarterly Communications were made by
the Grand Inspector of Workings, showing a splendid masonic spirit
throughout the jurisdiction, disclosing an active and alert eondition
of masonry, which is going forward in its splendid eareer in this
progressive jurisdiction.
Referring to the awful war in Europe in. which British Colonies
are all indirectly involved, the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence uses the following language:
'The dire ealamity of war has fallen upon the civilized world,
and the great Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons has become
involved in that Titanic struggle now raging in Europe.
"The very universality of our Order, so frequently our proud
boast, has, by reason of its all-embracing nature, produeed a cleavage
in the bonds that unite us.
''Brother is arrayed in. arms against brother, and bv the consuming patriotism and allegiance to our native land, which we inculcate as one of our most cherished tenets, the eonfiict is bloody and
severe, and must go on to the bitter enu.
"Little wonder, then, that our Craft has suffered, especially in
the countries involved in the struggle.
"Our pride and joy is in the faet that everywhere brethren of
our Order have realized their responsibilities, have cheerfully relinquished comfort, ease and pleasure, and gone fort)l to take up arms
at their country's call, prepared to lay down their lives for the cause
they have espoused.
Everywhere, too, have the most generous and noble responses
been made to the demand for service to those who are suuffering
from the ravages of war, and, the world over, the great heart of the
Masonic body is beating in aetive and substantial sympathy with the
bereaved, the wounded, the destitute, and with eaeh individual sufferer from the cataclysm.''

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

An excellent report on correspondence is, as usual, rendered . by
various members of the Correspondence Committee, the work bemg
divided among the several members instead, as is usual in this country, of being written by the Chairman. The. various Revie':s consist of concise and intelligent comment touchmg the proceedrngs of
the different jurisdiction, although the volume of California Proceedings apparently did not reach the Committee, as California is omitted
from the report.
A paragraph in the Conclusion of the report is worthy of special
mention, as follows:
"One fact will be disclosed, viz, that t~1e war, which seems !O
have evoked the worst passions in some nations, has called forth rn
the Masonic Body the most expansive expressions ~f benevol~nce, ~nd
all have vied with each other in seeking to alleviate suffermg, brnd
up the wounded comfort the bereaved, relieve the wants and soothe
the afflictions of the victims and mourners.''
M.'. W.'. BRo. WM. THOMPSON, Grand Master.
M.'. W.'. ARTHUR H. BRAY, Grand Secretary, Sydney.

NEW YOBK.
1916.

125th Annual, New York City, May 2.
Lodges, 852; membership, 197,423; gain, 4,960.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, Most Worshipful
George Freifeld, presiding.
Immediately after the formal opening, the Grand Master delivered his Annual Address, which consists, in the main, of a businesslike presentation of the Masonic activities within the preceding year.
He enumerates a large number of Ceremonials conducted within
the year by the Grand Lodge, presided over by him as Grand Master.
These ceremonials consisted of the constitution of a large number of
lodges that had received their charters at the prece~ing Annual
Communication the dedication of a number of masomc halls and
temples, the pl~cing of corner stones of several public build~ngs, a~d
the celebration of anniversaries of various lodges, these anmversanes
ranging all the way from the fiftieth to the one hundredth and tenth
of the creation of certain of the subordinate lodges.
The Grand Master particularly refers to the visit on June 20th
of the Grand Master and a large number of Grand Officers and Past

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

81

Grand Officers, to the Masonic Home at Utica, this being the one
great official visitation of the year.
The Grand Master refers with a certain measure of satisfaction
to the large amount raised by the various lodges for the so-called
"Redemption Fund", that is, for the redemption of a portion of the
debt standing against the New York City property, the amount now
accumulated towards this fund being $703,635.55, leaving about $40Q,.
000 still needed to complete the Fund.
We presume there is hardly another Grand Jurisdiction in the
world with the financial strength to lift such a tremendous financial
obligation.
A Balance Sheet is presented showing the total of the various
Funds and Properties belonging to the jurisdiction of $5,741,086.70,
against which there are liabilities consisting of outstanding bonds on
the New York City properties, and otherwise, of perhaps half this
amount. The obligations, however, are in a fair way of rapid liquidation, so that, within a reasonable time, this jurisdiction will have
property worth probably five and a half millions or six millions of
dollars, free of debt.
The Grand Lodge at this Communication was favored with distinguished visitors. The Most Worshipful I,ouis A. Watres, Grand
Master of Pennsylvania, accompanied by several of the Grand Officers
of that jurisdiction, were received with the honors befitting their
station, and Grand Master Watres of Pennsylvania made a stirring
masonic address, which met the cordial approval of his auditors.
Grand Master ·watres referred to the Great Masonic charities of the
two jurisdictions, that is, the Masonic Home establishments, the one
at Elizabethtown in Pennsylvania, and the other at Utica in New
York. Speaking of these institutions, Grand Master Watres says:
"We have at Elizabethtown, midway between Lancaster and
Harrisburg, a Masonic Home that is perhaps one -0£ the largest in the
world. We have there 981 acres of land. We have there a Grand•
Lodge Hall that cost us over half a million dollars. We have invested
there a million and a quarter dollars. We have today 276 guests there,
the adults averaging 70 years old, and some as old as 94. We have
children there up to the age o.f 14 years. And in our State the heart
of every Mason is at Elizabethtown. That is the favorite of all of us
there. When a Mason wants to do something, he does it for the
Masonic Home at Elizabethtown. I believe that the work you have
done at Utica and the work we are trying to do at Elizabethtown, will
stand out as perhaps the noblest flower of all our efforts, and I believe
that, as time goes on, there shall be unveiled in the work at Utica
and Elizabethtown a spirit which is there manifest, which is being
developed there-I believe that perfection will finally be unveiled
there in the work we are doing and that the achievement will ~row

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

with time and that achievement shall be one of our finest aims aml
aspirations, to do good.''
We would ilke to ask some of our masonic reviewers who oppose
the Masonic Home system, South Carolina for example, how they
would manage the widows and orphans and distressed aged masons
problems in such jurisdictions as New York and Pennsylvania, except
through the ''Home'' system~
The New York Masonic Home is a "family of five hundred", and
in the Pennsylvania Home 276 guests are now provided for, and the
Home establishment there is of comparatively recent creation.
Brother Leonard Wood, ranking Major General of the United
States Army, was also a distinguished guest of the Grand Lodge at
this time. He made some rather pertinent remarks upon the subject
of preparedness and the benevolent purposes of the United States in
bestowing the blessings of good government in certain instances
where it has intervened for this purpose, and we are glad to quote a
few of his remarks upon these subjects:
''This little Cuban flag, that you have up here this morning, is
really an American flag, in one sense. Its place there is due to the
philanthropic work of our own people.
"We intervened in Cuba to establish conditions of order and to do
away with certain conditions that we thought were undesirable. We
built up a little nation which is really living under our protection.
That is pretty good evidence to the world of America's spirit of fair
dealing and fair play. But the important thing to bring home to our
own people is, I believe, that fair dealing and fair play and national
morality will not protect us. We all know that the most blameless
nations have been ruthlessly overrun and deprived of their rights, and
we know that this has been done, not only in our own experience, but
it has been done in the experience of the past centuries. The story is
the same now as it has been for centuries. We also know that we
have something worth defending. I know we have, and so do you.
We have institutions that we believe are vital to humanity. We have
a government that we are going to defend to the last ditch. We have
homes that we are going to defend. Now, if we are going to do these
things, we as sensible men must recognize the fact that we cannot
"successfully defend them without some kind of reasonable preparation.''

*

*

*

*

"We realize pretty thoroughly that justice is not universal in the
world, and that morality and fair dealing and politeness won't protect
us, and we don't want to see you, or to see men of your kind or men
of your families, or your boys forced into a useless conflict-useless in
the sense that it will be entirely hopeless unless you are prepared.
There seems to be something ano!llalous in the army or representatives
of the army trying to preach to the people preparation for war when
we have no enemies. Believe me, Brethren, it is far from my thought
to say one word in favor of preparation for war; I have no thought in
my lteart excepting preparation for peace. The only way to prepare for

83

peace is to be prepared for war w 100 k "th
people engaged in this r a
·
e
WI
sympathy upon all the
facts that exist around gu: :n~a[h tWe m;st n~t close our eyes to the

~~s~n;e:~i~~ t~h~h~osrte:!~~~ishh~n t~~fect~c~T1~;e ~~;:e:~dda;~.re ~~

!?i
the ends of all life andpthe hope : f oal~a1d t!hat beace and happiness are
visions and dream dreams there ;ll . na ~otnbs,l ut so lo.ng as men have
must fight If
b . '
. WI rnevi a Y come times when they
h . t "f .
you e.1ieve a thrng honestly from the bottom of
ear ' I you are convmced you are . ht 1"f
b .
.
your
ernment and in your instit t"
rig '
you eheve rn your govfight to preserve those belie~s i~;sy, o~o~recaannot ~~ anything else but
man.
The Grand Lodge was also visited at this time b
eminent
masons from the neighboring jurisdiction of New Jersey ywho were
accorded a cordial reception with the honors due them. '
In this J urisc1iction there is an officer called th "J d
c t ''
b
e
u ge Advoa e , a
rother versed and skilled in masonic jurisprudence to
whom all questions of masonic law are presented, and whose rep,orts
upon mooted questions of law are always accepted as conclusive.
The following paragrphs from his
report are quoted as being of
per h a ps more than mere local interest:
"That a member of a Lodg
h h
b
·
payment of dues
e w 0 as een unaffiliated for nondues for which he
utii:fth~Itment to the Lodge .of the am?unt of
ment · that the Lod
· b
d ted, appl_y ~t any time for rernstate.
,
ge is oun
o act w1thm a
bl t"
his application, and that if it refuses to reinsta::a~?na I e b1me upon

m:Is

1

~fsnl~~~~~!~n~~~ f~ :~!iii~~ ~~ ~ c;r~ifica"te showing ~'atiehe ~c~sm;~i~

to any other Lodge in ~thigs 'J n. d" et.may tThen apply for affiliation
.
uns ic 10n
hat the Lod
h
to return the money paid b th.
.
. &"e .as no
his dues.''
Y e member m liqmdation of
a~1 th onty

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

''A by-law of a Lodge which
"d
·
therein, and that members in 'such ~las~:~:~~~ :or life ~~mbershtp
payment of further dues '' does not ex
a
e exempt from the
ment of assessments duly levied by the t~~~e~~~h members from pay-

*
".That the effect of a failure of a member t 0
ment is not the same as failure to a L d
pay a Lodge assessthe member is subject to unaffiliatif .Y f o l~1 dues. For the latter
ment, he is liable to charges, trial anna' p~~is~:U~~~- (? pay an assess""

*

It is respectfully suggested th t
.
mulgated by the Grand Lod
a some rule might well be proconnection with the confer~i~gtoofth:h effect ~hr every candidate, in
should receive some instruction in th e sym ? ic degrees upon him,
Masonic Jurisprudence and that h e hmof~ imp~rtant principles of
Constitution and be admonished to ef s ~f
rece~ve a copy of our
candidate must show his roficienc . am1 ia_nze himself with it. A
vanced to succeeding defrees ItY. m t~et ntua! before he can be ad•
IS qm e as important, in another

.

84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOR'f ON CORRESPONDENUE

sense. that he should also have some knowledge of the l~ws, wl.1id1
not only regulate the affairs of Lodges, but also govern his relati~ns
and obligations to, and rights in, these Lodges and the Fratermty
generally''
There is also in this jurisdiction another officer peculiar to New
York, known as the Grand Historian, filled by the able and scholarly
Right Worshipful Ossian Lang, whose Dissertation at this time was
upon a subject assigned to him by the Grand Lodge, to-wit: "Was
Freemasonry derived from the Medieval Craft Gilds of Masons~"
The erudite treatise is, of course, too long to be quoted in this report,
but one or two if his ":findings" are given because they contravene
the ordinarily accepted theory that Speculative masonry was the outgrowth of original "Operative Masonry", whereby Operative Masonry gradually faded away and in its place was erected the Speculative Masonry of today.
His ''findings'' a Te as follows:
"If you accept my :findings, we shall agree:

(1) That Freemasonry, as we know it, is in nowise derived from
operative Masonry.
(2) 'fhat a 'symbolic' fraternity existed, whos~ members, under Anglo-Saxon conditions, frequently chose to obtam the freedom
of the Masonic craft gild by 'acceptance.'
(3) That the explanation foT the preference accorded t? ~he
Masonic gild may be inferred f;om the aspect. of cathedral build~~g
in the medieval age more especially the function of Masons, to gi: e
form to symbols of 'predetermined significance, the brotherhood striving to unite men of diverse interests and to preserve the 'geometry'
of sacred things.
(4) That on the Euro~ean ~ontinent t~e brotherhood h~d not
even an elbow-touch connect10n with craft gilds, the latter bemg exclusively trade organizations.
(5) That the history of the 'Laws, Porms and Usages' of the
Fraternity while of less significance than that of 'the Arts and
Sciences thereof,' nevertheless is of con~iderable interest, and serves
to interpret much that could not otherwise be accounted for.
(6) That 'Laws, Forms an? Usages' are largely derived from
association with Masonic craft gilds and form merely the outer shell
or mold into which the substance was poured which developed into
the kind of Freemasonry we know.''
The report on Correspondence is from the usual committee, consisting of Most Worshipful Brother "\Villiam Sherer and his associates,
Worshipful Brother Emil Frenkel and Emanuel Loewenstein. The
Reviews of the various jurisdictions are condensed, the whole report

85

occupying scarcely more than 100 pages. California, 1915, is referred
to with several quotations from the address of Grand Master Bledsoe.

M:. W:. THOMAS PENNY, Grand Master, Buffalo.
M:. W:. EDWARD M. L. EHLERS, Grand Secretary, New York.

NEW ZEALAND.
1915.

26th Annual, Wellington, May 12th.
Lodges, 198; membership, 13,435; gain, 171.
The Grand Lodge was opened in the Annual Communication in
Form, Most Worshipful Brother John Joseph Dougall, pres1dmg.

~U:ple

The matter probably of prime importance in this jurisdiction is
the presentation of the Balance Sheet, wherein the resources of the
Grand Lodge are set forth, a list of the various funds given and a
statement of income and expenditures, all set forth in an exc~edinglv
businesslike manner.
•
This Grand Lodge has now been in existence just twenty-five
years; it now has invested assets of about $175,000 and during its
existence has distributed in the way of charity an amount about
equal to its present total invested funds, that is to say $125,000,
representing in that manner amounts received of about $300 000 in
addition to expense of administration, surely an extremely gr;tifying
record.
One of the first orders of business in the Annual Communications
of this Grand Lodge is the election of Grand Master and under this
order of ?usiness, the Most Worshipful Brother John' Joseph Dougall
was unammously elected to succeed himself in that exalted station.
From the report of. the Board of General Purposes, which is the
business organization within the Grand Lodge, the general condition
of masonry is set forth, and, as one would naturally expect, the
principal topic discussed is the war in progress upon the continent of
Europe, and notwithstanding the :financial support which the Grand
Lodge is extending in the patriotic cause, the lodges, without ex·
ception, have not only carried on their charitable work as usual but
showed an improvement and advance over the preceding year. '
Partic~lar mention is made of the beneficial results accruing to
the subordmate lodges through the official visits made by the Grand
Master to many parts of the Dominion within the preceding year,

86

and the zeal and activity of the Grand Master is mentioned as greatly

NORTH CAROLINA.

appreciated by the Craft.
The Grand Master was in due course installed, following his reelection, and, after his installation, presented his annual address to
the Grand Lodge, which was made up principally of a resume of the
progress of the Grand Lodge from its formation to the present time,
this being the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of its foundation.

1916.

The Grand Lodge of New Zealand certainly overcame the great
difficulties and obstacles placed in the way of its formation by the
Mother Grand Lodges of England, Scotland, and Ireland, particularly of the persistent opposition of the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
The Grand Lodge of Ireland was the first of the three to accord
recognition, and this was followed a number of years afterwards by
the Grand Lodge of England, the favorable action of the Grand
Lodge of England having been brought about largely through the
kindly offices of the late King Edward, VII, before he ascended
the 'Throne, and while he was still the Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of England, and recognition from the Grand Lodge of
Scotland was only grudgingly extended two years previously in 1913,
after New Zealand had achieved a membership of more than 13,000
with 190 or more subordinate lodges.
The Grand Master, in his address, contrasts the differences in the
policies of the Government of England towards her colonies, which
is marked with extreme liberality and the granting of well-nigh full
and unrestrained liberty of action, with the policy of the Grand
Masonic Lodges of England and Scotland, in accordance with which
freedom is denied to the very last possible moment, and ·only until
after the entire masonic world, outside of these grand lodges have
accorded independent recognition, has recognition been extended.
The experience of the Grand Lodge of New Zealand is acquiring
independence from the Grand Lodges of England and Scotland differs
in no material respects, so far as we have been able to discover,
from the experience of Australia and other Grand Lodges in achieving their independence of the so-called Mother Grand Lodges.
The report on Foreign Correspondence by the Right Worshipful
Brother Sydney Clifton Bingham is a comprehensive and intelligent
review of the various Grand Jurisdictions, in which California, 1914,
·has a prominent place, with quotations from the report of Grand
Master Murphy, the oration of Worshipful Brother Waste, reports
of committees, etc.
M.". W.". BRO. JOHN JOSEPH DOUGALL, Grand Master, Christchurch.
M.". W.". BRO. MALCOLM NrncoL, Grand Secretary, Auckland.

87

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

129th Annual, Raleigh, June 18-19-20.
Lodges, 442; membership, 2,530; gain, 1,061.
The Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form, the Most
Worshipful F. P. Hobgood, presiding.
After the opening of the Grand Lodge, a resolution offered by
Grand Master Winston was adopted, extending to Right Wor:hip~ul Brother ~ohn C. Drewry, Grand l:'lecretary, an expression of
he JOY and gratitude of the Grand Lodge upon the recovery of the
G~an_d Secretary from a most serious illness, which he had suffered
: 1thm the year, necessitating his absence from his official duties for
any month~, and extending also the thanks of the Grand Lodge of
North Carolma to the Most Worshipful the Honorable Thomas J
Shryock, Grand Master of the Grand Jurisdiction of Maryland and
t~e brethren of that jurisdiction who had so graciously shown' considerate at.tention to Brother Drewry while a patient in one of the
great hospitals of Baltimore.
P~st

The Grand Lodge at this time was honored with visits from
Grand Officers of other jurisdictions, reference being particularly
made to Hon. R. A. Cooper, Grand Master of South Carolina Past
Grand Master John H. Cowles of Kentucky; also Grand Office;s and
Past Grand Officers of one or two other jurisdictions.
. _Grand Master Hobgood was unavoidably absent from the jurisd1ct10n
.
. of North Carolina during most of th e prece d"mg year and durrng his enforced absence, the duties of his exalted station devolved
upon the Deputy Grand Master, Right Worshipful A. B. Andrews, Jr.
an~ ?e.cau~e of the absence of the Grand Master his report as to hi~
activities is necessarily brief.
. In refu~ing, as he did, in the few months that he administered the
his office, numerous requests for dispensations to do things
proh1b1ted by the constitutional regulations of the Grand L d
h
based
h"s
o ge,re e_
.
I
ac.t"10n upon t h e express wording of one of the general
ulat10ns, which
that the Grand Master is the creature of t;e
Grand Lodge, denvmg all of his authority from that body a d ·
vested with no perogative which may annul her laws and
;s
contravene her avowed policy.
r
dut1~s _of

st~t~s

~dic~s

This is in accordance with our conception of the f unc t 10ns
·
0f a
rand Mas.ter, and regardless of the theory which holds that Grand
Masters existed before Grand Lodges were created ' and a re, th ere f ore,
G

88

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

in a sense superior to Grand Lodges, this, so far as masonry of the
present day is eoncerned, is pure theory and Grand Masters are, as a
matter of fact, creatures of Grand Lodges, and the constitution and
Jaws of the Grand Lodge are and should be superior to the Grand
Master.

In his brief introduction, Dr. Collins calls attention to the marked
prosperity of the Craft everywhere in evidence whereby the various
Grand Lodges are able to dispense large amounts in the maintenance
o.f their organized charities and for the relief of public and private
cases of pressing need, and calls special attention to this evidence of
Brotherhood as ma_nifested now in the help extended to the sufferers
o.f the European war, through the war relief funds contributed prac·
hcally by every American Grand Jurisdiction.

89

The Deputy Grand Master, Right Worshipful A. B. Andrews, Jr.,
presents what may be cons_idered, to all intents and purposes, the
Grand Master's report for the preceding year. He mentions with mueh
feeling the death within the year of Dr. John A. Collins, on Dec. 24,
1915. He had just finished reading the proof of his report for the
current year, and the Grand Master truly states that it will be diffi.
cult to fill Dr. Collin's place.

He comments, also, upon the absence of bitterness against any of
th~ .belligerents in addresses of our various Grand Masters, the pre·
va1lmg note being one of overwhelming sorrow at the awful tragedy
which has engulfed so large a section of the human race.

Reference is made also to the death within the year of .Past Grand
Master Louis S. Williams, who presided over the Grand Lodge as
Grand Master as far back as 1859.

Brother Collins reviews California, 1914, generously and fra·
ternally, with words of especial praise for much of that contained in
the annual address of Grand Master Murphy.

Dispensations were issued by the Grand Master to form six new
lodges. A number of interpretations of masonic law, applicable to the
jurisdiction, are reported by him. He speaks in especial praise of the
Oxford Orphan Asylum, also of the Masonic and Eastern Star Home.
The Oxford Orphan Asylum is the ''apple of its eye'' of this juris·
diction, and the institution which shelters 372 children is certainly
one of the finest in the land.

. Dr. Collins' death is not only a loss to his own jurisdiction, but
will be regarded in the light of a genuine bereavement by the circles
of masonic correspondents throughout the world.

On account of the advance in general learning and education, the
Grand Master very properly advises that one of the Grand Lodge
regulations which provides that.'' inability to write is no bar'' to
membership shall be repealed, and that as a substitute therefor, th.e
following shall be adopted:
"Inability to write name. The petition must be signed by the
hand of the petitioner, who must be able to read and write", surely
a very proper regulation and a desirable substitute for the one now
in existence.
The Grand Lodge was entertained by an oration by the Grand
Orator, Brother H. A. Gudger. His effort was greatly appreciated and
the oration was ordered printed in the Proceedings.
Substantial recognition was aceorded the George Washington
Memorial Temple Association in that $500 was appropriated by the
Grand Lodge in aid of that great enterprise.
As previously stated, the report on Foreign Correspondence was
prepared by the late Dr. John A. Collins, who had served as chairman
of the Committee for twenty years, having just completed his twen·
tieth report before he was touched by the Death Angel.

M:. W.'. A. B. ANDREWS, JR., Grand Master, Raleigh.
R.'. W.'. JOHN C. DREWRY, Grand Secretary, Raleigh.

NORTH DAKOTA.
1915.
26th Anuual, Grand Forks, June 15.
Lodges, 111; membership 9,593; gain, 463.
The Grand Master, Most Worshipful Prank H. Spray, presided in
the Grand East and was assisted by a full corps of Grand Officers, a
large representation of Past Grand Masters and representatives of the
111 chartered lodges.
The Grand Master reports a year of Masonic activity within his
jurisdiction. Three lodges which received charters at the preceding
Annual Communication were duly constituted and dispensations were
issued to form five now lodges.
The only so-called decision on Masonic Law was one of a purely
local character, and the report, all in all, afforded striking evidence of
the peace and harmony which prevails in this splendid jurisdiction.
One of the events of the year was the dedication at the time of
the Annual Communication, of the Masonic Temple at Grand Forks,

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON· CORRESPONDENCE

K. D., and the outstanding feature of the dedication was the splendid
dedicatory address by th~ Grand Secretary, ~fost Worshipful Brother
Walter L. Stockwell. He indicates what, in his .opinion, masonry consists of. He states what, in his judgment, is masonry's message, and
what, as he understands masonry, is its mission. Of what masonry
consists, ~e says in part:
·
''The Constitution of the United Grand Lodge of England
'Pure ancient Masonry consists of three degrees and no more;
tered Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason, including the Supreme Order of the Holy Royal Arch'. This statement is made at
this time to emphasize the necessity of getting back to fundamentals,
at least occasionally. Anything else which is today grouped under
the head of Masonic degrees or orders, may be put down as the outgrowth of the zeal, the ambition, or the fertile brain, of some men or
group of men to achieve fame for themselves, and possibly render a
service to the seeker after higher light in Masonry. It is a well established fact that in the beginning the Royal Arch degree and that
of Knight Templar, were conferred in a Lodge of Master Masons.
Hence, we repeat that the Symbolic Lodge, the L-Odge of JI.faster
Masons, is fundamental; and anything which cheapens or commercializes the institution is, in our judgment, a serious reflection upon the
dignity and character of Masonry. How many men are t.here in your
acquaintance today who are seeking admission into our Lodges solely
because of the attraction that Ancient Craft Masonry has for them
with its wonderful lessons .and its opportunities for service. Too frequently we fear there is something else in our present scheme of socalled Masonic degrees which attract their attention. Do not get the
idea that we disapprove of the Royal Arch degrees or the Templar
Orders, or the Scottish Rite or the Shrine. We have them all, but it is
our desire tonight to impress upon yon the fact that when all is said
and done, Symbolic Masonry it was that has stood the test of opposition, of prejudice, of the anathemas of the church, and unless Masonry
in this form is kept strong and vigorous your whole scheme of higher
degrees falls. And we may add that we cannot disassociate our memberRhip in any of these other degrees or bodies with our capacity as
Master Masons. May we urge that nothing ever be done in a public
way which brings discredit upon Masonry in the eyes of the profane.
J,et us never forget that by our conduct as men is our institution
jm1ged. Our :Masonry is not a cloak that can be put on and off at will,
it must be a part of the life we live.''
Of Masonry's message, he says in part:
"Masonry teaches brotherhood and democracy; democracy and
brotherhood are the solutions of the world's problems today. Our
thoughts instinctively turn to the world conflict raging today, and the
extreme delicacy of our national position. May it not be our part to
lead the world out of the darkness which has fallen upon it. Let us
not lose our sanity. May not this nation, in which all the old world
elements and nationalities are being fused, show to the warring peoples of Europe that there is no reason why hatred should rule in their
lives; and in this time of our national crisis may we refrain from
saying the word or
the act which may imperil our safety and
our solidarity. Let us remember that there is but one name under

91

heaven and on earth by which we. ma. y be designated,
d h
'Americans.' ''
an t at is
And of Masonry's mission, he says:
. ''If Ma~onry has left the faintest impression upon our hearts it

yr111. at least llllbue us with a desire to demand for ourselves onlv what

is right, and secure for our fellow those things which will insure his
f.ull measure ?f comfor~ and happiness. It will help put out of our
hves those twin expressions of darkness, greed and avarice.''

~e bel~eves that real masonry is manifested and exemplified in

~he Symbolic. degrees, and concludes his intensely interesting discourse
m the followmg eloquent tribute to our noble institution:
"Larger emphasis. win b~ laid upon Symbolic Masonrv. It will
always sta:r;id fo! the highest ideals of Brotherhood. It will more and
n_iore associ~te itself with great social and moral movements of our
times. It will concern itself ever and always with the best standards
of manhood a;id personal conduct among its members. So that we as
Masons ma;y, mdeed, ?e master builders here below; and this sphmdid
T.e;:iple _winch we ~edic.ate tonight may be as a beacon set upon a hill
givmg hght and direct10n to all who seek its sacred portals.''

Th~ ~ewly el;icted Most Worshipful Grand JI.faster, Harry Lord,
~fter his mst.allatiou, upon the last day of the Communication, voiced
m the followrng man.ner his tribute to Masonry:
"]l,f

.

l'f
. dasonry ~s more than ever coming to realize its lofty mission in
1
e, an to see its work marked out in the wide fields of varied human
endeavo:,. not alon.e confined to Lodge-hall and ritualistic ceremon .
Mason~~ 1s answermg the call of human need evervwhere todav· it
resi;fn i~g t~ .t~e sun;mons to a higher civic righteousness and 'social
pun .Y·
ts 1g. ethical and moral ideals are now bein translat d
and i~carn~ted mto actual, every-day life. We are not ofiv su os!d
to believe rn and to praise Masonrv
but also t o l'ive i•t d ay• b y pp
J ,
day.''

ls

The report on Fraternal Correspondence is by James w. Foley,
ast Gr~nd Master. He renders a condensed and exceedin lv intelligent review of the various jurisdictions.
g•

p

- California, 1914, is fraternally considered with complimentary
reference to and quotations from the report of Grand Master Mnrphy.
M.'. W.'. IIA&RY LORD, Grand Master Cando.
R.. · W .. · WALTER L. STOCKWELL, Gra~d Secretary, Jl'argo.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

93

REPORT O:N CORRESPONDE!\CE

92

NOVA SCOTIA.
1915.
50th Annual, Halifax, June 9th.
Lodges, 74; membership, 6,765; gain, 7.
The Fiftieth Annual Communication of the Most Worship~ul
Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia was presided over by the l\fost Worship·
ful William Medford Christie, K. C., Grand Master.
A large number of the Representatives and Grand Officers of the
constituted lodges were present.
The Grand Chaplain as is the custom in this jurisdiction, imme'
.
d r
d
ddress the interestdiately after the opening exercises, e were an a
'
. h
·
theme of which was the "Responsibility of Citizenship", wh1c
mg
.
t'
subject he developed in an interesting and instruc ive manner.
After the address, the Grand Lodge. tendered the distinguished
Brother, Right Worshipful Brother MacKmnon, a vote of than~s for
his inspiring address, and he was requested to hand the n_ianuscnpt to
the Grand Secretary to be printed in the Annual Proceedmgs.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address to the
Grand Lodge. calling attention at the outset that the Grand. Lodg: of
Masons in the Province of Nova Scotia had just attained its fiftieth
,
and be contrasted in a striking manner, the small number of
ioe;;~s which united to form the Grand Lodge with the large number
now working in the jurisdiction.
Particular attention was drawn by him to the contr~st in the con·
xisting at this time and the conditions that existed one year
d i ions e
'
d L d
N
ne dreamed at
reviously at the assembling of the Gran
o ge.
o ~
he previous Annual Communication that only one brief year would
find the entire British Empire engaged in the most tremendous and

T

f

appauling war in all history.
There is one significant circumstance in all ~f the Mason~c Grand
Lodges of colonies of the British Empire, that, without except10n'. t~ey
are intensely loyal to the Mother country, and are not only willing,
but eager to help fight her battles.
This circumstance is evidence of what must be,. upon the whole,
ich the mother country exercises over her dethe b enevo1en t ru le Wh
·
d this fact is proving in this tremendous emergency
pen dencies, an
.
.
d.
through which England is passing, a mighty mfluence m ho] mg up
the hands of Great Britain, a,nd if victory shall finally perch upon the

banners of the allies, no little credit must be given to the British Colonies scattered throughout the world.
Concerning the subject of the war and the part that Nova Scotia
and the masons of Nova Scotia are taking, the Grand Master states:
"The British Empire is not engaged in this war for the purpose of
conquest, but in order to uphold the honour o.f our country, to protect
the weak and innocent from the ruthless hand of the strong wrongdoer, and to preserve to the whole world, freedom, honor and justice.
Many of the sons of Nova Scotia have voluntarily gone forth to assist
in the great struggle, which is now being carried on by the British
Empire and her allies against those nations which have disturbed the
peace of the world, destroyed the homes of the innocent, and who are
waging war against all that we hold most sacred.
''Among those who have gone to the Front, are many of our Masonic brethren and the sons of brethren of this Grand Masonic Juris·
diction. The end of that conflict does not appear to be near, and no
man can prophesy within measurable distance at what time the war
will end, nor what the outcome will be. It is our duty as Masons to
loyally support the Government in carrying on this war against those
who wonld trample under foot and destroy all the principles of our beloved Order. I believe that in the end, justice and right, although now
seriously threatened, will triumph, and that while we cling to the ancient landmarks, principles and charges of Freemasonry, and nobly do
our duty in whatever station it has pleased the Grand Architect of the
Universe to place us, we need have no fear of what the future has in
store for our Grand Lodge, nor for the brethren herein represented.
Let us pray for peace, but at the same time let us do our share of the
work necessary to be done in order to obtain and secure that peace we
hope and trust will come ont of this conflict, and will forever hereafter
prevail throughout the world.
"We cannot all enlist in the great army that is now fighting and
shedding its blood for King and country, but we can serve our King
and country as good and loyal citizens of this great and glorious Empire and fulfil the mission of Masonry by exerting ourselves to make
provisions for the care of the wounded soldiers, to help support the
families of those who fall, and to bring as much comfort as possible to
all those in distress and want. That I believe is the mission of the
Freemasons of this Grand Jurisdiction.''
Concerning the state of masonry, the Grand Master indicates that
the year ha,d been one of comparative quiet, the minds of the people
being fully absorbed with the war that very little time had been left
to consider the subject of masonry. The general condition, however,
of the Fraternity continues excellent; the finances of the Grand Lodge
are in flourishing condition, and the benificent funetions of the fraternity are discharged in a highly laudable manner.
The Grand Master rendered a few unimportant rulings concerning local law and made a number of official visits to subordinates
within the year. He refers with just pride to the Masonic Home, one

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

94

95

REPORT OX CORRESPONDENCE

of the outstanding features of this jurisdiction, stating that the Nova
Scotia :F'reemasons' Home has been, and is a genuine success, and that
all of the masons of the jurisdiction have good reason to be proud of
the institution.
A Jubilee Celebration in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary
of the formation of the Grand Lodge was held on the evening of the
first day of the ,~nnual Communication. The function was largely attended by the masons and their lady friends; it consisted of a finely
selected program of music; an address by the Grand l\faster, and a
condensed history of the Grand Lodge by Past Grand Master T. A.
Cossmann.
Most Worshipful Thomas Mowbray presents his fifteenth Annual
Review of the Proceedings o.f other Grand Lodges. At the outset of
his report, he ventures the opinion that nothing of stirring i1:1p.ortance,
masonically speaking, has taken place, and he is of the opmwn that
the present dreadful war in Europe has had a depressing :ffect upon
Freemasonry particularly in the jurisdictions of the colomes of .England, and ~t~tes that it has been keenly felt in the jurisdicti~n of
Nova Scotia, very many of the most active members of the subordmate
lodges being engaged in the conflict, and many being in cou~se. of
preparation to take their share in the deadly strife, ready and w1lhng,
as he states, to lay down their li>•es for their king and country.
He reviews with intelligent discrimination the various Grand
Jurisdictions, and has warm words of commendation and approval .for
the address of Grand Master Murphy of California and the eloquent
oration of Brother William H. Waste.

M.', w.·. DONALD FISHER FRASER, Grand )faster, Kew Glasgow.
M.'. w:. THOMAS MOWBRAY, Grand Secretary, Halifax.

OHIO.
1915.

l06th Annual, Dayton, Oct. 20th.
Lodges, 541; membership, 101 1185; gain, 5,110.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the Most W or·
shipful Grand Master Brother George L. Marshall.
As is usual in this Grand Jurisdiction, practically every subordi·
nate lodge was represented. In other words, out of the 541 chartered
lodges, only sixteen were without representation.
'rhe Grand Master reports a year of marked official activity. Dis-·
pensations were granted to form two new lodges; numerous emergent

communications were held for the purpose of constituting lodges, dedicating masonic halls, placing corner stones of public buildings, etc.
He manifested a degree of activity in visitations to subordinate
lodges, inspiring by his official presence, in the various portions of his
magnificent jurisdiction, interest and enthusiasm among the members.
Speaking of "Decisions", he states that numerous requests have
been made of him for opinions, etc., and that all have been answered
by reference to the Code or Proceedings, and he adds that in his
judgment, the jurisprudence of the jurisdiction should not be' encum·
bered with needless decisions which are nothing than constructions
of by-laws or code, stating, also, that through the work of the splendid
Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, which, through the wisdom of a
long line of capable predecessors, has actually established the masonic
law of the jurisdiction, all attempts to confuse by the addition of new
decisions, are unwise and unnecessary.
In closing his address, Grand Master Marshall thus touches the
high points of masonry:

'' Poss.essed with a. la.nguage and history, Freemasonry has had
for centuries but one mrss1on, and that mission is to direct the minds
of me:r; t~ the one true living God, and to vitalize in the highest sense
the p~m.c1ples of human Brotherhood. Thus Masonry, the hand-maiden
of rehgrou, strengthens the Mason in his service to God, to his country, and to humanity, and is found a living force for .;ood in every
avenue of worthy effort. Our growth is therefore not ph~nomenal, b1{t
rather natural, and there can be no danger to the Institution in numbers. so long as the Ancient Principles govern and inspire the Craft.''
The Volume of Proceedings o.f 1915 is embellished with e,uts of a
of the Masonic Temples in the State of Ohio, and it is pleas1~g to observ? that some of the masonic buildings chosen for illustration are not the stately buildings found in the large cities but tho
more humble meeting places of the smaller country towns where, perhaps, the genuine spirit of brotherhood is exemplified to a higher
degree than in the larger hustling centers of trade and commerce.
~umber

The report bn Correspondence is by the Most Worshipful Nelson
Williams, it being his fifth offering. His report is replete with inter~sting and instructive .comment and observation. He is of the opin10n that Freemasonry in the English speaking Grand .Jurisdiction has
never been in so prosperous a condition as at this time. In fact, he
fears that this very condition of prosperity may contain a menac~ to
the real spirit of masonry. He wonders if proper care is taken to see
that only the worthy are permitted to enter. Masonry is not primarily
a reformatory institution; men to become masons are supposed to be
"good men and true"; and he is a little fearful that the great increase in membership may possibly be_ made at the sacrifice of the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

96

hi h quality of manhood which 'masonry demands, that the great work
o/the institution, in bringing about the permanent betterment of mankind, may not be impaired.
Brother Willia,ms in his report reviews California, 1914, in a gendt
rovinglv from Gran
erous and intelligent manner. He quo es app
•
d .
Master Murphy's address, and otherwise observes much to commen rn
the masonry of California.

M:. w:. BRO. PRANK H. MARQUIS, Grand Master,_ M_ansfi~ld.
R.'. w:. BRO. J. H. BROMWELL, Grand Secretary, Crncrnnah.

OKLAHOMA.
1916.
8th Annual, Oklahoma City, Feb. 14-l 5 -16 ·
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Oklahoma was opened in
Ample Form by Most Worshipful Almer E. Monroney, Grand Master.
At the outset before the Grand Master delivered bis address, ~h:

Gran~ Maste~ ~f ::eaG:::td i:o t~e

Most Worshipful Dan S. McMillin,
of Texas, was received with honors an

escor e

.

Grand East.
d Master was a comprehensive statement
The address Of the Gran
·
t one
covering his numerous activities within the yea; a:d .:1so::p~:a,ding
of the most voluminous that we havef ~~coi;ol~:e ~f Printed Pro'.
covers more than one hundred pages o
e
ceedings.
The Grand Master had an exceedingly busy year, not le~s lthan
.
.
h ld and the report chsc oses
sixteen Emergent Commumcations were e ' .
. . .. .
'ty
throughout
the
entire JUnsd1chon.
.
a marked degree of ac t iv1
with ~ecommendation of the Committee on CorreIn accor d ance
h G
d Lodge of
spondence, fraternal recognition was extended to t e ra:e rotest of
the Philippine Islands as a sovereign Grand Lod~e, an~ t d PL d e of
Ramon Mendoza on behalf of the so-called Regional ran
o g
the Philippines, was very properly disregarded.
h so-called new Grand
Fraternal recognition was refuse d t o t e
Lodge of Prance.
A full report of the Masonic Home of Oklahoma. was ren~ered,
d this benificent institution in this jurisdiction is dorng magmficen~
~ork. A statement contained in the report of the Board of Contro

97

of the Home is to the effect that in ~Iasonic Homes in the United
States 1,600 old people find shelter and more than 2,000 children are
being reared, a total of more than 3,600, who are receiving direct benefit through these great charitable adjuncts of American masonry.
Upon the second day of the Communication, the Grand Lodge was
edified by an oration upon the subject of ''Master Builders'' by the
Grand Orator Woodson E. Norvell. The address, it strikes us, reads
more like a political speech than a masonic oration.
This jurisdiction is in excellent financial condition and masonry
in the entire State of Oklahoma is alert aud strongly progressive.
Past Grand Master Thomas C. Humphrey presents the report on
Foreign Correspondence and reviews in a conscientious and capable
manner the proceedings of the various Grand Lodges in which Cali·
fornia, 1914-15, is fraternally considered.
M.'. W.'. ARTHUR JAMES WEIR, Grand Master, Hugo.
M.'. W.'. WM. MOSES ANDERSON, Grand Secretary, Oklahoma City.

oRBaoN.
1916.

66th Annual, Albany, June 7th.
Lodges, 143; membership, 14,779; gain, 564.
The Annual Comunication was opened in Ample Porm, Most Worshipful Prank J. Miller, Grand Master presiding.
• In the opening portion of his Annual Address, the Grand Master,
referring to the magnificent work of masonry in Oregon, has this to
say:
"Looking back over the past anu comparing our rccora with
other organizations of like kind, we can congratulate ourselves upon
our achievements. \Ve have done a great work. ·we have left our
stamp indelibly fixed upon the citizenship of our state. Masonry in
Oregon has been a vital, Jiving force, more potent to<lay than ever
before, and we neeu not blush for the record it has left on the page
of our state's development. It made its first appearance west of the
Rocky Mountains in Oregon City in the year 1848, and its progress has
been steady, its record one to be admired, its escutcheon kept dean
and bright. :Faith, Hope and Charity have guided our footsteps in the
past and they must be the lamps that light our pathway to the
future.''
The Grand Master sets forth his activities within the year in
businesslike and orderly sequence, from which the conclusion is easily
deducible that the affairs of masonry were in competent hands during
the year.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

99

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

98

Annual Communication was
A feature of the second d ay of th e
.
f "Old Glory" when the Deputy Grand Master enthe recep t 10n o
G
d L d e rising to
tered the hall carrying the American flag. The ran
o g ' th
lt
its feet, and amidst applause, the Flag was pr.esent~d before
e a ar
, where it was welcomed by the Grand Master m fittmg words.
The Grand Lodge was also greatly edified by an address from Worshipful Brother W. J. Kerr, .Grand Orator, and in token of the a~p:::
ciation of the Grand Lodge of his efforts, a vote of than~s :a p
tended to him, and a copy of his oration ordered printed in t e roceedings.
An effort was made to revive interest in the matter of Grand
Masters' Conferences. The invitation extended by Orego~ i~ 1~14
having failed to evoke any substantial response, another .mv1t~t~~:
was authorized for such a conference in 1916 under t~e au~pi?es ·~ t•
Grand Lod e of Oregon, and it remains to be seen if this mv1 a.10n
t with gthe same absence of interest in the matter as charaetenzed
:::e :ffair in 1914 by this Grand Jurisdiction to secure a conference
for 1915.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is submitted by David P.
d t · which he reviews the proc~edings of all
Mason, correspon en ' m
.
.
G
d L d e f Oregon
English speaking jurisdictions with which the ran
o g o
is in fraternal relations.
·
· of a h1.gh order of excellence, teeming
Brother Mason's review is
with masonic information and interest.
M.". "\V.". WILL MOORE, Grand Master, Pendleton.
R.:. "\V.". JAS. F. ROBINSON, Grand Secretary, Portland.

PENNSYLVANIA.
1915.
. Annual, Philadelphia, Dec. 27.
Lodges, 297; membership, 120,576; gain, 5,116.
The regular Quarterly Communications of this Grand Lodge were
held in March, June, September and Decemb~r, t.he ~ecember Quar.
d cl as the Annual Commumcat10n m that general
terly bemg regdar el t this time and the annual business transacted.
reports are ren erec a
At the March Quarterly Communication, special refer~nc~ was
made b the Grand Master in his Address to the death w1th1~ the
ear ofyWorshipful James M. Lamberton, for sixteen years cha~rman
~f the Committee on Foreign Correspondence. Bro. Lamberton is de-

scribed as an eminent scholar, a zealous freemason who had enunciated
the precepts of masonry for many years and had exemplified these
precepts in his daily life, a man. whose work as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence had helped to place Pennsylvania
in the front rank of Masonic jurisdiction of the world and Philadelphia, as it is claimed, the "premier Masonic city of America".
Brother Lamberton 's loss is a severe one not only to the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania but to American masonry as well, and the volume
of 1915 proceedings appears without the usual report of Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, no one having been selected to serve in that
capacity for the current masonic year.
At the December Quarterly Communication, which, as stated,
stands in a sense for the Annual Communication, 445 lodges out of a
total of about 490, were represented,-surely a fine representation of
the lodges of the jurisdiction.
At this Communication reports of the various Funds were presented, and an inspection of these reports reveals the wonderful financial strength of this jurisdiction, probably the richest jurisdiction in
the world, the total of its assets reaching the vast sum of $4,456,432.10.
This jurisdiction has invested in its vast Masonic Home properties
more than one million dollars, and the scope of the Masonic Home institutions being, in many respects, greater than any other jurisdiction in
the world.
From the report of the Committee on Masonic Homes, one learns
that there are now sheltered in this Institution, 245 guests, and at the
present rate of expansion, this total will unquestionably within a few
years reach five hundred.
In concluding its report on Masonic Homes, the Committee uses
the following eloquent language touching these beneficent institutions:
'"rhe Grand Lodge, we are sure, takes pleasure in contemplating
this cluster of Homes as the full flower of its noblest effort, plante<l
in love, nurtured in constancy, refreshed by the gentle <lews of
thoughtful an<l tender attention, and developed in the sunshine of
unselfishness.
''Here, apart from the shock and tumult of existence, the heart
may throb with no disquieting alarms to jar its perfect rhythm.
Within the shelter of this Masonic Garden of Content, the age([ may
rest in comfort at the close of the day and the young may take hope
and gather inspiration for the morning.
''Age and youth alike are beautiful. We cherish both here with
ties of tenderness, the one coming in from the the long road upon
which the other is preparing to enter. As our guests, they are entitled

101

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

to our solicitous attention; but they are more than guests-they are
members of our family and therefore have a close claim on our
affections.
, ''We shall best prove ourselves men and :Th<fasons by our devotion
to the splendid principles that has here taken root and :fiourished.
As it shall continue to flourish with the years, so shall our merits
deserve to increase. Thus may perfection unveil itself with time in
endless achievement, whose highest aim shall be never to cease doing
good.''
Although the Quarterly Communication held in the early part of
December is in a sense the Annual Business meeting of the Grand
Lodge, yet the meeting held on St. John, the Evangelist's Day, at
which time the installation of officers takes place, is officially known
as the Annual Communication.

ment that $43,000 has actually been paid in toward the Fund of
$100,000 which, it is estimated, is needed to erect the Memorial contemplated.

100

This Communication took place, as stated, on St. John, the Evangelist's Day. The Grand Officers elected at the Quarterly Communication in December were duly installed, and the occasion was graced
by a visitation of prominent officials of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of New York, including the Most Worshipful George Freifeld,
~fost Worshipful Grand Master, William H. Miller, Grand Treasurer,
and others.
The Grand Master at this time presented a resume of his official
actions, setting forth the constitution of the five new lodges that had
received charters at the previous Annual Communication, a description of the ten corner stone ceremonies condu<lted under the auspices
of the Grand Lodge, and a list of so-called "edicts", and also a num·
ber of so-called "decisions"· In this jurisdiction, "decisions" of
the Grand Master stand as the law of the Grand Lodge, unless, and
until, reversed or changed by some succeeding Grand Master. In
other words these decisions are not passed upon by a Jurisprudence
Committee or by the Grand Lodge, the word of the Grand )faster
being final.
Among these decisions, we observe one to the effect that the Secretary of a certain lodge was not to furnish information requested by
the Secretary of a Chapter of the Order of Eastern Star as to the
standing of a member of a subordinate lodge, and furthermore that
the guests at the Masonic Homes were not to become members of the
Order of the East Star, and directing that certain activities in this
connection must immediately cease, from. all of which, it is fair to
conclude that the Order of the Eastern Star is not looked upon with
particular favor by this jurisdiction, if the rulings of the Grand Master
may be taken as reflecting the sentiment of the Grand Lodge.
The George. Washington Memorial Association at Alexandria received favorable notice, and we gather from the Grand Master's state-

The ne~ly elected and installed Grand Master, Most Worshipful
~roth~r LoUis A. Watres, made a brief address after his installation,
~n

which he gave expresion to some excellent ideas and precepts. For
he stated that the Grand .Jurisdiction had deep cause for
gratitude and a pardonable pride in their wonderful jurisdiction but
<ial~ed attention to the fact that the pride should not be so mu~h in
then larger membership of over 120,000, or in their vested interests
an.d resources of four and one half millions of dollars, but rather because .of ~he found~tions upon which the :F'raternity rests are the
mas~mc virtues m.amfested in the masonry of the jurisdiction.
rnst~nee,

. 1;£e ~ounds a. note of caution in that policy which :finds satisfaction rn rn.crease .rn numbers, and voices the sentiment that it is far
better to mcreasrngly continue to point with pride to the virtues and •
character of the membership rather than. to its numerical strength
He thinks that initiation into the mysteries of masonry, does no~
make a man a mason, but calls attention to the truth that a man mu t
the eternal principles of masonry written in his heart, before
is a true mason. It is not enough, that he should take the st
h
must live the life.
ep, e

:e

~ave

This jurisdiction has repeatedly honored itself in its choice of
Gran~ Masters and it has not departed from its traditions in elevatin

to this exalted station the Right Worshipful Louis A. Watres.

·

g

R. :- ~< LOUIS A. W ATRES, Grand :Master, Philadelphia.
R. • \.\ · · JOH~ A. PERRY, Grand Secretary, .Philadelphia.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
1916.

Fourth Annual, Manila, Feb. 8th.
Lodges, 6; membership, 701; gain, 119.
'l'~e Fourth Annual Communication was presided over by the Most
Worshipful George R. Harvey, Grand Master.

He extends greetings, in his address, to the assembled masons
and congratulates the jurisdiction upon the prosperity which has at'.
tended the efforts of the Craft in the Grand Jurisdietion.
. He calls attention to the substantial gain in membership of 119,
bemg the largest recorded in any year since the foundation 0 f th
Grand Lodge.
e

102

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

He refers feelingly to the death within the year of the Right
Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, Brother Burton Whitcomb, and
gives voice to the general feeling of loss which the jurisdiction sustained in the passing away of this distinguished and honored brother.
He refers with pride to the fact that fifty-three Grand Jurisdictions have already recognized his Grand Lodge as a sovereign Grand
Lodge of Ancient Craft masons,. and at the time of his report was rendered, there were not over six or seven American Grand Lodges that
had not already taken favorable action, and of the six or seven,
several, since the date of his report, have extended 'l'ecognition.
He refers at length to the protest entered by one Ramon Mendoza,
an alleged official of an alleged Regional Grand Lodge of the Philippines, against the action of the masonic world i~ recognizing the
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands as the established masonic
power in the Archipelago, and in response to a request from Massachusetts, Grand Master Harvey goes extensively into this protest and
demonstrates absolutely and conclusively the utter absence of merit
in the pretense of this alleged masonic body, and that the protest is
entitled to no consideration whatever; and we may say that this has
been the attitude, so far as we have been able to discover of all the
Grand Lodges to whom the protest was addressed, and in not a single
instance has a doubt been expressed as to the propriety of the recognition already extended to the properly and legally formed Grand
Lodge presided over by Brother Harvey.
Perhaps the one outstanding event in the masonic activities of the
preceding year was the laying of the corner stone of the new Masonic
Temple at Manila on August 14, 1915, a building which when completed will be the most modern in design, construction, and general
equipment in the far East. It will be six stories high and will be far
the most conspicuous building in Manila, and in addition to its equipment as a business and office building, it will have not less than two
complete floors devoted exclusively to masonic purposes.
The Fraternity in the Philippines may well be proud of this visible evidence of power and influence, and the Fraternity is certainly
to be congratulated upon carrying forward to completion, in the face
of adverse conditions, this magnificent project.
A feeling of good will and amity prevails between the lodges belonging to the Grand Lodge and the one or two other outside lodges;
the Portuguese Lodge for example, which were in existence when the
Grand Lodge was formed, and which still retain their allegiance to the
Mother Grand Lodges, from which they received their charters. This
feeling of good will and friendship means much to the masonry of the

103

Islands, and is of great benefit and advantage. to
general.
the Fraternity in
.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by a Committee consistrng of Pas~ Grand Masters Staffird and Comfort and Past Grand Secretary Belhs. Attention is directed in the introductory remarks to the
wel~ recognized facts that the present age of masonry is distinguished
as rn a sense the age of institutions, sucji as hospitals orphanages
homes an~ schools, also the age of masonic research and study -th~
best age, In fact, that masonry has ever had.
'
The report before us reviews California, 1915, generously and

~ourteously. Grand Master Bledsoe 's address is quoted from approvrngly ~nd complimentary reference is made to the oration of Brother

M~tt ~· Hughes. California, as its Mother Grand Lodge takes · t
pride rn the Grand L d
f h
'
JUS
.
.
o ge o t e Philippine Islands, and wishes and
predicts for it a career of unbounded success and usefulness.
W.'. WILLIAM HENDRICKSON TAYLOR Grand M t
vM.'.· w
· N
'
as er, Manila.
· ·

· ·

EW~'ON C. COMFORT, Grand Secretary, Manila.

PRINCE, EDWARD ISLAND.
1915.

40th Annual, Charlottetown, June 23.
Lodges, 15; membership, 819; gain, 20.

T~e Annual Communication was opened in Ample J;'orm Most
Worshipful George S. Inman, Grand Master, presiding.
In .the Grand Master's Address, we learn that from a masonic
s t andpomt the preced 1'n g year h a d b een a successful one and that it
sho.uld be a matter of thankfulness on the part of the me~brship that
wh~le ~he w.ho~e ;vo~ld almost, is disturbed by the devastation of war'
their httle JUnsd1chon had felt less of the financial and other disturb:
ance than perhaps any part of the globe.

T~e ~ub.je~t of the .war in Europe, however, is, the same as in all
other Junscbct10ns affiliated with England th
t ·
.
.
.
,
e one op1c uppermost
apparently rn all Circles, mcluding masonic circles and th G
d'
M t
· h'
·
'
e
ran
as er rn is address compares the present world war as an
h ·
the progress of civilization with epochs of a simila
h
t ep~c m
f th
.
r c arac er rn the
h· t
is ory 0
e worlc1 rn the following paragraphs from his address: ·
. . ''Christendom is now in the throes of
• .
ideals versus christian ideals-and barbaric a t~r~at str~ggle, pagan
modern civilization.
me 0 s. agamst those of

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

''And here, perhaps, it might not be amiss to note, that this is not
the first time the fate of civilization has been trembling in the balanc-e.

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND.

"Five hundred years before the Christian era Greece was the abode
of culture the home of art, the seat of philosophy, the centre of civilization and the cradle of democracy. Against the little state of Attica,
no larger than one-third of Prince Edward Island, came the Persian
hordes under Cyrus. On the field of Marathon the Greeks were victorious and Civilization was saved.
''A thousand years later Civilization was again threatened by the
invasion of the Huns, who swarmed from Asia over Central Europe.
''Again in the Eighth Century there was another turning l!oint in
the world's history, when at the great battle of Jours the. qi;iest10n was
decided whether Europe should be Mohammedan or Christian.
''The world reached another crisis one hundred years ago, when
the Corsican gunner stood upon the shores of France, gazing with
ambitious eye, across the English Channel to the land he!d by 'the
nation of shopkeepers.' He had trampled Europe under his feet; he
had waded through blood to gratify a boundless ambition; and he
wished to have England at his feet. The question then was, as it is
now, military despotism against democracy; but on the field of Waterloo the principles of liberty were vindicated and the arms of Napoleon were shattered.
"In the present supreme moment of .the world's exist~n~~ let. us
hope and trust that history may repea~ itself, ai;d that Civ:ihzat10n,
and Right and Truth may come off triumphant m the terrific clash
of arms that is deluging Europe with blood.''
Generous contributions to the patriotic funds were made by this
jurisdiction, and the keenest sympathy expressed for the cause of the
Mother country.
The Grand Master was zealous in the discharge of his official
duties and during the year visited all of the lodges of the jurisdiction
save two, and expresses his appreciation at the cordial and fraternal
reception which was extended to him upon all of these occasions.
The Grand Secretary, Right Worshipful Brother Wm. P. Doull,
makes a brief report on Foreign Correspondence, not in the nature of
a review of the various jurisdictions, but simply a statement of various
bodies asking recognition as Grand Lodges and his views upon certain
current masonic topics.
Recognition of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands was
recommended, as was also recognition of the Grand Lodge of Queensland, and denial of recognition was recommended of the alleged new
Grand Lodge of France.
M.". W.". JAs. D. STEWART, Grand Master, Georgetown.
R.". W.". W. P. DouLL, Grand Secretary, Charlottetown.

105

1916.

41st Annual, Charlottetown, Oct. 27.
Lodges, 15;' membership, 854; gain, 35.
The 4lst Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Prince
Edward Island was opened in Ample Form by Most Worshipful James
D. Stewart, Grand Master, presiding.

~he Grand Master refers with a vein of seriousness to the great
wa.r .m Europe, and expresses the pride that all dependencies of the
British Crown should feel in the solidarity of the Empire at this critical time.
He incorporates in his report the Honor Roll, being the names of
members of the different lodges of the jurisdiction who have gone to
the front to battle in the country's cause.
The Grand Master visited during his term of office all of the

l~dges ~f. the jurisdict.ion. He was pleased to note the warm and gen-

u~ne spirit of fraternity that exists throughout the jurisdiction and
gi.ves ex?ression to his appreciation of the generous and kindly ;pirit
with which he was received in all of the lodges.
In closing his brief and excellent address, he calls attention to the
fact that there has never been a time in the history of the world he
th e prac t'ices of t h e truly masonic virtues are more sorely needed wthan
n
at present. ''True masonry'', remarks the Grand Master ''stands
for good citizenship", and states that self-sacrifice and ser~ice must
take first place, if liberty and civilization are to be perpetuated.

From the Grand Secretary's report, it appears that the preceding
year ?ad been a prosperous one and that; a larger net increase in membership had been recorded than in any year of the history of the
Grand Lodge.
M.". W.". A ..STERLING MCKAY, Grand Master, Summerside.
W. P. DouLL, P. G. M., Grand Secretary, Charlottetown.

QUEBEC.
1916.

46th Annual, Montreal, Feb. 9th.
Lodges, 65; membership, 8,255; gain, 102.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the Most w orshipful Grand Master Edward A. Evans, by a ful! corps of Grand

106

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Officers, and by representatives of sixty-three of the sixty-five lodges
of the jurisdiction.
Immediately after the
of the Grand Lodge, a distinguished
visitor in the person of the Most Worshipful Brother I. H. Stearns,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Canada, Ontario, was introduced
with honors and escorted to a seat in the Grand East.
The Grand Master refers in the opening portion of his address to
the most terrible war in history. and to the sacrifices necessary by the
brethren of the Grand Jurisdiction in consequence thereof, and, because of the existence of the. war, the Grand Master decided that it
would not be in keeping with prevailing conditions to accept invitations where the social features of Freemasonry were likely to predominate, and, because of this fact, confined his visits to such lodges where
his presence was officially necessary.
He sets forth clearly but concisely his official acts within the year
and gives expression to the general feeling of seriousness, which is the
uppermost thought of the hour in the following concluding words of
his annual address:
''May Wisdom from On High, be given us aright in the deliberations of this Grand Annual Communication, and may the blessing of
the Great Architect of the Universe be with us all in our undertakings.-May Victory perch upon the banners of our Country and upon
those of our Allies.-May the horrors of War be superseded by a
Righteous and abiding Peace.-May the lives and the safety of our
Brethren who are fighting for our Empire and our King be precious
in the Sight of the Most High, and may He continue to preserve our
Order by cementing and adorning it with every moral and social
virtue.''
'
Fraternal recognition was denied to the so-called ~ational Independent Grand Lodge of France, etc.
From the report of the Committee on the ''State of ::\iasonry '',
we quote the following paragraphs as evidence of the high ideals entertained in this jurisdiction of the character and work of our institution, and how the present world struggle brings out the deeper and
truer qualities of its masonic manhood.

107

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Mast.ers have quite properly referred to them in appreciative manner,
and m which the principles enumerated stand out so boldlv that all
may read and profit thereby.
•
"Many brethren have nobly responded to the call of their country, and we are deeply appreciative of the self-sacrifice and high purpose. a~tuating. them in _going fo.rth to uphold the honor of our flag and
rn aichng to wrn ~he pricele.ss g1.ft of liberty for all peoples. From the
Grand Secretary·s report it Wlll be learned that over 380 members
have testified their loyalty in this respect.''

*

*

*

*

*

. "::\fany good and true brethren have seen the "Great Light"
durm~ the. past year, all of them well known and beloved in their respective circles, and who have given of their best in the cause of
Ma~o~ry. Among them are several who have made the 'Great Sacrifice. m ~efence and support of their Empire's weal, and eloquent and
loving trib_ntes thrc:ugh, other cha.nnels C:f this Grand Lodge, will doubtless, be paid to their virtues, their services, and their memories.''
Most ·worshipful E. T. D. Chambers, Past Grand Master, pres~nts
the report on Foreign Correspondence. In his "introduction" he
dilates upon the subject of :F'reemasonry in the war, showing the 'patriotic zeal which characterizes the Freemasonry of this jurisdiction
and English Freemasonry in general.
'
.
He discusses also in his ''Introduction'' the General Grand Lodge
ulea, and shows that this idea is inconsistent with the land-marks and
character of maso11ry.
He expresses the belief that in many jurisdictions too many candidates are being received, and that the best interests of the institution would be conserved by a more cautious policy in receiving new
members. He discusses other subjects of interest in his Introduction
and gives a careful and intelligent review of the various Grand Jurisdictions, California, 1915, receiving courteous attention, with complimentary reference to the address of Grand Master Bledsoe.

M:. W:. BRO. EDWARD A. EVANS, Grand Master, Quebec.

R:. W:. BRO. WILL H. ·WHYTE, Grand Secretary, Mqntreal.

"Undoubtedly, a higher and more sober view of life and its varied responsibilities has contributed to raise the ideals of our ::\fasonic
Art to a plane it has never before attained, through the exercise of
the principles of Universal Benificence and Charity in their widest
and best meaning, a clearer view and higher appreciation of those
other great principles of Justice, Honor and Liberty bequeathed to us
from remote ages as the chief corner stone of our Masonic edifice, to
be carried into practice in our every-day intercourse.

125th Annual, Providence, May 17.
Lodges, 37; membership, 9,194; gain, 361.

''Thus it is almost impossible to dissociate ourselves from the
fateful events of the year concerning our Empire, when reviewing our
own status in this Province, as the various District Deputy Grand

The Grand Master in his report enumerates his official acts within
the year, consisting of the usual routine of duties incident to his exalted station.

RHODE ISLAND.
1915.

108

109

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In closing his brief and businesslike address, the Grand Master
craves the indulgence of the Grand Lodge in calling their attention to
the fact that he had served that Grand Body in different postions for·
ten years, and that he felt the time had arrived when he was justified
in laying aside the mantle of office, and transferring to other shoulders
some of the responsibilities that he had assumed, although very cheerfully assumed, in the preceding decade of time, assuring his brethren,
at the same time, that he would_ experience contentment and satisfaction in contemplating the carrying forward by other of the noble
work of the fraternity in the jurisdiction.

Notwithstanding the marked increase in numbers, the Grand
Master is certain this gain has not been made at the expense of quality,
and believes that the high standard of manhood demanded on admission in to the Craft has in no sense been relaxed.

After installation, the newly elected Grand Master, Most Worshipful Reuben Samuel Bemis, upon assuming his station, addressed the
Grand Lodge in an appreciative and feeling manner. He called particular attention to the line of grand and honorable men who had preceded him in the exalted station of grand Master, and expressed the
hope that he would receive the generous and kindly •consideration of
his brethren in endeavoring to not unworthily maintain the honor and
high standing of the Grand Body that had been won for it by his distinguished predecessors.
There is no report on correspondence.

He refers with feeling to the death within the year of Most Worshipful Brother John Leslie, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge. of
Manitoba, and Honorary Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Saskatchewan.
On account of the serious illness of the former Grand Secretary,
he was forced to relinquish his office, with its duties and responsibilities, and his unexpired term was filled out by appointment of Right
Worshipful Brother Rev. W. B. Tate.
The Grand Master favored a number of the lodges of his jurisdiction with his official presence during the year and his visits were
so distributed as to reach nearly every part of the Province. Six
new lodges that received charters at the preceding annual Communication were duly constituted, and dispensations were granted by him
to form three new lodges.

M. ·. W. ·. REUBEN S. BEMIS, Grand Master, Providence.
R.'. W.'. S. PENROSE WILLIAMS, Grand Secretary, Providence.

Among the 62 special dispensations granted by him, 33, more than
one half of the total number, were to lodges to attend divine service in
regalia, a form of dispensation, we believe, never granted by lodges
within the United States.

SASKATCHEWAN.

One public corner stone ceremony was conducted by the Grand
Lodge within the year.

1915.

9th Annual, Regina, June 16th.
Lodges, 116; membership, 6, 705; gain, 753.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most Worshipful Lauchlin Taylor McDonald.
Welcome to the City of Regina was extended to the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge by the Mayor O'f the City, with suitable acknowlmerl't on behalf of the Grand Lodge by one of the officers designated
for that purpose.
The Grand Master, in his address, contrasts the present condition
of the fraternity in the jurisdiction with the condition that existed
only a few years before ill 1906 when the Grand Lodge was organized.
At that time there were within the Province, twenty-four lodges with
only 900 members, and within the brief span of ten years the lodges
increased to 116 with a membership of nearly 7,000.

Special reference is made by the Grand Master to certain catastrophes that had occurred within the preceding year, particular reference being made to the war precipitated in Europe, in which the Grand
Master naturally is a strong partisan of England, believing, as he does,
that the war was forced upon England through the machinations of
Germany.
In closing his address, he expresses the opinion that while the
preceding year had been a strenuous one, it nevertheless had been one
of masonic growth and prosperity, whereby masonry stands higher in
the Province than at any time since the formation of the Grand Lodge,
and he voices the opinion that the terrible war in which E'urope is involved has had the effect of causing the brethren more seriously to
consider what masonry stands for than it had ever done before.
In accordance with the report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge
of Queensland.

111

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

A few unimportant rulings upon the application of the law of the
jurisdiction were made, but no decisions rendered of a general character.

"The letter was received by Grand Committee with feelings of
deepest appreciation, and Grand Secretary was directell, in acknowleilging its receipt, to express the sincere thanks of the Scottish Craft
for the noble and disinterested offer of assistance. Grand Secretary
was further directeil to inform Bro. Melish that, though to the present
the distress caused by the war had not resulted in claims beyond the
ability of Grand Lodge of Scotland to meet out of its regular benevolent funds, yet the fact had to be faced that more severe destitution
and suffering were sure to follow in the train of the greater sacrifices
in men and material which the countries at war may yet have to make.

110

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Worshipful Brother
A. S. Gorrell, Chairman. His report is an intelligent review of the
Proceedings of the various Grand Jurisdictions, in which, as he states,
he refrains from extended criticism of the doings of other Grand
Lodges, .confining his endeavors to an effort to give the best thoughts
of masonic students to his readers, as they have presented themselves
to him in the reviews which he has made. California does not find a
place in his report, and our proceedings evidently failed to reach him.
M.". W.". vV. M. THOMSON, Grand Master, Fort Qu' Appelle.
REV. vV. B. TATE, Grand Secretary, Regina.

SCOTLAND.
1915.

No change was made in the official roster of this Grand Lodge,
the Most Worshipful Col. Robert King Stuart, Grand Master.
From an inspection of the reports of the quarterly proceedings, we
observe that the business of the Grand Lodge went forward in much
the usual manner, during the preceding year.
Six new loilges were apparently created in the several provinces.
The reports of the Board of General Purposes, Board of Annuity,
Grand Stewards of Orphans' and Widows' were presented at the various communications, and adopted, and, inasmuch as practically the
entire business of the Grand Lodge of Scotland was transacted through
these boards, very little remains for the Grand Lodge to do at the
Quarterly Communications other than to ratify the actions of the
Boards, and to officially adopt their reports.
The charity scheme of this Grand Lodge seems to be in a sense
quite comprehensive, and under the annuity system in vogue here, a
vast amount of charity and good will is distributed to needy and deserving brothers, their widows .and orphans, not only in Scotland proper,
but throughout the entire jurisdiction, wherever Scottish lodges exist.
A letter is published from our own Brother W. B. Melish of Cincinnati, Chairman of the War Relief Committee of the United States,
and as expressive of the appreciation which the Scottish Grand Lodge
felt for the kindly action of our American brethren, the following was
adopted:

''Grand Commitee therefore resolved that if and when the claims
upon the funds of Grand Lodge grow to such an extent as to cause
anxiety, .the circumstances will be laid before the Executive Committee
of the Masonic War Relief Association of the Unitd States, and their
kind offer utilized for the purposes for which they design it.''
}~rom the above resolution, it will be observed that while the spirit of
benevolence manifested by our American brethren through this so-called
War Relief Association is appreciated, there is manifest a desire, which
has shown itself in other of the European jurisdiction, to permit their
own Grand Lodges to take care of the question of war relief themselves, and that if American masonic help is finally needed later, our
good American masons will be so advised.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
1916.

Adelaide.
The principal business transacteil at the half-yearly Communication held Oct. 20, 1915, was, as is usual in these half-yearly communications, the reception of the report of the Board of General Purposes,
being in this, and other Australian jurisdictions, the business agent
of the Grand Louge, which practically administers the business affairs
of the Grand Lodge and the Reports rendered at the Half-yearly and
Annual communications are adopted and ratified by the Grand Lodge,
the business activities of the Grand Lodge being confined practically
to this perfunctory service.
Mention is particularly made in the Volume of Proceellings of
1916 of the Lodge of Sorrow held in the Town Hall of Ailelaide on
Thursday, Feb. 3, 1916, in memory of the late Grand Master, Most
Worshipful Right Honorable Sir S. J. Way. He serve<l as Grand
Master from 1884 to 1889; also again from 1896 to 1916, having served
in the capacity of Grand Master, with possibly two exceptions, longer
than any one else in the masonic world.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

113

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

112

Annual Communication, placing seven corner stones of public buildings, and other official activities.

· t'ic of Past
;\.t this Loclge of Sorrow, various addresses eu 1og~s
~
d
t'
was delivered by the
Grand Master Way were rendered, an an ora ion
.
Very Worshipful Brother B. Benny, Grand Lecturer.

A number of ''questions and answers'' are submitted by him,
being in the main simply statements of elementary principles and explanations of purely local law, and he sums up the general condition
of the Craft within his jurisdiction with an expression of the sincere
pleasure and gratification that he experiences at the state of peace
and harmony that prevail throughout the jurisdiction, there being not
a single case of appeal, nor a case of real or fancied grievance to be
considered by the Grand Lodge. A remarkable record and surely
highly eommendable to the brethren of South Carolina.

The Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge was held on
April 19, 1916, at Adelaide.
At this Communication, the Grand Master was elect:d to s:~c::~
the former Grand Master, Most Worshipful Samuel J. Way, hw h .
served so many years in the capacity of Grand Master, and t e c o~::
Worshipful Brother Eustace Beardoe Grundy. Brot
f e11 upon Most
~
d L d
d his elevaGrundy was the unanimous choice of the Gran
o ge an
d
tion to the Grand East was received with marked approva1 an
applause.
After his installation, the newly created Grand Mast.er d:~iv~red
a stron and stirring address to the Grand Lodge, expressing is eep
appreci~tion of the distinguished honor that had been conferred upon
him.
·nspection of the reports of the various Charit.y Funds,
F rom an i
. . di t'
· · splen
B ·1a· g Funds etc. it would appear that this Juris c ion ~s in
fi:ncial co~diti~n, and is discharging in a hi~h~y ~re~1tab~e sma;~
ner the masonic obligations of relief within the Jurisdiction o
ou

a;;

Australia.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by a. committee of me~­
bt>rs California 1915, being reviewed by Worshipful Broth:r GC.
Ste~ens. Compiimentary reference is made to. the addre~s oM ~ans
Master Bledsoe and to the oration of Worshipful Brot er
a
.

d

Hughes.
M ·

w · EusTACE B. G&UNDY, Grand Master, Adelaide.

M:.: . .v':'. CHARLES It J. GLOVER, Grand Secretary, Adelaide.
...

SOUTH CAROLINA.
1915.

13 9th Annual Charlestown, Dec. 13-14.
Lodges, 262; m~mbership, 16,712; gain, 438.

The Most Worshipful George T. Bryan, Grand Master, presided.
There were present at the Annual Communication . eight Past Grand
Masters, and 260 out of 262 lodges were represented.
The Grand Master reports issuing dispensations for three ~ew
lodges; constituting six lodges which received charters at the previous

The Grand Lodge received a deputation from the Grand Lodge of
Maryland in advocacy of the George Washington :N"ational Memorial
Association project, and voiced its approval of that project by voting
an appropriation of $3,000 to the enterprise.
1''rom the report of the trustees of the Masonic Home Fund, it
appears that thirty-one orphans and several widows received aid from
this Fund, a total expenditure of $3,510 being recorded.
Grand Lodge beneficenee in aid of widows and orphans is administered in this Jurisdiction through the Private Aid system, instead
of the Masonic Home system, the Masonic Home system having been
voted down a couple of years since, and the report of the Committee
on Foreign Correspondence is throughout sprinkled with illustrations
drawn from experiences of various Homes, showing the great expense
of this method of administration over the Private Aid system.
No one, so far as we are aware, has ever claimed that the Masonic
Home system was a money saver, and the expenditure of South Carolina last year of $3,500 to carry on its charity establishment is certainly very economical in comparison with the many thousands expended, for instance, by California in maintaining its two homes, the
one at San Gabriel for ehildren, and the one at Decoto for the aged
masons, with its modern hospital adjunct, etc.; yet masonry has never
been recommended, so far as we know, as either a money maker, or
money saver, and the question, we believe, that is ordinarily the one
considered in connection with caring for the orphans and widows and
infirm masonic brothers is not which is the cheapest but which is
the best method, and we believe that, without exception, every jurisdiction that has the Home system, while eoneeding that it is not the
cheapest system, believes that it is, by all odds, the best and most
comprehensive system; but, it is everything to be satisfied, and so long
as our good brethren of South Carolina are satisfied with their system,
and the good brethren of other jurisdictions are equally satisfied with
another system, no criticism or complaint should issue from either

114

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

side, but all should work along the lines best adapted to their own
ideas to advance the general good of masonry.
Some doubt seems to exist in the minds of at least some of the
brethren in South Carolina as to what particular Grand Lodge anniversary they were celebrating, some contending that the Grand Lodge
was holding its 179 Annual Communication instead of its 139th, a
trifle of forty years having, in some unaccountable way, slipped into
the discard, and in order to' settle the question authoritatively, a committee was appointed to make due investigation and report at the
next Annual Communication.
The best part of the Volume of Proceedings before us is the report
on Foreign Correspondence by Most Worshipful J. L. Michie, Past
Grand Master, and, whether one agree with him or not in the methods
followed in his review of Proceedings; his report is certainly exceedingly interesting and devoid of dullness. He does not hesitate to
criticise or express adverse opinions, yet we do not find his criticisms
contain a sting.
The distinguished committee in Massachusetts that recently made
a report adverse to the creation of a Correspondence Committee in that
State, advanced as one of the reasons why the policy of Massachusetts, in not having this committee, should not be departed from, that
Correspondence Committees frequently indulged in criticism of other
jurisdictions, that was unpleasant and ofttimes a cause of friction, and,
also, that these Committees were prone to usurp to themselves
an air of superior wisdom, etc.
In our judgment the distinguished Committee in Massachusetts is
hardly justified in assuming this position, and, aside from possibly one
other Chairman of our American Correspondence Committees, South
Carolina is as free to criticise as any, and yet, as stated, we fail to
discover anything in the comments of Brother Michie that even the
most sensitive could reasonably object to, and, as stated, we have
taken a great deal of pleasure in reading Brother Michie 's comments,
which are always interesting.
In his present report he reviews California, 1914, with kindly
reference to Grand Master Murphy's excellent address, and some of
the splendid qualities of California masonry.
He observes that the reports of the Committee on Grievances
disclose the fact that certain masonic trials do not take place in the
lodges where the charges are preferred but are frequently transferred
'for trial to some other lodge. Brother Michie asks for an explanation
of this procedure.
We may say that the rule in California is the same as in other
jurisdictions in reference to most masonic trials, and it is only the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

115

exception to the rule, where the trial is transferred to another lodge
from the one in which the charges are preferred, and to. which the
~ccus~d _br~th~r .belongs, and transfers of this kind only take place
n thi.s JUris.d1chon wh.ere the charges are preferred by the Junior
Warden, actmg under rnstructions from the lodge. In other words
charges that do not. originate with an individual brother, but a~
stated, where the Jumor Warden is ordered by the lodge itself to pre~er the charges. In that case there is an assumption that the lodge
itsel~ has already expressed its opinion as to the guilt of the accused
;nd rn order .that they may be no possibility of bias the case is trans'.
erred for trial to another lodge, where bias cannot exist. This rocedure may be peculiar to California, and 80 far as we know .Pt .
' S tate, and is an evidence' of the spi 't f f ,· 1 1 s
P.ecu l'iar tot lns
whi('h w
· htl b r
.
n o
a1rness,
, . e ng Y e ieve is one of the pronounced qualiti 8 0 f
magmfieent brotherhood.
e
our
We ~et Brother Michie speak for himself concerning two subjects
upon which he has pronounced views, as follows:
ered ';1~! ef:::i~fi~f/~fn~;~~~. that ~~ or .two jurisdictions who consididea in favor of the Privat;nle~ief ~~nic HTohme, have aban.doned the
hug
·
.
·
an.
e more we think of the
e sums spent m salaries and "betterments " and th 1
f ·
terest on the money invested in brick
d
'
e oss o mconvinced that a Masonic Hom . 8 b fan mortar, the more are we

~~~:~~i~0 ~as~~:i:elief. In t~~ pr!ceu~~~h;a:~s~:x£:~:i ~~ v::~h1!

the notice of iur Sou~~c~;r~~fn:s~:~thtr~n~;~ng the matter directly to

"
*
*
*
*
. *
There seems to be an increasing t d
·
Lodges to usurp the
· ·1
d
en ency among certam Grand
a tendency we very Ji~~~ ~~;~ ~: b~~s1~[ive~ of iubordi_nate Lodges,
should be allowed to regulate th~ir own ~~1!~;tior ;b.ord~nate ~odges
3

0

~r:i:fH~f t sa~ee!, 1~nnJ!a~~;,at:n~feE;~:b~~~~0~~:~iL;~~~:;l~
M. · · W. '. R. A. COOPER, Grand );faster Laurens

R:. w:. 0. FRANK HART, Grand Sec:etary, coiumbia.

SOUTH DAKOTA.
1916.

42nd Annual, Sioux Falls, June '7,
Lodges, 142; membership, 11, 709; gain, 546.
. The Annual Communication was presided over by Most
slupful Marshall R. Brown, Grand Master.

w or-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

117

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

116

After the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, an ~ddress .of
Welcome was made to the Grand Body by Brother R~y G. Steve_ns,
Worshipful Master of one of the local lodges of that c1:y. A :fittmg
Response was made by Past Grand Master Harvey J. Rice.
In his ,~nnual Address, the Grand Master refers to ~h~ ~ar~ed .
. 't f peace and harmony that prevails throughout the JUrisd1ction,
spin o
t'
l d been presented to
statin that very few controverted ques ions ia
.
.
h"m f!r decision his statement being in fact that all questions, with a
s;ngle exception'. which decision was to the effect that a lodge cannott
·
had been settled by reference o
levy an assessment for any purpose,
existing laws.
A dispensation was granted to form one new lodge.
The Grand Master reported two Emergent Communic~tibon_sl,d'one
·
th
stone of a pubhc u1 ing,
held for the purpose of placing e corner .
and the other for the dedication of a masonic hall.

0
f the features of this jurisdiction is the Grand C~ar~ty. F~nd,
ne 0
.
H
stem in JUr1sdict1ons
hich takes the place of the Masomc ome sy .
:avin Homes and from the report of the Committee of the c:_rand
Chari~ Fund 'it appears that the same amounts now to over $2ti,OO?,
invest:d in excellent securities, and high ~ope is e~tertaine~l:hba: :~:~
Pund will rapidly increase, whereby the rnterest t ereon w1
.
quate to take care of the charity obligations of the Grand Lodge.
The Committee reported after careful investigation of the Masonic
Home subject, contrasting the experiences of jurisd~t~onsh t~~t ~~~~
Homes with jurisdictions, like Iowa, that conduct t eirhc atrh1 YF d
· h t h e Gran
. d Charity Fund
e un.
ations' in accordance wit
. ' t at.
~ stem is the most practical; and we may state that, in our Judgment.'rn
·!.isdictions having a membership of less than 25,000, the. Ch~rity
J
S t
. th better method of taking care of these obhgat10ns.
Fund ys em is e
The re ort on Correspondence is by the competent Sam~el A.
Brown Pas~ Grand Master. California, 1915, is fraternally r~v~e~e:,
compli~entary references are made to the gre.at l~berality wh1c
a I·
fornia Masons extend to sojourning brethren rn distress.
M. W. JAMES ROANE, Grand Master, Yankton.
GEO. A. PETTIGREW, Grand Secretary, Sioux Falls.
R .....

w.'· .

TENNESSEE.
1916.
102nd Annual, Nashville, Jan. 26th.
Lodges, 461; membership, 28,300; gain, 219.
The Grand Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful T. A. Hisey, Grand Master, assisted by a full corps of Grand
Of:ficers and Representatives of 437 of the 461 lodges of the jurisdiction, certainly a very :flattering representation of the subordinate
lodges.
The Grand Master refers, in the opening portion of his Annual
Address, to the severe affliction which visited the Grand Jurisdiction
within the year preceding in that no less than three Past Grand
Masters and the Grand Secretary, were summoned to the Supreme
Grand Lodge above. The beloved Grand Secretary, John B. Garrett,
who had served the jurisdiction in the capacity of Grand Secretary for
twenty years, was taken away in the early part of the year, and his
death was followed by that of Past Grand Master Henry H. lnger;wll,
Past Grand Master John T. Williamson, and Past Grand Master Kewton McConnell. Suitable memorials were prepared and presented on
all of these distinguished masons, wherein homage was paid to their
superior character and excellence.
The Grand Master indicated a year of unusual masonic activity;
not less than twelve corner stone ceremonies were held within the year,
various lodges were constituted, and a vast amount of correspondence
was carried on by the Grand Master in passing upon questions presented to him, and, in addition to a large amount of correspondence,
he paid fraternal and official visits to not less than forty-four of the
subordinate lodges, visiting praetically every nook and corner of the
Grand Jurisdiction, and, no doubt, bestowing vast benefit upon the
fraternity through his personal presence among so many lodges.
A large number of so-called rulings were made by him construing
the local law of the jurisdiction, but that a great many of these rulings were hasty and ill-advised may be judged from the fact that a
large number of them were disapproved by the Jurisprudence Committee, and the findings of the Jurisprudence Committee were in all
cases up-held by the Grand Lodge, which illustrates the wisdom of the
Grand Master first submitting to the Jurisprudence Committee his decisions and modifying them according to the superior judgment which
this Committee ought naturally to possess.
This excellent method was adopted by one of our recent Granil
JYfasters in California, and it would be, in our judgment, a 'l'.ery desirable custom to establish permanently.

118

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE.N"CE

The "Widows and Orphans' Home in this jurisdiction has always
been managed with a great deal of skill and economy, the per capita
cost in 1914 being as low as $134.28, about half the cost in this jurisdiction, and we believe less than half of the average cost of all jurisdictions.
·

their feet. 'l'wenty-eight responded to the invitation, all of whom had
been masons for periods ranging from forty years to fifty-three years.

There is a proposition to open in addition to the Widows and
Orphans' Home, a home for aged masons. This, we presume, will be
established within a year or two.
The Grand Master voices his belief in the true and genuine worth
of the people of his Commonwealth, and how they are so often misunderstood, in the following sympathetic terms:
''How I wish, oh, how I wish that some hand, guided by love,
sympathy and understanding, would take up the task of preserving in
poem, story and history the simple, unaffected, honest, friendly life
of the people of Tennessee and the South. New England, the North,
and the West each have had this labor of love done in their behalf,
but the true stories of the home life of the South are yet to be written.
Too many tales of the passions and the free use of the pistol in the
hands of angry and thoughtless men have been written, a majority by
Southern writers, which do not place the lives of the Southern people
in the proper light. Soon may such a writer arise to paint in glowing
colors the great Jives of the simple, plain and honest people of the
country and villages."
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence is by the
Chairman, Most Worshipful Henry A. Chambers. California, 1915, is
considered with approving comment upon the address of Grand Master
Bledsoe and extensive quotations from his report and decisions.

M:. W:. CHARLES BARHAM, Grand Mi>ster, Nashville.
R:. w:. STITH :M. CAIN, Grand Secretary, Nashville.

119

'l'he Grand Master addressed them in fitting manner and in contradiction of the statement made by the distinguished physician Dr. Osler
that the effective work of the world has been accomplished by men
between the ages of 25 and 40 years, and as a note of encouragement
to these old time masons, that many years of splendid service might
still remain for them, stated as follows:
"If yo;i eliminate from the world's history the aehievements of
mei: past sixty years old, you would blot out much of the grandest
achievements of the ages. Art, Science Literature 1 Music Architecture, Stat.ecraft, .Jurisprudence, and· Rellgion, would lose th~ grande~t. ~as~erpieces and works that have left their imprint upon our
civl11zation.

"Titian, master of Venitian. painting, completed his wonderful
Battle of Lepanto at the age of nmety-eight.
''Michael Angelo, at eighty-nine, completed the ''Last Judgment''
-pe!haps the most famous picture in the world-and between the age
of ~1xty and seventy, he executed his world-famous frescoes in the
S1stme Chapel at Rome.
"Yon Moltke crushed France at seventy-two, and was still Chief
of Staff of the German army at eighty-eight.
"John Wesley was at the zenith of his power at the same age.
. "Talleyra~d,. Th~mas .Jefferson, John Quincy Adams, Calhoun,
Bismarc~k, BenJamm J! ranklm, and Gladstone, were each political powers at eighty.
"Spencer, Newton, Voltaire, Bancroft, Browning Grimm Laplace

Humbold~, and Tenn;rson, produced their most im'perishable work~
around e,1ghty, at which age Tenn;rson wr.ot.e. his immortal 'Crossing
the Bar, the tenderest death-song m the English language.
'.'Above the age of sixty, Pasteur discovered his cure for hvdro-

TEXAS.

~hobia; Mon7oe announced his American Doctrine; Columbus mad·e his

1915.

voyages of_rhscovery; Wagner, Verdi, and Gounod produced their wonderful music-harmonies which continue to thrill the world.

80th Annual, Waco, Dec. 7-8-9.
Lodges, 884; membership, 65,809; gain, 2,430.
Twelve Grand Officers, eighteen Past Grand Masters and repre·
Qentatives of 435 of the 884 chartered lodges were present. The Grand
Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the Most Worshipful Jewell P.
Lightfoot, Grand Master.
Prior to the delivery of his Annual Address, the Grand Master
requested that all masons in the audience who had been Master
Masons in good standing. for more than forty years should rise to

"At the a¥e of sixty, Thomas A. Edison, the wizard of Menlo
ParJ:, was k~epmg the .ro3;d to the Patent Office hot with his new in:ventions, whwh revolutwmzed mechanics, electrical utilities, and other
important fields; and .at the agt; of sixty-eight we witness him called
upon .to head a Committee of Scientists appointed by this government
to ~rmg to a state of highest efficiency the defeusive forces of th~
nahon.
··
,
. ''But. I will not c_ontinue the list of immortal names further, for
time forbids. Suffice it to say t~at we are proud of these grand men
of .Masonry,_ whose long and faithful service, fidelity to dntv and
patient s~cn~c~s for us, have added glory to this day. Joi~ me
brethren, m g1vmg them the Grand Honors.''
'
'

120

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In the opening paragraphs of the address of the Grand Master are
found some lofty characterizations of the work and worth of masonry.
We quote:

The Grand · Master in his address refers to the circular letters
which this jurisdiction received, in common, we presume, with all
other American jurisdictions within the last year that have recognized
and extended fraternal relations to the new grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands from one Ramon Mendoza, who appears to bear some
relationship to an alleged Regional Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
The Grand Lodge of Texas was not able to extend to Mr. Mendoza
any more encouragement than he has received from other Grand
Lodges to which he has applied, and the Texas recognition of the new
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands stands.
,.

"We sometimes hear it said by the enemies of Truth that Masonry
seeks to exercise power, both temporal and spiritual. Masonry seeks
not such powers. It yearns not for the pomp of office, whether exercised by regal hands, or a representative elected by the people. It puts
forth no candidates, nor supports any political party or policy. It
numbers among its devotees royalists and republicans, the subjects of
despots, and the citizens of democracies. It stretches forth no hand to
bestow a crown, nor to pluck the laurel wreath from the brow of constituted authority. Mansonry not only teaches its members loyalty and
obedience to constituted authority but many of the cardinal principles
of eivic life, without which good government could not exist. It
teaches that free speech, free thought and freedom of conscience are
essential to the progress and well-being of all nations, and the liberty
of all people; it should not be unduly restricted, either by government
or any other power. Masonry, by its teachings, endeavors to restrain
men from the commission of injustice and acts of wrong. It is an
advocate of education, enlightenment, and morality. It teaches the
nobility and dignity of labor; that to work with the hands or brain,
to perform our duties earnestly and faithfully, is more honorable than
rank or title, and out of which grow true manhood and genuine
nobility.
''These are some of its simple yet sublime lessons, teaching mankind its duties to country, and to our fellowman. The struggle and
clamor for temporal power, like the restless ocean, may break upon
the distant rocks, but no sound thereof disturbs the serenity of our
peaceful retreats.
"Neither does Masonry endeavor to usurp the place of religion; or
seek to draw men away from the altars of the churches. It stretches
forth no hand to tear away priestly robes, nor to bestow a protestant
gown. It inculcates a belief in the existence of God, the immortality
of the soul, and the brotherhood of man.
"It teaches men to "do unto others that only which they would
think it just and merciful for others to do unto them. It strives to
brush away the fears, superstitions and ignorance that shackle an(!
enslave the souls of men and free them from spiritual tyranny and
despotism, no matter in what creed or religion it may be found.
"It gathers men about its shrine and teaches them great fundamental truths of God, of spirit, of life, and leaves each to seek the altar
of his own church, temple, synagogue or shrine, to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience. It leaves to other forums all
questions of a sectarian nature, and teaches men to look up to God
and believe that He is not a tyrant, but a .father, infinitely wise, good,
just and merciful, through the power of whose infinite love and mncy
the soul may be lifted into high places of quiet and peace, where the
atmosphere is crystal and the light is resplendent with His beneficence.''

A note of sorrow is sounded by the Grand Master in his feeling
reference to the death within the year of beloved and illustrious Past
Grand Master Augustus Weyman Houston, Sr.

121

The Grand Master renders a number of decisions explanatory of
Texas law. One of the decisions, which we believe will meet general
approval, over-rules a decision formerly rendered by one of the Grand
Masters of Texas, and the decision is in effect as follows:
A certain lodge, after trial, expels a brother. The case was appealed to the Grand Lodge, and the judgment was refused, and case
remanded for a new trial, and change of venue granted by the Grand
Lodge to another subordinate. Upon a re-trial of the case, the defendant was acquitted, and the question presented to the Grand Master
was whether the lodge in which the trial was held in acquitting the
brother, in the absence of a specific reinstatement to membership as a
part of the verdict, restored the brother to membership in his own
lodge. The decision which the Grand Master over-ruled was to the
effect that in the absence of such a specific reinstatement, the brother
acquitted acquired simply the standing of an unaffiliated or dimitted
mason, and was not by virtue of the verdict of acquittal restored to
membership in his lodge. The Grand Master, in this case, held that
the brother was by virtue of the acquittal automatically restored to
membership in his own lodge, and the decision was upheld by the
Jurisprudence Committee and Grand Lodge; all of which will, we
believe, meet with general approval.
The Grand Jurisdiction of Texas is distinguished for the vast
number of questions referred to the Grand Master as to ''physical
qualifications''.
He renders forty-eight decisions, in which he rules that the alleged defects presented were not of such a character as to disqualify,
and as a sample of the forty-eight questions of this character which
he passed upon as not disqualifying, we quote:
·
"Poluxey Lodge No. 393-Defect:
left hand is bent downward''·

First joint of index finger on

And as a few samples of the thirty-two decisions rendered by him
as disqualifying, we quote:

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
"Clinton Lodge No. 23-Defect:. Impaired vision of right eye".
"Jermyn Lodge No. 1102-Defect: Hernia".

"Saratoga Lodge No. 914-Defect:
finger of right hand''·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

123

Brother Tyler's comments are illuminating; his selections for quotation are drawn with discriminating judgment, and the entire report
is replete with valuable and interesting information.

Loss of first joint of little

We have too high an op1mon of the splendid character of the
jurisdiction of 'l'exas, one of the best in the world, to voice criticism
of any kind, but these rulings appear to us well-nigh incomprehensible.
In the report of the Grand Secretary, we learn that twelve lodges
that were chartered at the previous annual communication, receiverl
charters within the year, while as a contrast with the large number of
lodges to which dispensations were granted in the preceding year, only
one new lodge received dispensation this year.
On the evening of the first day of the Annual Communication, an
open session was held in which the Right Worshipful Brother R. L.
Bahl, Grand Orator, delivered a learned discourse upon the ''Character
and Influence of Masonry'', after which the children from the Masonic
Orphans' Home at Fort Worth, in charge of Past Grand Master Brother
Walter Acker, Superintendent, gave an entertainment before the
Grand Lodge, which, we are told, was vastly appreciated.
Perhaps the one outstanding feature above everything else in
Texas masonry is its Masonic Orphans' Home, located at Fort Worth.
The Home itself represents a monetary investment, according to the
estimate submitted by the Board of Trustees, of $504,846.18. There
are sheltered within the Home 213 children, 112 boys, and 101 girls.
A very complete system of education and manual training is
carried forward within the Home by a faculty of fourteen members
and a course of study, including four years of high-school work, is
carried forward, besides, as previously stated, a manual training department, course of study in music, etc. There is probably no Masonic Orphans' Home anywhere in the world, which has such a comprehensive system of education and training as the Orphans' Masonic
Home of 'l'exas.
A report on Foreign Correspondence of 366 pages is presented by
Past Grand Master George W. Tyler, Chairman, this ~eport being the
fourth annual report submitted by him, his first report having been
rendered in 1887, and then a long break in his services in this capacity
until 1913. He introduces his report this year with a biographical
sketch of those who had served the Grand Lodge of Texas as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence from the foundation of the
Grand Lodge in 1837 down to 1915. The sketch, no doubt possesses a
great deal of local interest for the masons of Texas.

California, 1914, receives generous consideration, with substantial
quotations from Grand Master Murphy's Address, etc.
M. '. W. '. DAN S. MCMILLIN, Grand Master, Whitewright.
R.'. W.'. W. B. PEASON, Grand Secretary, Waco.

UTAH.
1916.

45th Annual, Salt Lake City, Jan. 18-19.
Lodges, 20; membership, 2,4 73; gain, 118.
The Annual Communication was presided over by the Most Worshipful William J. Shealy, Grand Master.
A very large attendance of Grand Officers was present and seventeen of the eighteen chartered lodges wer"J represented.
The Grand Master reports in his address that he visited all but
one of the chartered lodges of the jurisdiction and that this lodge was
visited at his request by the Deputy Grand Master.
Among the masonic functions to which the Grand Master refers
as being of especial interest, were the installation on sparate occasions
of the officers of the four Salt Lake City lodges.
He states that all the lodges in the jurisdiction. are in splendid
condition masonically and financially and that the charity work of
each lodge is being carried forward capably and zealously.
He refers with especial pleasurP to the kindly and courteous treatment accorded to him, and the spltindid receptions he received in his
visitations to the various subordinates, and he manifests a glow of
pride in the feeling which he expressed in travelling through his jurisdiction in that the fraternity everywhere in the confines of his state
is up-holding the standard of high ideals and patriotism for which
masonry is noted.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, fraternal recognition was extenc1ed to the
Grand Lodge of Queensland.
The closing session of the Annual Communication was devoted to
the pleasing ceremonies of presentation to the Grand Master of a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Master's jewel, and of a Master Mason's Apron to one of the
highly esteemed brethren; and a more solemn but yet interesting ceremony of unveiling a tablet to the memory of the late beloved Grand
Secretary, Christopher Diehl, who was in his life time one of the
leading masonic characters of Utah, as well as highly honored citizen
of that Commonwealth.

VERMONT.

124

The report on Correspondence is from the scholarly S. H. Goodwin,
Past Grand Master. He reviews in an intelligent and discriminating
manner the reports of most of the Grand .Jurisdictions, although California for some reason fails to receive mention.
His ''Conclusion'' several pages in length is devoted entirely to a
criticism of the Grand Lodge of England in excluding from attendance
upon the masonic lodges of England the members of German or Austrian birth.
It is our theory of the duty of a correspondent, or more properly
speaking masonic ;eporter, to report what takes place, rather than to
criticise, and, in our judgment, it is of doubtful propriety to criticise
any Grand Lodge concerning what it does, or fails to do, touching its
own domestic affairs, and, if the Grand Lodge of England believes
that the safetv of the Empire or the fraternal welfare of the lodges
require the ex~lusion from attendance upon the lodges temporarily of
certain masons of foreign birth, the Grand Lodge of England has a
perfect right to adopt such a course, and it is the concern of no one,
be he a mason or otherwise, residing in some other country, to object
or criticise.

England is fighting for her very existence, and English masons
undoubtedly regard as their paramount obligation unmixed dcyotion
to their own country's cause and welfare, and it is the belief of the
Grand Lodge of ::M:asons of England that that welfare will be promoted
by the ·action taken in reference to foreign born members, and, as
stated, it is the concern of no one else. German Grand Lodges have
taken the same action, so far as England is concerned, and we have
this far heard no criticism of the action of German Grand Lodges,
which illustrates a fundamental difference between the English and
the German method. The English method permits free discussion and
free criticism of any official action, whether it pertains to the Government or any other phase of English life or activity; whereas the
German method, brooks no criticism or discussion; the demand whatever it may be, is simply announced, and that is the end of it.
M.'. W.'. CHARLES C. GRIGGS, Eureka, Grand Master.
R.'. W.'. FREEMAN A. McCARTHY, Salt Lake City, Grand Secretary.

125

1916.
123rd Annual, Burlington, June 14-15.
Lodges, 103; membership, 14,241; gain, 186.
'rhe opening pages of the Volume of Proceedings of 1916 are devoted to a eulogy of Honorable Charles H. Darling, Grand Master of
Vermont, by Past Grand Master Daniel N. Nicholson, from which it
would appear that Grand Master Darling is highly esteemed by the
brethren of his jurisdiction.
Brother Darling's Annual Address, as might be expected from a
man of his straight-forward methods and commanding ability, is a
businesslike presentation of his stewardship during the two years that
he was Grand Master, ancl particularly recounting his masonic activities within the year immediately preceding the present session of the
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master recommends the increase of the permanent
Charity Fund of the Grand Lodge. He calls attention to the satisfactory experience that the Grand Lodge has had with the Masonic
Temple whieh was indicated in 1898, and believe that this undertaking, having been successfully carried through, the Grand Lodge
may, with perfect safety, enlarge the scope of its Permanent Charity
Fund.
The Grand Master renders several decisions explanatory of local
law, some of the decisions bearing upon the question of physical qualifications, upon which Vermont, in common with many other jurisdictions, has recently taken an advanced position, greater importance
being given to the theory that it is the internal and not the external
qualifications that should be considered in making a man a mason. In
other words if he is sound morally and mentally, it is not of vast
importance, whether he has lost a joint of one of his fingers or toes.
The jurisdiction suffered within the year, the death of one of its
most distinguished and useful members, Past Grand Master MarS'h 0.
Perkins. He was for many years chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence in his Grand Lodge, and who had been a leader of
thought, not only in the realm of masonry, but had devoted his life to
learning and the imparting of knowledge to others. The ''Round
Table'' loses in Brother Perkins one of its greatest lights and best
beloved members.
The report on Foreign Corresppndence is taken up this year by
Past Grand Master Kittredge Haskins, and we have no doubt that he

127

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

will prove a worthy successor of Past Grand Master Perkins, who sat
at the ''Round Table'' so many years.

that I am not able to assume greater cheerfulness on this occasion. You
will remember that last year we were just at the beginning of the
great international conflict, but today the end appears as far off as
ever. The wastage has been fearful, and the losses, which are personal
as well as national, seem to be growing day by day. We know that
the result is certain, and realise that it is only a matter of time. We
can only rely on the All-Merciful Great Architect of the Universe, and
trust that universal peace will be established on such a basis that this
fair world will never again be defaced by such inhuman struggle. I
wish. you all health and prosperity, and trust that Freemasonry will
flourish, and that next season we shall all meet again under happier
circumstances.''

126

California is missing from his review.

ivr,·. vv. ·. HENRY ff. Ross, Burlington, Grand Master.

R.". w:. FRANK A. Ross, Bmlington, Grand Secretary.

VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA.
1915.

Melbourne.
Lodges, 213; membership, 15,220; gain, 1,027.
The various Quarterly Communications were presided over by the
Most Worshipful Grand Master, the Honorable Charles Carty-Salmon.

The response to the Grand Master's greetings given by Right
Worshipful Brother Sir. John Quick, gave expression to the same sentiment, as follows:
"In this great struggle we are glad to know that our Masonic
brethren in all parts of the world have united for freedom. We rejoice
to know that the Freemasons in this State have contributed to their
utmost, and you have on many occasions appealed to the sympathetic
ears of the brethren for continued support and co-operation. I trust
that your hope will be realised at our next Christmas meeting and that
we will be able to join in the Hymn of Peace on earth and 'good will
towards men.''

Practically everything that is brought before this Grand Lodge
comes in the way of Reports of the Committee on General Purposes.
All matters for the consideration of the Grand Lodge are, in the first
instance, presented to this Committee, and the Grand Lodge itself in
its Quarterly Communications simply records its approval of the acts
of the Committee on General Purposes, and the principal transactions
at the Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge refer to consideration of and approval of the Balance Sheets of the various Funds.

M.'. w:. BRO. THE HON. CHARLES CARTY-SALMON, Grand Master,
Melbourne.
R.'. w.·. BRO. CHARLES JAMES BARROW, P. D. G. M. Grand Secretary,
Melbourne.

This jurisdiction, like nearly all of the Australian jurisdictions,
possesses a very substantial financial capital, the total of the various
Funds exceeding $200,000.

VIRGINIA.

The several Quarterly Communications of the current year disclosed a note of solemn earnestness because of the great international
conflict in which the mother country is engaged, and certain substantial donations were voted within the year for purposes touching
the patriotic cause.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Phil4>pine Islands as an independent sovereign authority for Craft
Masonry in the Philippines. Brother, the Honorable Charles CartySalmon, was renominated and unanimously re-elected to the position of
Most Worshipful Grand Master for the ensuing masonic year, and
voiced his deep and solemn sentiment, concerning the all absorbing
subject in which the minds of everyone are engrossed, in the greetings
extended by himself to his brethren upon his again assuming charge of
the Craft:
"The M.'. W.'. Grand Masteniaid: Before rlosing Grana Lodge, I
desire to tender the season's greetings to you all, and I deeply regret

1916.

138th Annual, Richmond, Feb. 8-9-10.
Lodges, 322; membership, 25,531; gain, 2,214.
Owing to the absence of the Grand Master in a distant State, because of seriously impaired health, the Annual Communication was
presil1ed over by the Right Worshipful James A. Cabell, Deputy Grand
Master.
Distinguished visitors in the persons of the Grand Master of Kentucky, anL1 the Grand Master of the District of Columbia, were received and escorted to seats of honor in the East.
Owing to the illness of Grand Master James B. Wood, his annual
address was read by his brother Right Worshipful Robert H. Wood.
The address, owing to the enforced absence from the jurisdiction of
the Grand Master, and also because of serious illness, was brief, men-

129

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

tion being made by him of certain Grand Lodge activities, such as
corner stone ceremonies; dispensations for three new lodges, etc., and
several so-called decisions are set forth; none of them, however, of
more than local interest.

Assembly of Masons,' to choose their Grand Master. They published
nothing, perhaps recorded nothing. But if this is not true, how did
this 'All England' 'York' schism ever arise~''

128

This Grand Jurisdiction committed itself unreservedly at this
Communication to suport of the George Washington National Memorial
Association, and passed an appropriation of $5,000 in support of that
great undertaking.
The Masonic Home is referred to in glowing terms, and the appreciation by the Grand Lodge of the work of the Board of Managers is
voiced in commendatory resolutions.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is again from the pen of
Most Worshipful Joseph W. Eggleston. We excerpt the following
from his Introduction as something of general interest:
''Another matter of interest, little known, is the relation of Virginia Masonry to what we fondly call the Mother Grand Lodge of
1717. The fact is that, while our descent can be traced back to that
source, the Grand Lodge of Virginia repudiated and held it clandestine more than one hundred years ago. This Grand Lodge was
formed in 1717 in London by four Lodges, and for years seems to
have had no thought of territorial jurisdiction, even at home. The
idea evidently was to organize and keep records for the first time,
and this was a then modern innovation, so that one or more sece<ling
bodies dubbed them "Modern Masons." These seceding bodies formed
the Grand Lodge of "Ancient York Masons," or "Grand Lodge of
All England,'' and were also called the ''Athol!'' Grand Lodge. They
claimed to be the legitimate successors of what they called the ''Grand
Lodge at York." We know that there was a Lodge there as early as
1630, the constitution of which was in existence and in its possession
fo 1777. The feud between the Ancients or York Grand Lodge (All
England) and the Moderns (England, London, 1717) continued with
bitterness till 1813, when they came together. In 1798 the Grand
Lodge of Virginia passed the following ''Gen. Regulation.'' It may
be found, page 114, in "Masonic Laws," by James Henderson, Master
of Manchester Lodge, No. 14 (afterwards Grand Secretary). This was
our Digest of that day. It reads:
'' '7th. If any member of a Lodge under the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge shall visit or work in any Lodge of Masons commonly
called Modern Masons, or any Lodge of Masons not working agreeably
to the ancient usages of York Masons, he shall be reprimanded by the
Lodge to which he belongs; and if he should afterwards be guiltv of
a similar offense. he shall be expelled from the Lodge and excludeG:
from the benefits of Masonry.'
''The above is written as a partial answer to the often asked
question: 'What does 'York Masonry' mean, and why do we call
ourselves 'York Masons~' ' Some writers dispute the existence of a
controlling force at York in ancient times, and essays have been written on both sides of the controversy. Most probably the Masons of
that whole region held there what is often alluded to as 'The General

That it is always unsafe to criticise when one is not in possession
of all the facts, is illustrated in Brother Eggleston 's comments under
the caption of "British Columbia,'' concerning the so-called McGrew
case, and is proven from the fact that California and Massachusetts
have reconciled, in a courteous and amicable manner, the differences
existing between them in this case, and Brother McGrew, a good man
and polished gentleman, was restored before his death by Massachusetts to all the rights and privileges of masonry, and the record
of his death, which occurred soon after his restoration, is inscribed,
with all of his masonic honors, upon the pages of the Grand Lodge
Proceedings of that Jurisdiction.
Brother Eggleston reviews California, 1914, very generously.
He refers to Grand Master Murphy's address as ''unusually able''
and quotes extensively therefrom.
Brother Eggleston especially refers to the "unlimited charity"
of California masonry, the charity feature of our jurisdiction being
especially called into play because of the allurements of our climate
for those seeking restoration to physical health.
Brother Eggleston, in his ''Conclusion'', gives expression to his
ideas as to how a Correspondence Report should be malle up. He
avoids statistics, he ignores local affairs, and necrology, and endeavors to select from addresses and orations enough good stuff to
furnish any mason in search of information, material for masonic
addresses, if this is what he is after, etc.
M.". W." .•TAMES ALSTON CABELL, Grand Master, Columbia.
R.". W.". CHARLES A. NESBITT, Grand Secretary, Richmond.

WASIDNGTON.
1915.
58th Annual, North Yakima, June 8th.
Lodges, 197; membership, 20,724; gain, 1,182.
The Annual Communication was opened in Ample Form by
Most Worshipful William J. Sutton, Grand Master, assisted by a full
corps of Grand Officers, and there being present fifteen Past Grand
Masters and Representatives of all but eight lodges of the jurisdiction.

130

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

After the opening of the Grand Lodge, an address of welcome
was extended to the Grand Body by Brother Joseph F. Barton,
Mayor of the City of North Yakima. His welcome had the ring of
genuine hospitality and eordiality, and was not too extensively devoted to eulogy, as is so often the case in events of this kind, of
the city to which the Grand Lodge was welcomed.
The response to the Address of Welcome was, by request of the
Grand Master, made by the Junion Grand Warden :Most Worshipful
George Lawler.
Certain musical numbers were then rendered, and after the preliminary program had been disposed of, the Grand Master proceeded
to deliver his annual address, which in one important respect was
the most notable which we have encountered in our reading within
the last year, its point of excellence consisting in its brevity, the
entire address occupying not to exceed six pages of the printed Pro<>eedings, and, because of its brevity, the Grand :Master brings into
play the art of condensation, and sets forth concisely without elaboration his official activities.
From his report, we gather that the year was one of action
which consisted in part of the constitution of five new lodges, and
the dedication of two masonic temples, in ~he placing of not less
than six corner stones of public buildings, in the issuance of dispensations for at least three new lodges, etc.
The four decisions rendered by him, all of which were approved
by the Grand Lodge, are as follows:

''I. Held that a lodge U. D. may grant a dimit, no seal being
required.
2. Held that installation of officers can not be held on Sunday
even though St.•Tohn 's day fall on Sunday.
3. Held that a person who has a slight defec.t in his left a_rm
but who can raise arm at right angles with body with perfect action
of elbow is physically qualified to receive the degrees of Masonry.
4. The petition of a person for the degrees of. ~asoll;rY. wi;ts _re·
jected by a Lodge in another state, this Lodge cla11mng Jurisdiction
over petitioner for a Pl'.ri~d of .fiv~ ~ea:s .. H~ld t~a~ a person ."!ho
has resided one year within this JUrisdict10n 1s eligible to pehhon
for o{e degrees.,. '
He speaks in high praise of the work of the Masonic Home
Board, apparently a most able body of men, through whose capable
administration the Home has been plaeed upon a high plane of
efficieney.
In closing his address, he expresses the hope that when the year
shall be viewed in retrospeet, it shall be discovered that the Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

131

Lodi;;e has made substantial progress and that the tomorrow may be
anticipated with confident hope of still further advanees along the
highway of true fraternity and brotherhood.
From the report of the Grand Secretary, we discover at least
two rather unusual conditions, both of which are extremely complimentary and favorable to the jurisdiction. He ealls attention to
the fact that the assessment on the lodges for ''General Fund'' has
produced within the preceding year an excess over the annual ex·
penses, whereby he is abe to recommend that the per capita tax be
substantially reduced. This, as stated, is in marked contrast to the
tendency of most Grand Lodges to increase from year to year the
per capita tax for Grand Lodge purposes.
The other notabe point along the same lines has reference to
the Masonic Home Fund. The Grand Secretary calls attention to
the fact that this Fund is in fine shape and that the income for the
support of the Home, including contributions from the Order of
Eastern Star, was one thousand dollars in excess of expenditures,
?ven though something like $3,000 had been expended for permanent
improvements, thus showing that the income exceeds the maintenance expense by about $4,000.
Much praise to Washington for her careful and economical
management.
In accordance with the report of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, the request for recognition of the so-called independent and regular Xational Grand Lodge of France was postponed for another year.
Favorable consideration was given to the George Washington
National :Memorial Association project, although no appropriation
was aetually made in support of the enterprise, but in accordance
with resolution adopted, a report will be made at the next Annual
Communication as to whether it may not be possible to make au
appropriation.
It is gratifying to know in connection with the discussions of
the report of a special committee on revision of the Monitor that all
propositions looking to the ineorporation in the :Monitor of anything
even remotely resembling a cypher of the secret work, was unanimously voted down, and when one considers that this is one of the
.iurisdictions that had formerly given a qualified sanction to something in the way of a cypher, the actio'n of the Grand Lodge at this
time was especially pleasing.·
·

The Grand Lodge upon the morning session of the seeond day
of the Annual Communication was entertained by an eloquent ad-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

132

133

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

dress by Worshipful Brother Michael W. Anthony, Grand Orator,
which address was, on motion, ordered printed in the Proceedings.
The thought uppermost in the minds of the civilized world
today is the tragedy of war being enacted upon the continent of
Europe, and that this prevailing thought is in the mind of the
Grand Orator at this time may be judged from the following ;ixcerpts
from his oration:
"I verily believe that the most significant result of the present
conflict in Europe will be to establish one and the same ethical
standards, alike for Nations as for individuals, so that National
pledges, by the common sense and the common conscience of the
people, will be jealously guarded and kept from reproach and shame.
Masonry holds in its hands the threads of the past and the future;
not one of them is broken. There is, therefore, a peculiar obligation
resting upon us to conserve these treasures which make for peace
and the well-being of mankind.
Freemasonry, with her universal language of symbolism, is the
only institution in position to meet this demand for the instruction
of the peoples of all races and nations in ethical and moral development, reduced to the basis of an exact science.''

*

*

*

*

*

''Greece, Rome, Italy, France, England, Germany are great, not
by might nor by power, but by virtue of their philosophy, their art,
their law, their science, their literature, and all the discoveries and
the inventions of the mind of man which have increased the dimensions of human life in its length and breadth and depth. What has
been done exclusively for themselves passes away and is forgotten.
What they have unselfishly done for the benefit of all mankind remains.''
Washington has fallen in line with California, waiving the necessity of the formal opening of a Masonic Lodge in order to conduct
a masonic funeral whereby the brethren are permitted, in accordance
with the Constitution as recently amended in California, to assemble
at the place where the funeral is to be conducted, and assume their
masonic clothing and conduct the ritual service without a preliminary meeting and opening of lodge.
The report on Correspondence is again from the scholarly Past
Grand Master RRlPh C. McAllister. He presents his report in the topical or digest form, similar to t.he method employed the last two years
in Alabama. His form of report has much to commend it, and Brother
McAllister's present effort presents a great deal of masonic information in extremely readable form.
Under the caption ''Age of Petitioner'', in considering the ques·
tion as to whether a petition for degrees may be entertained
when the petitioner is actually not of legal age when the petition is presented, but will be before the initiation can take place,

he holds that the weight of authority requires that a man be
of "lawful age" before he may even knock at the door of masonry,
and that no lodge can receive a petition from a candidte until the
candidate shall at the date of his petition actually have attained
lawful age.
Under the caption of "corner stones", the controversy is noted
as to whether the corne11 stone must be actually laid in the northeast
corner, or if placing the stone in some other part of the fo~ndation,
may suffice.
One Grand Master had ruled that a corner stone must be laid in
the northeast corner, but that ruling had been modified by the Jurisprudence Committee, which held that the provision as to the northeast corner was not manditory, and that it might be placed, if neces·
sar_y, at some other point.
1!nder dispensations, he observes a marked tendency that denies
the right of the Grand Master by dispensation to change the ordinary
course of procedure in various matters laid down in the constitution
such for instance, as dispensations which are granted in some juris~
dictions to ballot for and confer degrees short of the constitutional
time.
Under "documentary evidence", he calls attention to the in.demand everywhere for this evidence as a prerequisite to
exammat~on of. a request to visit, and mentions that scarcely a year
goes by m which the proceedings of some Grand Lodge do not disclose the necessity of documentary evidence. This year it comes from
Victoria, Aus. The Grand Master says:
creas~ng

.

"A person named James Silcock was received as a visitor and
the ceremony of the 3rd degrees. * * * * Before adm1ss10n he was examined by the Junior Warden and a Past Master
and prov.ed to th~ir satisfaction his knowledge of the three degrees'.
He has smce admitted that he is not a Free Mason but willing to be
made one.''
'

w~tn.essed

Incidents such as detailed above afford conclusive value of the
paramount necessity of documentary evidence as a prerequisite to
examination of an applicant for visitation.
The General Grand Lodge proposition is fully discussed and the
conclusion arrived at that while the project has received the favorable
endorsement of possibly two or three masonic authorities, the great
preponderence of opinion is against the idea.
Th~ review~rs discovers that life membership is generally disappr?ved m ~mer1can Grand Lodges, the principal objection apparently
bemg ~h.at it tend~ to. create class in masonry, which is repugnant to
the spirit of our mstitution.

135

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

He also discovers a marked tendency to get away from too much
regulation of subordinate lodges by the Grand Body, the prevailing
opinion being that the rights of subordinate lodges should not be too
greatly curtailed or reduced by Grand Lodge regulation and legislation.

others belief in Deity, and the practice of every commendable virtue,
are still implanted in the minds of all who gain admittance. These
principles cannot be changed. Their continued recognition ani prac·
tice will perpetuate our Fraternity.
"Whatever Masonry has accomplished in helping and bene:6.tting
humanity is due to the fact that the Order rests on a sure foundation.
Belief in the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, has
impelled Masons in all ages to noble deeds. ~heir vision has been
trained to see where others have not seen; their ear has been atten·
tive to the appeal of the weak and helpless, and in the spirit of charity
and brotherly love they have sought to uplift and improve mankind."

134

He also particularly observes the recent tendency tq relax require·
ments as to "physical qualifications" and quotes the recent action
of California upon this subject.
M.'. W.'. ROBERT L. SEBASTIAX, Grand Master, Aberdeen.
R.'. w:. HORACE w. TYLER, Grand Secretary, Tacoma.

WEST vmGINIA.
1916.

51st Annual, Fairmont, Nov. 10-11.
Lodges, 150; membership, 18,827; gain, 1,073.
Numerous "Special Communication" were held within the year
for the purpose principally of placing corner stones, and if there is
any one feature, more than another, that stands out prominently in
this jurisdictions, it is the frequent exercises of the function of plac·
ing col.'ner stones of public buildings.
The Annual Communication was presided over by Most Worshipful William T. Ice, Jr., Grand Master.
The purpose of holding this Annual Communication at Wheeling,
which city had been selected at the previous Annual Comm•::aication
for the holding of the Annual Communication of 1915, 'l'\'as defeated
because of a fire which destroyed the Scottish Rite Temple, containing
the principal masonic auditorium in Wheeling, and, because of this
disaster, the place for the meeting of the Annual Communication was
transferred to Fairmont.
The Grand Master reports at least sixteen corner stone cere·
monies. He sets forth in his report the usual Grand Master activities, and a few decisions on masonic law, being in the nature of interpretations of the constitution of the jurisdiction.
From his conclusion, we excerpt the following paragraphs which
express his conceptions of the true scope and mission of masonry:
"An observation of world conditions today impresses one with
the great changes taking place in governments and institutions. But
let us remember that the basic structure of Masonry still remains the
same. Loyalty to government, due consideration for the rights of

This Annual Communication, the plans for which contemplated
meeting in the commodious Scottish Rite Auditorium in Wheeling,
was to have been a Semi·centennial Celebration of the founding of
the Grand Lodge, but on aecount of the disaster which compelled the
abandonment of the project to meet in Wheeling, the celebration was
abandoned at the same time.
Judge George W. Atkinson, Past Grand Master, had been as·
signed, in connection with the contemplated celebration, the prepara·
tion of a half century sketch of the Grand Lodge of West Virginia,
and while, as stated, the celebration itself was abandoned, Brother
Atkinson was prevailed upon to present bis sketch to the Grand
Lodge at this time, and this historical document :6.nds place in the
printed proceedings.
The historical resume is interesting, particularly to the brethren
of West Virginia, and it sets forth exhaustively the early trials
and difficulties encountered by the Grand Lodge when it was estab·
lished at the time that West Virginia broke away from Virginia
proper, during the early years of the Civil War.
The Grand Lodge of Virginia was naturally loath to surrender
her jurisdiction over the lodges located in the new State, but the
differences were :6.nally adjusted upon a basis of perfect good will
and understanding, and the kindest fraternal sentiments have always
been maintained between the two Grand Lodges.
There seems to be a prospect of the establishment in this jurisdiction of a Masonic Home through a bequest from one of the wealthy
and prominent masons of the jurisdiction.
There has never been any objection in this jurisdiction to the
masonic home project except that heretofore it has not felt financially
able to support such an institution, and also because the charity obli·
gations of the jurisdiction have always been very capably discharged
by the subordinate lodges.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is as usual from the capa·
ble hand of Most Worshipful Goerge W. Atkinson, Past Grand Master,

136

137

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

an excellent report, in which California, 1914, is courteously considered.

Western Australia, like most of the Australian Grand Lodges, had
difficulty in winning recognition from the Mother Grand Lodges of
England, and Ireland, but this recognition of independence was finally
accorded by the last one of these Grand Bodies about three years ago,
whereby its full standing as a sovereign Grand Lodge becomes universally conceded by the Mother Grand Lodges of England and Ireland.

Brother Atkinson, in his Conclusion, has some kindly observations to make concerning the Order of the Eastern Star, and we take
pleasure in quoting his remarks, and the wider our knowledge becomes concerning the extent and importance of woman's work, the
more inclined we are to agree with anything spoken in her praise:
''I can say in all kindness and good will, that the more I read
about what the members of the Eastern Star are doing as an adjunct
of real :F'reemasonry, the more I feel like praising and encouraging
them. They are lending a woman's hand in bearing alms to the
needy, and doing what thy can to make the world sweeter and happier and better. They are the handmaiden. of their husbands, fathers
and brothers, who are Masons, in carrying on a work which only
women, with true women's hearts, can do. After all, what kind of
a world would we have, if it were not for the work that women only
can do' My, my excuse me! And please remember, I am not a
member of it. I am only an unprejudiced onlooker.
''They talk about a woman's sphere, as though it had a limit;
There's not a place in earth or Heaven,
There's not a task to mankind given,
There's not a blessing or a woe,
There's not a whispered yes or no,
There's not a life-There's not a birth,
That has a feather's weight of worth
Without a woman in it.''
M.". W.". T. WILBUR HENNEN, Grand Master, Fairmont.
M'.". W.". JOHN M. COLLINS, Grand Secretary, Charleston.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
1915.

16th Annual, Perth, April 22.
Lodges, 95; membership, 4,042; gain, 17.
The business of this Grand Lodge is conducted at the various
Quarterly Communications, which are held in January, April, July and
October of each year, the communication of April being counted as the
Annual Communication, at which the principal Reports are rendered
and a general review of the business of the year considered.
An inspection of the Balance Sheets of the various Funds discloses the fact that for a Grand Lodge only fifteen years old, splendid
progress has been made in the accumulation of substantial credits to
the various Funds, as well as for satisfactory progress in the matter
of membership.

At this Annual Communication, the Most Worshipful Brother, the
Right Rev. C. C. L. Riley, Lord Bishop of Perth, was re-elected to
serve for the twelfth consecutive term as Grand Master.
The report on Correspondence is rendered by a committee composed of several members, the report being a condensed review of the
proceedings of the various Grand Lodges. California for 1914 is fraternally reviewed by one of the distinguished members of the Committee, with copious quotations from Grand Master Murphy's Address,
and with complimentary references to various phases of masonic activity in California.
M.". W.". BRO. C. 0. L. RILEY, Lord Bishop of Perth, Grand Master,
Perth.
R ... W:. J. D. STEVENS, Grand Secretary, Perth.

WISCONSIN.
1916.

72nd Annual, Milwaukee, June 13th.
Lodges, 274; membership, 31,866; gain, 1,315.
The Seventy-second Annual Communication was presided over
by Most Worshipful George 0. Kellogg, Grand Master.
In the opening of his Address, the Grand Master contrasts the
unhappy conditions of strife and blood-shed which prevail upon the
continent of Europe, with the conditions of peace, tranquility and
happiness which obtain in this country, and in order to preserve the
liberties and blessings which we enjoy, he calls attention to the
necessity of the development of the highest type of manhood, such
as is conserved by our great Institution of Freemasonry, and reminds his brethren of the responsibility that rests upon the masons
of this country of counseling the rising generation that they may
become a part of a republic that shall deserve to endure through all
time.
The Grand Master records a year of masonic activity. He· issued
dispensations to form and open three new lodges. Eleven Emergent

138

139

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Communications we:re held fo:r pu:rposes of placing co:rne:r stones of
public buildings, dedicating masonic halls, etc.

He reviews California, 1915, generously, with complimentary
references to Grand Master Bledsoe 's address, and reports of certain
committees.

He announces a few :rulings under masonic law or procedure peculiar to the jurisdiction, and not possessing general interest.
He voices sentiments of appreciation for the kindly assistance
rendered him by certain of the Past Grand Masters, and particularly
by the Grand Secretary in connection with the discharge of his re·
sponsible position of Grand Master within the year preceding.
The second day of the Annual Communication, that is June 14th,
being what is known as Flag Day, Past Grand Master Charles E.
Whelan entered the Grand Lodge, bearing the flag of our country, the
Stars and Stripes, and from the East of the Grand Lodge, so the
proceedings inform us, ''delivered an oration which was a credit to
him and an incentive to all American citizens to up-hold all the tra·
ditions for which 'Old Glory' stands."
The report on Foreign Correspondence is the nineteenth annual
offering of the Chairman of the Committee, Past Grand Master Aldro
Jenks, in which, in his introduction, he has this to say concerning his
:report and generally touching the spirit of masonry:
''This report is prepared primarily for Masons in Wisconsin and
particularly for those who take an interest in things Masonic; who
are willing to :read and think. Masonry in its teachings and aims is
wonde:rfully practical. It gives to the true Mason a higher conception
of the Infinite One and a more definite mission in life. While this is
the spirit of Masonry too few of us realize it. No man can understand
and appreciate it until he has pondered long and faithfully upon its
teachings. Many a man has taken the obligations from the Entered
Apprentice degree to the Thirty-second, and failed absolutely to under·
stand or get that broader vision of Masonry which they are intended
to give. That man's :Masonry is a failure notwithstanding he may
wear a Knight Templar charm or a Double Headed Eagle; he is neither
an aetive nor a practical :Mason, but merely a hanger-on to the institution. Such is not the fault of the Masonic Institution, but is due to
the fact that such an one was seeking o:rnamental titles and displav
rather than an opportunity of being servicable to his fellow man ancl
improving himself in Masonry.
''The Brother, however, who has progressed in thought and conception to the knowledge that :Masonry is intended to make of him a
better man and give him opportunity for service to his fellow man is
a far higher Mason though he has not progressed beyond the Symb~lic
degrees, than the one of the opposite character who is proud of the
number of steps he has taken.''
His review of the various jurisdictions is characterized by rare
judgment and intelligence and teems with masonic knowledge and
information.

He perhaps under-estimates the ability of the Grand Lodge of
Califo:rnia, without any distress, to take care of the obligations in·
curred in connection with the erection of the magnificent temple in
San Francisco. California does business "with a large auger", and,
while a million dollar investment in a temple with an outstanding
indebtedness of $300,000 might stagger some jurisdictions, the proposition will not in the least disturb the Grand Lodge of California, and
the indebtedness will be absorbed in a short time without much
trouble, and the temple will not only stand as a fitting monument to
the grandeur of masonry in California but will become in a very few
years a magnificent business investment.
M.". W.". CYRUS S. STOCKWELL, Grand Master, Neillsville.
R.". W.". WM. W. PERRY, Grand Secretary, Milwaukee.

WYOMING.

1915.
4lst Annual, Casper, Sept. 8-9.
Lodges, 34; membership, 3,316; gain, 126.
The Forty-first Annual Communication was presided over by the
Most Worshipful J. J. Jewett, Grand Master.
An Address of Welcome to the Grand Lodge was delivered by
Past Grand Master E. P. Rohrbaugh, Mayor of Casper, to which re·
sponse was made, at request of the Grand :Master, by Right Worship·
ful Brother T. Blake Kennedy, Junior Grand Warden.
In the opening paragraphs of his Annual Address, the Grand
Master refers to the well-nigh irreparable loss which the Grand Lodge
suffered within the preceding year in the death of its Grand Secretary,
Brother W. L. Kuykendall. Bro. Kuykendall had served the Grand
Lodge as its Secretary for thirty years, and was known as one of the
most efficient Grand Secretaries in the masonic world. He also filled
the position of Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence
and his reports were regarded as among the most valuable rendered by
Correspondence Committees.
The Grand Master enumerates in a concise manner the various
official aets which he performed within the year, which upon the whol~
was one of the most prosperous in the .existence of the Grand Lodge.

140

REPORT ON CORRESPONpENCE

The Grand Lodge was entertained in the afternoon of the first day
of the session by an address on Masonry by Brother Charles E. Winter.
The address was vastly enjoyed by the Grand Lodge, and was ordered
printed in full in the Proceedings.
The report of the trustees of the Masonic Home Fund affords
evidence that substantial progress is being made towards the accumulation of the Fund, destined, when it shall have attained sufficient
proportions, to be used in founding a Masonic Home in this Grand
Jurisdiction.
The George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association
was duly endorsed, and the Grand Secretary was authorized to purchase a $100 membership in the Association.
On the second day of the Communication, the Grand Orator
Brother W. A. Riner, delivered the oration of the Annual Communication, entitled "Masonic Essentials"· The oration met with the approval of the Grand Lodge, and it was ordered printed in the Proceedings.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the new Grand Secretary J. M. Lowndes. He followed the late Brother Kuykendall as
Grand Secretary, and he now takes up the pen on Foreign Correspondence, that was laid down by Brother Kuykendall. Brother Lowndes'
report is replete with excellent and discriminating comment, and we
have no doubt he will prove a worthy successor of the former distinguished member of the "Round Table" from Wyoming.
Brother Lowndes reviews California, 1914, in generous and fraternal manner, with complimentary references to the address of Grand
Master Murphy and the oration of Worshipful Brother William H.
Waste.
M.'. W.'. W. H. DICKINSON, Grand Master, Lander.
R.'. W.'. J.M. LOWNDES, Grand Secretary, Casper.

INDEX-1916
A
Acacia Lodge No. 92-Consolidation with Palmyra No. 26 ________________ 33
Accounts, Committee on-List of Members'----------------------------................ 219
Report of Committee ....... ----·---·--···--··---------------········-·····--····-·-·--······120
Address-At Laying of Cornerstone, Covina .......................................... 58
Of Grand Master (See also Grand Master)................................ 6
On ''Truth, Business and Political''. ........................................... 93
Affiliation-Jurisdiction of Lodges on Petitions for ............................ 24
By Member of Defunct Lodge ........................................................ 25
Alphabetical List of Lodges ...................................................................... 245
Alphabetical Location of Lodges ............................................. _.. ________________ 254
Alta Vista Lodge-Charter Ordered ........................................ ----········----151
Dispensation Issued ----------------·--------------------------------------------------------· 33
Alturas Lodge No. 248-Trial Record No. 163 .............................. ____ 35; 187
Amador Lodge No. 65-'frial Record .............................. __________________ 36, 145
Amendments to By-laws Approved by Grand Master ............................ 37
Amendments to Constitution-Adopted and in Force .......................... 221
Section 17, Election of Grand Officers ................................ 151, 211
Section 30, :Relating to Reports of Committees ................ 151, 211
Section 41, Relating to Per Capita Tax ............................ 122, 160
Section 73, Qualifications of Officers of Lodges U. D ..... 149, 209
Section 95, Jurisdiction of Lodges .............................. ________ mo, 154
Section 1121/:J, Carrying E. A. on Rolls ________________________________ l22, 161
Section 115, Not More Than Five Degree's in One Day
.. ........................................ _.. _________________________________ 24, lii2, 177, 210
Section ] 21, "French Work" in Certain Lodges .............. 16, 156
Section 163i, Right of Orphan Daughter to Relicf.. .......... 39, 153
Section 16ii, Who Entitled to Masonic Rights .......... 121, lii9, 160
Section 192, Trial Records, Procedure ............. _.. ________________ 121, 157
Section 210, Restoration After Suspension for Uanse .... 120, 158
Amity Lodge No. 370-Trial Record No. 163 .................................. 35, 187
Annual Oration-Samuel E. Burke ................................ ____________________________ 169
Appropriations ................................................... _________ 150, 161, 21B, 214, 215
Argonaut Lodge-Charter Ordered ...................................................... ____ 151
Dispensation Issued -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 33
Arlington Lodge No. 414-Trial Record No. 206 ............................ 36, 165
Ashes-Funeral Services Over .................................................................... 158
Assets of Grand Lodge .................................................... ____________________________ 49

11

INDEX

B
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224-Trial Record .......................................... 35, 212
Ballot-Mistake in, Remedy for .......................................................... 24, 25
Bay View Lodge No. 401-Visit of Grand Master to ............................ 12
Bethlehem Lodge No. 455-Constituted .................................................... 10
Blackmer Lodge No. 442-Trial Record ............................................ 36, 145
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for ...................................................... 150
Commendation by Finance Committee .......................................... 216
Commendation by Grand Master .................................................... 28
Failure to Reimburse ........................................................................ 25
Honolulu, Report of .......................................................................... 118
. Los Angeles, Report of .................................................................... 108
Oakland, Report of ............................................................................ 114
Portland, Oregon, Reimbursement of.. .................................. 123, 214
Sacramento, Report of ...................................................................... 119
San Francisco, Report of .................................................................. 102
San Jose, Report of.. .......................................................................... 117
Books Received for Library ................................................................ 38, 132
Bonds-Interest Paid on .............................................................................. 46
Brown, Agnes-ReHef of .................................................................. :.123, 214
Brown, Master Herbert E.--Address of at Covina ................................ 58
Burke, Samuel E.-Address at Covina ........................................................ 60
Appointment as Grand Orator........................................................ 15
Oration Before Grand Lodge .......................................................... 169
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-Claim for Reimbursement.. ............ 123, 163
Business, Unfinished .............................................................................. 211, 220
By-Laws-Amendment to Take Effect at an Indefinite Time Not
Permissible .................................................................................. 26
Committee on .................................................................................... 47
Proposal to Exempt Certain Members From Dues .................... 131
Report of Committee on .................................................................... 134
Vote Required to Amend ............................................................ 25, 152

c
Candidate-Loss of Leg Disq~alifies ......................................................... 27
Carquinez Lodge No. 337-Visit of Grand Master to ............................ 11
Center Lodge-Charter Ordered .................................................................. 151
Dispensation Issued .......................................................................... 33
Charters-Committee on .............................................................................. 47
Dates of All Lodges in Jurisdiction .............................................. 224
Report of Committee on .................................................................... 151
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410-Visit of Grand Master to .................... 12
Circular Letter from Grand Master .......................................................... 19
Claims for Reimbursement.. .............................................. 123, 161, 213, 216

INDEX

iii

Coleman, John C.-Presentation of Bust of Edward Coleman by.... 39
Thanks of Grand Lodge to .............................................................. 213
Committees Appointed-By-Laws ............................................................ 47
Charters .............................................................................................. 47
Grand Master's Address .................................................................... 32
Grand Lecturer's Report.. ................................................................ 101
Grand Secretary's Report................................................................ 32
List of Standing ................................................................................219
Constitution of Lodges .................................................................................. 33
Corinthian Lodge No. 9-Consolidation of Yuba No. 39 with ............ 33
Correspondence-Personnel of Committee on .......................................... 220
Covina Home (See Masonic Homes)
Credentials Committee-·List of Members ................................................ 219
Report of ............................................................................................ 188
Cremation-Funeral services over ashes ............................................ 27, 158
Crescent Lodge No. 45-Petition of Expelled Member for Restoration ........................................................................................ 36, 147
Crocker Lodge No. 454-Claim Against.. .......................................... 52, 211
Constitution of .................................................................................. 10

D
Davies, William Abraham--Death of.. ...................................................... 29
J<Julogy of Samuel C. Denson on .................................................... 180
1\!Iemorial Services ............................................................................ 178
Daughter of MaBon-Right of Relief.. ...................................................... 39
Decisions and Amendments to Constitution ............................................ 221
Decisions of Grand Master .......................................................................... 23
Decoto Home (See Masonic Homes)
Degree Teams ................................................................................... , ............ 29
Degrees-Number That May Be Conferred in 1 Day .... 24, 152, 177, 210
Delano Lodge No. 309-Trial Record ................................................ 35, 164
Denson, Samuel C.-Eulogy on William A. Davies by .......................... 180
Thanks of Grand Lodge to ............................................................ 186
Dimit-Non-affiliate Mnst Present, When ............................ 121, 159, 160
Discord Among the Craft-Reference to West Lake Lodge No.
392 .................................................................................. 18, 36, 165
Dispensations Issued .................................................................................... 37
Donations to Masonic Homes .............................................. 12, 13, 70, 76, 88
Drummond, John Quincy-Presentation of Apron to ............................ 11
Dues-Exemption of Certain Members Proposed ........................ 131, 155
Per Capita Tax When Remitted ............................................ 121, 160
Reading Names of Those Delinquent for .................................... 27

E
East Gate Lodge No. 290:.__Trial Recoru .................................................. 35
Election of Grand Lodge Officers ............................................................ 217

IV

INDEX

Employment Bureaus-Reports of·-----------------------·-·--------------'.107, 109, 119
E'ndowment Committee Masonic Homes-Names of.. .......................... 220
Report of -------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------92, 152
Endowment Day-Suggestions by Grand Master·------------·-·-------·------·--- 29
Endowment Fund-Condition of .... ---·---------------------------·-·---·---------·--·--·-----· 50
Donation to by a Brother ........ ------------------·----·---------------·--·--·--·-······ 12
By George Zehnder and wife ...... ------------·---------------·----------------------- 13
Entered Apprentices-Carrying on RolL ...................................... 121, 161
Eshleman, John Morton-Dea th of·----------------------------------·----------------------·· 29
Eulogy on by H. D. Loveland ........ ------------------------------------------------182
Funeral of -----------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------ 15
Memorial Services -----------------------·---------------·------------------------------------178
Eureka Lodge No. 16-Dedication of Hall... _________________________________________ 12
Eulogies on William A. Davies and John M. Eshleman ........................ 180
Extinct Lodges-List of ................................................ ----------------·----·--------236

F
Fenwick, James F.-Correspondence with Relative to RituaL .. 16, 156
Fidelity Lodge No. 113 of New Jersey-Greetings to by Telephone ------------------····---------------------··----·-·---------------·-·---·------------11, 13
Filmer, William P..-Presentation of Portrait bY----------------------------------177
Finance Committee-List of Members ... -------------------------------------------------219
Report of ----·----------------------------·-------···--·------····-----------------------------------149
(See also Reports of Committees)
Fitzgerald, E. L.-Reception of ... -----------------------·--------------------·--------·---·----· 6
Flag-Display of in Bay View Lodge No. 401.. ...................................... 12
''French Work'' in Certain Lodges .. ·-·----·----------·----------------·------·--·--··16, 156
Friendship Lodge No. 210-Trial Record·-------·----·---------------------·------36, 145
Fry, John A. B.-Installation 0£.. .............................................................. 15
Fullerton Lodge No. 339-Trial Record ............................................ 36, 145
Puneral Services-Joint with Other Societies ........ -------------·--------·--------- 27
Over Ashes or One Cremated ........................................... --------------· 27

G
George Washington Memorial Association .............................................. 19
Gift of $21,000 to Covina Home .... -------·--·--------------·-----·--·-·-------·--------·----·· 12
Golden West Lodge No. 455-Trial Record .................................... 36, 145
Grand Lecturer-Committee on .... --------------------------------------------------------------101
Report of -----------------------········---------·-·---·----·----------·-----·--·--------·-----···--- 97
Report of Committee on·---·------··--------·--·--------··---··------------·----·--·-·····-133
Grand Lodge-Representatives Present ---------------·---·------------------·-·--·------188
Grand Lodge Officers-Proposal to Elect on Second Day .......... 151, 211
Grand Lodges in North America-List of .. ·--·--·-·------------------------··--·····--244
Grand Master-Address by to Grand Lodge .. ·---------------·-----·--------·--·--· 6
Address to New J ersay Lodge by Telephone .............................. 14

INDEX

v

Grand Master-Continued.
Acknowledgment of Messages of Sympathy ______________________________ 15
Appropriation for E'xpenses ____________________________________________________________ l50
Boards of Relief, Commendation of ______________________________________________ 28
Failure to Reimburse·---------.-------------------------------------------------- 25
Committee on Address of·----------------------------------------------------------------- 32
Davies, William Abraham, death of.. __________________________________________ 29
Decisions ····----·------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 23
Affiliation, Jurisdiction on Petitions for ________________________ 24
Affiliation by Member of Extinct Lodge·------------------------- 25
Ballot, Mistake in, Remedy for ____________________________________ 24, 25
By-laws, Amendment to Take Effect at an Indefinite
date ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26
By-laws, Vote Required to Amend·----------------------------------- 25
Degrees, Number That May Be Conferred in One
Day ----------------------------------------------------------24, 152, 177, 210
Delinquent Members, reading names of ____________________________ 27
Fee of Candidate Who Cannot Present Himself for
initiation ---·----·------------------------------------------------------------·---- 23
Funeral services, joint, with other societies ____________________ 27
Funeral Services over Ashes of One Cremated ........ 27, 158
Installations, Where May Be Held·----------------------------------- 24
Jurisdiction of Lodges·--------------------------------------------------------- 24
Loss of Leg Disqualifies Candidat.e ............................ 26, 153
Revenue, What Constitutes Total.. ____________________________________ 24
San Fernando Lodge No. 343, Jurisdiction of ................ 26
Testimonial to Retiring Master.·-------------------------------------- 23
Visitors, Where May Be Examined·--------------------------------- 27
Degree Teams ------------------------------------·----------------·------------------------------ 29
''Democracy of the Dead''------------------------------------------------------------ 31
Dispensations Ordered --------------------------------------------------------------37, 158
Eshleman, John Morton, de.a th of·--·-------------------------------------------· 29
Expenses of ---·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 28
George Washington Memorial Association ...................... 19
Lett.er to Lodges·--------·------------------------------------------------19
Masonic Homes, Commendation of ___________________________ ----------·---··----· 27
Masonic Temple, Recommendation to Purchase S;~~-k:::::::::::::: 27
McGrew Case ---------------------------------------------------------------·-------·--------·-·· 20
Message from Bishop Hughes.·----------------------------·------------·------·------· 15
Necrology -·------·------------------------------------·---------·-----------·-----------·-----------· 29
New Mexico, Controversy With ... ·--------------··-----------------------·---···---- 23

~::;:es~a~; ;h~--(»;d-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~'. __ 1:~
Report of Committee on Address·---------------------------------·-····-··--·------126
Request to Sit for Portrait in OiL.. ..........................-.................... 150

Vl

INDEX

Grand Master-Continued.
Ritual of Oceanic Lodge No. 371.. .......................................... 16, 156
Short Form of Opening for Examinations .................................. 29
Suggestions by Inspectors ................................................................ 28
Things a Master Ought to Know .................................................... 29
Visitations by .................................................................................... 10
West Lake Lodge No. 392, Affairs of .......................................... 18
Grand Officers-Mileage Allowed .............................................................. 207
Present at This Communication...................................................... 5
List of for 1916 ........ ---·········-------·-·--·······---------···-------····-··················- 4
Salaries of .......................................................................................... 150
Elected 1916 ·······--·--·-······--··························-----···········--···--·-·----········217
Grand Organist-Testimonial to Be Tendered to .................................... 218
Grand Secretary's Report ............................................................................ 32
Acacia Lodge No. 92, Consolidation with Palmyra No. 26 ...... 33
Alta Vista Lodge, Dispensation to Form ...................................... 33
Amendments to By-laws Approved by Grand Master .............. 37
Argonaut Lodge, Dispensation to Form ........................................ 33
Center Lodge, Dispensation to Form............................................ 33
Committee on --·····----·························-········--······-----····-··-··········-----··· 49
Consolidation of Lodges .................................................................. 33
Corinthian Lodge No. 9, Consolidation of Yuba No. 39 with .. 33
Daughters of Masons, Relief for .................................................... 39
Dispensations Issued ··················----·-·········----····-··········--········-··--····· 37
Emergency Relief Fund .................................................................... 35
Gains and Losses for Five Years .................................................... 34
Interest Received from Bonds ........................................................ 46
Letter to Grand Lodge of Maryland .............................................. 178
Library, Books Received for ........................................................ 38-39
Life Membership, Lodges Adopting .............................................. 38
Lodges, New --------··········---·······························---······························· 32
Membership, Gain and Loss ............................................................ 34
Morgan Hill Lodge, Dispensation to Form .................................. 33
Mount Oso Lodge, Dispensation to Form ...................................... 32
Oceanic Lodge No. 371, Change of Name .................................... 38
Palmyra Lodge No. 26, Consolidation of Acacia No. 92 with .. 33
Paul Revere Lodge, Dispensation to Form .................................... 33
Receipts During the Year ................................................................ 46
Report of Committee on .................................................................. 127
Sales During the Year ...................................................................... 46
Telegram to Past Grand Master Perkins ...................................... 47
Trial Records ·--·---··············-··············--······················-···············---·-····· 35
Warrants Drawn During the Year................................................ 40
Yuba Lodge No. 39, Consolidation of with Corinthian No. 9 .... 33
Grand Treasurer's Report ............................................................................ 48

INDEX

Vll

Greig, Robert-Installation of .................................................................... 15
Grievance Committee-List of Members .................................................. 219
(See also Reports of Committees)
Gunzendorfer, Gustave-Recitations by.................................................. 178

H
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21-Trial Record ........................................ 35, 36, 145
Hervey, W. Rhodes-Installation by of Grand Orator ......................... 15
Laying of Cornerstone Masonic Hall at San Pedro .................... 12
Hesperian Lodge No. 264-Trial Record ............................................ 35, 164
Honolulu Board of Relief-Report of ........................................................ 118
Howard Lodge No. 96-Visit of Grand Master to ................................ 10
Hughes, Matt S.-Congratulations to and Message From .................... 15
Humboldt Lodge No. 79-Claim for Reimbursement .................... 123, 214

I
Installation of Officers-Where May Be Held ........................................ 24
Installations by Grand Master .............................................................. 10, 11

J
Jewel Lodge No. 374-Visit of Grand Master to .................................... 11
Jurisdiction of Lodges .................................................................................. 24
Jurisprudence Committee-List of Members ............................................ 219
(See also Reports of Committees)

K
Keesling, }'rancis V.-Address at Covina..........................................
59
Dedication of Masonic Hall at Auburn ........................................ 12
Dedication of Masonic Hall at Glendale ...................................... 12
Installation of Grand Chaplain and Junior Grand Deacon by .. 15
Laying Cornerstone at Covina Home by ................................ 12, 56
Laying Cornerstone Scottish Rite Temple, Sacramento....
12
Message of Sympathy to Grand Master ........................................ 15
Trowel Presented to .......................................................................... 58
Kennett Lodge No. 456-Constitution of .................................................. 10

L
La Mesa Lodge No. 407-Trial Record .............................................. 36, 145
Langford, Norton-Commendation of ...................................................... 146 •
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17-Trial Record .............................. 36, 145
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366-Trial Record ........................................ 35, 145
Lassen Lodge No. 149-Claim for Reimbursement ........................ 123, 214
Proposal to Change Jurisdictional Lines ............................ 131, ~54
Lassen Monument-Petition to Repair ............................................ 123, 216

viii

ix

INDEX

INDEX

Library of Grand Lodge-Books Received ........................................38, 39
Committee on .................................................................................... 220
Donations to ...................................................................................... 131
Report of Committee on .................................................................. 131
Life Membership-Lodges Adopting........................................................ 38
List of Grand Officers .................................................................... 41 217, 211S
Of Standing Committees.................................................................. 219
Of Subordinate Lodges ......................................................... .,........... 224
Live Oak Lodge No. 61-Trial Record .............................................. 36, 148
Location of Lodges........................................................................................ 254
Lodge le Progres de l 'Oceanie No. 371-Change of name to .. 38, 122, 156
Lodges-Alphabetical List of ......................................................................245
Chartered This Session ......................................................................151
Having 500 Members and More.................................................. 34, 35
List of ..................................................................................................224
List of Extinct .........: .......................................................................... 236
Location of ........................................................................................ 254
New ................................................................................................ 32, 151
Lodges U. D.-Pro:ficiency Requirerl of Officers ............................ 149, 209
Los Angeles Board of Relief-Report of.. .............................................. 1-08
Appropriation for .............................................................................. 150
Los Angeles Employment Bureau-Report of.. ...................................... 109
Los Angeles Masonic Library-Petition for Appropriation ...... 123, 163
Los Banos Lodge No. 312-Visit of Grand Master to .......................... 11
Loveland, Harvey D.-Eulogy of John M. E·shleman by .................... 182
Thanks of Grand Lodge to .............................................................. 186

Masonic Homes-Continued.
Decoto-Conditions and Wants ...................................................... 52
Deaths During the Year ........................................................ 81
Departures .............................................................................. 81
Residents at, Names 0£........................................................ 77
Donations to .......................................................................... 70, 76, 88
Endowment Committee-Report of ................................................ 92
Grand Treasurer's Report ................................................................ 49
Per Capita Tax for Maintenance .................................................. 213
Report of Trustees...................................................................... 52, 133
Secretary's Report ...........................................................................• 64
Suporintendent's Rep~rt ..................... '. ............................................ 69
Visit of Grand Master...................................................................... 12
Masonic Relief Association of U. S. and Canada .......................... 123, 213
Masonic Temple Association-Grand Mal!ter's Reference to .............. 27
Purchase of Stock by Grand Lodge.............................................. 215
Report of Direetors ............................................................................ 124
Masonic Standing of Dimitted Mason ............................................ 121. 159
Master-Retiring, Contributions for Testimonial to ............................ 23
Things He Ought to Know ........................................................ 29, 128
Mayer, Samuel David-Tribute to ............................................................ 217
Membership by
224
Memorial Services ........................................................................................ 178
Denson, Samuel C., Eulogy............................................................180
Gunzendorfer, Gustave, Recitation by.......................................... 178
Loveland, Harvey D., Eulogy........................................................ 182
Mokelumne HLll Lodge No. 298-Trial Record ................................36, 145
Mission Lodge No. 169-Visit of Grand Master to.............................. 12
Moneta Lodge No. 405-Trial Record ................................................36, 145
Monterey Lodge No. 217-Dedication of Hall of .................................... 11
Moon Dates .................................................................................................... 223
Morgan Hill Lodge-Charter Ordered ......................................................151
Dispensation to Form........................................................................ 33
Mount Oso Lodge-Charter Ordered .......................................................... 151
Dispensation Issued .......................................................................... 32

M
MaeCormack, William-Prayer at Laying Cornerstone, Covina ........ 57
McCloud Lodge No. 430-Visit of Grand Master to .............................. 10
McGrew Case ··--······················------··---·-----....................................................... 20
M;aryland, Grand Lodge of-Presentation by........................................177
Marysville, Installation of Lodges at ........................................................ 11
Masonic Education-Names of Committee on........................................ 220
Report of Committee on .......................................................... 129, 149
Masonic Homes--C.ommendation of Grand Master ................................ 27
Covina-Address of Samuel E. Burke ............................................ 60
Address of Francis V. Keesling.......................................... 58
Address of Master Herbert Brown .................................... 58
Contents of Box in Cornerstone .......................................... 59

~:!a:~u;:~,~~~~o:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~!
Laying of Cornerstone...................................................... 12, 56
New Buildings at .................................................................... 54
Residents at, Names of ........................................................ 90

N
Natoma Lodge No. 64-Visit of Grand Master to ................................ 11
Necrology ........................................................................................................ 29
New Jersey-Telephonic Address t.o and from .................................. 13, 14
New Lodges ...............................................................................•.................... 32
Nicolaus Lodge No. 12g_....Trial Record.............................................. 36, 145

0
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215-Trial Record ..........................................36, 145
Visit of Grand Ma11ter to ................................................................ 10

x

INDEX

INDEX

Oakland Board of Relief-Appropriation for ........................................ 150
Report of ............................................................................................ 114
Oceanic Lodge No. 371-Change of Name ........................................38, 122
Ritual That May Be Used by .......................................... 16, 17, 156
Officers of Grand J,odge-Election of...................................................... 217
Since Organization .......................................................................... 240
Oration-Samuel E. Burke at Covina........................................................ 60
At Grand Lodge ................., ................................................................ 169
Orland Lodge No. 265-Visit of Grand Master to ................................ IO
Oroville, Installation of Officers at ............................................................ 12
Orphan-Defined ....................................................................................39, 153
Ownership of Property by Lodges-Relative to ........ - .......................... 148

Reports of Committees-Continued.
Finance-Boards of Relief, Commendation of ............................ 216
Claims for ReimbursemenL ................................................ 161
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, Reimbursement ........................ 214
Lassen Lodge No. 149, Reimbursement ............................ 214
Lassen Monument ................................................................ 216
l\:lasonic Education .............................................................. 149
Masonic Homes, Per Capita Tax........................................ 213
Masonic Temple Stock, Purchase of.. ................................ 215
Palmyra Lodge No. 26, Reimbursement of...................... 215
Portland Board of Relief, Reimbursement...................... 214
Portraits of Past Grand Masters........................................ 213
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241, Reimbursement .................... 215
On Grand Lecturer's Report ...•.................................................... 133
On Grand Master's Address ............................................................ 126
On Grand Secretary's Report .......................................................... 127
Grievances-Crocker Lodge No. 454, Claim Against.. ................ 211
Delano Lodge No. 309, Trial Record Reversed ................ 164
:F'airmount Lodge No. 435, Record Returned .................... 212
Omnibus Report .................................................................... 145
Trial Record Alturas J.. odge No. 248 .................................. 187
Trial Record Bakersfield Lodge Ko. 224 ............................ 212
Trial Records Hesperian Lodge No. 264, "\Vest Lake
No. 392, Palos Verdes No. 389 .................................... 164
Jurisprudence-Affiliation by Member of Extinct Lodge .. 25, 152
Affiliation, Jurisdiction of Petitions for .................... 24, 152
Amendments Proposed-Sec. 17, Election in Grand
J.. o<lge ...................................................................... 151, 211
Sec. 30-Reports of Committees in Adva11ce of
Grand Lodge .................................................. 151, 211
Sec. 41-Relating to Per Capita 'fax ............... 122, 160
Sec. 73-Qualifications of Officers of Lodges
U. D ................................................................. 149, 209
Sec. 95-Jurisdiction of Lodges ........................130, 154
Sec. 112Jf:i-Carrying E. A. on Rolls ................ 122, 161
Sec. 115-Five Degrees in One Day .... 24, 152, 177, 210
Sec. 121-' 'French work'' in Certain Lodges .. 16, 156
Sec. 163i-Right of Orphan Daughter to Relief
............................................................................ 39, 153
Sec. 165-When Mason Not Entitled to Recognition .................................................................. 121, 159
Sec. 192-Trial Procedure After Conviction in
Courts ............................................................ 121, 157
Sec. 210--Restoration After Suspension for Cause
.......................................................................... 120, 158

p
Pajaro Lodge No. llO-Visit of Grand Master to .................................. ll
Palmyra Lodge No. 26-Acacia No. 92 Consolidated with ................ 33
Claim for Reimbursement ........................................................ 123, 215
Palol'I Verdes Lodge No. 389-Claim for Reimbursement ............ 123, 162
Trial Record ................................................................................ 36, 164
Park Lodge No. 449-Trial Record .................................................... 36, 145
Pascoe, Joseph-Reference to Status of ............................................ 22, 187
Past Grand Masters-Mileage Allowed .................................................. 207
Portraits to Be Painted .................................................................... 213
Present at This Communication...................................................... 6
Paul Revere Lodge-Charter Ordered ...................................................... 151
Dispensation Issued .......................................................................... 33
Pay of Members-Committee on ................................................................ 220
Report of Committee on .................................................................... 207
Perkins, George C.-Telegram to and Response .................................... 47
Petition-When Is It Received L ......................................................128, 155
Portland, Oregon, Board of Relief-Reimbursement to .............. 123, 214
Portraits of Past Grand Masters--Painting of.. .................................... 213

R
Receipts for the Year .................................................................................... 46
Red Bluff-Insta:llation of Officers at ...................................................... 11
Redding Lodge No. 254-Visit of Grand Master to .............................. 10
Relief-Daughter E'ntitled to Regardless of Age ............................39, 153
Relief Fund-Condition of Emergency .................................................... 35
Reports of Committees-Accounts ............................................................ 120
By-Lav11'S .............................................................................................. 134
Charters ..............................................................................................151
Credentials .......................................................................................... 188
Endowment Committee Masonic Homes ........................................ 152

xi

xii

INDEX

INDEX

Reports of Committees-Jurisprudence-Continued.
Ballot, Mistake in, Remedy for ............................ 24, 25, 152
Boards of Relief, .Failure to Reimburse .................... 25, 152
By-laws, Amendment to Take Effect at an Indefinite
Date .......................................................................... 26, 152
By,laws, Vote Required to Amend .............................. 25, 152
Degrees, Number That May Be Conferred in One
Day .......................................................... 24, 152, 177, 210
Delinquent Members, Reading Names of .................. 27, 152
Dispensations Issued by Grand Master ............................ 158
Dues, Exemption of Certain Members Proposed .... 131, 155
Fee of Candidate Who Cannot Present Himself for
Initiation .................... ,........................................... 23, 152
Funeral Servi~eEI in Conjunction with Other Soci·
eties .......................................................................... 27, 152
Funeral Services Over Ashes of One Cremated ........ 27, 158
Installations, Where May Be Held ............................ 24, 152
Jurisdiction of Lodges .................................................. 24, 152
Lassen Lodge No. 149, Proposed Change of Jurisdic·
tion .......................................................................... 131, 154
Loss of Leg Disqualifies Candidate ............................ 26, 153
New Mexico, Controversy with .................................... 23, 152
Oceanie Lodge No. 371, Change of Name ........................ 156
Orphan Defined, and Right of Female to Relief ...... 39, 153
Petition, Is Received When ........................................ 128, 155
Revenue, What Constitutes Total.. .............................. 24, 152
San Fernando Lodge No. 343, .Jurisdiction of .......... 26, 156
Testimonial to Retiring Master .................................. 23, 152
V:isitors, Where May Be Examined ............................ 27, 152
Library Committee .......................................................................... 131
Masonic Education .................................................................. 129, 149
Masonic Homes, Trustees of .................................................... 52, 133
Pay of Members ................................................................................ 207
Returns of Lodges .............................................................................. 135
Reports of Grand Officers-Grand Lecturer............................................ 97
Grand Secretary ................................................................................ 32
Grand Treasurer ................................................................................ 48
Report of Endowment Committee Masonic Homes .............................. 92
Report of Masonic Temple Association .................................... :............... 124
Report of Trustees Masonic Homes .................................................... 52, 133
Representatives Present at This Communication .................................. 18_8
Resolutions-Ownership of Property by Lodges .................................... 148
Things a Master Ought to Know .................................................. 128
Returns Committee-List of Members ...................................................... 219

Returns of Lodges--Comparative Statistics ............................................ 144
Report of Committee on .................................................................... 135
Ritual-Non-conformity with in Certain Lodges ............................ 16, 156
Riverbank Lodge No. 459-Constitution of ............................................ 11

Xlll

s
Sacramento Board of Relief-Appropriation for .................................... 150
Report of ............................................................................................ 119
Salaries of Grand Officers .......................................................................... 150
Salinas Lodge No. 204-Tria.l Record ................•.............................. 36, 145
San Benito Lodge No. 211-Claim for Reimbursement ................ 123, 162
San Diego Lodge No. 35-Trial Record ................................ ,........... 36, 145
San Fernando Lodge No. 343-Jurisdiction of ........................................ 26
San :F'rancisco Board of Relief-Appropriation for .............................. 150
Report of ............................................................................................ 102
San Francisco Employment Bureau-Report of ...................................... 107
San Jose Board of Relief-Report of ........................................................ 117
San Jose-Installation of Officers of Lodges .......................................... 11
San Mateo Lodge No. 226-Visit, of Grand Master to .......................... 11
San Pedro Lodge No. 332-Laying of Cornerstone of Hall.. ................ 12
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38-Visit of Grand Master to ............................ 11
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57-Visit of Grand Master to .......................... 11
Scottish Rite Temple at Sacramento-Cornerstone Laid ...................... 12
Searing, Edward M.-Telephonic Address by ........... .,............................. 14
Secretaries of Lodges~Carrying E. A. and F. C. on Rolls ........ 121, 161
Reading Names of Delinquent Members ...................................... 27
Report as to Members Whose Dues Have Been Remitted ................................................................................ 121, 160
Shryock, Thomas J.-Presentation by...................................................... 177
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296-Trial Record ........................................ 36, 145
South Gate Lodge No. 320.:-Trial Record ........................................ 36, 145
South Pasadena Lodge No. 369-Claim for Reimbursement .... 123, 161-2
St. John's Lodge No. 37-Visit of Grand Master to ............................ 10
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206-Visit of Grand Master to ............................ 12
Starr King Lodge No. 344-Trial Record .......................................... 36, 148
Suisun-Installation of Officers at ............................................................ 11
Suspensions for Non-payment of Dues-Relativ.e to ............................ 34

T
Talbot, Herbert R.-Telephonic Address by ............................................ 13
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313-Trial Record .......................................... 35, 212
Telephone Greeting& Across the United States ...................................... 13
Testimonial to Be Tendered to Grand Organist...................................... 218
Things a Master Ought to Know-Resolution to Publish .............. 29, 128
Trial Records ............................................................ 18, 35, 145, 148, 164, 211

xiv

INDEX

Trial Judgments Reversed ... ·-------------·-·····-··--·--············-····-········164, 165, 212
Trials-Procedure for Reinstatement After Suspension ......................158
Proposed Change in Procedure .............................................. 121, 157
Trustee13 Masonic Homes-Names and Tenure of Office ...................... 220
Report of ............................................................................................ 52

u
Unfinished Business
220
Union Lodge No. 58-Visit of Grand Master to .................................... 11
Unity Lodge No. 368-Dedication of Hall................................................ 12

v
Van Bokkelen, W. A. M.-Received.......................................................... 119
VisaJia-Cornerstone of Auditorium Laid at .......................................... 12
Visits of Grand Master................................................................................ 10
Visitors-Where May Be Examined .......................................................... 27

w
Warrants Drawn During the Year ............................................................ 40
West Lake Lodge No. 392-Reference to Circular I1etter by Mem·
ber of .......................................................................................... 18
Trial Records ...................................................................... 18, 36, 164
Webster, Bradford-Cornerstone I.aid at Visalia .................................. 12
Cornerstone Laid at Red Bluff........................................................ 12
Wilson, Ben-Degree Conferred by .......................................................... 11
Woodland-Installation of Officers at ...................................................... 11

y
Yuba Lodge No. 39-Cousolidation with Corinthian No. 9 .................. 33

z
Zehnder, George-Donation to Endowment Fund .................................. 13

"rnnb ifinbge of C!!alifnrnin
T. JoH N WHJCHER, Grand Secretary of the M.". \V." .l;rau<l Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the j-urisdiction of C:Llifornia, do
hcrehy certify that the following pai.;es contain a trnc and faithful
trallScript of tbc proceedings of that Grau<l Body at its Sixty-eighth

:\nnual Connmmication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the ninth day of Octoher, A. L. 5917, and .terminated

011

Friday, the twelfth day of said month.

lf u l!irsttmong ll~trrof
I have hereunto appended my
iolfficial :;ii<1m1 me and have affixed the Seat pf the Cran<l

Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Cram! Secretary in the City of
San

Frand,cn, this twentieth

day of OctolJcr, in the year of

Lig-hl, Five Thousan,J Nine
Hundred am! !'evcnteen.

FRANCIS V. KEESLING
Grand Master

1917

r

!:

C6ranb J.Gnbge nf <llaltfnruia
I, ]OHN Wmcm\R, Grand Secretary of the M:.w:.Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-eighth
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesd?Y• the ninth day of October, A. L. 5917, and terminated on
Friday, the twelfth day of said month.

Jn aitsttmonu B(Jtrtof
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this twentieth
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousan1l Nine
Hundred and Seventeen.

FRANCIS ,v. KEESLING
Grand Master

1917

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M... W ... ' GRAND LODGE
OF·

111r.er aub J\rrrptrb !las nus
OF THE

JURISDICTION 0 F CALIFORNIA
AT TTS

SIXTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HEI.D AT THF.

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 9th, A. D. 191 7, A. L 5917
AND TF.RMJNATTNG O~

Friday, October 12th, A. D. 1917, A. L 5917

SAN FRANCISCO:

Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 509 SansomP St.
1917

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE
OF

Grand Lodge of California
FOll

The Year Commencing October, A L. 5917
Grand Master.................................................. William Rhodes Hervey (202)
Trust and Saving~ Building, Los Angeles. ·
Deputy Grand Master....................., ............................ Bradford Webster (61)
Monadnock Building, San Francisco.
Senior Grand Warden ...................................... Charles Albert Adams (166)
Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco.
Jimior Grand Warden ................................................George F. Rodden ( 191)
177 Post Street, San Francisco.
Grand Treasurer.......................................................... William P. Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
Grand Secretary.................................................................. John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Lecturer ................................................................Thomas J. Baker (58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Chaplain ...................................................... William MacCormack (392)
523 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Grand Orat-0r....................................-..... George L. Jones (23) Nevada City.
Assistant Grand Secretary........................................ Harry S. Johnson (360)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand MarshaL........................................................ .]ames F. Fenwick (400)
Box 492, Honolulu, T. H.
Grand Standard Bearer........................ Herbert L. Fulton ( 402) Brawley.
Grand Sword Bearer..................... M. ]. Neuberg (178) San Bernardino.
Grand Bible Bearer......................................................... .John P. Jarman (10)
90 South Second Street, San Jose.
Stnior Grand Deacon ............................................ Albert A. Rosenshine (216)
Mills Building, San Francisco.
Junior Grand Deacon ................................................ Charles G. Johnson (393)
Forum Building, Sacramento.
Senior Grand Steward ............................... Porter Munsey (224) Bakersfield
Junior Grand Steward................................ Alfred Seale (346) Palo Alto.
Grand Pursuivant... ...................................................Theodore J. Milliken (3)
Courthouse, Sacramento.
Grand Organist........................ ,. ........................................ Samuel D. Mayer ( 1)
1272 Clav Street, San Francisco.
Grand Tiler...............................~........................................ George P. Adams (1)
415 Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
(266)

1J1rtt auh Arrtpttll ilasnus
OF THB

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
SIXTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most ·worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its sixty-eighth Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday, October
8, A. L. 5917, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll Call of officers disclosed the presence of the following
GRAND OFflCERS:
M.'.\V.'.FRANCJS V. KEESLJNG .................................................... Grand Master
R.'.W.'.W1LLIAM RHODES HERVIW ..............................Deputy Gr(Jl1td Master
R:.·.w.· .BRADI'ORn WEnsT!lR.......................................... Senior Grand Warden
R.·.w.·.CHARI.Jts ALBERT ADAMS ............................... .Junior Grand Warden
v.·.w:.JoHN WmcHER .......................................................... Grand Secretary
v.·.w.·.THOMAS J. BAKER ........................................................Grand Lecturer
V.'. R." ·JOHN A. B. FRY ............................................................ Grand Chaplain
w. ·.ROBERT B. GAYLORD.......................................................... Grand Orator
W.".HARRY S. JoHNSON .................................. Assistant Grand Secretary
W. '·JAMES F. FENWICK ............. .......................................... Grand Marshal
W.'.DAVID ]. REl\Slt.. ........................................... Grand Standard Bearer
Vlf.".ARTHUR W. GLUCKMAN .................................... Gi-and Sword Bearer
w.·.JoHN P. JARMAN ....................................................Grand Bible Bearer
'vV. ·.FRANK K. TowNE ............................................ .Junior Grand Deacon
W.'.FRED B. Woon ............................................... .. Senior Grand Steward
W.'.JAMES C. ENSIGN............................... ........... .Junior Grand Steward
\V. '.THEODORE J. M1LLIKl\N ............................................Grand Pursuivant
w. '.SAMUEL D. MAYER ........................................................ Grand Orgat1ist
W. ".GEORGE P. AnAM$ ................................................................Grand Tiler
(267)

268

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS:

The Grand Master then delivered his Annual .\ddress,
as follows:

M.'.W.'.JAMES B. STEVENS
M.'
.THOMAS FLIN'!'
M.'.W.'.CHARLES L. PATTON
M.'.'W.'.0RRIN S. HENDERSON

.w:

M.'.W.'.GEORGE M. PERINE
M.'.W.'.ALONZO J. MONROE
M.'.W.'.BENJAMIN F. BLEl)SOE

:M.'.vV.'.W1LLIAM T. Luos
M.'.\V.'.FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
~1:.w:.w1LLIAM
WELLs
M.'.W.'.G:EQRGE w. HUNTER

s.

M.'.W.'.DANA R. WELLER

M.'.\V.'.JouN D. MuRPm:>
M.'.W.'.ALBERT J. BURNETT

PAST JUNJOR GRAND WARDEN.

And the Representatives of 356 chartered Lodges and
Delegates from three Lodges under dispensation.
The Grand Master appointed vV .'.Gustav A. Hutaff as
Grand Treasurer, and W ,'. Roderick G. Guyett as Senior
Grand Deacon, and the Grand Lodge was opened in Ample
Form, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain, and music by
Brothers Louis A. Larsen and Gino Severi.
By order of the Grand ?.faster, all the Past Grand
Masters present were escorted before the altar and formally extended the felicitations of Grand Lodge.
The Grand ]\faster announced the appointment of the
following:
Committee on Charters: Herbert R. Kells (278), J. Claude Perry
(360), John F. West (35), Ralph A. Chase (352), Lew E. Wallace
(169).
Committee on By-Laws: Jesse E. Wheatley (68), Hans C. Nelson
(79), Vi.:tor Aaron (120), James E. Hosmer (206), Harry Andrews
(458).

269

PROCEEDINGS O.F THE

Brethren of the Grand Lodge: •

This Grand Lodge at its Sixty-seventh Annual Communicatio11
invested me with the powers and prerogatives. of Grand Master and
entrusted me with the execution of the duties of that exalted office.
I have striven to comprehend the responsibilities thereby assumed and
have proceeded accordingly. To personal limitations must lack of
achievement be ascribed. \Vherein I have failed, thereat I grieve, as
everything has been done with the hope that it would prove true to
the test of the plumb, the square, and the level.
The year's service will bring recurring joy throughout my life as,
reminiscence, memory will present again and again the events so
,leeply impressed. It has been an inspiration. The pleasure of association with my Brethren and the gratification from observation of the
general understanding and practice. of Masonic precept, dwarf incidents of petty character which have required unpleasant performance
of stern duty. It is not within the range of reasonable possibility to
make personal mention of those earnest, considerate Brethren whose
Jl.fasonic service is the strength of the Institution. To them I am
greatly indebted for co-operation and counsel and must be satisfied
with this general expression of my heartfelt appreciation. May there
come to them that great reward, the satisfaction of duty well performed. I congratulate the Grand Lodge on the efficiency of the Grand
Secretary, Very \Vorshipful Brother John \Vhicher, and the Grand
Lecturer, Very Worshipful Brother Thomas J. Baker. Kot only have
they been faithful in the performance of their respective duties, but
at all times and everywhere have been most courteous and thoughtful.
They have been of great assistance to me.
=!1

In the ultimate analysis accomplishment is the requirement. Effort
sufficient to an understanding of necessary action, but without that
action, is of inconsiderable value as compared with accomplishment.
The ratio is as the unfinished to the finished. The inclination is to
clothe with the mantle of charity misdirected but well-intentioned effort, but it affords little consolation in the inventory of achievement.
In accomplishment, therefore, lies the welfare of our great Institution.
It is required that we be vigilant. Everywhere in the Masonic system

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

is evidence of vigilance in its creation and completion. We are con
cerned in the vigilance of its preservation, understanding its meaning.
and putting it into practice. We have done well at times in California,
but we should not be content witll the attainment of other years. We
feel a pride in the complimentary estimate of R:.
A. O'Sullivan,
Grand Secretary of Missouri and Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence in 1862, that, in point of ability and Masonic talent, California was second to none on this continent. But as level-headed men
we are more concerned with the attainments of the present.

How are we succeeding in California? I think our average is good,
in fact; excellent. We should not judge by comparison. Fully realizing
that I am saturated with the Masonic idea as a result of my tour of
exceptional duty, I shall endeavor to maintain a practical attitude
throughout. Making allowance for human limitations I helieve we can
do better. You are entitled to know upon what I base my opinion
that we might make improvement.

270

w: ·

I conceived it essential to the intelligent performance of my duty
to make thorough survey of the jurisdiction and to that end visited
every district but one in California, regretting I could not go to Hawaii
whither I sent the Grand Lecturer. In all I visited 122 Lodges severally and .in joint session, not including Los Angeles "Get Together,"
and by medium of substantial attendance, came in contact with one
hundred sixty-five Lodges more. The Grand Lecturer will present a
tabulation of visits. Everywhere I was received cordially and, generally, with due deference to the office. The hospitality of the Brethren
was characteristic and I am unable to adequately express my appreciation. My message was received with courtesy and with enthusiasm
which was encouraging. Realizing that by virtue of my office I had
been afforded the opportunity of addressing my Brethren, I conscientiously endeavored to mold my thoughts by Masonic standards.
We assume the practicality of Masonry's "stern morality." The
intelligence of the initiate, using the term in its ordinary sense, is the
all-important factor in the system. With what are we thereafter concerned? Naturally, the mechanism of education, the Lodge, which has
its life from the Grand Lodge. The Constitution and regulations prescribe conduct and all have a direct bearing on the initiate. The moral
system is safeguarded by strict law relative to ritual and landmarks.
The medium for dissemlnation of this knowledge is protected by Constitution and regulations defining organization, powers and government of Lodges.
The self-evident importance of ihe Lodge it would seem should
always inspire action. \Ve know that it frequently does not, and, if we
analyze, we trace the cause eventually to the initiate, who, in association with others, constitutes the Lodge. The effectiveness of the Lodge
is as the average of intelligence and vigilance of the initiates. The
intelligent initiate understands the full importance of qualification for
membership. Vigilance therein maintains the high standard which
creates the voluntary desire in worthy men to become members and
impels them to seek admission. With such material the maximum of
efficiency in the practice of Masonic precepts is attained.

271

If an entirely satisfactory condition existed there would be no com·
plaint of poor attendance, no petty controversy, no peddlers of rumors,
much less countenancing such conduct, not to mention difficulties of
administration. Naturally we are concerned with correction. To correct we must understand the causes.

Poor attendance where it should be better is a symptom. I do
not feel apprehension that non-attendants are necessarily not good
Masons. We have too much evidence that many of our most thorough
Masons are non-attendants. Ordinarily such a condition is due to the
officers. Not necessarily incumbent officers-they may have inherited
the condition. · Remedies which do not attack the root of the evil afford
but temporary relief. There has been a relaxation of vigilance. Inferior officers lack personal magnetism. They are careless in exemplification of the work, disregard the importance of punctuality in meeting and general looseness prevails. They do not maintain the dignity
of, or the decorum so ess.ential in, a Lodge. It has the effect of alienating strong members, failing to attract strong men who should be
members and of admitting substandard material into the Fraternity.
Vigilance in the selection of officers is probably as important a
safeguard as any in maintaining Masonic standards. The strong men
of the Lodge should be selected as officers. The system of promotion
has proved quite satisfactory, but if it so happens that a man who will
best maint~in the standards of Masonry cannot in justice to other demands devote the time ordinarily necessary to advance to the East,
then he should be sufficiently advanced so that the institution may
reap the benefit of his. services. This does not savor of inequality, or
favoritism, it is merely insuring the best service for the Fraternity.
The following injunction from the old charges is pertinent: "To ordain
the wisest of them master of the rest of the work." If the officers in
line are fundamentally sound they will appreciate the advantage of such
a course. In fact they should be alert and from them should come
such suggestion, to avoid efforts of the personally ambitious. Everything that can be done should be done to obtain the service of the
Fraternity's strong men. Ability to understand this depends upon
the intelligence of the initiate.

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

That same lack of intelligence manifests itself where there is dis·
regard of the importance, and carelessness in the selection of, the in·
vestigating committee. Vigilance and intelligence of the committee are
of prime importance. They should make careful investigation, witho:ut
delay so that they may be thorough. Masters should exercise great
care selecting men who will earnestly perform the duty and perform
it w~ll, and giving them fu!) instruction where they are inexperienced.
Alphabetical selection will not be productive of best results. Where
a petitioner is rejected by committee a succinct statement of facts
should be reduced to writing by Masters or committeemen and preserved in the files for futllre reference. Where a petitioner has been
previously rejected it should be a requirement that the committee and
the Master of the Lodge by whom rejected should be interviewed. Incidental hereto I have requested the Committee on Jurisprudence to
consider the subject of instructions and formulate something standard.
Another forceful factor in promoting Masonic efficiency is the
influence of the instructor. Good judgment in the selection of Brethren
particularly adapted for the individuals to be instructed will prove
beneficial. By little effort the services of many Brethren may thus be
enlisted who may not have opportunity otherwise to perform service.
Throughout, I have striven in my criticism to observe practical
limitations and particlllarly not to descend to fault-finding. In one
instance it became necessary to suspend a Master. The case has been
directed by me to th~ attention of the Committee on Appeals and
Grievances. Contrary to my first intentions with reference to those
Lodges situated in remote and sparsely settlt><i communities where enthusiasm of Brethren, though few in number, has seemed to warrant, 1
have not arrested charters, concluding that the opportunity should
continue for those well-deserving Brethren and as well afford a haven
for those good men who travel "far from the madding crnwd's ignoble
strife." Rather severe reprimand has been necessary in a few cases.
In some instances marked improvement has been made, other cases are
still :under observation of the Grand Lecturer.
Investigation was initiated through Inspectors by medium of specific questions to disclose comprehensively the condition of Lodges.
The first inquiry covered description of property owned, method of
holding title, bonding of officers, investigation and record of visitors,
records kept, amount of indebtedness, fire protection, insurance, financial condition of building corporations or associations, and other less
important matter. Generally the Inspectors were prompt and thorough, occasionally delayed by Lodges and, in one or two insta_nces,
indifferent. One purpose of this investigation was to develop efficiency
of Inspectors. The result on the whole was most gratifying. The

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

duties of an Inspector are onerous, well performed, and to our earnest
Brethren who serve as Inspectors are due the appreciative thanks of the
Grand Lodge. The reports remain in the files as testimony. The
questions, as well as eliciting information, were suggestive of improvement and so intended. Irregularities or shortcomings were checked
that the Lodge might be properly instructed. One answer to the
question, "Arc Trea1>urcrs and Secretaries bonded?" was, "No, they arc
Masons"! Well enough, so long as they do not forget the fact.
Experience has demonstrated that they do forget and it is a precautionary measure against such and should cause no resentment on
the part of any intelligent Mason.
A second list of questions was submitted for the Inspectors' annual reports. The inquiry comprehended attendance, visits of Lodges,
opportunity for social intercourse, dissension, if any, method of appointment of investigating committees, instructions to them, promptness
of investigations and the following concerning financial status:
What is the financial condition of the Lodge?
(a) Has it a substantial bank account?
(b) Is its annual income, that is, dues, interest from investments, rents, etc., greater than its annual expense?
( 1) Does the Lodge depend in part on initiation fees
to meet annual e~penses?
(c) Has it a substantial profit each year?
( 1) Including fees ?
(2) Excluding fees?
(3) If a deficit, what is the amount?
The purpose was twofold, as with the first inquiry. Some Lodges
reported unsatisfactory attendance. I have expressed an opinion that
there is considerable responsibility therefor on the officers. However,
I have observed in some instances what I believe to be a contributing
cause. A few cases I have diagnosed as "high degree fever." Apparently some of our near-sighted Brethren were paying more attention
to the Chapter and Commandery than they were to their local Lodge.
I suggested that the importance of the Lodge should be self-evident
to those Brethren as the source of supply which should afford a practical reason for giving attention to the Lodge even if they did not
understan<I its wonclerful philosophy. The fart that Lodges doing t
great deal of work are compelled particularly to initiate and pa!-3
several candidates in an evening, that under Constitutional requirement
this must be ~everally done, has no doubt influenced attendance adversely. The required repetition consumes so much time that before

275

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

conclusion of the ceremonial many Brethren depart owing to lateness
of the hour. I am satisfied that repetition also influences Brethren to
remain away. Fully appreciating the evident purpose of severally
initiating, passing and raising of -candidates, I am of the opinion that
modification permitting of exemplification of portions of the .ceremonial
on groups would not in the least detract from effectiveness and, by
lessening the time and avoiding repetition, conduce to an increased
·attendance by reason of that fact, and, permitting of the employment
of a portion of the time for educational purposes and social intercourse,
would thereby materially increase efficiency. I therefore recommend
that consideration of the subject matter be referred to such standing
or special committee as . may seem to the Grand Lodge proper for
report and recommendation at the next stated communication of this
Grand Lodge.

The condition of many building associations, as I had anticipated,
was such as to cause apprehension. It warranted the submission of a
blank to Lodges concerned for uniform data to be submitted for reference to the Finance Committee in support of the recommendation I
now make, namely, that a Lodge shall not be permitted to invest funds
in a building association or project without approval in manner to be
determined by Grand Lodge. Consideration should be given the
financial status of some of these building associations by the Finance
Committee to the end that a satisfactory plan of financing be evolved,
if possible. In some instances I have no doubt suggestions concerning records and accounts would prove profitable and very acceptable.

274

I imagine there has been some feeling that the inquiries trespassed
upon Lodge prerogatives. That is not so. It is not generally understood that Lodge funds are impressed with a trust by the Grand Lodge.
These funds must be secure and the investment thereof satisfactory.
Regulation and supervision, therefore, are entirely proper, notwithstanding intelligent and able administration by Lodges generally.
Lodge funds invested in a building association are not immediately
available for purposes of relief and 'if the venture should prove to be
financially unsuccessful the condition is worse. Aside from the discredit of failure to meet financial obligations promptly, in event of
inability of the Lodge to meet charitable obligations, the burden would
fall upon Grand Lodge. Grand Lodge is vitally interested and is
entitled to know. More important, however, is the probable effect
upon membership standards. Troublesome financial obligations will
have a tendency and be a temptation to the lowering of standards of
membership in a. desire for membership fees and dues. Inferior members select inferior officers. Inferior officers produce inferior work
and the result is further contribution to inferiority and the creation of
members who misconstrue and misunderstand the object and purposes
of the institution. It was this that moved inquiry relative to Lodge
finances in addition to the inquiry concerning building enterprises.
Judging from statements of receipts and disbursements of Lodges and
the dependency of many Lodges on fees to meet current expenses, in
part, at least, I am more than ever impressed with the opinion that
minimum dues of $9.00 per annum should be prescribed, except in case
of such Lodges whose income, excluding fees, is greater than disbursements. That amount should not be a burden to anyone and
shnulrl make possible a small accumulation of funds.

This leads to another suggestion, namely, that the functions of
the Finance Committee should be enlarged to include consideration of
many problems which properly come under the classification of Ways
and Means. It would be well to change the designation of the Finance
Committee to "Ways and Means Committee" and, as there are many
questions of importance arising during the year, this Committee should
meet at least quarterly. Such provision will be beneficial to the Grand
Lodge and of great assistance to the Grand Master. It may be said
perchance that there is too much importance placed upon finance.
Healthy financial condition goes hand in hand with healthy Masonic
con.di ti on.
There has been the ever-present desire "to do something" to put
into practice Masonic precept. Frequently the Masonic plan, as I
conceive it, is misunderstood. Many of our well-intentioned Brethren
expect activity in concert. The opportunities for such are infrequent
and unimportant when compared to the great Masonic activity-that
which is manifested by individual achievement. Masonic glory will
be the achievement of individual Masons. The charity which we practice as Brethren, the fraternal relation which we feel, we eventually
understand to be but exemplars for our conduct in our relations with
others whether Masons or not. The Masonic mission is not limited to
the perfection of the Masonic brotherhood. That is but an exemplification of beneficial results to emphasize the importance of the practical
extension of the brotherly relation among all men. Our first great
effort is to educate the initiate who learns by observation the beneficient
results of practice of Masonic precept among the Brethren, whereupon
should follow the fullness of understanding of such precepts put into
practice generally and of the value of educating those who are less
fortunate. The only satisfactory response to inquiry concerning the
reasons for Masonic secrecy is that it is merely a test of honor. That
there is nothing pernicious hidden is evidenced by the independence of
action of every Mason and his activity in all good works. We fully
understand that there can be no interference with a Mason's activities

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

276

277

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

as an independent thinking being or as a citizen. Politics is eschewed
by the Fraternity because it would disturb peace and harmony, but also
because concert of action would interfere with a man's independeqce
and duties as a citizen. Therefore, a Mason as a candidate for public
office realizes that he proceeds on his merits and not on his membership.
Exemplifying our work within the narrow confines, we might do
more charitable work for our own, take greater care of our Masonic
wards by providing for more extensive education, establishing scholarships, obtaining and providing employment for the unfortunate. If we
overlook and fail to perform minor duties we are ill-prepared to
perform the greater service. For instance: In one city "somewhere
in California," Board of Relief funerals are conducted by a "funeral
lodge" composed of a Past Master and twenty Master Masons, "the
vast majority of whom" are members of the different Lodges of the
city and are in needy circumstances. Each of these twenty members
is paid for attendance. It is claimed that the circumstances which led
to the plan were that the individual Lodge was asked to conduct the
funeral of a stranger, and, after making "its best endeavor" would get
out from three to ten Masons. Performance of the last sad rites over
the body of a departed Brother is but a simple duty. It is a sad commentary that it should be claimed that there is lack of sufficient
Masonic spirit for sacrifice, if such it be, of the time necessary on the
part of a sufficient number of Brethren to guarantee a satisfactory
attendance. The representation at Board of Relief funerals conducted
by Lodges in regular manner elsewhere, attended by appointees of, or
those who volunteer to serve on, the Funeral Committee has been
satisfactory. While there may be numerous funerals there is no reason
why it should not work as satisfactorily in this particular city, M. '. W.".
Brother Prescott, Grand Master of Masons of Minnesota, long ago
said: "The Mason * * * who makes prior pleasure engagements,
or the pressure of ·secular pursuits an excuse for not giving his personal presence to a Masonic funeral, should be ashamed to assert any
affiliation with a society which teaches brotherly love." What impresses me is, if our Brethren do not make this simple sacrifice, how
firmly impressed is the requirement of greater sacrifices which are
expected of members of the Fraternity? Whereupon I instructed that
funerals should be conducted by Lodges in rotation, thereby insuring
the attendance of some members of the Lodge conducting the funeral,
who, with three or more delegated by each other Lodge, will give
practical evidence of the sincerity of our intentions in the work in
which we are engaged.

In times like the present when there is plenty to be done those who
are ordinarily on inquiry concerning their Masonic duty have their
work planned for them. The great work has been done individually.
When it became evident that effort would be necessary to insure the
success of the Liberty Loan, I circularized the Fraternity as follows:
"May Seventeenth,
Nineteen Seventeen.

"To the Brethren of the Jurisdiction:
"Enclosed herewith is a circular relative to, and a blank application for, gold bonds of the United States authorized by Congress and
popularly known as the 'Liberty Loan.'
"As patriotic citizens of the Republic it is our purpose 1'o urge you,
if you have n_ot already subscribed, to do so, thereby performing a
small but important patriotic service.
"Lodges should consider an investment of a reasonable amount of
Lodge funds in the bonds. The interest loss, if any, due to the difference in interest on savings deposits, will be negligible. It is unnecessary
that this should impose a burden on anyone, as you will note there are
bonds of the small denomination of $50. No investment can be more
secure and at the same time you will be rendering a service. Such an
investment for yourself and your family should prove a great satisfaction for•more than one reason. Enlist in the cause and arouse your
friends.
"If you need further information consult any local bank.
"With fraternal greetings,"
While the response of Lodges was gratifying, the great response
was by individuals. But even more important was the le1adership of
Masons on general and local committees in every county in the State.
Individual response and activity on committees and as subscribers in
the great "drive" for California's quota for the Red Cross were again
m evidence of the performance of Masonic duty.
The Masonic Ambulance Corps organized through the efforts of
local Masons and generously supported throughout the jurisdiction
was, with enthusiasm and ceremony, duly mustered into the United
States service and the boys are on their way to do their part, not as
Masons but as citizens. Godspeed to them all and to those thousands
who have gone into the service without ceremony.

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

And so it will be as more calls come for service.
I now direct the attention of this Grand Lodge, Lodges and
Brethren of the jurisdiction to "The Second Liberty Loan of 1917"
with a request to do as well as was done by the first loan and in fact
better. Do not delay.
The issues supporting the great war as defined by foreign statesmen among our allies and the President are not new or strange to
Masons and indicate the course that must be taken now for present
service and service after the war. Masonic doctrines must be transplanted in these benighted countries where they are unknown and
where individualism is unduly subordinated to the state. We are concerned with the solution of the problem of establishing fraternal intercourse with foreign Masonic jurisdictions. It is a means to a great
end and we should not be too conservative. Let us ascertain if after
all the obstacles are insurmountable. Arrangements, or ways and
means, for conferences on the subject should receive immediate attention. The extension of understanding of Masonic doctrine will be the
great contribution of Masonry toward an enduring world peace after
the war. Contemplate the value of a healthy public opinion due to
siuch an educated citizenship supporting just national ideals and
such international compacts as may be necessary.
We have had many inquiries with reference to contributions from
Lodge funds for Red Cross and other mos·t laudable purposes, and I
have been compelled to advise regretfully that under the Constitution
and Regiu:Jations no contribution of Lodge funds can b·e made for
charity other than that which is purely Masonic, or for other purposes,
no matter how meritorious. It may seem peculiar upon hasty consideration that such is the law, but, when it is realized that Masonic
funds must be conserved by reason of the fact that the members can
not be assessed for the important purpose of caring for their own who
may be unfortunate-one of the fundamental reasons why funds are
carefully safeguarded should be readily understood.
For the purpose of co-operation with parents or other relatives at
home desiring reliable information concerning Masons or sons of
Masons temporarily located in military camps in California, particularly concerning their health and condition, on Aug.ust 1st, 1917, I
circularized the several Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, offering the services of Brethren conveniently located near the several
military camps in California, and suggested to Grand Masters that
Lodges in their respective jurisdictions be advised of this service. The
rtsponse from many jurisdictions was gratifying, in some of which a
similar plan was followed.

GRAND LODGI~ OF CALIFORNIA

279

I am impressed with the importance of Masonic educational instruction and the general desire for it. It is an important work that
should be undertaken by this Grand Lodge without delay. A plan has
been submitted involving amendment to the Constitution which I have
submitted to the Committee on Jurisprudence for consideration and
recommendation.
Pursuant to resolution of the Committee on Appeals and Grievances, adopted by this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge October 12, 1916,
concerning a case tried in Westlake Lodge in 1915, as follows:
"Resolved, * * * That the Grand Master be, and he is hereby
requested to either personally make, or cause to be made by a personal
representative by him appointed for that specific purpose, an investigation of the matters herein referred to; that if as a result of that investigation the Grand Master be of the opinion that in the case referred
to a notice of appeal was actually given, that then and in that event
the Committee on Appeals and Grievances at his direction review the
record in that case and report at the next annual communication in the
same manner as if a notice of appeal was actually on file; and that
finally, if the Grand Master be of the opinion that through the intentional act or omission of any person or persons the notice of appeal
was suppressed and review of the proceedings in due course thereby
prevented, that he direct that charges be preferred against the person
or persons responsible therefor."

I instituted investigation of the entire matter.
I found that notice of appeal was duly filed with the Master of
Westlake Lodge and directed that the record in the case be reviewed
by the Committee on Appeals and Grievances for report thereon at
this annual communication, in the same manner as if a notice of appeal
was actually among the records.
There was insufficient evidence to warrant a finding that the
notice of appeal was suppressed through the intentional act or omission
of any person or persons. The Master has no recollection of receiving
it and probably he paid no attention to it as he said he supposed that
the notice was to be filed direct with Grand Lodge. In this way no
doubt the document was misplaced and lost. Significant of any lack
of intention on the part of the Master to suppress the appeal was his
preparation for appeal and his belief that the case was on. appeal.
A communication from certain individuals, dated October 5th,
1916, requesting that Crocker Lodge No. 454, F. & A. M., or the
members thereof, return to them the sum of ten dollars ($10) each,
was referred during the Sixty-seventh Annual Communication to the
Committee on Grievances. That Committee reported and the report
was adopted (see Proceedings 1916, page 212) as follows:

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Resolved, That the matter of rnmmunication with relation to
moneys advanced in the organization of Crocker Lodge No. 454 be referred to the Inspector of the district within which said Lodge ·is
situated, such Inspector to investigate and report to the Grand Master
relative to the matter and that upon receipt of such report the Grand
Master take such steps as to him may seem proper."
P.ursuant thereto the matter was fully investigated and it was my
decision that there was no obliiation to reimburse the individuals,
either on the part of Crocker Lodge or of this Grand Lodge, which
has been duly communicated to the said individuals through their
attorney.

DECISIONS
Included herein are interpretations on the application of the law
to facts varying or differing from any hitherto, to my knowledge,
forming the basis of interpretation.
1. Right of visitation-assumed name: A Brother must not be
permitted to visit a Lodge under an assumed name. (Regulation 105 i.)

2. Dispensation fee-death of Master-elect before installation.:
A dispensation for an election consequent upon the death of the
Master-elect before installation may be issued without fee. (Const.,
Sec. 39, Subdivision 3d.)
3a. Past Masters' Association-By-laws subject to approval of
Grand Master: The rules of government of any association of Past
Mastern are sl!lbject to the approval of the Grand Master and the
Grand Lodge. (Const., Sec. 3, Sec. 9, and Sec. 224.)
3b. Past Masters-Sunday meetings: No greater latitude should
be allowed for meetings of Past Masters' Associations than is granted
to Lodges, therefore, Sunday meetings must not be permitted, except
for funeral services. (Const., Sec. 78 and Sec. 224; Regulations
43 K.)
4. Masonic ceremony-memorial tablet: The ceremonial for laying corner stone& is symbolic and cannot 8e performed for placing a
tablet. (Const., Sec. 12, and Regulation 43 J., Corner stone ceremonial.)

5. Degrees-restrictions on con.fer ring-so-called degree teams:
Before permitting a degree to be conferred by individuals other than
those qualified by installation in office, excepting only Past Masters,
their qualifications must be passed upon and approved by the Grand
Lecturer. (Const., Sec. 136, Sec. 137; Regulations 141 A., 142 J.,
143, Subdivisions 2nd, 3rd, and 5th, 138 F.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

6. Funerals: Where a funeral ceremony is conducted in the
lodge-room the Lodge must be formally opened. (Sec. 164, Const.)
7. Advancement-examination: Where several candidates are to
he examined such examination should be conducted in open Lodge,
questions and answers to be given in a distinct tone of voice and it
will suffice if questions are put to, and answered by, the candidates in
rotation. (Const., Sec. 112.)
8. Funds-how may be used: A trust has been established by
the Grand Lodge defining the use of Lodge funds. The use of funds
of a Lodge cannot be limited to specie.I calls for charity for widows
and orphans to the exclusion of Master Masons. (Const., Sec. 88, Sec.
163.)
9. Ancient landmark--<use of Masonic emblem or reference to
Masonic membership-political advertising: Use of the Masonic em-

blem or intentional reference to Masonic membership for political
advertisement constitutes a violation of Masonic law. (The charges
approved in 1722, VI 2., Const., 167b, 3, 16, Proceedings 1873, page
221.)

10. Funds-expenditures
for social purposes-social fund:
There is HO "banquet fund" or "social fund." Expenditure for social
purposes within limitations is permitted and if the full allowance be
not so expended the balance remains in the funds for prescribed purposes. (Const., Sec. 89.)
11. . Dues-remission: Dues of those who have entered the military or naval service cannot be remitted merely for that reason.
(Const., Sec. 128, Sec. 117.)
12. Grand Lodge dues-exemption from: Unless remission of
dues of a member is made at the stated meeting in July for the preceding twelve months a Lodge is not exempt from Grand Lodge dues
on account of such member. (Const., Sec. 41, Subdivision 3rd.)
13. Grand Master-dispensation for formation of tmve'ling Lodge:
The Grand Master has not the power to issue a dispensation for the
formation of a traveling Lodge. (Const., Sec. 43, Subdivision 1st, and
Sec. 73.)
14. Dispensation-for formation of Lodge: Dispensation should
not be granted for Lodges at military barracks or naval yards situated
within distance of easy access to Lodges regularly chartered. (Const.,
Sec. 73, Sec. 9.)
15. Membership-withdrawal: Notice of intention to withdraw
contemplates reading of such notice, if in writing, at a stated meeting.
(Const., Sec. 158.)

282

283

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

16. Saloon. busiiness-'<ineligibility: A stockholder of a corporation engaged in a mercantile business and also operating a saloon,
even though the largest or a majority stockholder, is not guilty of a
Masonic offence. (Const., Sec. 129a.)

August 22, 1912, B. was passed and on September 22, 1912, raised,
by H. Lodge.

17. Life membership-exem.ption from dues: Exemption from
dues by reason of life membership is not affected by subsequent increase of dues. (Const., Sec. _129, overruling Regulation 129b.)
18. Exception as to residence qualifications: The exception permitting of reception of the petition of a person belonging to the
army and navy of the United States, though he may not have the
qualifications of residence, applies only to those in the Regular Army
or Navy. (Const., Sec. 96.)
I do not occupy your time or burden the record with my reasons
for many of these decisions. With each decision I have submitted my
reasons to the Jurisprudence Committee with full faith in their review
and that so much argument as may be necessary in support of their
findings will be submitted to Grand Lodge. Neither do I occupy
your time nor burden the record with decisions where the law has
been clearly applicable.
In some instances the subject matter has been of more than ordinary interest or importance and these I desire to draw to your particular attention.

The Case of B.-Sept. 16, 1908, Brother A., Secretary of H. Lodge,
wrote to Brother C., Secretary of a certain Lodge in Illinois, referring
to a letter written May 26, 1908, and con5rming a request for a waiver
of jurisdiction from the Illinois Lodge for the purpose of permitting
H. Lodge to confer the Degrees upon B., who was initiated an Entered Apprentice Mason in the Illinois Lodge, April 1, 1873.
The records of the Illinois Lodge show that a request for a waiver
was received at the stated meeting, June 22, 1908, and that at a stated
meeting, July 27, 1908, the request was granted.
The records of H. Lodge disclose that the petition of B. for
Degrees was presented November 6, 1908, the petition acted upon
December 4, 1908, and rejected.
Nothing further appears until July 4, 1912. In the minutes of a
meeting of H. Lodge, that date, appears the following:
"A communication was received from the Grand Master requesting (H.) Lodge to confer the F. C. and M. M. Degrees on (B.)
and E. A. member of (the Illinois) Lodge."

B. was subsequently exalted and knighted. He attempted to pay
his dues to the Illinois Lodge which refused to accept them, replying
that waiver of jurisdiction had been requested and granted in 1908.
H. Lodge would not accept dues from B., claiming he was not a
member thereof. There followed considerable correspondence between
B. and the Illinois Lodge.
The waiver never became effective because the candidate was
rejected. (Reg.ulation 155d.)
The communication from the Grand Master to H. Lodge had
been misplaced or lost, consequently the notation in the minutes was
the only indication of its tenor. We were advised that the then Grand
Master had no copy of any such communication. There is no copy
thereof in the files of the Grand Lodge. Past Grand Master Delmar
Darrah, Grand Master of the Masons of the State of Illinois in 1912,
had advised the Grand Secretary that he was unable to furnish any
information Le-cause the correspondence of his office had been destroyed. The Secret<!ry of the Illinois Lodge certified under seal that
no request was ever made to have the work done for them.
The provision of our Constitution relative to conferring Degrees
upon request is as follows: "One elected to receive the three degrees
under the jurisdiction of any other Grand Body
may receive the degrees, or any of them, in another Lodge upon the
request of such first nam.ed Lodge, attested, .if it be under the J'urisdiction of any other Grand Body, by the Grand Secretary thereof,
wnder its seal."

* * *

* * *

I held that B. was not a member of H. Lodge and that H. Lodge
had proceeded irregplarly in conferri~g the Degrees by reason of the
lack of proper request.

Subsequently, waiver of jurisdiction having been confirmed by the
Lodge and the Grand Master of Illinois, the petition of B. was received and he was duly elected in H. Lodge and the situation clarified.

The Case of a Masters' and Past Masters' Association-The usual definition of objects of Past Masters' Associations is "to cultivate and
promote social, friendly and fraternal relations among its members, and
to assemble at such periods as may from time to time be by it prescribed for the purpose of conferring the order of Past Master upon
newly-elected Masters of Lodges who may desire to receive such
order, and for such other purposes as may be to the interest of
Masonry."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

284

285

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The purposes enunciated for a certain proposed Association suf
fered by contrast.
The Association was misnamed. Wardens were eligible to membership. This was an attempted innovation. It was misdescribed because theoretically it was proposed to extend its j.urisdiction from the
southern boundary of Inyo County to the northern boundary of California.
For the usual purposes of such an Association the district' was too
extensive. Even some of the so-called districts into which the entire
district was divided were too extensive for the accomplishment of the
ordinary purposes of a Past Masters' Association. Meetings of Past
Masters' Associations comprising the counties set forth in s.everal proposed districts might be conceived, but even one of the proposed districts would have been too extensive by reason of physical obstacles to
communication.
The foregoing was unimportant as viewed in the light of the
object defined in the proposed provisions of Article VIII: "Sec. 1.
All questions of interest arising between the sessions of the Grand
Lodge shall be submitted to the Lodges composing this Association
and decided as follows: Each Master and \Varden to be entitled to
one vote and the Past Masters, collectively, of each Lodge, to one
vote, the minority to abide by the will of and vote with the majority
when such question is submitted to the Grand Lodge. Sec. 2. All
questions of interest arising during the convocation of the Grand Lodge
to be decided by the Executive Committee and each member of the
Association to vote with such Committee."
It was an ambitious scheme of government, but clearly subversive
of the Constitution and regulations of the Grand Lodge. "The Grand
Lodge is the supreme Masonic power and authority in this Srate,
possessing all the attributes of sovereignty and government-legislative, executive and judicial-limited only by a strict adherence to the
ancient landmarks of the Order, and by the provisions of its own:
Constitution and Regulations." (Const., Sec. 7.) The Grand Lodge
of California by creation is an institution whose legislative powers
extend to every case of legislation not expressly delegated by itself
to the Lodges. (Const., Sec. 8.) It has established a scheme of governm'ent including provisions for representation and a method of voting. The fornm for determination of all Masonic problems not within
the jurisdiction of Lodges is in Grand Lodge, and not in ~aucus, as
was proposed. The creation of one or more similar orf§aniz.4\tions in.
unoccupied territory in the State with like purposes w~\c;\ i;~wier the:
Grand Lodge supernumerary.

Judging from the proposal to include the Wardens and by the
provision that the annual meetings of the Association be held, not in
the district (large and comprehensive as it was, with many places
suitable therefor), but in San Francisco during the communication of
the Grand Lodge, there was indicative a politic~! purpose dwarfing all
others.
Though possibly .unintentional, the proposed Association would
have 1usurped powers and prerogatives of the Grand Lodge. It was
further objectionable by reason of its apparent political purpose. It is
expressly provided by our Constitution that no circular or communications shall be sent concerning legislation to be brought before the
Grand Lodge or the election of officers therein.
I directed that the proposed Association, for the purposes specified
and covering territory making it impracticable to hold sessions on
convenient occasions, be dissolved forthwith. (See also Proceedings
1868, p. 399.)

Traveling or Military Lodges: A request for a dispensation empowering Brethren who have entered the service of the United States
in the Ambulance Corps to meet in a Lodge capacity within camp or
post, there to perform all £unctions of a regular Lodge of Masons,
except conferring degrees, was denied for the following reasons:
First : There is no power vested in the Grand Master to issue
dispensations for traveling Lodges;
Second : Rigid observation of the limits of, and diligence in
avoiding intrusion upon, the jurisdiction of other Grand Lodges;
Third: Safeguards provided for the formation of regular Lodges
would to some extent be slighted, namely: the recommendation of a
nearest Lodge as contemplated by the Constitution, near in the sense
of being neighbors; the provision of a safe and suitable lodge-room;
the certificate of an Inspector based upon investigation among, and
the good report of, neighbors, among other things; and thereafter the
requisite supervision;
Fourth: The question of the propriety of so-called army Lodges
of any kind which seems to me to be as important a factor as any
stated. Without question, a man who thoroughly understands the
objects and purposes of Masonry should make an ideal soldier, and,
viewed from the position of one who understands, it would seem that
nothing but benefit should be derived from such an institution. One
of the important elements irt military training is thorough appreciation
of lack of distinction, except such as is due to rank which experience

286

PROC1:EDI]).'GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

has demonstrated to be necessary for the system. While the attempt
to make use of membership in the institution and, as well, the results
of any such attempt, ma.y readily be disregarded as• negligible, yet
there must be taken into consideration the point of view of nonmembers of the Fraternity who are comprised in the same military
establishment and the dissatisfaction which might be occasioned by
the existence of s•uch a Lodge.

we violate a principle which has never been questione'd. The Grand
Lodge of Hamburg granted a warrant to Pythagoras Lo'dge located in
the City of New York, which has been universally condemned by all
the American Grand Lodges, and very properly so; and we can not
but see that this matter of making traveling Lodges to meet on the
territory of another is of very doubtful propriety.'

It seems self-evident, even were there authority to grant such a
dispensation, that there is possibility of greater detriment than benefit.
One of the lessons most thoroughly impressed upon a Mason is that
of loyalty and it should at once be apparent that he should pursue such
a course as will contribute most to the welfare of his country. A
citizen in the exercise of an unquestioned prerogative becomes a Mason
-as a soldiu he will recognize the limitations peculiar to the establishment and be concerned in the proper discharge of his duties as
such. The establishment of a military Lodge is unnecessary for the
exemplification of fraternity and even more important Masonic precepts, or for instruction and even some ceremonials. It has been said
that California is a conservative jurisdiction. It would be better to say
that tr.ue to tradition the .Masonic system is recognized as a finished
product.

In connection with the subject matter it is interesting to note the
position of our own Grand Lodge in the sixties, at which time the
question was under consideration.
The Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence of the Grand
Lodge for the year 1863 was Brother Gilbert B. Claiborne, Grand
.Master in 1865-66, and an eminent Masonic authority.
The following is from the report of the Committee on Correspondence of 1863:
"New Jersey: The report on Correspondence is from the familiar
pen of Bro. Joseph H. Hough, Grand Secretary, reviewing proceedings
of twenty-seven Grand Bodies in an interesting manner. Ours is very
fully noticed. He takes occasion, in cons·idering the report of Rhode
Island for the year ending June, 1861, to express an opinion concerning traveling Lodges in connection with the army now in the field; and
as there is already developed a difference of opinion, we present his
view of the subject. He says:
"'Have we not all acknowledged that State lines are the territory
exclusively belonging to the Grand Lodge of the States? And do we
n•t expect that they on their part will be true to their vows? But if
we encroach upon them by founding Lodges, traveling or otherwise,

287

"The Grand Lodge concurred in the opinion of the Grand Master
and the Committee. * * * We choose to express an opinion concerning the propriety rather than the legality, at this time. * * *
As we have been in our intercourse honest and true in respect for the
jurisdictional rights of another's, we will not be consistent, at least,
if we do not agree that there is impolicy-saying nothing of the legality
-in permitting Brethren, by the authority of our seal, to hold a Lodge
within the recognized limits of a sister jurisdiction of an American
State. We believe that such an act would damage the interest and
reputation of our Grand Lodge, and accomplish no good which can not
be done by individual Masons who are lovers of our whole Fraternity
wheresoever dispersed."
Brother Claiborne continued as Chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence for the year 1864 and the following is quoted from the
report of that Committee &ubmitted to the Grand Lodge that year:
"Maine: The address sustains the reputation its author (M.'. W.'.
Josiah H. Drummond) has acquired by three years of active and
steady devotion to the duties of his office. He issued dispensations to
form five new Lodges. Consequent upon grave doubts expressed last
year by him concerning the propriety for granting dispensations for
traveling Lodge~ with the army, he denied an application in the preceding August, made by certain .Masons of the Ninth Maine Regiment,
and in bringing the matter forward he says:
"'This Grand Lodge has always held that the jurisdiction of a
Grand Lodge should never be invaded under any pretext or for any
cause whatever. She has taken that position in regard to herself in
her contest with the Grand Lodge of England, and has called upon her
siste.r Grand Lodges to sustain her in it. They have with one voice
responded to her call. She must be the last to depart from the policy
she has done so much to establish.'
"In addition to this legal objection, he entertains doubts respecting
the policy, even if there was no legal barrier because the regiments
are made up of men coming together from different sections of the
State, having little or no acquaintance with or knowledge of each
other, and because the knowledge which they acquire of each other
in camp is not sufficient to enable them to determine whether the ap-

GRAND LODGE OF GALIFOHNIA

288

289

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

P!icant w~uld be an ornament or a disgrace to us. He gave permis·
s10n to .h15 Craftsmen in the armies: to assemble in safe places for
mutual instruction and rehearsal of the lectures and exemplification
of the Work, for exchange of fraternal greetings and the performance
of ceremon_ial rites at the funeral of a Brother. The Grand Lodge
approved his reasons for declining to grant a dispensation."
The value of this opinion is· appreciated by all who know the
eminence attained by M:. w:. Josiah H. Drummond in the ranks of
Masonry.
In the case of application for a dispensation for a Lodge with full
powers and prerogatives two additional objections may be made:
First: Possible conflict arising from residence of those who might
be admitted into such a Lodge;
Second: Confusion relative w membership upon surrender of the
charter of such a Lodge.
Somewhat akin to this was an inquiry whether the Grand Master
would grant a dispensation for the formation of a Lodge at Mare
Island Navy Yard, to which I responded as follows:
"I am of the impression that dispensation for Lodges at barracks
or navy yards situated within a reasonable distance from Lodges regularly established in home communities should not be granted.
"Without reflection upon the character of the men in the army or
navy, the membership of the Fraternity must be safeguarded and it
c_an be no better s.af:guarded than by generally insisting upon application for membership m Lodges in the community where a man has been
reared or wherein he has lived for such a length of time as to have
established. a reputation. Lodges established in towns will proceed
mere cautiously and carefully and will safeguard not only the membership of this j.urisdiction, but do full justice to the jurisdiction from
which the applicant hails and who may only be temporarily removed
therefrom, and in this connection I am of the opinion that the dispensation to ballot upon members of the army and navy should be
carefully safeguarded and extended only in case of those who are
regularly engaged in that service and not temporarily, in due consideration of the jurisdiction to which a man temporarily enlisted in
the army and navy will eventually return."
Many of the reasons assigned in support of my position with reference to traveling Lodges are applicable to Lodges of this character.

Conference of Grand Masters: The Most Worshipful Will Moore,
Grand Master of Oregon, issued a circular announcing a.uthority to
invite a general conference of Grand Masters and requesting advice
as to attenda_nce. I replied as follows:
"At the outset, I must advise that I believe I should not attend
without authority of the Grand Lodge of California. The announcement was received too late to obtain the authority at the annual communication which occurred earlier in October and a special communication at which the matter could be. considered would not be justified
for that purpose alone.
"I cannot refrain, however, ·from expressing my personal impressions with reference to the proposed conference. I feel that a
general Grand Lodge should not be established. While it is true that
there are many benefits which might result from uniformity and centralized government, yet I feel that necessary uniformity can be
attained by means of observation of what is being done in sister
jurisdictions and the adoption of that which proves satisfactory. A
plan of government vested in representatives who would probably be
limited to those who have traveled the long road through the Chairs
of the Lodge and then of the Grand Lodge would not be an improvement on the existing system. The sacrifice of time now required
makes it difficult for the active successful man to serve his Fraternity,
which service would be so beneficial. That which is not official I believe should not be attempted by Grand Masters unofficially.
"With fraternal greetings,"
This it seems is but a reiteration of the position previously taken
by this Grand Lodge. I note from the report of the Jurisprudence
Committee, Proceedings 1858, p. 321-Past Grand Master W. H. Howard, Chairman-"General sentiment of the Craft is adverse to the
formation of such a body."

Masonic Temple: I believe that financial return is not the only
value of the Masonic Temple. Its dignity and beauty are impressive
of the existence and activity of a great institution. I earnestly endorse the :recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Masonic
Temple Association relative to the investment of Grand Lodge fundi
in stock of the Association.
Hotnes: Investigation of our Homes contemplated generally:
( 1) Administration, including records of Trustees, accounting system,
home management, discipline and efficiency; (2) Financial problems incidental to completion of buildings at Covina; (3) Welfare of the
children.

290

PROCEh.DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO!{NIA

I examined the records of the Trustees and made suggestions refa.
tive thereto, concerning detail and form.

was only necessary to extend the system by a few additional forms
which were submitted to the Trustees and adopted. He deemed it
unnecessary to have an independent audit owing to the system whereby
an independent bookkeeper keeps all records, presumably examines all
vouchers, checks, and evidences of transfer of funds before making his
report and submitting his monthly statement, being employed in a dual
capacity as an auditor and bookkeeper.

Notwithstandiing difficulties in preparation thereof, after conference with the Trustees, it was agreed to have the annual report ready
for distribution by September 15th, that officers and Lodges might have
opportunity to digest it. I had hoped to have the report distributed to
Lodges by the September stated meetings, but alteration in the accounting system, the dedication of the Home at Covina, and other unavoidable circumstances made it impossible to. do so. I recommend, however, that by resolution of the Grand Lodge the annual report o.f the
Trustees shall be distributed to each Lodge before its stated meeting
in September.
This Grand Lodge by virtue of its approval of the reports of the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes as presented at the Sixty-sixth and
~ixty-seventh Annual Communications in 1915 and 1916, respectively, approved the plan for the erection of buildings at Covina,
and thereby authorized an expenditure in excess of £u.nds available to
the Trustees. The result was that during the course of construction,
the building funds were exhausted and it became necessary to arrange
for the funds needed for completion of the buildings., Owing to the
inhibition upon the Trustees to create any liability binding .upon the
Grand Lodge, after careful study I recommended as the best plan to
be pursued, borrowing the necessary funds from the Endowment Fund
upon note of the Trustees and sufficient securities from the same fund
to be hypothecated at a bank as security for the note of the Tr.ustees
for the balance of the funds necessary. It is true that construction
might have been discontinued but, aside from involving a breach of
contract and possibility of litigation, the urgent necessity of the children
impelled continuous construction to completion. To the reimbursement of the Endowment Fund the Grand Lodge is as much obligated
as it would be to pay any indebtedness. This circumstance has so impressed me that I recommend in case of reports carrying affirmative
recommendations, that specific resolutions covering the affirmative
recommendations accompany all reports, for definitive action.
I employed a certified public accountant to examine into the accounting system and he in due time made a report which is on file in
the office of the Grand Secretary and with the Trustees. He recommended a more complete record of operating the farm · that there
should be a statistical record wherefrom at a glance it wo~ld be possible to determine the expense of individiu1al or collective months and
thereby the efficiency or economy of administration or otherwise; that
the records should be centralized and kept in a convenient office. It
is not merely enough to know that the accountability is honest. It

291

The management of the Homes is satisfactory. I believe, however, that this jurisdiction might benefit by a suggestion from another
jurisdiction which is as follows: "Residents of the Home are required to engage and assist according to their strength and capacity,
in household, mechanical, or agricultural labor, under the direction of
the Superintendent, so that their time will be occupied and they may
be less dependent." I am satisfied that no self-respecting resident of
the Home, physically able, would desire it otherwise in deference to his
self-respect. Many residents are already voluntarily assisting.
Conditions at Decoto are 'generally ;;atisfactory. In connection
with extensions nothing should be done without a well-settled plan for
the co-ordination of the entire institution. This has received some attention but should have more, as there are difficulties occasioned by
location and architecture of old buildings.
I recommend to your earnest attention and consideration the extension of the scope of the Homes to admit pay residents. It has been
suggested that this might be objectionable by reason of possible discrimination. It seems to me that that may be avoided; that by
planning for a small profit from such residents, income may be obtained to lessen the burden of maintenance; that the Home will be
even more attractive and prove to be more beneficial.
At Covina there has been completed and furnished a Home,
modern in every respect, which should be equal in appointment to any
in the United States. It was dedicated September 8, 1917, with becoming ceremony in the presence of many Brethren, of which the Trustees
make liberal report. During the year I made six visits to that Home
to note general conditions and progress of the buildings.
In addition to furnishing a home, medical attention and education,
there is the far greater problem of equipping the child for its contest
in the cold world. It should not leave the Home, where it has been
recipient of care and attention, handicapped by lack of equipment
eq.uivalent to that of the child who has parental direction. It should
be more fully equipped in lieu of the advice and counsel of father and
mother, which may be massing if, owing to circumstances, it is not
adopted or is deprived of that home environment. You fathers must,

292

PROCEEDINGS OF 'I'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

in the fullness of your understanding, of your responsibility to your
own children and of their absolute subjection to your will during their
minority, seize upon this problem, that the Fraternity may not fail in
this important service.
In addition t,o a careful inspection of home conditions, after consultation with Dr. Harold Faber and Mr. Arthur Ritter, of Stanford
University Medical School, whose special work has pre-eminently
qualified them for the particular service, I arranged that, under the
auspices of the Stanford University Medical School, a survey should
be made of the Home at Covina, including physical and mental examination of the children, that we might intelligently perform our service.

I am pleased to announce that the same Brother who last year
donated $21,000 face value of "gilt edge" bonds to be used in building
at Covina with the condition that his name be not known until he shall
have passed away, again in his generosity made a presentation of
$19,000 to be used in building at Decoto with the same condition. To
him I extended the heartfelt thanks and expressed the appreciation of
my Brethren of the jurisdiction for his generous philanthropy.
The duties of the Trustees have multiplied rapidly and occasionally
prompt attention has not been given to correspondence. This will be
remedied by a centralization of records and reports, the establishment
of the office at the Masonic Temple and the provision for necessary
assistance to the Grand Secretary as recommended by the Trustees.
I earnestly endorse the recommendation of the Trustees that the board
be reorganized, that the office of the Trustees be fixed at the :'.lv!asonic
Temple in San Francisco, that the records of the Trustees, and general
accounts, be kept there and that the Grand Secretary be Secretary of
the Board. The Trustees have devoted much time and attention to the
Homes and are deserving of the generous appreciation of the Fraternity.
Some experiences in connection with the Homes warrant me to
suggest that unimportant incidents, as compared with conduct consistent with the greater object to be obtained, frequently result in
fault-finding, not fair criticism, followed by petty differences, magnified
as the point of view is lost. \Ve should never lose sight of the fact
that we are all engaged in the same great .undertaking and should not
permit petty prejudices to befog our vision. It has been well said:
"Feelings strongly aroused by belief fall under control, not of reason,
but of will." Make reasonable allowance and distinguish between
effort which fails by reason of human limitation and that due to intentional malfeasance.

293

Owing to technical questions involved, I submit as a supplementary
report a history of the homes trust, a definition of the powers of the
Trustees, an interpretation of the trust and recommendations relative
to suggested incorporation.
Endowment Day: At the Sixty-fifth Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge in 1914, the special committee on Endowment Fund
for Masonic Homes reported the following resolution and recommended its adoption :

"Resolved, That the Committee on Endowment of the Masonic
Homes be, and they are, hereby authorized to solicit individual subscriptions for the endowment of a iund to be known as the 'Permanent
Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California.' And such
solicitation of the individual members of this jurisdiction to be made
in any manner and by any methods which may be considered wisest
by said Endowment Fund Committee. Said plan to be submitted to the
Most Worshipful Grand Master for his approval before adoption.
This resolution was referred to the incoming Committee on Endowment by unanimous vote. That Committee at the 66th Ammal
Communication of 1915 recommended that "the campaign of education for endowment fond of the Masonic Homes of California be
continued."
At the 67th Annual Communication the Com11nittee reported the
establishment of an annual Endowment Day at which time c:very
-:VIason should contribute voluntarily toward the Endowment Fund.
Endowment Day has passed the experimental stage. It should
be retained as a permanent institution, not alone for the financial benefits to be obtained, but for the salutary effect it has on character. It
affords opportunity for our Brethren to exemplify to what extent some
of our instruction has been effective. It will lead to a fuller understanding of the satisfaction of sharing for laudable purposes. The
results were somewhat disappointing and a better showing should be
made. The Endowment Committee has made a strenuous effort. We
need more personal co-operation-not circularization and letter writing, but personal interview and solicitation. We ought to receive not
less than $100,000 a year and that would be less than an average of $2
per member. As a time more appropriate, St. John's Day in June
was selected for the second Endowment Day, the reason being that that
day has peculiar ~fasonic significance and falls at a time removed from
at least one tax payment period (it is difficult to escape them all now)
and it is not close to the holiday gift period. This year it followed at
a short interval after the first Endowment Day and in the midst of

294

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Liberty Bond and Red Cross campaigns and was not so successful as
it should have been. That the latter important demands were causes
was purely "psychological." Liberty Bonds are gilt edge investments
and contribution could have been made to Red Cross and Homes without sacrifice.

Past Grand Master Edward Henry Hart, Grand Master, October,
1906, to October, 1907; Chairman of Committee on Correspondence
since 1908; died September 26, 1917.

I considered a suggested plan for soliciting dub plan insurance
and, while ~ppreciating the enthusiasm and earnestness which prompted
it, I rejected it as not practical and fraught with possibility of such
annoyance as to disturb peace and harmony. That, however, should
not deter individuals from making the homes beneficiaries of insurance.
St. John's Day this year was also celebrated as the bicentennial of
the organization of the mother Grand
Lodges assembled severally and in joint session throughout the jurisdiction and no doubt the
"psychology" of that was good. We contemplated what might have
been under other circumstances, and our hearts sent forth a message
to those who might have been similarly celebrating, wishing them Godspeed in the more important cause of humanity which engaged them
and in which we finally, though tardily, joined them.

Necrology: "When the Sun goes down below the horizon, he is
not set; the heavens glow for a full hour after his departure. And
when a great and good man sets, the sky of this world is Luminous
long after he is out of sight. Such a man cannot die out of the world.
When he leaves behind much of himself, being dead he speaks."Beecher,
Mention of those of other jurisdictions who have completed their
work will be made by the Grand Secretary of this Grand Lodge. Four
well known Brethren, three by service Past Grand Masters and one an
active committeeman, have gone to the Grand Lodge above:
Hugh James Owen, born Wales, 1846; raised April 25, 1883, in
Excelsior Lodge No. 166; Secretary 1901 until his death; member of
Committee on Accounts from 1906 until death; died March 6, 1917.
Past Grand Master Samuel Crawford Denson, born in 1840; raised
November 26, 1868, in Oroville Lodge No. 103; affiliated with Union
Lodge No. 58, Sacramento, April 6, 1870; elected Grand Master in
October, 1880; died July 26, 1917.
Past Grand :Master Charles• Wilber Nutting, born in Georgia ·in
the year 1854; raised in Evening Star Lodge No. 186, Etna Mills,
February 25, 1882; Grand Master October, 19().3, to October, 1904; died
September 20, 1917.

Peace be to them and God's blessing on those who are bereft.
With considerable misgiving I have always approached the task
of uttering anything expansive of the ritual. The undertaking is
a difficult one and no doubt when I shall have concluded, it could be
well said, in light of the ritual and many learned dissertations thereon:
"The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and the thing
that is done is that which shall be done; and there is no new thing
under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, See, this is
new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us." (Ecclesiastes, l, 9-10.)
·whither are we traveling? As one thoughtful Brother put it,
apologizing for the vernacular, "What is the idea?" Endurance of our
institution indicates that it is worth while. It must be worth while to
continue. The Masonic institution must be supported by something
more substantial than the artificiality of an oath. It is sustained by
something entirely substantial, difficult of definition because of its
scope. It is a plan of conduct. Try as we may to formulate rules of
conduct, we shall fail if our rules do not co-ordinate with natural
laws. That accounts no doubt for the abstra'Ction of the Masonic plan.
There is careful avoidance of concrete regulation so as not to encounter
the overwhelming force of the greater law. What, then, is the idea?
The ~1lasoni~l\$ty-stem has to do with individual life and the complex
relation of that life and society. With the individual there is the desire
to live and the same is true of the state, whether right or wrong. The
status of the individual disassociated from society is one thing, and
quite another when he is one of a group. Disassociated from society
the race was to the strong. Physical might made right. Intelligence
increased as an element in the composition of fitness, but has never
become the sole factor and never will. The fittest have ever survived.
Highly organized and civilized states giving way to sheer force of barbarous horde8 may seem not to bear this out beca.use there should have
been a continuation of those ostensibly superior states. They had
failed, however, in some way and were no longer the fittest, else they
would have been equipped to defend themselves. The individual had
been weakened hy the failure of society to conserve and develop individual strength and he was demoralized by frivolity and corruption.
The strength of the individual is the strength of the state. What the
perfect system may be time alone will tell, if it ever will. We believe
that there is in our form of government the correct conception of the

206

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

proper relation of individual and society. It is subject to the effects
of the same inexorable natural laws. We should do that therefore
which will tend to improve it and perpetuate it. It must be sustained
by interior development and protected against forces without. If it is
a proper system a strong individual fibre will be developed and the
task of 'defense be easier than if the system be wrong or be diverted
from a correct course and a weak individual fibre developed.

tends beyond proper requirement, while contributing to safety directly,
becomes indirectly a serious contribution to development of negligence.

For the inherently weak individual there is not much prospect. but
<luty to him is emphasized. He m;ist be helped to help himself wherever that is vossible. That is real charity because it fortifies character. Charitable giving without due regard weakens those alrcadv
weak, makes alms seekers of them and others who prefer the course 0 -f
least. resista~~e or who without embarrassment accept something for
nothmg. W 1tness the debilitating effect of the corn laws on the
Romans. "Injudicious charities, or an extravagant and too indu!crent
poor-law administration, inevitably discourage industry and thrift ~nd
usually increase the poverty they are intended to cure. How few' who
sha.re the preva~ling t?nde.ncy to deal with every evil that appears in
~ociety by coercive le~·1slat1011 adequately realize the danger of weakenmg th: robust, self-reliant, resourceful habits on which the happiness
of society so largely depends." Efforts to regulate conduct if the
individual does not understand the reason thereof, will fail. The effort
~m~t. be th: development of the physical and mental strength of the
md1v1dual 111 the home. There is where he must be equipped.
Strength of charact?r will be developed by the exercise of resisting.
The character of him, who does not understand but who conducts
~imself properly merely because safeguarded by r~le+~ of government,
ts n~t developed. For illustration I quote the foTlowing: "Much
machmcry must be used continually which cannot be made fool-proof
froU: a safety standpoint. Even if it were possible, it would be
unw1Se so to surround red-blooded human beings with safeguards as to
convert them into such unthinking molly"coddles while in the shop
that they wonlcl rush thoughtlessly into the very jaws of damrer the
moment they step from the shop into the street. So much h;s been
said and written about safeguarding machinery that many have been
led to overlook the fundamental canse of most accidents and to seek
in the wrong direction for the most potent preventive. We have f~iled
to recognize that this preventive lies largely in the individual caution
th~t makes the man choose the safe way by habit; we have pinned our
faith too mnch on the multiplicity of cleverly contrived barriers of wood
or steel, however important they m.ay be, designed to keep the man
away from danger by mcchaniical means." It is needless to sav that
this is not an argument against all safety appliance. It is but an
illustration of the importance of avoiding extremes. That which ex-

297

Our own institution supposedly is safeguarded by its ideals intended to influence and guide its membership. That should insure
satisfactory membership. Apparently it is not always so, because we
find among our regulations concrete restrictions. Every such regulation found is to that extent evidence of failure to live up to Masonic
ideals. Theoretically such restriction is unnecessary. Our performance
has not been satisfactory. \Ve must have a better understanding.
The Masonic system is a chart for the select few. It will be
indeed ·unfortunate if those do not understand. Once equipped it is
immediately apparent that it is not limited in use to Masons alone but
is generally serviceable. That must be demonstrated by education,
always bearing in mind that it is not to think for others, but to teach
them to think and to improve their thinking faculties. It is recognized
by the institution that the individual who must be told every detail as
a rule will fail. He may have no one about him in the emergency.
If equipped with an analytical mind he will be efficient. It is therefore
that we have Masonic symbolism ever challenging thought as· discipline.
Throughout bear in mind that ho"q will be the result of investigation, also that it is not essential that Masons should always
agree. Individual j tldgmcnt mny differ. Nor is it un-Masonic that
:\1asons should disagree on political q'uestions. The only requirement
is sincere effort. 'vVe must be tolerant of other's opinions. Where it
is evident that amt individual expresses insincere opinions intended for
ulterior purposes regardless of ultiinate effect. the orderly course to
pursue is to attack by argument· the principles enunciated and not the
individual.
It is difficult to make satisfactory progress where there is ignorance.
We should therefore be deeply concerned with increasing illiteracy.
'vVe know the cause to be immigration. It is a problem which should
receive more careful and general attention. It has a bearing on nationality. \Ve must be attentive to the requirements of an American
:-Ja tionality.

In matters of reform let us consider our own shortcomings first
before we begin on others. We shonld be slow to impose our individual conception of concrete conduct on others. Let us not follow the
egotists. In the present time, due to gradual development of antipathy
to frivolity an<l the understanding of nnselfishness brought about at
fearful but necessary cost by the great wa:, we face the task of pre-

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

venting undue interference with individuals. Let us not go from
frivolity to blue laws-indifference to bigotry-and let us not be
stampeded or be emotional or hysterical.
Too much individualism owing to human limitations also leads to
destruction of individualism. Such would be the effect of unrestrained
activities of great combinations, the result of individual effort. That
force ~~st be regulated so as to give others the opportunity in fair
~ompet1tto?'. It must be understood that every individual is constantly
m compettt10n. That strengthens him if he is not eliminated. We
guard against unfair elimination. Virility in addition to capacity .for
thought and judgment is desired.
Government must receive more general attention. Many of our
oo-c.alled successful men haive not dev-0ted time and attention to
affairs of government and to less fortunate individuals by helping them
to help themselves. They have not been considerate of the effects of
their effo:ts . to gain wealth, frequently directly injurious to fellowman .an? 111d1rectly as :"ell: Directly by depriving him of just wages
a?d 111d1rectly through mtncate business affiliations handicapping individual effort. There should be no fat complacence in the land no
~aughty indifference to conditions. There is no place in the pla~ for
idle spenders and non-producers. We will not attain perfection but
we can make improvement.
'
Inequality of wealth disturbs the equilibrium. It is the great
:-v7ap?? of the politica! job-chaser who has prated to the people about
~mq~1t1es, ge~erally without suggestion of remedy, but frequently inJectm~ the virus of hatred. The responsibility is heavy on such uncons~1onable men. _The cause of the grievance shou:ld be sought dispassionately. The issues should be impersonally joined. Hatred not
~nly does not contribute to the solution of the problem but is a dis~mct deterrent. The elimination of hatred in our personal activities
m. labor disputes, in political campaigns would be a great accom~
phshment.
Justification of per.sonal attack is rare, existing, perhaps, where
there may be flagrant m~sconduct. It is difficult to restrain where officeseekers promise anything to the people regardless of the ultimate
~ffect. They appeal to the vanity of the populace sometimes with as
h~tl.e hope of £ulfillment as the Mexican revolutionist who promised to
div; de all the lands. among the people, and again by deliberately advocatmg ~nder the g~ise of reform policies and measures, which, while
superficially attractive to the people, yet in the ultimate analysis are
unsound and unsafe. Hence the importance of thought and judgment.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

299

In our desire to have this government fulfill its mission of insuring
happiness, too many functions of government should not be assumed
by the people. It is stepping away from representative government and
toward pure democracy. It is not lack of confidence in the people, but
conviction that they will not conscientiously, cannot intelligently assume
the responsibility. One of the human limit•ions is that they think
they have not the time, and it's too much trouble. Can you not see
the possibility of government conducted in this manner? An individual cannot possibly combine the understanding of laborer, mechanic,
merchant, professional man, clergyman and mother. Yet to intelligently legislate in matters affecting each, one should be an expert in
each occupation and in the science of government. Government of
this sort is not for the general welfare but is influenced by class and
it reacts on the individual, thereby affecting the very fibre of the
country.
I think the idea is well defined in the following extract from a
treatise on the French Revolution :
"The French Revolution had supposed itself to be fighting for the
'rights of man'. Really it was trying to replace an autocratic kingship
by an equally autocratic 'general will' of the multitude. And it failed
because no general will could make its voice rise above the conflict of
particular inclination. Thankfolly did men bow to Napoleon."
After the great San Francisco conflagration of 1906, in the midst of
the confusion immediately following, one day a genial friend appeared,
and upon inquiry concerning his occupation, presented a card upon
which was printed his name and the word "Energist.'' He was doing
everything he could to restore order. Masons must be energists.
The service involved, the individual must be ready to perform
regardless of cost. Convenience or pleasure must not interfere.
"The philosopher, as he regarded the hot strife and struggle of
these candidates in the race for Gold, thought with a sigh of the Truth
and the Beautiful, and walked on melancholy and serene." (Thackeray.)
May we perform our duty with the understanding and fullnes·s of
sympathy which possesses fellow sufferers in time of great calamity,
with a constant fire of patriotism like that which burns in time of great
emergency, with the energy to constantly do that which posse&ses one
after refreshing repose at the beginning of an invigorating day, and
with an understanding of the importance of endeavor which confronts
one at the time of a great test.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

300

On motion, the Deputy Grand Master appointed the
following:
Committee on Grand Master's Address: Angus MacKillop (375),
Cluirles R. Miller (202), Charles H. Victor (61).

The Grand Master also presented, without reading, a
history of the legislation creating and continuing the
Masonic Homes of California, as follows:

Masonic Homes of California
History of Trust, Powers of Trustees, Interpretation
of the Trust and Recommendations Relative
to Proposed Incorporation

HISTORY
At the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California in
1891, the following Committee report was offered (Proceedings 1891,
pages 59 and 60) :
"'William Francis Perry, from the Committee on Widows'
and Orphans' Home, presented the following report:

"'* * * That this cmrunittee forthwith select a list of fifty
names-members of the Grand Lodge of California-and said
names to be approved by the Grand Master, who shall constitute the charter members of an Association to be known as
the "Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home of the State of California," and from these fifty names a selection of fifteen shall
be made by the present Grand Master and his St1ccessor, who
shall act as Trustees ; the five first named by them to serve for
three years, the five next mentioned to serve for two years,
and the five last named to serve for one year; and annually
thereafter the Grand :Master-elect, at his installation, shall appoint five members of the Grand Lodge to serve as Tn1stees for
the three years next ensuing, and said Trustees shall become
members of this Association.

301

"'* * * The Board of Trustees shall immediately organize
with· the selection of a President, Secretary and Treasurer, and
divide into three standing committees, viz.: An Executive Committee, a Building Fund Committee, and an Endowment Fund
Committee.'
"(The consideration was made special order for 11 o'clock
·October 14.)"
Tliis report was considered as special order and referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence, with instructions to report the following
morning (Proceedings 1891, page 63). Thereafter, and 011 Friday
morning, October 16, 1891 (Proceedings 1891, page 228), the following
proceedings were had :
"Bro. Morris March Estee, from the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following report :

"'* * * Resolved, That a committee of nine be appointed by
the Grand Master, whose duty it shall be to organize a Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home Association, or Incorporation,
in manner as to that committee may seem best; and which association, or incorporation, when so formed, shall have full power
to purchase, receive, use and appropriate for the purpose of erecting and maintaining a Masonic 'Widows' and Orphans' Home, all
necessary property, real and personal, or moneys which can be
obtained by the said incorporation or association, by purchase,
donation or otherwise; and to that end, and for these objects,
to receive donations from all Masons or Masonic Lodges
within this jurisdiction, and to select, receive as a gift, or purchase a site for said. Home; and, finally, to do and perform all
needful acts necessary to carry into successful operation the said
enterprise.'
"\,Vhich
adopted."

report

was concurred

in and the

resolution

In 1892 (Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, 1892, page 514) there
appears the following:
"San Francisco, December 19, 1891.

"To the l'vlost Worshipful William Johnston,
"Gr@d Master, F. & A. lYf. of California:
"The Committee appointed in pursuance of a resolution of
the Grand Lodge at its last Annual Communkation, 'whose
duty it shall be to organize a "Masonic \Vidows' and Orphans'

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home" Association or incorporation, in the manner as to it
may seem best,' has carefully considered the various modes of
organization for the proposed charity. The committee is of the
opinion that that mode is best which shall keep the charity most
fully under the supervision of the Grand Master, and in the
closest relations to the Grand Lodge. Such an organization
should be on:ly the executor of the charitable intentions of the
Fraternity and in per{ eel touch with it at all times. It is to be
a Masonic charity, and should receive the hearty support and
co-operation of the entire body. To create for this purpose an
independent legal corporation, with officers elected by an independent body of stockholders or members (even if such a body
could be always assu'r"d), would not be so desirable as to make
it and its operation more immediately dependent upon the Grand
Lodge, to which reports should be made, and over which it
should exercise inspection and control.

property, condition and operation of said charity for the previous year, to the Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication for its information; absence from the State by any
Trustee for one year shall vacate his trust, and any Trustee
may resign at any· time by consent of the remaining Trustees
and the Grand Master for the time being; expiration of term
of office or its termination in any manner shall, ipso facto, devolve upon the remaining Trustees and his or their successors,
all property rights, pertaining to said charity; all contributions
of money shall pass through the office of the Secretary of the
Grand Lodge, who shall pay the same to the Treasurer, taking
his receipt therefor.

"The plan which the committee proposes to meet the requirements is : The present Grand Master shall, as soon as may
be, select nine members of the Grand Lodge, who shall by lot
or otherwise classify themselves into threes, the first three to
serve for one year, the second for two years, and the third
for three years; and that each year thereafter, commencing at
the next session of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master newly
elected shall appoint three additional members to take the place
of those whose term is expiring; the nine persons thus appointed, and their successors so appointed from year to year,
shall, upon their appointment, accept the trust according to its
terms and conditions in writing. and thereupon become and
remain during the period for which they were appointed 'Trustees of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home,' and shall be
entitled to receive, hold and administer as joint tenants, with
right of survivorship during their term of office and until their
successors are appointed, all property, real and personal, and
all rights of action belonging to said charity, or to which it
may in any manner become entitled; said Trustees shall organize by the election of officers and committees each year,
and shall adopt by-laws (subject to the approval of the Grand
Master) for their own guidance, and for the management of
said charity, which by-laws they may alter and amend at any
time, subject to like approval by the Grand Master; the Grand
Master shall at all times have right of visitation and inspection
of the books and entire management of the charity, and may
remove a Trustee at any time, upon request of two-thirds of
the Trustees, and appoint another in the place of the person
so removed. The Trustees shall make a complete report of the

303

"The Trustees so appointed and qualified shall proceed to
establish and administer to the extent of the means contributed,
the charity contemplated and confided to them by the name of
'The Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home,' but without power
to create any liability binding upon the Grand Lodge or any
subordinate Lodge.
"If this plan meets your approval, the committee suggests
that you make the appointments subject to the conditions named,
s6 that our Brethren and the Lodges in the jurisdiction may at
once proceed to the realization of the fraternal and noble work
laid out by the Grand Lodge.
"Edward Myers Preston,
"William Francis Perry,
"Albert Hanson,
"Nathaniel Greene Curtis,
"Edward Fallis Spence,
"Jacob Voorsanger,
"Gustavus Langford Spear,
"Edward Coleman,
"George Edwin Whitney."
Thereafter, in Proceeding of the same year, at page 721, appears
the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence relative to the organization of the Widows' and Orphans' Home, to which Committee the plan
hereinabove set forth had been referred. (Proc. 1892, p. 721.)
"The committee, to which the preparation of a plan for the
organization of a Widows' and Orphans' Home was referred
last year, with directions to report to the Grand Master, completed its work in December, and the plan proposed meeting the
approval of the Grand Master, he proceeded to carry it into

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

effect by appointing a Board of nine Trustees 'to receive, hold
and administer, as joint tenants, with righ; of survivorship
during their term of office and until their successors are appointed, all property, real and personal, and all rights of action
belonging to said charity or to which it may, in any manner,
become entitled.'

It will be unnecessary to comment upon the succession of Trustees
except as follows: At the Communication of the Grand Lodge in 1908
(Proceedings of 1908, page 129) a special committee reported in effect
the following resolutions :

"The term of office was fixed at three years, and the nine
appointed determined by lot which three should hold for one
year only, which for two years, and whieh for the full term.
"The Board thus appointed and organized, proceeded to
work, and the report of the Board shows verv efficient and
satisfactory work.
.

"The plan seems to us the right one, leaving the administration of the charity ·very largely in the hands of the Grand Master and Grand Lodge, and making, as the By-Laws state, a
Home and not a hospital or asylum. It is to be a :Masonic
Home, and must largely be dependent upon the Masonic Bodies
of the State for the funds necessary for its support. The report shows that $47,759.50 have already been subscribed. The
Grand Lodge has subscribed $10,000, making the amount of
subscription $57,759.50. This certainly makes a good beginning, and we may reasonably hope to see that amount verv
largely increased during the next twelve months. The: Joeatio~
is important, but we feel ass~1red that the Board of Trustees
will select a good one.
"Being ourselves entirely satisfied with the plan proposed
by the committee and approved by the Grand Master, and with
the work thus far done by the Board of Trustees, we propose
and recommend the adoption of the following resolution :

"'Resolved, That the plan for the organization of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home proposed by the committee
and approved by the Grand Master, and the report of the Board
of Trustees appointed by him, be and the same are hereby
approved.'
"William C. Belcher,
"Nathaniel G. Curtis,
"Edmund C. Atkinson,
"Morris M. Estee,
"Alvah R. Conklin."
This report was adopted.

305

"Resolved, That the Board of Tl'vstees * * * shall consist
of five members of this Grand Lodge, said Trustees to be appointed by the Grand Master, for a term of one year, said
terms to expire at the close of the next Anmtal Communication,
1909, that one member of the Board act as Secretary, that the
Grand T_reasurer be Treasurer of the Home."
·This report was adopted.
The Special Committee was continut:d for another year.
ceedings 1908, page 163.)

(Pro-

Pursuant to the resolution last ahovc referred to a Board of five
Trustees was appointed. The report of the Board was submitted to
the Communication of the Grand Lodge in 1909, showing that a President, Vice-President and Secretary had been elected.

\Ve are advised that the nine Trustees acting prior to the appointment of the new Board of five resigned. There is no record of this
in the Proceedings.
At the Communication of 1909 the Special Committee above referred to, in a report, made the following recommendations among
others (Proceedings 1909, page 165) :
"That the Board of T1iustces be five in number, the terms
to be one, two, three, four and five years to be determined by
lot; each succeeding Grand :Master to appoint one for five years;
"That two members shall live near San Gabriel and two
near Decoto ;
"That the Grand Master shall have power to remove any
Trustee;
"That the Board shall have full charge of the Homes, shall
adopt By-Laws a:nd when adopted to be in full effect as if
adopted by the Grand Lodge;
"That the Grand Treasurer be Treasurer of the Homes;
"That the office of supervising secretary be created; that
officer to be selected by the Trustees and to reside at the
Home."
This report was adopted.

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pursuant to said resolution five Trustees were appointed (Proceedings 1909, page 210). At the Communication of 1910 (Proceedings 1910, page 38) these Trustees reported that by lot they had determined the tenure of their office.
The Trustees changed the name of the trust to "The Masonic
Home of California" by adoption of new By-Laws. There is nothing
further than a reference to the act by the Grand Master (see Proceedings 1907, page 599).
Another change has evidently been made in the name, of which
the only record seems to be in Sections 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37 incorporated
into the Constitution at the time of the "adoption" of the Annotated
Constitution.
The provisions of the Sections of the Constitution just referred
to, owing to slight variance, demand attention. In considering these
it must be done in light of the "Explanatory Note" appearing after
Section 33 and which formed a part of the Annotated Constitution as
offered to the Grand Lodge in 1911. "The new Article (referring to
Article VIII) is added so that the Trustees of the Homes spending
nearly one-half of our revenue shall have permanent place in our law,
and this Section includes the recommendation of the Committee as to
the number and appointment of the Trustees to be found in Proc. 1909,
p. 165. The provision that the Board is to be the successor of the old
Board may prove of great value in dealing with the title to the real
property now administered by the Trustees."

"AppoinJment and Powers.
"Sec. 33. The Trustees of the .Masonic Homes of California shall be five in number, to be appointed by the M:. w:.
Grand Master, their terms of office to be respectively one, two,
three, four and five years. Their tenure of office shall be de·termined by lot. Each succeeding Grand Master to appoint a
successor, who shall hold office for five years. Two of the
Trustees, at least, shall be from Lodges in the vicinity of
Decoto, and two, at least, from Lodges in the vicinity of San
Gabriel. They shall be the successors of the Trustees of the
Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home heretofore appointed
under the resolutions of the Grand Lodge adopted in 1892, and
subsequently thereto, and shall be vested with all the powers
given such Trustees and with all the rights by them or any of
them acquired."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

307

(Here follows "Explanatory Note" referred to.)

"Acceptance of Trust-Title to Property.
"Sec. 34. The persons thus appointed, and their successors
so appointed from year to year, shall, upon their appointment,
accept the trust according to its terms and conditions, in writlng, and thereupon become and remain during the period for
which they were appointed, Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California, and shall be entitled to receive, hold and administer, as joint tenants, with right of survivorship, during their
term of office and until their successors are appointed, all property, real and personal, and all rights of action belonging to
said charity, or to which it may in any manner become entitled.
"EXPLANATORY NOTE:

This is part of the original

reso~ution to be found in Proc. 1892, p. 514, only changing the

name as prescribed in Proc. 1909, p. 165.

"Organization-B·y-Laws-Powers of Grand Master Over.
"Sec. 35. Said Trustees shall organize by the election of
officers and committees each year; the Grand Treasurer, however, shall always be the Treasurer of the Homes. They shall
adopt By-Laws (subject to the approval of the Grand Master)
for their own guidance and for the management of said charity,
which By-Laws they may alter and amend at any time, subject
to like approval by the Grand Master. The Grand Master shall
at all times have the right of visitation and inspection of the
books and entire management of the charity, and may remove
a Trustee at any time, upon request of two-thirds of the Trustees, and appoint another in the place of the person so re·
moved.
"EX PLAN A TORY NOTE: This is part of the original
. resolution to be found in Proc. 1892, p. 514, and as to the
Treasurer, it follows the practice of the Board ever since the
per capita tax was levied, and embodies the recommendation
of the Committee to be found in Proc. 1909, p. 160.

"Annual Reports.
"Sec. 36. The Trustees shall make a complete report of the
property, condition and operation of said charity for the previ·
ous year, to the Grand Lodge at the next Annual Comrrumica·

308

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion for its infonnatic111, an<l are required and directed to have
all their reports prepared, printed and ready for distribution on
the first <lay of each and every Annual Communication.

POWERS OF TRUSTEES.

"EXPLANATORY NOTE: This is part of the original
resolution to he found in Proc. 1892, p. 514, and it also incorporates the provisions of General Regulation 79, adopted in
1902.
"Termination vf Officc-Cre<Jtfon vf Liabilities.

"Sec. 37. Absence from the State by any Trustee for one
year shall vacate his trt1st, an<l any Trustee may resign at any
time by the consent of the remaining Trustees and the Grand
l\faster for the time being; expiration of term of office or its
termination in any manner shall, ipso facto, devolve upon the
remaining Trustees and his or their successors all property
rights pertaining to said charity. The Trustees shall administer
the charity without power to create any liability binding upon
the Grand Lodge or any subordinate Lodge.
"EXPLANATORY NOTE: This is part of the original
resolutions to be found in Proc. 1892, p. 514."
It is a logical conclusion that bv action of the Grand Lodge in
1892 a charitable trust was founded and that Trustees appointed pursuant thereto are possessed of specified powers.

INTERPRETATION OF TRUST.
\Vhat power of amendment has the Grand Lodge? The Committee recommending the plan in 1892 used these words, among others:
"Such an organization should he only the executor of the charitable
intentions of the Fraternity." It is my conclusion that thereby a broad
reservation of power in the Grand Lodge to make amendment was
intended an<l effected. Consequently. that such action as has been
regularly taken or approved by the Grand Lodge amending the Trust
by reducing the number of Trustees by providing for appointment of
Trustees from particnlar localities, extending the auth·ority of the Grand
Master to remove
authorizing the change of name of the
Trust, extending the
of the Homes to certain dependent
Masons and others, providiug for the maintenance of a hospital, are
fully within the powers reserved by the Grand Lodge to make amendment.

309

The powers of the Trustees are such only as are conferred by the
declaration of trust or as is otherwise prescribed in Section 2267 of
the Civil Code of California. 1n this connection it should be noted
that it has been held that a trustee with power to mortgage property
had no power to make a covenant to pay money and that in exec•L1ting
a note for money borrowed he is imlividually liable. This reference
is made merely to emphasize the strictness of construction of powers
of trustees for their guidance in the .transaction of their business. The
Trustees have no power of sale; when necessary that power may be
granted by the Grand Lodge. For definiteness and certainty, while
provision is made for election of officers, the Grand Lodge should
specify the officers and define their powers.
RELATIVE TO INCORPORATION.
1 have carefully considered the suggestion which has heen frequently made that the Homes shonld be incorporated. After a careful
of the history of the charity, disregarding the question of
whether or not there be power to incorporate, I am inclined to the
belief that the report of the Brethren who formulated the plan in 1891,
which was approved in 1892 by the Grand Lodge, was based upon careful legal research and consideration of the proper administration of the
charity. Incorporation was considered and, after careful investigation,
I folly concur in the report of the Committee-"that that mode is best
which shall keep the charity most fully under the supervision of the
Grand Master and in the closest relation to the Grand Lodge. Such
an organization should be only the executor of the charitable intentions ..
of the Fraternity and in perfect touch with it at all times. It is to be
a Masonic charity and should receive the hearty support and co-operation of the entire Body. To create for this pmpose an independent
legal corporation, with officers elected by an independent body of
stockholders or members (even if such a body could always be assured) would not be so desirable as to make it and its operation more
immediately dependent upon the Grand Lodge to which reports should
be made and over which it should exercise inspection and control."

It is probable that suggestions of incorporation were made without
careful consideration of the character of the trust, being, no doubt,
uncertain of the powers of an unincorporated association and believing
that by incorporation the trust administration would be more simple,
titles more secure, succession more certain, conveyances more readily
made, financial problems more readily solved and formalities required
of unincorporated associations avoided.
Uncertainty relative to administration of the charity by an unir.,
corporated Boara of Trustees may be dismissed. \Nbere the purpose

310

PROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

is to establish a charity and trustees competent to take the legal estate
are named and the class to be benefited are capable of ascertainment,
a court of equity will establish and enforce the charity. That the purpose of the Fraternity in establishing Homes for widows and orphans
and dependent Masons, etc., is a charity, has been established in California. Under such circumstances a bequest made to the Homes for
the purposes specified at the time of the creation of the charity, would
be valid. It has also been established in California that such an unincorporated Board are appropriate persons to accept a bequest and administer it for the purposes specified. For guidance I suggest the
following form of bequest: "I do hereby bequeath (or 'give, devise and
bequeath/ if real estate is involved) unto the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California and for the purposes of the charity administered
by them," and direct attention to restrictions on devises or bequests
for charitable uses, particularly, that the will must be duly executed
at least thirty days before decease.
Relative to facility of administration-there might be less difficulty
under the incorporation system \vhere a majority of the Board may
ad, whereas, under the trustee system, all must act. This requirement,
however, is probably advantageous to the proper administration of this
charity which is of such importance to the Fraternity, and, as the requirement will not ordinarily greatly interfere, there is little objection
to it. It might be advisable that the Grand Lodge should empower
such number of the Board, at least a majority (as may be deemed
advisable), when in meeting assembled, to transact business.
Relative to succession and continuity of existence-no provision
for succession can be more continuous than that provided. Corporations cease to exist, but administration of the trust under the plan provided will continue so long as there is a law of the land.
Relative to conveyances, where power is not granted to the trustees, an order of court is incidental to conveyance. It is a proper safeguard of the purposes of the charity. It would not be avoided by incorporation, even under the laws governing business corporations.
Relative to financial problems-power to borrow can only be derived from the terms of the trust. If that power is not granted, there
is none. The Trustees of the Masonic Homes are expressly denied
the power "to create any liability binding ttpon the Grand Lodge or any
subordinate Lodge." Authorization to borrow must proceed from the
Grand Lodge.
.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

It is a proper conclusion that legal provision has been made for the
establishment and administration of a charity, that there is facility of
doing that which it was intended should be done when the charity was
created, and that incorporation is unnecessary and inadvisable.
Respectfully submitted,
F. V. KEl\SLING, Grand Master.

Since the foregoing was p~inted, and on to-wit, October 11, 1917, Sections 33 and 35 of the Constitution were
amended to read as follows:
Sec. 33. The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California shall
be seven in number, four of whom shall be appointed by the Grand
Master and the three others to consist of the Deputy Grand Master,
the Sei:ior and Junior Grand \Vardens, who shall be ex officio Trustees.
The term of office of the four appointed shall be respectively one, two,
three and four years, to be designated and determined by the ~rand
Master appointing. Two of the Trustees shall be fr?~ .Lodges m _t11e
vicinity of Decoto, ·and two from Lodges in the v1cm1ty of Covma.
Succeeding Grand Masters shall appoint successors who shall hold
office for four years. They shall be the success-0rs of the present
Trustees and of the Trustees of the Masonic Widows and Orphans'
Home heretofore appointed under the resolutions -0f the Grand Lodge
adopted in 1892 and subsequently thereto, and shall be vested with all
the powers given such Trustees and with all the rights by them or
any of them acquired.
Sec. 35. Said Trustees shall organize by the election of officers
each year; the Grand Treasurer, however, shall always be the Treasurer
of the Homes and the Grand S'ecretary shall always be the Se;;cretary
of the Board ~f Trustees and of the Homes. They shall be furnished
and maintain an office in the same building and in connection with
offices of the Grand Secretary. They shall adopt by-laws (subject to
the approval of the Grand Master) for their own guidance and for the
management of said charity, ,vhich by-laws they may alter and amend
at any time, subject to like approval of the Grand Master. The Grand
Master shall at all times have the right of visitation and inspection of
the books and entire management of the charity, and may remove a
Trustee at any time, upon request of two-thirds of the Trustees, and
appoint another in the place of the person so removed.

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Master then read as a supplement to his
Address, a report by Professor Arthur Ritter and Dr. Harold K. Faber, concerning their mental and physical survey
of the children at the Covina Home, as follows:

A MENTAL AND PHYSICAL SURVEY

OF THE MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN
AT COVINA, CALIFORNIA

313

Studies, Johannesburg (South Africa), 1898-1901; Student, Paris,
1902-3 · Instructor des en fan ts arrieres, Paris, 1904-05; Private Case
Work' with Feeble-Minded Children, 1906-11; Principal Home
School for Nervous and Backward Children, 1912. At Stanford
s:nce 1916.
It is unnecessary to say that such men made an independent
study. The results are therefore exceedingly gratifying.
I trust that Grand Lodge will fully appreciate the valuable
suggestions. This work was done at considerable sacrifice by
these eminent men, without charge to the Fraternity and they are
enthusiastic in the cause and will be interested observers.
Fraternally submitted,

By ARTHUR JOHN RITTER, Lecturer on Mental Deficiency--

(Signed)

and HAROLD K. FABER, M. D.

F. V. KEESLING,
Grand Master.

Assi1tant Profeuor of Medicine and Executive Head of the Depa1tment of Pediatrics

Leland Stanford Junior University.

from Department of Pediatrics of Stanford University Medicl!) School

San Francisco, California, October 8th, 1917.
October Eighth, Nineteen Seventeen.
':i.'o the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge,

F. & A. M. of California:
Brethren:
Herewith, and as supplemental to my Annual Address I submit a report of exceeding interest and value, made under ;he auspices of Le~and Stanford Junior University Medical School, by
Arthur J. Ritter, Lecturer on Mental Deficiency, and Harold K.
Faber, M. D., Assistant Professor of Medicine, and Executive Head
of the Department of Pediatrics.

Mr. F. V. Keesling,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California,
Chronicle Building, San Francisco, Cal.
Dear Sir: We have the honor to submit herewith the general
report of a survey of the Masonic Home for Children at C?vi~a,
California, made by us, representing the Department of Pediatrics
of the Stanford University Medical School, between September
19th and 26th, 1917. An appendix to this report, containing the
cetailed examinations and the details of certain recommendations
enumerated in the present report, will be presented in the early
fttture.
Very truly yours,
(Signed)

The record of Dr. Harold Kniest Faber is as follows: A. B.,
Harvard, 1906; M. D., Michigan, 1911. Medical Interne New York
Hospital, 1911-13; Resident Pathologist, Babies' Ho~pital, New
York, 1913-14; Fellow, Rockfellow Institute, New York, 1914-15.
At Stanford since 1915.
That of Mr. Arthur John Ritter, as follows: Graduate Teacht>rs' College, Zurich, S~tzerland, 1897. Research Assistant, Racial

ARTHUR J. RITTER,
HAROLD K. FABER.

At the request of Grand Master F. V. Keesling of the Grand
Lodge of California, the following physical and psychological survey was made of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina, Calitornia, including also an investigation of the housing and feeding,
l'anitary conditions, educational facilities and general management.
The results of this survey are presented in the general report
herewith submitted, and in an Appendix to the report in which

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

314

315

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

detailed recommendations and the results of the individual exammations of the children will be given in full.

I. The buildings of the Home are situated on a thirty-acre
r.-lot of ground in the orange belt of the San Gabriel valley about
twenty-five miles from Los Angeles. There are three large buildings of cement and brick construction, which are of a pleasing
;:irchitectural design. These are connected by covered passage
ways. The equipment and furnishings are modern and in excellent
taste.
The sleeping rooms are arranged on the dormitory plan and
have adequate ventilation. The lavatories are particularly noteworthy, being lined with white tiling and fitted with toilets, handhasins, built-in bath-tubs and showers of the most modern type.
The importance and the value of plumbing installations of this
i.igh character need no comment. A special feature of the lavatories is a device designed by Mr. Spencer for individual toothbrushes, soap and towels.
The dining room is spacious, with tables arranged for eight
and ten children, who are grouped according to age and sex. The
walls are painted a very pleasing French grey, with wood-work
in harmony. This is a very pleasant and cheerful room. The
Htchen and pantry are fairly commodious, and sanitary in every
respect. The gymnasium is one of the best features of the Home.
A large room with abundant air supply for exercises and indoor
drilling is supplemented by a large swimming pool lined with tile.
The gymnasium equipment had not been installed at the time of
inspection.
The septic tank system of sewage disposal is entirely satisfactory.
The examiners took their meals at the Home while making
the survey and found the food to be abundant, wholesome and well
cooked, though certain recommendations have been made in another
part of this report
The daily life of the children appeared, in so far as the time
at our disposal permitted us to judge, to be admirably arranged.
The children carry out most of the housekeeping work, and other
tasks suited to their age and strength are also performed by them.
Ample schooling is provided, given at the public schools of the
vicinity, which in our opinion, is a very wise provision. Besides
this, manual training of some kind is, we understood, to be provided as soon as necessary equipment can be obtained. Recreation
and training in social accomplishments are also provided for, and

in the entertainments given by the children in the evenings the
children show a gratifying absence of restraint and self-consciousness, together with a distinct spirit of co-operation and mutual
encouragement.
Such results as these, are of course, only obtained by painstaking and wise management and we feel that the Home has been
extremely fortunate in its Home Trustee Mr. E. B. Spencer and
its Matron, Mrs. Maude E. Miller. During our stay at the Home
we had an adequate opportunity to observe the management and
care of the children. Both Mr. Spencer and Mrs. Miller manifest
ympathy and devotion in their relations with the children, but,
5
~ore ·important, both a deep understanding of the problems of
childhood and the application of high principles in their solution.
Particularly worthy of mention and commendation is the home-like
atmosphere of the institution. Among the children there is a striking absence of the repression which is too often an unfor~unate
accompaniment of orphanage life, without, however, any evidence
of unruliness or unmannerly conduct. The children are exceptionally well-behaved and courteous and show no self,-consci.ousness
when meeting strangers, in marked contrast to children m most
orphanages or, indeed, in many private homes.
II. Physical Status: A complete physical examination .was
made of each child, and in addition, measurements of :he height,
weight, girth of head, chest and abdomen, and the gnp of b?th
hands. Vision was tested by the Snellen types, and hearmg
(roughly) by the watch test. Special attention was paid to the
condition of the teeth, tonsils and posture.
Taken as a group, the children showed only two defects of any
degree of seriousness: These were dental caries, and postural
defects,-the latter, however, not as a rule of serious grade . . A
majority of the children had had their tonsils removed ~nd with
a very few exceptions this operation had been performed with great
thoroughness, which is to be taken as evidence of c;:msiderable
surgical skill. In regard to the teeth, it may .be. said that the
temporary conditions obtaining before the new bmld~ngs we.re completed made it difficult to have adequate dental mspectton and
treatment carried out. Provison has been made for the necessary
cental equipment at the Home, and we· merely wish to emphasize
the necessity for frequent and regular inspection of the teeth of
all children,-every four months if possible, and in any case every
six months. It will be well worth any extra expense or effort. to
1:arry this suggestion into effect. A few children also reqmre
orthodontic correction. This is expensive but imperatively urgent

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in the few cases noted. As regards postural correction, detailed
recommendations for suitable exercises will gi;en in the Appendix.
Our measurements permitted an accurate appraisal of the
relative forwardness or backwardness in physique of the individuals
and of the group as a whole, and these are of considerable interest.
Jn the table subjoined the term "percentile" has been used. In
explanation, it may be said that the percentile represents the
relation in which a measurement stands to the measurements of
normal individuals. The 100 percentile represents the highest
normal measurement, the zero percentile, the lowest normal measurement, and the SO percentile the average normal measurement.
In other words, the percentiles above 50 represent. figures above the
average, and those under 50, below the average. The use of these
figures is for the purpose of comparing the measurements of
individuals of different ages and sexes.
The averages of the children of the Home are as follows:
Percentiles for
Height
Weight
Rt. Grip
Left Grip
Boys
62.8
48.7
47.i
44.1
Girls
S7.6
S0.3
38.6
39.1
These figures show beyond question that in height, the boys
and girls are considerably above the average; in weight, practically
<iverage; and in grip (representing nervous and muscular energy),
1:'omewhat below the average. It should be remembered that the
figures would be even more favorable if we had excluded a few
very subnormal cases. Our impression of the children as a group
was that physically they were unusually well developed, with
nutrition normally good, though. not quite on a par with their
physical development; that they show the evidence of good heredity
and favorable environment, and that with the exceptions above
noted there were remarkably few physical defects.
Recent scientific discoveries show the importance of butterfats in influencing the growth and nutrition of children, and we
should like to recommend a somewhat increased ration of milk and
butter for the ehildren, feeling that this should be given even if the
bills for food are somewhat increased. This should not, however,
he regarded as meaning that the allowance now in force at the
Home is unusually low, but rather as a plea for an allowance somewhat more liberal than the average.
III. Mental Status: The plan of the psychological survey was
to examine each child in the Home by means of standardized
mental tests (Binet-Simon scale and Yerkes-Bridges Point scale),
hi order to obtain the intelligence level. Each child was placed
in the so-called age-group; i. e., 4 years 7 months, S years 6 months.
-·-age 5 years. The points obtained are giveh in the following
table:

317

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TABLE.

I 4 I 5 I 6 I i I 8 I 9 I 10 I 11 : 12 I 13 I 14 I 15 I 16 I 17 I 18

Y ea rs.

I.ND 19
25

68 72

25 t34 46 tSl 1*49 \
\*67) 85 *71
37 t34 47 SS S2 74 -81 78 87 86
39 39 -85 57 I 571-80 -851 82 -<JO
39
63 57 '-84 -92 I 84 f-94 -94
-87 64 l-88 -941 85 -95

I

'-81 j

.

No. cases
Nonns.

I

-941

I

1=~1

86 91
1*72
89

1-9S i-861-96 I
r

I

:

I I

3
I
1-8
I
1
. 61 61 61I 41I 21 11
I 11 21 31' 41 31 51 91 -'I

I

l

I 17 I 221 29 J 35 I 41 I 56 I 62 1 65 I 771 79 I 81 I 821 85 I 85 I 90

ND Not diagnosed.
t Dull normal.
* Borderline.
Normal superior.
The distribution of the children in the various i11telligence groups
is as follows :
or 36.2%
or S0.0%
III. Dull normal intelligence ................................................ 3, or S.2%
IV. Borderline intelligence .................................................... 4, or 6.9%

Ii: ~ ~~~~l i~fe1fl;:n~~···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:

vi: ~~~b~i~~:~~~~ ·(·~-ii·~~~-h:··;~~-t~~--;ff~t:~~1;~~-~')--':::::::::::: ?. or I.7%
Total. ......................................... S8

100.0%

The average intelligence and information of the individual
children was rather high, due to the excellent environment and
opportunity for potential development offered by the Home. In
several instances children were found not to be placed correctly
in school as to the age and intelligence, some having been advanced
too far, while others were in grades too low. Re-adjustment was
made in each case. In the course of examining, it was found that
children· of the ages of 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 years did not know
5, 10, 2S and SO cent pieces.
It is suggested that as an essential part of training for. practical life, children should have an opportunity to make transactions
with monev. This may be done by allowing children, at least the
older ones~ who are assigned work in the Home, some monetary
compensation for their services. This would encourage a sense
of independence, the lack of which is one of the gr~atest dang~rs
1 esulting from institutional life, placing a heavy handicap on a child
making the transition from a dependent to a self-supporting

318

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

existence. The money earned could be placed in individual savings
nccounts. The child should be allowed to make financial transactions of his own, under proper supervision and direction. It is
recommended that the four children of "Borderline" intelligence
and two of the dull normal group be removed from the Home, the
former because of marked mental deviation, and the latter on
account of delinquent tendencies.
We have two other recommendations of a general character:
The first of these is a card index system. Each child on entering
the Home should receive a mental and physical examination, the
record of which should be kept on file in the office. On the same
card or sheet should be recorded the progress of the child, his
record of promotions, his conduct, illnesses, eventual disposition,,
and such other items as may be of interest. The various ways in
which such a record would be of use in scientific investigation and
study are too numerous to mention.
The second recommendation is the establishment of a "followup" system for the ben,efit of children who have left the Home.
An organization of this sort, with a committee in Northern as well
as Southern California, would make it possible for children in times
of stress or doubt to communicate freely for counsel and assistance.
It is a well recognized fact that in the pubescent period the
individual requires more and wise guidance than at any other time,
• and the plan as we conceive it would mean for the children, that
when they have left the protecting influences of the Home behind
them, they still have the opportunity to obtain needed help and
advice.
IV. Conclusion: We feel that the Masonic Fraternitv has
accomplished a remarkable feat in the establishment of an o;phanage of. the standards of the Home at Covina. The physical equipment 1s unusually fine, but the feature which renders the Home
superior to the majority of institutions of its kind is rather a
psychological one. By this we mean the atmosphere of kindliness
good-will, and intelligent sympathy which has been created there'
iargely as a result of the devotion and personality of Mr. Spencer'.
'::'he relationship between the management and the children is
worthy of all praise. As a result, we found a group of children
who in standards of conduct, intelligence, training, physique and
good manners, would not suffer by comparison with children
reared in private homes of means and refinement, and who represent a future contribution to good citizenship of which the Masons
may well be proud.

319

The above, together with the History of the Homes,
was referred to the same committee as that to which had
been referred the Grand ).faster's Address.
The Grand Secretary then read his Annual Report, as
follows:
To the M.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Herewith is my annual report of the transactions of tge
office of Grand Secretary for the year, with such other matters as
pertain to the office:
At the close of the last annual communication there were
Two
Lodges have consolidated, namely, Newville Ko. 205, located at
Paskenta, and Olivet No. 364, located at Corning. The proceedings of consolidation have been approved by the Grand Master
under date of October I, 1917, and are· herewith presented. The
consolidated Lodge will take the name and number of Olivet
Lodge No. 205, located at Corning.

377 Lodges on our registry, with a membership of 57,856.

There are three Lodges under dispensation: Libertas, located at Bakersfield; Culver City, located at Culver City; and
Rockridge, located at Oakland, making the number of active
Lodges now 379. Our total memben;hip is now 60,384, a net gain of'
2528 for the year.
The number of petitions rejected during the year ending July
31, 1917, was 773, and this number, added to the number reported
as having received the first degree, would indicate that 4815 petitions had been received for the year.
There were initiated 4042, passed 3835, raised 3869, affiliated
933, restored 191, withdrawn 764, suspended for non-payment of
dues 717, suspended and expelled for cause 14, died 864.
At the last annual communication, section 41 of the Constitution was amended so as to relieve Lodges from Grand Lodge
dues upon members who'se dues should be remitted at the July
stated meeting for the preceding twelve months. Many Lodges
apparently interpreted the amended section to m~an that exei:iption could be claimed for account of dues re1111tted at a time
other than July, and much correspondence was in consequence

320

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

entailed. Other than this, annual returns were generally sent in
promptly and well-prepared. Three Lodges, I regret to say, have
not responded to numerous letters from this office with relation
to errors in their annual returns. They are Traver Ko. 294, Sisson
No. 310, and \Vaucoba No. 413. The number of members whose
dues were remitted under section 41 was 397, and Grand Lodge 1s
therefore taxed for their account to the amount of $952.80.
The annual returns of Lassen Lodge No. 149 were received
in time, but Grand Lodge dues have not been paid, and the
Representative of that Lodge will necessarily be penalized pur·
suant to section 6 of the Constitution.
The three Lodges for which dispensations were issued by
order of the Grand Master, with the names of the petitioners, are:
Libertas, Bakersfield, Kern County. Dispensation issued May
17, 1917. Frank \¥ilkins Robinson, Master; Ira Houston Glenn,
Senior \Varden; William Arthur Eardley, Junior Warden; and
Alonzo Deeble \Vhittemore, Calvin Vance Anderson, Elwood \Villiam Spiers, James Thomas Graham, James Robert Dibble, Abraham Cohn, Arthur Henry Myer, James Lowell Annette, John
Russell Withrow, Frank Earle Smith, William Overton Todd.
Wilbur Swift Robinson, Frederich William Tegeler, Albert Joseph
Phillips, Newell Jonathan Brown, Thomas Philip Bawden, Albert
Dea bill.
Culver City Lodge at Cul;er City, Los Angeles County. Dispensation issued July 6, 1917. Charles Emmert Shillito, Master;
Henry Lawrence Canning, Senior \Varden; Charles Louis William
Vocke, Junior Warden; and Harry Hazel Culver, Calvin Alfred
\Vhite, August Goedicke, Bryant Robert Simpson, William Spaulding Randall, \Villiam Elbridge Richard, Richard Parham Marks,
Richard Emil Engles, Edgar Atherton, Isaiah Horatio Smith,
Benjamin Franklin Field.
Rockridge Lodge, at Oakland, Alameda County. Dispensation
issued August 3, 1917. John Alexander Smith, Master; Roy Ralph
Beggs, Senior Warden; Willard Wright Shea, Junior Warden;
and Karl Adolph Hedberg, Henry Christ Ludwig Tonges, \Villiam
Peake, Charles Laurence Hoffmann, Tracy Boerstler, Frank Darwin Bryant, Arthur James Greische, John Schmid, Harry Edward
Petillon.
The Grand Master withheld his approval for the formation of
a Lodge at Hermosa Beach, on th.e ground that Redondo Lodge

321

would be injured if such Lodge should be organized, and that
the community at Hermosa was not large enough to properly support a Lodge.
The entire edition of the Constitution and Ceremonies printed
last fall has been sold, and unless Grand Lodge desi~es chan~es in
the matter contained in the book, a new edition will be p;mted,.
containing the same matter as the edition of !~st year, '"':1th,. of
course, any amendments that may be made at this Commumcatwn.
The Lodges of the jurisdiction having five hundred or more
members are as follows:
1917
1916
1915
896
902
908
Mission No. 169 ............................................. .
719
742
South Gate No. 320 ....................................... . 729
882
810
727
Hollenbeck No. 319 ..................................... .
748
738
Live Oak No. 61 ........................................... . 719
668
680
Southern California No. 278 ..................... . 682
670
675
Pacific No. 136 ............................................... . 669
"725
706
East Gate No. 290 ......................................... . 656
581
583
California No. 1 ............................................. . 573
594
572
Oakland No. 188 ............................................ 558
616
579
557
West Lake No. 392 ..................................... .
643
581
Occidental No. 22 ......................................... . 548
568
561
Fidelity No. 120 ............................................. . 546
560
548
538
Golden Gate No. 30 ..................................... .
568
513
King Solomon's No. 260 .............................. 511
504
503
476
Doric No. 216 ................................................. .
533
517
Los Angeles No. 42 ....................................... . 490
581
543
499
Sequoia No. 349 ............................................. .
506
499
Pentalpha No. 202 .......................................... 506
515
480
445
Golden State No. 358 ................................... .
Fortunately there have been no calls upon our Emergency
Relief Fund during the year. By order of the Grand Master the
sum of four thousand dollars was diverted on the 2d July, :917,
to the purchase of Liberty bonds. The condition of the fund 1s as
follows:
Balance on hand per report of 1916............................................ $8,574.23
December 31 1916 interest ............................................................ 171.48
June JO, 1917, int~rest .................................................................... 174.90
Total, counting bonds at par ..................................................$8,920.61

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

One hundred and thirty-three Lodges subscribed for Liberty
bonds in the aggregate sum of $131,800.
In addition to many visits to Lodges, taking practically his
whole time for the year, the Grand Master has convened Grand
Lodge , for special purposes as follows:
October 14, 1916, constitution of Argonaut, Paul Revere and
Alta Lodges,· at San Francisco.
October 21, 19f6, constitution of Morgan Hill Lodge.
October 27, 1916, constitution of Mount Oso Lodge, at Tracy.
October 28, 1916, constitution of Center Lodge, at Fresno.
November 25, 1916, dedication of Masonic Hall at Coronado.
January 18, 1917, laying corner stone of courthouse, W ~odland.
February 3, 1917, dedication of Masonic Hall at San Pedro.
May 25, 1917, laying corner stone of Masonic Hall at Merced.
May 30, 1917, laying corner stone of Masonic Hall at Vallejo.
August 11, 1917, laying corner stone of Masonic Hall at
Modesto.
September 8, 1917, dedication of Children's Home at Covina.
On the 21st of May a disastrous fire destroyed a large portion
of the city of Atlanta, Georgia, entailing great distress among
the people there, and the Grand Master at once wired to the
Grand Master of Georgia his offer of pecuniary assistance. The
following telegram was received from Frank 0. Miller, Grand
Master of Georgia, in answer to the proffered aid:
"With hearts full of gratitude the Masons of Georgia, and
more especially of Atlanta, thank you sincerely for your expression of sympathy and offer of pecuniary assistance. You will
never know just how much your wire was appreciated, and your
kindly offer will ever be cherished in the hearts of your brethren
in Georgia. I am happy to say .the situation is being met all
right here at home, and assistance will not be needed."
A~ ordered at the last annual communication of Grand Lodge,
portraits of four Past Grand Masters have been painted and hung
in the Temple. They are those of Jonathan D. Stevenson, Grand
Master in 1850; John 'A. Tutt, 1851; Charles M. Radcliff, 1853;
and William H. Howard, 1855.

The portrait of Grand Master Burnett, as ordered, was
painted and is now hanging in the first panel of the Temple
entrance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

323

On the first day of August, 1917, fire destroyed the buildi,ng in
which was located Rio Vista Lodge No. 208, and all the property
of the Lodge was burned. A duplicate charter was, by order of
the Grand Master, issued as of date October 14, 1870.
PAST GRAND MASTERS AND l(Ll(CTIV!l GRAND OFJ.'IC!lRS DYING

1916-1917.

Arkansas-Robert Liddell, Grand Senior Deacon, February
3, 1917.
Connecticut-Charles B. Chapman, Grand Trustee, December
28, 1916; James McCormick, Grand Master 1882, June 24, 1917.
Florida-James Carnell, Grand Master 1901, June 17, 1917;
Samuel Pascoe, Grand Master 1870, March 13, 1917.
Idaho-Jonas W. Brown, Past Grand Master, September 15,
1916.
Illinois-Albert B. Ashley, Grand Master, 1909, November 1,
1916.
Indiana-Alfred W. Emery, Grand Master 1905, April 12, 1917;
George E. Grimes, Grand Master 1904, January 30, 1917.
Kansas-William M. Shaver, Grand Master 1897, July 6, 1916;
Bestor G. Brown, Grand Master 1903, July 10, 1917; J. Jay Buck,
Grand Master 1884, September 3, 1917.
Kentucky-William H. Meffert, Grand Master 1881, April 10,
1917; Howard R. French, Grand Master 1883, September 11, 1917;
James W. Hopper, Grand Master 1886, May 8, 1917. ·
Manitoba-George W. Baker, Grand Master 1910, September
1, 1917.
Michigan-James H. Farnum, Grand Master 1885, January 19,
1917; Abraham T. Metcalf, Grand Master 1869, October 28, 1916.
Mississippi-John S. Brooks, Grand Master 1911, March 17,
1917.
Missouri-Campbell Wells, Grand Master 1900, December 14,
1916.
N ebraska-Zuingle M. Baird, Grand Master 1906, December
17, 1916.
Nevada-William McMillan, Grand Master 1888, July 21, 1917.
New York-William A. B~odie, Senior P. G. M., May 10, 1917;
Edward M. L. Ehlers, Grand Secretary, May 28, 1917.
Nova Scotia-William M. Black, Grand Master 1909, May 9,
1917.
North Carolina-John C. Drewry, Grand Secretary, October 2,
1916.
Ohio-William J. Akers, Deputy Grand Master 1886, March
23, 1917.
Oklahoma-Leo E. Bennett, Grand Treasurer, May 28, 1917.

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pennsylvania-George W. Guthrie, Grand Master 1910, March
8, 1917.
Texas-Archibald vV. Campbell, Grand Master 1904, April 1,
1917.
Virginia-Henry K. Field, Grand Master, July 31, 1917.
West Virginia-\Villiam G. Bennett, Grand Master 1883, November 8, 1916; Neil Robinson, Grand Master 1899, November 11,
1916.
\Vyoming-Harry C. Snyder, Junior Grand Warden, November 23, 1916.

Case No. 220-Expelled by Ramona Lodge No. 457, May 1,
1917. Appealed by accused.
Case No. 221-Suspended by San Bernardino Lodge No. 348,
May 4, 1917.
Case No. 222-Expelled by Liberty Lodge No. 299, April 7,
1917.
Case Xo. 223-Suspended oy Oceanside Lodge Xo. 381, May
6, 1917. (The record in this case is particularly well prepared,
and the Secretary of the Locige, Brother Byron, is entitled to
commendation.)
Case No. 224-Expelled by Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, December 6, 1916.
Case No. 225-Reprimanded by \Vest Lake Lodge No. 392,
April 5, 1915. On appeal by accuser.
Case No. 226-Expelled by \Vest Lake Lodge No. 392, November 28, 1916.
Case No. 227-Member of Amador Lodge No. 65, expelled by
lone Lodge Xo. 80. (Original papers were sent here and returned for a copy of the record.)
Case No. 228-Expelled by Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297, January
18, 1917.
Case No. 114-Expelled by Golden Gate Lodge No. 30. Petition for restoration.

324

Transcripts of trial records have been received and delivered
to the Committee on Appeals and Grievances, as follows:
Case No. 48-Member of Fresno Lodge No. 247, tried by Las
Palmas Lodge No. 366 and expelled February, 1908. Petition of
Fresno Lodge No. 247 for restoration.
Case No. 154-Member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306, tried by
Evergreen Lodge No. 259 and expelled April 3, 1914. Petition of
Ashlar Lodge No. 306 for restoration.
Case No. 190-Member of East Gate Lodge No. 290, tried by
Fairmount Lodge No. 435 and acquitted September, 1915. Appeal
by accuser. (This case was before the Committee in 1916, and
remanded to Fairmount Lodge for more complete record, which
is now submitted.)
Case No. 212-Expel!ed October 5, 1916, by Turlock Lodge
No. 395.
Case No. 213-Master of a Lodge expelled December 9, 1916,
by a Commission appointed by the Grand Master. (This refers to
Wallace A. Ward, who has since been traveling in States east of
California and unlawfully imposing upon credulous brethren.)
Case No. 214-Member of Crockett Lodge 'lo. 139, tried by
California Lodge No. 1 and expelled February 1, 1917.
Case No. 215-An Entered Apprentice of Burlingame Lodge
No. 400, expelled March 6, 1917.
Case No. 216-Member of Exeter Lodge No. 424, acquitted
and appeal by accuser.
Case No. 217-Suspended by Balder Lodge No. 393, March
2, 1917.
Case No. 218-An Entered Apprentice of Doric Lodge No.
216, suspended April 2, 1917.
Case No. 219-Suspended by Orland Lodge No. 265, May 11,
1917.

32f·

Special dispensations for various purposes have been issued
by order of the Grand Master, as follows:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by the by-laws:
Sacramento No. 40, Volcano No. 56, Humboldt No. 79, Summit
No. 112, Crockett No. 139, Grafton No. 141, Mendocino No. 179,
Oak Grove No. 215, Speranza Italiana No. 219, Santa Ana No. 241,
Paso Robles No. 286, Winnedumah No. 287, Mokelumne Hill No.
298, Azusa No. 305, Emmanuel No. 318, Maricopa No. 434, Schofield No. 443.
To re ballot: La Parfaite Union No. 17, Trinity No. 27, Santa
Rosa No. 57, Parnassus No. 388, Balder No. 393, University No. 394,
Burlingame No. 400, Pittsburg No. 429, Schofield No. 443, Park No.
449, ~fontebello No. 451. Golden West No. 455, Kennett No. 456.
To receive petition from member U. S. Army: Santa Cruz
No. 38, Pentalpha No. 202, Long Beach No. 327, Sunset No. 352,
Center No. 564.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

326

To receive and act upon petition without reference to a committee: Live Oak No. 61, Brooklyn No. 225, Delano No. 309,
Long Beach No. 327, San Bernardino No. 348, Berkeley No. 363,
Yerba Buena No. 403, Charter Rock No. 410.
Resolutions creating life memberships have been adopted by
Athens No. 228, $112.50; Long Beach No. 327, $100.00; Palos Verdes
No. 389, $150.00; Balder No. 393, $150.00; Paul Revere No. 462,
$150.00.
The following proposed amendments to by-laws have received
the approval of the Grand Master:
Increasing the amount that may be expended by Charity Committee: Temescal No. 314.
Increasing dues: Yosemite No. 99, to $15.00; Pajaro No. 110,
to $18.00; Alamo No. 122, to $9.00; Stanislaus No. 206, to $12.00;
Olive Branch No. 269, to $10.00; Southern California No. 278, to
$9.00; King David's No. 209, to $24.00; San Mateo No. 226, to
$18.00; Traver No. 294, to $10.00; Los Banos No. 312, to $12.00;
Lancaster No. 437, to $9.00.
Decreasing dues:

Perris No. 411, to $8.00.

Decreasing fees for degrees: Table Mountain No. 124, to
$35.00; San Mateo No. 226, to $50.00; Laurel No. 245, to $50.00;
Corona No. 324, to $50.06; Balder No. 393, to $50.00.
Increasing fees for degrees: Fairmount No. 435, to $75.00.
Increasing life membership fee: Santa Ana No. 241, to $100.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Pacific No. 136, to $20.00 or the
difference between the fee in this Lodge ($100.00) and the fee in
the Lodge from which the applicant has withdrawn; Wilshire
No. 445, to $25.00; Paul Revere No. 462, to $5.1.JO; Hollywood No.
355, to $5.00; Standard Ko. 440, to $5.00.
Abolishing affiliation fee: Abell No. 146, Reading No. 254.
Changing time of stated meetings: Eureka No. "16, Volcano
No. 56, Clay Xo. 95, Table Mountain No. 124, Nicolaus No. 129,
Abell No. 146, Woodbridge No. 131, Franklin No. 143, Woodland
No. 156, Ferndale No. 193, Mountain View No. 194, Buckeye No.
195, Mosaic No. 218, Hill's Ferry No. 236, Colusa No. 240, Landmark No. 253, Tuscan No. 261, San Miguel No. 285, Azusa No.
305, Clovis No. 417, Eagle Rock No. 422, Tyrian No. 439, Morgan
Hill No. 463.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

327

OUR SOLDIER MEMBERS.
Under date of August 1, 1917, the Grand Master caused the
following circular letter to be sent to the Grand Masters of the
several Masonic jurisdictions of North Americ;a:
"Many young men, Masons or sons of Masons, have left homes
and loved ones and are now in the service of their country,
located temporarily in military camps in California. In many instances parents or other relatives at home desire reliable information concerning 'these young men, particularly relative to their
health and rondition.
"For the purpose of aiding such relatives, we offer the serdces
of Brethren who are conveniently located near the several military
camps in California, and suggest to Grand Masters that Lodges of
their respective jurisdictions be advised of this proffered service.
"Inquiries di~ected to the Brethren below named will receive
prompt attention:
"Concerning men stationed at camps at or near San Francisco
(Fort Baker, Fort Barry, Fort Mason, Fort McDowell, Fort Miley,
Fort Winfield Scott, Presidio, Naval Training Station at Goat
Island), apply to Brother Leo Bruck, 419 Masonic Temple, San
Francisco.
"Concerning men at Mare Island Navy Yard, Vallejo, apply
to Brother Thomas Brown, 1205)1;! Marin street, Vallejo, or to
Brother Samuel Lyttle, box 334, Vallejo.

"Cd~icerning men at Camp Fremont (Menlo Parl~), apply to
Brother Harry N. Vandervoort, 111 Circle, Palo Alto.
"Concerning men at Arcadia or other camps near Los Angeles, apply to Brother J. M. Dunsmoor, 513 Stimson building, Los
Angeles.
"Concerning men at any of the camps at and near San Diego
(Fort Rosecrans, Camp Kearny, Naval Training, Aviation, or Radio
Stations), apply to Brother C. Woodman Potter, Masonic Temple,
Fifth and Ash streets, San Diego, or to Arthur A. Mathewson,
Coronado.
"Assuring you of our desire to be of service in any 'vay. and
feeling as you do a pardonable pride in the fact that so many
Masons are offering their services to their country, I am
"Fraternally yours,
"FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Grand Master."

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

.Numerous letters of commendation of the above have been
received from Grand Masters of other jurisdictions, the following
from the Grand Master of West Virginia showing the spirit of all
of them:
":our thoughtful and timely letter of August 1, 1917, calling
attent10n of the Masons of America to the fact that the homes and
hearts of Masons of your grand jurisdiction were open to the
Brethren of the Craft "'.ho _are now in the service of our country,
and who are quartered 111 some of the military camps of America
and particularly those located in California, is just received.
'
"You are to be commended for this forethought, and judging
from the knowledge I have from former acquaintance with a number. of Masons of your State, I am certain that nothing will be
omitted to make camp life of Mason soldiers as pleasant as it is
possible to do.
"Assuring you that I will give your letter and its contents
all the publicity possible among the Craft in this State, and again
thanking you, I remain
"Sincerely and fraternally yours,
"CHARLES E. CARRIGAN, Grand Master."
.

Many of our Lodges are conferring degrees upon men enlisted
the army and navy, as a courtesy for other jurisdictions and
like courtesies are being extended by Lodges in other State's for
us. A recent letter from the Grand Secretary of New York is so
comforting that it is quoted here, as follows:
111

"R. '. W." · John Which er, Grand Secretary,
"San Francisco, Cal.
"M." · W.". Thomas Penney, Grand Master, directs me to inform
you that Morton No. 63 conferred the degree of Master Mason
upon Alfred M. Sheather of South Gate Lodge No. 320, of Los
Angeles, and upon Gordon MacMillan Davidson of Highland Park
Lodge No. 382 of Los Angeles,· on Monday evening, September
24, 1917. The communication may readily be termed a 'rainbow
communication.' It was an event of historical interest. The Masonic Brothers from Camµ Mills who attended this communication
numbered over two hundred and fifty, and in a roll call of States
twenty-five in our Union were represented; also Alaska and Scotland, by Masons who have given their services in the cause of
democracy and liberty. It is the plan of Morton Lodge to have
the minutes of this communication and their subsequent military
communications printed in pamphlet form for distribution among
the members of the Lodge."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

329

ROLL OF HONOR.
The following members of California Lodges are now serving
their country in some branch of the military or naval establishment. It is not complete, as it has been impossible for Secretaries to secure the names of all of them, but it indicates that the
members of the craft in California are loyally doing their full
duty:
Abbott, Charles Tvenstrunz. ________ ,____________________ Qak Grove, 215.
Abrams, Herman Marion ______________________________________ Solano, 229.
Abrahams, Harry-----------------------------·-·-----------------· Fidelity, 120.
Achilleri, Compagnon __________________________________ ........ La Parfaite Union, 17.
Ackerman, Robert Louis __________________________________ Bethlehem, 453.
Ac ht e I, W i lli<im __________________ ----------------------------------Sc ho fie Id, 443.
Adams, Franklin Fuller.. .................................... \Vest Lake, 392.
Adams, Press Monroe ........................................ McKinley, 347.
A it ken, John ............... --------------------------------------------· Monterey, 217.
Aird, William Alexander. ................................... Gardena, 372.
Aird, George Thomas .......................................... Gardena, 372.
Aitken, Ralph Bushe!L. ______________________________________ Roseville, 432.
Alexander, Arthur Clyde ....... _____________________________ Fraternity, 399.
Alden, Henry Charles ... _______________________________________ Solano, 229.
Alden, Fred Nagley ______________________________________________ Blackmer, 442.
Allen, Richard ------------------------------------------------------Monterey, 217.
Allen, Joe Loren ...................................................... N a val, 87.
Amidon, Carl F ................................................... Schofield, 443.
Anderson, David William .................................. Hawaiian, 21.
Andersod, Augustus -------------------·------------------------Solano, 229.
Anderson, Frederick Edward ........................ ! ... Golden Gate, 30.
Anderson, Cecil M ............................................. Salinas, 204.
Angell, Louis H ................................................... Evergreen, 259.
Andrews, Henry Gay .......................................... Washington, 20.
Anderson, Rowland ............................................ Naval, 87.
Anderson, Theodore, Jr. ------·-----------------------------Na val, 87.
Anderson, Edward J·---·-------------------------------......... Schofield, 443.
Andrews, Frank James ........................................ Paul Revere, 462.
Anthes, Albert John __________________ ............................ Fraternity, 399.
Armstrong, Donald Harvey .............................. Sacramento, 40.
Archer, Verne Bue!L ............................................ Santa Barbara. 192.
Archambault, Clifford Stevens .......................... Oakland, 188.
Arnold, Charles Elmer.. ...................................... San Diego, 35.
Arwine, Jam es Travers ...................................... Lancaster, 437.
Armstrong, John EmanueL .............................. San Diego, 35.
Ashe, Roger .......................................................... Oakland, .188.
Ashley, John ------------------------------------------------------------Las Pal mas, 366.

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ashley, William J ames ........................................ Golden West, 455.
Avery, Ralph W. ---······-···········-·······---------------------Oxnard, 431.
Axelson, I var .......................................................... Oakland, 188.
Ayers, Russell Gordon ........................................ Pentalpha, 202.
Atkinson, Alatau Charles Leonard .................. Hawaiian, 21.
Babcock, Raymond Arthur ................................ Willits, 365.
Baer, Lucien G. ·········-·······-------·-························--West Gate, 335.
Bagnall, Ransom .................................................... Naval, 87.
Baily, Washington Irving, Jr ............................. Abell, 146.
Baker, Harold Allen ............................................ Arlington, 414.
Ballard, James Sterling...................................... Sequoia, 349.
Ballard, Merrill Ora ............................................ Vesper, 84.
Balentine, Arthur T ........................................... San Diego, 35.
Bales, Charles R. .................................................. Schofield, 443.
Barber, Albert vVilliam ........................................ Sacramento, 40.
Barnes, Paul Barlett.. ........................... ---------------Pomona, 246.
Barnhart, George Edward ................. ---------------San Diego, 35.
Barney, Austin Church ...................................... Veteran, 373.
Barton, Leo Harrison ...... ·--·····--------------------------·· Winnedumah, 287.
Barry, George Crisp .............................................. Fidelity, 120.
Bartlett, Chenry Clattde ...................................... Temescal, 314.
Baruch, Herbert Marks ...................................... West Gate, 335.
Bates, Charles N orman ........................................ Martinez, 41.
Bates, Oscar Winfield .......................................... Silver Gate, 296.
Baxter, George Ernest.. ...................................... Vitruvius, 145.
Beaver, Lawrence Kirk ........................................ Golden State, 358.
Beall, James Walter.. .......................................... Naval, 87.
Beale, George Edward .......................................... Golden West, '455.
Beardsley, James Harve:,o .................................... Monterey, 217.
Beck, Dorrence ...................................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Beckwith, John Allison, Jr ................................. Live Oak, 61.
Behre, William H enry ........................................ Fairmount, 435.
Belden, Miles Beebe ............................................ St. John's, 37.
Bell, Brythe Stewart ............................................ Montebello, 451.
Bell, John ·····-······-····--·········--·····················--······------Naval, 87.
Bellah, Roy Pierce ................................................ Oxnard, 341.
Bendle, Robert Scotby ........................................ Sequoia, 349.
Bennett, Ray Woodmont.. .................................. Guadalupe, 237.
Bennetts, Albert Everett .................................... Golden West, 455.
Benninger, John Alfred ........................................ St. Joh n's, 37.
Bense, Frederick .................................................... Paul Revere, 462.
Benson, Donald Bennett.. .................................. N eedles, 326.
Bent, Curtis Hazen ................................................ Standard, 440.
Berg, Harol<t, Milton ....... --------·-···-··-·········-----------Elysian, 41'8'.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

331

Berkowitz, Alexander .......................................... Golden Gate, 30.
Bernard, Etienne ...................................................... Vallee de France, 329.
Bernhard, Paul Lane .......................................... Fairmount, 435.
Bertz, Henry Ehrtz .............................................. Schofield, 443.
Bervin, Joseph Marvin .......................................... N a val, 87.
Bettencourt, Jack Ewing .................................... Oak Grove, 215.
Bevine, Earle Robert.. .......................................... Chico, 111.
Biery, Carl Louis ................................................ '..N a val, 87.
Digelow, William .................................................. Winnedumah, 287.
Biggar, Albert Leonard ...................................... Long Beach, 327.
Birmingham, Earl Barton .................................... Chico, 111.
Bitzer, Raymond Martin .................................... N a val, 87.
Bishop, Lee E. ················-·-·-··--·--·-····-------------------·Schofield, 443.
Rlasdel, Francis Gaines ........................................ Live Oak, 61.
Blaine, Clyde Chester .......................................... Torrance, 447.
Blakiston, John Houston .................................... So. California, 278.
Blanchard, Dudley Tucker .................................. Palo.s Verdes, 389.
Block, Charles Adolph .. ,..................................... King Solomon's, 260.
Blomquist, Wallace Hess .................................... Arlington, 214.
Bloom, William P ............................................... Schofield, 443.
Blowers, Samuels E ............................................. Schofield, 443.
Bloyd, William Thomas ...................................... Reedley, 304.
Bohnert, Arthur Math .......................................... California, 1.
Boichot, Francis Julius ........................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Boling, Augustus C .................................... :........ Schofield, 443.
Ro.ner, Thomas J eremiah .................................... Naval, 87.
Booker, William C ............................................... Schofield, 443.
Booth, Stephen Stirling........................................ So. California, 278.
Boquet, Arthur ...................................................... Solano, 229.
Boschke, Ray ........................................................ Oxnard, 341.
Bowman, Dean Cottle .......................................... Long Beach, 327.
Bowman, William Burley .................................... Wilshire, 445.
Boyce, Arthur Elliott.. .......................................... Monterey, 217.
Boyd, Jam es, Jr ...................................._. ............... Laurel, 245.
Boyd, Grover Cleveland ........................................ Mill Valley, 356.
Boyd, Edmund Sidney ........................................ Golden West, 455.
Boyd, Samuel James ............................................ Fairmount, 435.
Boydler, Elmer Thomassori ................................ Naval, 87.
Bozarth, John T ..................................................... Schofield, 443.
Bozeyks, John ........................................................ Schofield, 443.
Bradish, Herman Powers .................................... Naval, 87.
Bradley, Harry........................................................ ],oyalton, 359.
Bradshaw, Irving Holsten .................................. Naval, 87.
Brim, John .............................................................. Schofield, 443.

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALllfORNIA

Brison, John \Vesley .............................................. Park, 449.
Brennan, Julian Link ............................................ South Pasadena, 367.
Breon, Chester H. ]. ............................................ Brawley, 402.
Brest, Arthur Roy ............................................... Mt. Moriah, 44.
Briggs, Edgar vVing................................... . ... Sotoyome, 123.
Brock, Allison A ................................................... Mispah, 378.
Brome, George Hart.. ............................................ Hollenbeck, 319.
Brownridge, George Thomasc............................. Solano, 229.
Browning, George Norman ................................ Apollo, 396.
Brown, William Frederick .................................. Naval, 87.
Brooks, Frederick L. M .............. ,...................... Schofield, 443.
Browning, William S ......................................... Schofield, 443.
Brunotte, Carl Frederick ...................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Bruse, Harry Gerhard ............................................ Crockett, 139.
Bruse, Frederick .................................................. Crockett, 139.
Brush, John Andrew .............................................. Hawaiian, 21.
Butler, Seth Lake .................................................. Amity, 370.
Buckman, Alfred Edgecombe ............................ Amity, 370.
Bush, Benjamin Howard ...................................... Santa Cruz, 38.
Burrill, Alfred S ................................................... Howard, 96.
Buffum, Glenn F ................................................... Mount Shasta, 281.
Busse. Edwin Kenneth ........................................ Occidental, 22.
Butte~field, David Rowland ................................ Palo Alto, 346.
Buck, Carl Joseph ................................................. South Gate, 320.
Burgess, George Waldo ...................................... Oakland, 188.
Burke, James Gideon ............................................ Mendocino, 179.
Butler, Lennie Luvane .......................................... Naval, 87.
Buzzo, Benjamin Robert.. .................................... Live Oak, 61.
Burnett, Joseph D ................................................. Schofield, 443.
Burgess, Lloyd S ................................................... Schofield, 443.
Burge, Vernon Lee ................................................ Blackmer, 442.
Byram, Thomas Pierson ...................................... Solano, 229.
Byrnes, Ray Wadley ............................................ Solano, 229.
Byron, William Pete .............................................. W elcome, 255.
Byrne, Michael D ............................................... Schofield, 443.
Calendar, Lester James ...................................... Excelsior, 166.
Calendar, Albert Clayton .................................... Excelsior, 166.
Campbell, Oscar Edward .................................... lnglewood, 421.
Caminetti, Anthony .............................................. Parnassus, 388.
Carr, William Kenny .......................................... Alhambra, 322.
Carse, Herbert Edwin .......................................... Artesia, 377.
Carroll, William Franklin .................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Caya, Oliver Howard .......................................... ] efferson, 97.
Cameron, Adrian E ............................................. Corona, 324.

Callnon, John \V ................................................... Phoenix, 178.
Cantlon, Philip Edward...................................... Crockett. 139.
Cammers, Fred \Valter.. ........................................ Naval, 87.
Caniegar, Harvey J ohn ...................................... N a val, 87.
Carlson, Milton Eugene N ................................. Naval, 87.
Cameron, Howard McDougaL ......................... Crockett, 139.
Calhoun, Eugene David ...................................... Honolulu, 409.
Chaney, George Leonard .................................... Charter Rock, 410.
Carlisle, Roger E ................................................... Schofield, 443.
Carpenter, Errol Sample ...................................... Fairmount, 435.
Cerier, Sam .............................................................. Schofield. 443.
Chovin, Arno! d ...................................................... La Parfaite Union, 17.
Chase, George E ................................................. Temple, 14.
Chambers, John Randolph .................................. Pasadena, 272.
Chamberlain, Robert S ....................................... Moneta, 405.
Chamberlain, John Hutchinson .......................... Snnset, 352.
Chaplin, William George .................................... Apollo, 396.
Christopher, Emile ................................................ Vallee de France, 329.
Chessall, William Amos ...................................... Abell, 146.
Christensen, Harry N ......................................... Bethlehem, 453.
Chapman, Harry Jay ............................................ Delano, 309.
Chase, John Darroll... ......................................... Fraternity, 399.
Christensen, Valdemar .............................:............ Schofield, 443.
Clampett, Frederick W., Jr ................................. Excelsior, 166.
Clarkson, Wardie Ray .......................................... Silver Gate, 296.
Clark, Wilson Frank ............................................ Brawley, 402. ·
Clark, Prentice Melvin ........................................ Mill Valley, 356.
Clay, John William .............................................. Hollenbeck, 319.
Clickner, Louis Merritt.. ...................................... Phoenix, 178.
Close, Allen J oseph ................................................ Fraternity, 399.
Clubb, Herbert J. R. .......................................... Abell, 146.
Clark, Robert Lonzy ............................................ Naval, 87.
Cbrey, Edward Alvin .......................................... Naval. 87.
Corson, \Villiam LeRoy ........................................ Solano, 229.
Copeland, John Charles .............................:........ Anchor, 273.
Cole, William W esley .......................................... Solano, 229.
Cook, Roy Edalbert... ......................................... Excelsior, 166.
Cohn, Robert David .............................................. Fidelity, 120.
Cole, Charles Elon ................................................ Magnolia, 242.
Cook, Frank Heald ................................................ San Jacinto, 338.
Collins, Nelson Ernest.. ...................................... Summit, 112.
Colby, Alvin Page .................................................. Burlingame, 400.
Coates, Benjamin Akerly .................................... Y erba Buena, 403.
Colman,
View, 401.

332

333

334

PROCEEDINGS 01' THE

Cobb, Lawrence Conley________ ············-·-·-···--········University, 394.
Commins, George.:.·-·········-·-------·--····-···-·-··--··--·-·--Monterey, 217.
Corbin, Fred ····--·---···--·····-··-··-···-··-·---·-········-··-··-·-···Pasadena, 272.
Cook, Frank Mathes ... -········--·-······--··-······--····-·---Apollo, 396.
Conable, Morris Easton ........................................ Monrovia, 308.
Cottrell, Roy Melvin ............................................ Naval, 87.
Cooper, Robert StuarL ........................................ Crockett, 139.
Conroy, Thomas D ................. :.......... ------·--·-····--Naval, 87.
Conroy, David ---···-·---·---······-···---··-··-··-··---····---·····-·Na val, 87.
Connor, Herbert Clifton ...................................... Naval, 87.
Coffey, Earl Octavius .......................................... Naval, 87.
Comstock, Hilliard .................................................. Santa Rosa, 57.
Cooper, Caesar ........ ·--···-··-·-······-·······---·················--Paul Revere, 462.
Cohen, Harry I. ····-·-······--·-···········-·····--····-----····-···-Schofield, 443.
Coleman, Robert L. --------·-········-·-·-----····---·----··--·Schofield, 443.
Cooke, James T. --··----·····--··········-····-···-·-···-········-.. Schofield, 443.
Connagham, James ................................................ Schofield, 443.
C:mlter, George W. ··-·-··-····-········-···············-·····--·Moneta, 405.
Cronan, Philip George .......................................... Silver Gate, 296.
Crawford, Francis Mott----··--·-·-------···--······----·-···Antioch, 175.
Crafton, Denham Bohart.·--·----···----·-·---·-···-···--·--Presidio, 354.
Crist, George Frederick ..... ·-················--·--··-·--·---Oakland, 188.
Creighton, James SamueL. ................................. Palmyra, 26.
Crisp, Melvin L. ----··-·-··· .. -·-···-··-·-·····-········---···········Schofield, 443.
Cranz, Lester BernharcL ..................................... Fairmount, 435.
Currier, William Perkins----······-·-···-·······--·-··------Monterey, 217.
Culby, Charles Henry ......................................... .Standard, 440.
Craig, John Bryan .......... ---··--····-········----·---·------·-···Upland, 419.
Creamer, Frank DanieL---·-----·---··········--·---····-···Solano, 229.
Daly, Kieran ............................................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Danielson, Ernest Leornard .............................. Redlands, 300.
Dale, L. Martin ...................................................... Orland, 265.
Da.ly, James .............................................................. Solano, 229.
Davisson, \Villiam Henry.................................... Parnassus, 388.
Davis, Philip DuMond ··--··-······-····--·--···-···-·-····---Palo Alto. 346.
Davis, Charles Elmer .......................................... Pacific, 1J6.
Davis, Marcus Brutas .......................................... Presidio, 354.
Davis, Roy Loomer·--···---····-····--···--·-·····-··-··-·······Presidio, 354.
Davidson, James Holroyd .................................. Hollenbeck, 319.
Deane, Clarence Henery...................................... Naval, 87.
Daley, Arthur ......................................... ···-·-·····-·---Na val. 87.
Davidson, David Allen ...--······-·····--······- ............... Los Angeles, 42.
Daily, Thomas ...................................................... !)chofield, 443.
Danford, Charles R............................................. Schofield, 443.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dale, William .......................................................... Schofield, 443.
David, Leon Harold .............................................. Blackmer, 442.
Deering, Prentiss Charles .................................... Excelsior, 166.
Dean, Robert Armstrong.................................... King Solomon's, 260.
Denno, John ............................................................ Golden Gate, 30.
Decker, Charles W. --····-···-·--·····-·--··-··-·····-·····--·--·So. California, 278.
Dewing, Henry Alexander ..................................Yerba Buena, 403.
DePew, Arthur John Kuhn ................................ \Vest Lake, 392.
Deakin, Arthur Frapk .............................,............ Santa Ana, 241.
Deckley, Frederick ................................................ Veteran, 373.
DeJarnett, William DaryL ................................. Colusa, 240.
Demmer, Matthew................................................ Mill Valley, 356.
DeMott, Arthur Edward .................................... Los Angeles, 42.
Devire, Francis B ................................................... Gardena, 372.
De Young, Irving A. .............................................. Presidio, 354.
Dion, Timothee ...................................................... Bethlehem, 453.
Diven, Quay Stowe!L ......................................... Santa Paula, 291.
Dlouhy, Joseph ........................................................ Monterey, 217.
Doan, George Richard .......................................... Occidental, 22.
Dobbas, Eugene Bernard .................................... Washington, 20.
Dodge, George S ................................................. Hollywood, 355.
Dodsworth, Robert MetcalL ........................... Long Beach, 327.
Doll, George Washington .................................... McKinley, 347.
Downing, Harry Rufus ........................................ Chico, 111.
Doughty, Jackson HannibaL ............................. Naval, 87.
Dobey, Austin E. ................................................ Naval, 87.
Donnelly, Charles W. ············-····---···--·····-·-·······Schofield, 443.
Dodson, Virgil B. ..................................................Schofield, 443.
Donnell, Robert Harold ...................................... Blackmer, 442.
Dranga, Eugene Tufts ........................................ San Bernardino, 348.
Dreher, Harry William ...................................... Naval, 87.
Drew, Stephen Frank ............................................ Solano, 229.
Dudek, Victor Mitchell.....................:..................West Lake, 392.
Dudley, Clark DeWitL.......................................... Crockett, 139.
Dunbar, Archie Owen ............................................ St. John's, 37.
Duncan, William Alexander................................ Naval, 87.
Dunlap, Jesse Floyd .............................................. San Diego, 35.
Easterday, Earl R. ................................................Schofield, 443.
Edwards, George D ............................................. Excelsior, 166.
Edwards, Milton Elliott ...................................... San Mateo, 226.
Edinger, William Johnston ................................ Franklin, 143.
Elde'r, William Marshall... ................................... Selma, 277.
Eliot, John Visscher .............................................. Corona, 324.
Elliott, Louis Edwin .............................................. Solano, 229.
Elliott,· Frank T ..................................................... Visalia, 128.

335

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elliott, Wi\liam Clayton ...................................... Alta Vista, 464.
Elliott, Frederick William .... -------·----······--·····-----Silver Gate, 296.
Elliott, Edwin Warren ........................................ Monterey, 217.
Elgasser, Charles Frank ...................................... San Diego, 35.
Ely, Ernest W. ········-·-···············-·······--····----·-·······-Schofield, 443.
Emma!, Frank Seely .... ---··············-·······-···········-----Crockett, 139.
Emms, Charles ........................................................ N a val, 87.
Engle, Henry Walter ............................................ Hawaiian, 21.
Ensch, Adam ................... ----······---~---·················-------Crockett, 139.
Enk, Willard Raymond ........................................ N a val, 87.
Epps, Edward W. ----····-····································--·--Schofield, 443.
Etzell, Hugh Romney ... -----·····-·······-·······---------------Long Beach, 327.
Evans, Joel Clement.. ... --------------·······--·····-----··---·--Solano, 229.
Evans, Edward Arthur ........................................ Monrovia, 308.
Evans, Robert Hazelhurst.. ................................ Live Oak, 61.
Falls, Moor N eilson ...... -----······-·······-·······-·······-----Hawaiian, 21.
Fairchilds, John Herbert.. .................................. Ione, 80.
Fairchild, F. D. ···························-·---··················--Moneta, '405.
Fairchild, Fred Ross .... ---······-----------····--·············-W oodland, 156.
Farquhar, Gail William ........................................ Santa Barbara, 192.
Faringhy, William Henry .................... ----------------Monterey, 217.
Faneuf, Ralph Jacob .. ,........................................... Sequoia, 349.
Farwell, George W ells .. ---------------------------------····--·South Gate, 320.
Falconer, Guy Byron ...... ------·····-·······-·······-·-····------N a val, 87.
Fadley, Fred Walto ................................................ Blackmer, 442.
Farrell, William H ............................................... Coronado, 441.
Felger, Louis ............................................................ W est Gate, 335.
Featheringill, Walter .............................................. San Diego, 35.
Fish, Charley ....................•....................................... Vesper, 84.
Fisher, Albert George .... :-··------------······--·········-------Golden Gate, 30.
Fitch, Lynden Buswell... ..................................... Oak Grove, 215.
Fisk, W. D. ··················-·······································----El Centro, 384.
Fitzpatrick, J oseph .................................................. N a val, 87.
Fischer, August Ernest.. ...................................... N a val, 87.
Fink, Marcus ........... ·------------·····································-Los Angeles, 42.
Fisher, Edward A. ····················---------··················-Schofield, 443.
Floyd, Oliver Wendell Holmes .......................... Solano, 229.
Fleming, John Frank ...... ---···········-··-·······-··--·····-··--Solano, 229.
Flood, William Henry .......................................... University, 394.
Fluckinger, George Edward ................................ Los Angeles, 42.
Flood, Patrick J ohn ........ ---·--------·······-··--················Honolulu, 409.
Follette, Irvin \Valter Channing .... ------------·····--·Arlington, 414.
Foster, Jesse Gwin ..................... -----------·············----- Wilshire, 445.
Forkner, Jess L ucas .............................................. Selma, 277.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

337

Foote Clarence Herbert ...................................... McKinley, 347.
Fode~ Cyre'---------------······················-············--········Antioch, 175.
Fore!!~ Edward William .................................... Burlingame, 400.
Forbes,' Allen Charles ............................................ Vitruvius, 145.
Foley, Patrick.. .....:··································-···············Naval, _87. 1 6
Fraser Howard Elmer.. ...................................... Excels10r, 6 .
Frazie~ Thomas George .... ----····-····---·····-------------Galt, 267.
Friedb~rg, J effrey.................................................... Fidelity, 120.
Francis, James H. ··························-·······-------···--·-Long Beach, 327.
Freese, Harry Francis .......................................... Golden Gate, 30.
Frechette, N apoleon .............................................. Presidio, 354.
Fredericks, William ..... ---·········-···---·····-·-····-··-·······-Presidio, 354.
Freeman, Frank Gans ................... ---------------···:·---Santa Ana, 241.
Freeman, Charles Henry .................................... Charter Rock, 410.
Fryer Benjamin N orris .... -------·-··-····-··-······--·······-San Mateo, 226.
Frenc h, Leon Hei-man ... -----····-··-··--------------·-·····---Paul Revere, 462.
Frost Charles McNaughton ............ ----------·-------Blackmer, 442.
Frail~y, Casper Brunner ............ -------·--·---------------Blackmer, 442.
Funk, William Walton ............ ------------------------------Naval, 87.
Fugler, Ernest Charles ............ ----------------------···---N a val, 87.
Fuller, Ira Ford ............ -----------·····---------------········-McKinley, 347.
Gadsby, Lester Hunter ........ ------------······--------·-----Visalia, 128.
Gahagan, Allen J ay ................................................ N a val, 87.
Game Clifford ...... ----------·--------------------------------·········Hawaiian, 21.
Garre~son, Paul Faurot ........ -----·--------------·····----···Midway, 426.
Gantt Arthur Durham .... --------------------------------------Silver Gate, 296.
Gardi~er, Charles Lester Poole ............. ---····--·-Franklin, 143.
Gale Thornbrough Patterson ..... ------------------·-···Santa Rosa, 57.
' Ernest Ado111s
_- . ....... -----····----------------------------Pac1"fi c, 136·
Garen
Gasto~ Chester Roy .. ---------------···----------------------····Fraternity, 399.
Gallagher, J oseph .... -----····-·-·······-····------------------···-Presidio, 354.
Gardner, Jerome T. --------·····---······--······----···--------·Laurel, 24 5.
Gedge Norman Edward .. -----------·--····-·-·······--·······-Hawaiian, 21.
Gee, Harry Auburn .... ---·-·····-······---·······-······-········-Solano, 229.
Geitner, J oseph----·······-····-·······--·-·······-····----------------Y erba B~ena, 403.
Gerhardt, Auguste .... ---------------------------····-----·········-La Parfa1te Union, 17.
Gibb es Lacy Wilmott ..... -----···---·-····--····-··-····-··-····N a val, 87.
Gibson' Charles A. ·····-·-·············-·······--·······-·-·······Visalia, 128.
Gidley' Seth Sherman .... -------·-·-······--······---·····-······Veteran, 373.
Gilber~, Lloyd Osgood .... ------···--······················-·-··Fairmount, 435.
Gilbert, Raymond Augustus .... ---·····-··········-········Parnassus, 388.
Gillam John Bruce ....... --------·----·····-----···--·············South Pasadena, 367.
Gildbe~g, Thomas William .... -----····--··············---·-Naval, 87.
Gillman, Ernest B. ········----····----------------·-··············Schofield, 443.
1

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Glendenning, Kelsey Baldwin ............................ North Star, 91.
Glennon, Robert \Vilson ...................................... Park, 449.
Glensor, Harry Williard .................................... San Francisco, 360.
Glidden, Willis Atwood ........................................ Sisson, 310.
Glodzel, Gustav ....................................................Solano, 229.
Gnarini, Frank Harold .......................................... Fruitvale, 336.
Goeltz, Carl Garfield .............................................. Solano, 229.
Goldman, Oscar .................................................... Crockett, 139.
Good, Clyde Raymond .......................................... Selma, 277.
Gol<lsbury, Claude .................................................. Schofield, 443.
Graham, Dix Crittenden ...................................... "Morning Star, 68.
Graham, John Sisson ............................................ Solano, 229.
Graham, G. E ......................................................... Oxnard, 341.
Grant, John Carson ................................................ Presidio, 354.
Grant, John Walter................................................ Berkeley, 363.
Grant, Stanley Reid ................................................ Golden State, 358.
Grant, Louis Theodore ........................................ Bethlehem, 453.
Graft, Charles Edward .......................................... Naval, 87.
Grassow, Robert ...................................................... Oakland, 188.
Graupner, Adolphus E. L. ................................ Bethlehem, 453.
Graves, Jefferson J ames ........................................ Pacific, 136.
Green, Maxwell TalboL. ....................................... Fraternity, 399.
Greene, Wilber Eugene ....................................... .Silver Gate. 296.
Greer, John Fulton ..................... ,............................ Blackmer, 442.
Greenway, Alfred R. ............................................ Schofield, 443.
Greely, Donnell.. ...................................................... Corinthian, 9.
Grindley, William C. ............................................Schofield, 443.
Grimshaw, James Lindsay .................................. Hawaiian, 21.
Griswold, Lee Swaney .......................................... Live Oak, 61.
Griffin, John Wesley............................................. Crockett, 139.
Griessmer, Abraham R. ........................................ Bay View, 401.
Gully, James Walter .............................................. Hawaiian, 21.·
Guinan, Alonzo ........................................................ Schofield, 443.
Guilford, Russell J enkins .................................... Ontario, 301.
Guth, Henry .............................................................. Mill Valley, 356.
Guthrie, Roscoe Paul... ......................................... Whittier, 323.
Haas, Otto Bismarck ............................................ Trinity, 27.
Haggerty, William Henry .................................... Silver Gate, 296.
Hall, Wright Patrick. .......................................... Golden West, 455.
Hall, William Hubert ............................................ Amity, 370.
Halstead, Frank ................... :.................................. Schofield, 443.
Halvorsen, Henry Krohn .................................... Sequoia, 349.
Hammer, Charles Raymond ................................ Burlingame, 400.
Hamner, James Faris ............................................ Presidio, 354.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hanley, Daniel Joseph .......................................... Carquinez, 337.
Hancock, James Frazer ........................................ Charity, 362.
Hansen, Frederick Ludwig.................................. Pacific, 136. .
Hansen, Arthur Jacob .......................................... Alisal, 321.
Hanson, Ralph Reuben ........................................ Oakland, 188.
Hardin, Louis Brownlow, Jr ............................. Inglewood, 421.
Hardisty, Thomas Wilson .................................... Honolulu, 409.
Hare, Charles Benjamin ...'. .................................... Fraternity, 399.
Harmon, Burt.. ........................................................ Pentalpha, 202.
Harris, Ariel Castle ............ ~ ................................... Arlington, 414.
Harris, Charles William ...................................... Curtis, 140.
Harris, Samuel Jackson ........................................ Bethlehem, 453.
Hart, William Ord ................................................. .Orange Grove, 293.
Hart, Charles Victom ............................................ Long Beach, 327.
Harvey, Harold R. .............................................. Abell, 146.
Harvey, William King.......................................... Occidental, 22.
Hathaway, Romaine .............................................. Blackmer, 442.
Hawley, Allen Franklln ........................................ Claremont, 436.
Hayden, Edward Blaine ...................................... Rising Light, 397.
Healey, Sheffield Louis ........................................ Hollenbeck, 319.
Beason, George James .......................................... Live Oak, 61.
Healy, William ........................................................ Naval, 87.
Heald, Clarence Edward ...................................... California, 1.
Heaton, Gervase William .................................... Long Beach, 327.
Heflinger, Edward Andrew ................................ Corona, 324.
Heflinger, Benjamin Franklin ............................ Corona, 324.
Heintz, L. H ........................................................... Las Palmas, 366.
Helena, Cecil L. ...................................................... Laurel, 345.
Henry, Maitland R ............................................... Mosaic, 218.
Henry, Harold H ................................................. Mosaic, 218.
Hendershot, Calvin Edward ................................ Monterey, 217.
Henderson, Edward .............................................. Santa Paula, 291.
Henderson, Donald Williams ............................ Charter Rock, 410.
Renning, Alfred Whitcomb ................................ Alta Vista, 464.
Herring, Grover ...................................................... Standard, 440.
Heryford, Clemens Burnham ............................ Abell, 146.
Hermie, Leo David ................................................Oakland, 188.
Hervey, Harcourt .................................................... Pentalpha, 202.
Hess, Albert Gustav ....,......................................... Hawaiian, 21.
Hetzler, Harry Michael... ..................................... Hesperian, 264.
Heuer, Willia;;· Henry ........................................ Oriental, 144.
Heywood, William A ........................................... Naval, 87.
Hickox, Miller Woodson ...................................... Long Beach, 327.
Hicks, Arthur............................................................ Charter Rock, 410,

339

G:R,AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1:-liggins, Shelly Judson ........................................ Blackmer, 442.
Hildman, John Paul... ............................................. Coronado, 441.
Hill, Ralph William .............................................. Fruitvale, 336.
Hill, Crawford Clark ........................................... Sequoia, 249.
Hill, Jam es Ellison ............................................ Solano, 229.
Hille, Martin Henry .............................................. Monterey, 217.
Hills, Harry Sawyer .............................................. Oroville, 103.
Hinton, Ira D ......................................................... Schofield, 442.
Hizar, Julier Clyde ................................................ Coronado, 441.
Hoag, C. Leslie ........................................................ Bethlehem, 453.
Hobson, John Henry .............................................. Oak Grove, 215.
Hodapp, Paul August.. .......................................... Mount Moriah, 44.
Hoffman, William H. G ....................................... Golden West, 455.
Holdzkom, Paul Raphael.. .................................. Morning Star, 68.
Holland, Henry Marvin ........................................ Naval, 87.
Hollister, Irwin Wilson ...................................... Charter Rock, 410.
Holm, George W ................................................... Salinas, 204.
Holman, Alex Best................................................ .'.Naval, 87.
Holmes, Jerry Carter. ........................................... N a val, 87.
Holt, Lloyd ............................................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Holt, Herbert Brayton .......................................... San Pasqual, 452.
Holt, Raymond Jay ..................... :.......................... South West, 283.
Hopgood, Ralph H ............................................... Naval, 87. Hopkins, Willard Allen ........................................ Center, 465.
Hopp, Emil Gustav .., ........................................... Naval, 87.
Hoppin, Charles Rossetter.. ................................. Yolo, 81.
Hoskins, Everet.. .................................................... Mendocino, 179.
Hosung, Charles Henry ........................................ Solano, 229.
Howard, Thomas Duncan .................................... Highland Park, 382.
Howard, Enville Downer.. .................................. Hartley, 199.
Howard, Alsa Chester.. ...................................... Alta Vista, 464.
Howe, Allan Kincaid .............................................. Morning Star, 68.
Howell, Charles W ............................................. Hollywood, 355.
Howell, Edgar Henry ............................................ 1Jccidental, 22.
Howenstein, Claud~ Melnotte ............................ Santa Ana, 241.
Hoyt, Harry B ....................................................... Schofield, 443.
Hughes, Ralph L. ................................................ Salinas, 204.
Hughes, Ray Albert... ........................................... Arlington, 414.
Humann, Edwin August ........................................ Oakland, 188.
Humphreys, Walter .............................................. Arlington, 414.
Hunt, Chester Robert .......................................... Oakland, 188.
Hunt, Reuben Haywood ...................................... Parnassus, 388.
Hunt, Ura ................................................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Hunt, Wesley Jackson .......................................... Alta Vista, 464.

Hunter, James T ................................................. Schofield, 443.
Hunter, Charles Stanley ...................................... Golden State, 358.
Hurlbutt, Earl Ellsworth .................................... Eel River, 147.
Hurt, Joseph Godwin ............................................ Covelo, 231.
Hustler, Merten Bassel.. ........................................ Sacramento, 4D.
Illhardt, August ...................................................... N a val, 87.
Irving, Eugene Olevia ........................................ Union, 58.
Isaacs, Harry ............................................................ Fidelity, 120.
Ish, Rex Whitefield ................................................ Turlock, 395.
Itrich, Franz Antone .............................................. Solano, 229.
Jackson, Dean William D ................................. Natoma, 64.
Jackson, Ward Sutliff ............................................ Sequoia, 349.
Jacobsen, Oystein .................................................... Golden West, 455.
James, Hardy Monroe .......................................... Solano, 229.
Jans sen, Frederick Cornelius .............................. Fairmount, 435.
Jauss, Raymond J ................................................. Schofield, 443.
Jaynes, Isaac DeSoit.. ............................................ Buena Park, 357.
Jensen, Peter James .............................................. Crockett, 139.
Jennings, Lacy Donoho ........................................ Blackmer, 442.
Johnson, Arthur Constantine ............................ Tehachapi, 313.
Johnson, N. S ......................................................... Moneta, 405.
Johnson, Frank Melvin S ................................... Alta Vista, 464.
Johnson, Robert .................................................... Carquinez, 337.
Johnson, Harold Sydney ...................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Johnson, Franz Gustave ...................................... Crockett, 139.
Johnson, Otto ........................................................ Naval, 87.
Johnson, Charles Martin ...................................... N a val, 87.
Johnson, Olaf .......................................................... Naval, 87.
Johnson, Isaac ........................................................ Na val, 87.
Johnson, Albert Anderson .................................. Naval, 87.
Johnson, Robert G............................................... Elysian, 418.
Johnston, Fred Lyle .............................................. Magnolia, 242.
Jones, Herbert MacDonald .............................. Highland Park, 382.
Jones, Arno Widmar ............................................ Naval, 87.
Jones, William Thomas ........................................ Naval, 87.
Jones, Harold Stevens .......................................... Natoma, 64.
Jones, Donald Las .................................................. Center, 465.
Jordan, Earl L. ...................................................... Alcatraz, 244.
Jordan, Walter Clyde ............................................ Naval, 87.
Jorgensen, J orgen .................................................. Hawaiian, 21.
Joyce, Charles Sheridan ........................................ N a val, 87.
Kahler, William Louis .......................................... Naval, 87.
Kahn, William Frederick .................................... Crockett, 139.
Kammerer, George Edward ................................ Occidental, 22.

341

342

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Kane, \Vesley F ..................................................... Schofield, 443.
Kasper, Sylvan Lewis .......................................... Fidelity, 120.
Kaul, Herman Richard .......................................... Solano, 229.
Kayo, William .....................................................• Penrhyn, 258.
Kayo, Fred C. ........................................................ Penrhyn, 258.
Kearney, John Edgar ............................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Keefer, Hal V ......................................................... Paul Revere, 462.
Keeler, Clinton DeClermont.. ..............................Alisal, 321.
Kegley, Hugh PauL. ............................................. West Lake, 392.
Keirle, Raymond Albert.. .................................... Naval, 87.
Keith, Weldon Albert... ........................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Kellar, Stewart ........................................................ Evergreen, 259.
Keller, Michael Seligman .................................... Pacific, 136.
Kelley, William Pliny ............................................ Sunset, 352.
Kellems, George Washington ............................ Silver Gate, 296.
Kelsey, Ralph Henry............................................ Sunset, 352.
Kelsey, Orin Ranseller .......................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Kelly, Lynne ............................................................ Fairmount, 435.
Kempe, Paul Frederick. ...... -. ................................. Naval, 87.
Kengle, Lansford Frederick. ............................... Naval, 87.
Kephart, Calvin Ira................................................ Park, 449.
Kessack, George Brooder .................................... Solano, 229.
Kessler, Eugene ...................................................... Naval, 87.
Kimberling, Mark 0 ............................................. Schofield, 443.
Kimbrell, Charles Fiser........................................ Hawaiian, 21.
Kincaid, Joseph Albert........................................ Magnolia, 242.
Kinleyside, Robert Allen .................................... Hartley, 199.
King, Nelson Ransom .......................................... Blackmer, 442.
King, Joseph E ....................................................... San Francisco, 360.
Kirkpatrick, John Marcus .................................... Naval, 87.
Kirksey, Charles Grady........................................ Palo Alto, 346.
Kittrell, Russell LowelL. ....., ............................... Solano, 229.
Klinger, Myron ........................................................ Fidelity, 120.
Knight, Harry E ..................................................... Schofield, 443.
Knox, Robert James .............................................. Fairmount, 435.
Knox, Hubert Ralph .............................................. Mount Moriah, 44.
Knox, Clarence Orrin ............................................ Mount Moriah, 44.
Klyce, Melvin Harvey............................................ Mill Valley, 356.
Koerfer, Peter A .................................................. .Schofield, 443.
Korn, Teunis ........................................................ Schofield, 443.
Kozlow, Stephen ...................................................... Naval, 87.
Kraus, 0. K ........................................................... Palos Verdes, 389.
Kroner, Leonard Frank ........................................ Solano, 229.
Krook, Lenus Gustave .......................................... San Francisco, 360.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

343

Kubly, Benjamin ...................................................... Fairmount, 435.
Kull, Howard Milton .............................................. Naval, 87.
Kuter, Carl Edward ................................................ Silver Gate, 296.
LaCrosse, Felix Bergamont .................................. Presidio, 354.
Lane, Edward Knowles ........................................ Coalinga, 387.
Lando, Arthur .......................................................... Hawaiian, 21.
Lanham, Frank Stewart ........................................ Naval, 87.
LaPeire, Charles Arnaud .................................... Palo Alto, 346.
Larue, Charles \Valter .......................................... Yerba Buena, 403.
Laselle, Ernest Randolph .................................... Berkeley, 363.
Law, Stuart· M ....................................................... Bethlehem, 453.
Le Barse, Joseph .................................................. Willits, 365.
Lechten, Theodore Gustave ................................ California, 1.
.
Lee, Arthur Albert .................................................. Paul Revere, 462.
Lee, Joseph Herbert .......................................... Alpha, 431.
Lee, Alfred Mace ............................................. :......Tuscan, 261.
Lee, William Henry .............................................. Solano, 229.
Leisure, Hoyt Marr ................................................ Wilshire, 445.
Leland, Thomas B. W ......................................... Starr King, 344.
Lemon, George B., Jr ......................................... Salinas, 204.
Leovy, George J ..................................................... Coronado, 441.
Leroy, Jonas William ........................................ Naval, 87.
Levitt, Henry Marcus .......................................... Starr King, 344.
Lewek, Albert Jacob .......................................... ,Corinthian, 9.
Lewin, Edgar Max ................................................ Pacific, 136.
Lewin, Gussie Harry............................................ Pacific, 136.
Lewis, \Viii Joseph ................................................ San Buenaventura, 214.
Lewis, William Frank .......................................... Brooklyn, 225.
Lewis, William W. .............................................. Schofield, 443.
Leydecker, Arthur Herman ................................ Oak Grove, 215.
Light, Henry Breson .............................................. Hollenbeck, 319.
Lloyd, Franklin Robert ........................................ Oakland, 188.
Lloyd, Frederick Osborn .................................... Oroville, 103.
Linde, Henry Cleveland ........................................ Alta Vista, 464.
Lindblom, 010£ ........................................................ Balder, 393.
Liston, George Kenneth ........................................ Yerba Buena, 403.
Lobdell, Jacob Karl... ........................................... Wilshire, 445.
Lockhardt, Archibald Oswald ............................ Francis Drake, 376.
Lockwood, Charles Daniel... ............................... Corona, 324.
Lockwood, Ralph .................................................. Mill Valley, 356.
Loebenstein. David Albert .................................... San Diego, 35.
Lonsdale, Clair H ................................................... Schofield, 443.
Logan, Arthur E ................................................... Consuelo, 325.
T.ong, Frank Law .................................................... Redlands, 300.

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Longabaugh, Rudolph L------·······-----·····-············-Charter Rock, 410.
Lorentz, Robert .... ·-------------------------··········-·······------Occidental, 22.
Lott, Charles McLain .... ·---····----·····-············-- ....... Na val, 87.
Louderback, Harold ............. _________________________________ San Francisco, 360.
Loustalot, Pierre·----------------·-·----·-------------····-·----------Vallee de France, 329.
Lovejoy, Walter ..... ________________________________________________ -Tehachapi, 313.
Luce, George Liddle.·----·-·--·-----···---------··--·-------··-Santa Rosa, 57.
Lucia, Ernest Andrew.·--------------------·---············--·-Golden West, 455.
Ludeman, Albert... ........ ___________________________________________ Schofield, 443.
Lundquist, Ivar Wilhelm ........ ______________________________ Mill Valley, 356.
Lutz, Charles Edward.·----·----------------·--·---·-·····-------Alta Vista, 464.
Lynch, James Andrew ................. _________________________ Monterey, 217.
Lynch, William Carston ..... _________________________________ Alameda, 167.
Lynde, Andrew P. --···--···-----------···--------------------------Morning Star, 68.
Lyon, Ralph PauL. .. _______________________________________________ Rising Light, 397.
McAniff, John T. ----------------------------------------- --------Schofield, 443.
McBrian, John Ellis ............ ____________________________________ Schofield, 443.
McBride, Harry Alonzo ________________________ .............. Brooklyn, 225.
McCabe, Melvin Beatty .................... --------------------McKinley, 347.
McCambridge, Victor John ________________________________ Union, 58.
McCarthy, Charles -------------·-··--···-·---.. ·--·--············-Fruitvale, 336.
McCarthy, Timothy W orthington .... ________________ N a val, 87.
McClellan, Robert W.
405.
McClelland, Harry Charles·-··-·--------------···········-Vv' oodbridge, 131.
McClelland, Laurence Perry........... ·------------------Highland Park, 382.
Mc Comas, J esse·---------------------------···-----------------------Pentalpha, 202.
McCord, Charles Graham ________________________________ ---Naval, 87.
McCoy, Carl Herman .......·----------···---·-----------------South West, 283.
McCoy, Alvin M. ··---·--·····---···--··----------····--·----------Stanislaus, 206.
McCray, Marvin·-···-···-------··--······-··--···----··········-----·Naval, 87.
McCrea, Francis Randolph ................................. -Long Beach, 327.
McDuffee, Henry Lloyd. _____________________________________ Bay View, 401.
McElroy, Harold Alexander._ ................ ______________ Unity, 368.
McEvoy, Edward ............................................. _...... Naval, 87.
McFadden, Charles H. ........................................ Naval, 87.
McGinnis, Henry Chilton ................. ___________________ Solano, 229.
Mcintosh, Thomas F. ···---------··-····----·----------------Schofield, 443.
McKeeby, George LemueL. ... __ ............. ~---·······--Arlington, 214.
McKenna, RoberL. ...................... _______________ ........... _La Puente, 446,
McKinne, Andrew Barna ........................ ____________ Amity, 370.
McKinney, Verne \Villson __________________________________ Palo Alto, 346.
McKinney, Ollie HenrY---------·----·-········-------······-Ocean Park, 369.
McKnight, James
California. 278.
MacMillan, Clark Alexander. ...... ·-·······-----··-·-----San Mateo, 226.

. Ch ar 1es ......... ···········-······ Golden
Gate, 327.
30.
McMillan, Califorma
on Beach,
Mc M 1'll an, B r u ce -------·----····-----·-····------- ................ L n g Beach, 327.
K'JI an, H ug h ·--------------·--··-···--------- ···········--------LO
g
Mc1_._1
I ckmer
442.
'".I Millen Donald Robert ··----·--··-·········--------··-B a.
.'
iv c
'
.
J
California, 1.
McMurtry, Leslie Bu_rg~, r. --·--·----··:·········-··--- • val 87.
.
McPherson, J ames Girvin ---------------·---------· ···--·-···"'.'\a
139
~![cPherson Richard Hassard ____________ ................ Crockeltt,
4··3
"'
'Harvey.... ·-···---------···-----······----·-··········-- Bethle
:i •
McSamuel,
I val 1em,
87.

McTyre, William Archer ........ -------·--·---··--------------~~un~ Moriah, 44.
Maden, Emile ........ ----------------------------·-·······--·---------··-~ thlehem, 453.
Madocks John Edward ................................. _______ e
.
399
Fratermty,
·
Madson, ' Herbert Hogg........................................
87
1
Magoon, Walter Calvin ........................................ ;a~~ Rev~re, 462.
Maier, Paul Ge?rge------·--------·····-···----·--··-··------·-··::s:nta Barbara, !l)2.
Main, Jame~ ~irse ......b·-:··---------·----·-·····-----------·-:::.. La Puente, 446.
Malcom, W1!11am Fau tan............................... Pacific 136.
Malfanti Joseph, Jr. ---··--·-················------------------· '
1 22
Malott, Thomas Wade ....................... ·--------------·--~c~~~e~~ ' ·
. J o h n A · ·--·-··········---------------- -·----------·-··--·Na
Man f rm,
idelit' , 120.
Manheim, George Kahn--·-······--·--------··-·----·----------1:. eli/ 120.
Manheim Henry, Jr. ----------------------------···-------------F1d. yl, 336
·
Manning ' Wilder Munson ......... -----------------·-··------ Frmtva e '
Manson, ' Charles Edward ........ -------------------··------··Naval
.
, 87.
Ile - 356
Mantlo George Robert... ..................................... );f1ll Va y2,17 .
Maple,
- Monterey,
I
431
•
'Delmar ....... ____________________________________________
_ ......
·
March, I rwi~----·· -------.-------.-------------···- ··------------------:~!~i~~:ale, J36.
Marks, Maurice BenJamm ....... _________ ......... -- ----- Golden West, 455.
Marsh, Fran~ll~ugenJe __________________ ...... ---····:·:::::::::crescent, 45.
Marshall, Vl/1 1am, r. ----·-·------------------··-- ·
87
. k 410
1 son ........... ----·--·-····--·-------------- Naval,
Marshall DaVI'd F'I
R
'
___________ Charter oc-,
·
Marshall, John Albert.. ...... ------------------·-·-olano, 229.
· H ans Olaf ·--·-·····-----------------------------·----------s
Martm,
er- 84
Martin, Henry Arthur --------------·····-----··-----···--·--·Vesp '
·
324.
Martin, Samuel B a bb1. L·---------·-----.. ··--------------·--- Corona,
Laurel, 245.
Marty, Amos Roy .... --------·--·--··--·--------------···--·-·······\;v-ashington, 20.
Mason, Wallace Ashtond·---·--·---------·····------------------ Bakersfield, 224.
Masteller, Kenneth Cly e---·····--·-··-.. ---·-·------------.
338
•.
b ury ........ -----------·······--·-·-Santa
San Jacmto,
Mathews,. Albert Kmhgs
Ana, 241. Matthews, Henry TJ om~S------·---··-·········· .. -·--·--·-Sequoia, 349.
Matthews, Harry osep ··--······ .. ······---·--····--···---Hawaiian, 21.
Matthews Arnett Percy......................................
8
Mathis,
H ugo ...........
278.
May, Carl Lou1s ...................................................... S r~cker 454.
Meader, Elm& Roscoe ........ ·--------·-------·-------·-·------C
'

V~rnon.

----------·---------·--····----··i:r:v~~li;~rnia,

34:n

346

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Meckfessel, George G........................................... Meridian, 192.
Mel, John .................................................................... :3an Pasqual, 452.
Mellien, Albert Henry .........................................:Naval, 87.
Menefee, Frank ........................................................ Solano, 229.
Mentor, Oskar.......................................................... Presidio, 354.
Meriwether, Harry Bertrand .............................. Fairmount, 435.
Meroux, Rene Harold .......................................... Oakland, 188.
Merritt, Josiah ........................................................ Naval, 87.
Mertz, Ernest Alfred ............................................ La Parfaite Union, 17.
Merwin, Edwin Arthur.. ........................................ Long Beach, 327.
Mess, Charles T ..................................................... Mosaic, 218.
Mevicker, James William .................................... Sunset, 352.
Meyer, Jay Eugene ................................................ Olive Branch, 269.
Meyer, Rollin Eugene .......................................... Live Oak, 61.
Middleton, George Wesley, Jr ........................... Golden West, 455.
Miles, Harold Manley ............................................ Brooklyn, 225.
Millar, Norman Ellwood ...................................... Bay View, 401.
Miller, Guy Hamilton .... ., ................................San Diego, 35.
Miller, Joe B ......................................................... Los Angeles, 42.
Miller, William Avery.......................................... Sunset, 352.
Miller, Howard Ferris .......................................... Berkeley, 363.
Miller, Elwood M................................................. Union, 58.
Miller, Henley Earl... ............................................. Woodland, 156.
Miller, Samuel Joseph ...................................... Solano, 229.
Miller, Harvey Lewis............................................ Solano, 229.
Miller, Herman Richard ............. :........................ Solano, 229.
Mills, William Miller........................................... Crockett, 139.
Mills, Aubrey Perry .............................................. Hill's Ferry, 236.
Milton, J ewe! H .................................................... Schofield, 443.
Milton, John Peter ................................................ Naval, 87.
Miner, James Harry..............................................Monterey, 217.
Mohr, Everett Kenneth ........................................ Golden West, 455.
Moore, Isaac ..............................................................Naval, 87.
Moore, Harry Thornton ...................................... Oakland, 188.
Moore, John Alexander........................................ Occidental, 22.
Moore, Earl M ...................................................... _Dinuba, 385.
Moore, Charles Edward ........................................ Highland Park, 382.
Moore, David Charles ........................................ Santa Cruz, 38.
Morgan, Robert Ridley ........................................ Fairmount, 435.
Morrell, Fred Henry .............................................. Monterey, 217.
Morin, Hercule Cutler.. .......................................... California, 1.
Morris, Floyd ............................................................ Sacramento, 40.
Morrison, William Randolph .............................. Palmyra, 26.
Mort, John Lynn .................................................... Perris, 411.

Morton, Asa C. ........................................................ Anchor, 273.
Mosher, James Nelson .......................................... Oakland, 188.
Mott George Coleman .......................................... Hammonton, 433.
Mou~t James Randolph ....................... ,................ Hawaiian, 21.
Mulla~, Daniel.......................................................... Naval, 87.
Muller, Frederick William .................................... Blackmer, 442.
Murphy, James Gordon ........................................ Solano, 229.
Murphy, Frank Arthur ........................................ Solano, 229.
Mushat Daniel ........................................................ Schofield, 443.
Myres, Paul Adrian ................................................ Starr King, 344.
Myrick, Earl DeForest.......................................... "J a val, 87.
Nave, Edgar.............................................................. Naval, 87.
Nedderman, Roy Henry ........................................ Brooklyn, 225.
Nee James ................................................................ Solano, 229.
Neely, William Howard ........................................ Sequoia, 349.
N eidzewicke Andrew ............................................Schofield, 443.
Nelson My;on Fernley........................................ Live Oak, 61.
Nelson'. Eric ............................................................ Naval, 87.
Nelson, Irving ........................................................ Parnassus, 388.
•Nelson, Melvin Calen ............................................ Santa Barbara, 192.
Nelson, Jens ............................................................ Solano, 229.
N eubarth, Edwin August.. .................................... Chico, 111.
Newell Kenneth Cuthbert... ............................... Pasadena, 272.
Newm~n, Richard James ...................................... Bay View, 101.
Newton, John Curtis .............................................. Charter Ro.ck, 410.
Nichols, Luther Alten ............................................ Pomona, 246.
Nichols, Carl Robert ............................................. .
Nice, Charles E ..................................................... Brawley, 402.
Nielsen, William Walter.. .................................. Occidental, 22.
Nightingale, William Arthur ................................ Naval, 87.
Nord, Johan Erickson ............................................ Solano, 229;
Noh! Charles William .......................................... Crescent, 4:-i.
North, William C. .................................................. Morning Star, 68.
Norton, Norvel Irvine .......................................... \i\Toodland, 156.
N uttal, Frederick.................................................... Evergreen, 259.
Nybye, Franz C..................................................... San Francisco, 360.
O'Brien, Maurice John .......................................... Naval, 87.
Ogle, Pinkney L. ................................................... .Sc~ofield, 4;"3.
O'Hara, Allan Deal................................................Up and, 41 .
Oliver, Oscar Lee .................................................... Yosemite, 99.
Oliver, John Todd .................................................. Naval, 87;
Olsson, Reland ........................................................ Solano, 229.
Oraker, Ole Peterson ............................................ Naval, 87.
Orr, Robert ·cleland .............................................. Howard, 96. J.-.~J
1

847

348

;.•IWCEEDINGS OF THE

Orr, Charles H ..................................................... Howard, 96.
Orr, James ................................................................ Solano, 229.
Osborn, Horace Dwight. ..................................... Franklin, 143.
Ostrander, Frederick Willis .............................. Y erba Buena, 403.
Owens, Alonzo J ames .......................................... Paul Revere, 462.
Pagel, Lewis F ..................................................... Schofield, 443.
Palmer, Floyd P ................................................. Mount Shasta, 281.
Palmer, Louis Marsh .............. ._............................ Solano, 229.
Parr, John Dallas .................................................. California, 1.
Park, Earl Gentry.................................................. Crockett, 139.
Parker, William Chesley...................................... Parnassus, 388.
Parsley, John Benedict ........................................Silver Gate, 296.
Partridge, Joseph Arlington .............................. Palo Alto, 346.
Partridge, Stanley N oble .................................... Berkeley, 363.
Patterson, Harry Elmer ...................................... Brawley, 402.
Paulsen, Robert Crist.. ........................................ \Vest Lake, 392.
Paulsen, Charles Arthur ...................................... Trinity, 27.
Pauson, C. A ...........................................................Fidelity, 120.
Pennycock, Russell Dick ...................................... Naval, 87.
Peoples, Bert Raymond ...................................... Naval, 87.
Perkins, Frederick
Oak, 61.
Perry, Wilfred Howie ..........................................Santa Barbara, 192.
Perry, Henry Lee ................................................. Oakland, 188.
Persons, Robert \V .............................................Schofield, 443.
Persson, Clarence Edwin ....................................Turlock, 395.
Peters, Ralph Edwin .............................................. King Solomon's, 260.
Peters, Clarence Edward ........ _ ........................ Palmyra, 26.
Peterson, Nelson James ...................................... Clinton, 119.
Peterson, Walter Joseph .................................. Brooklyn, 225.
Petray, Henry Clay................................................ Oakland, 188.
Petrie, Lester ........................................................ Hawaiian, 21.
Petrie, Connor Moyle ........................................ Corona, 324.
Pfaeffie, De Witt M .............................................Golden West, 455.
Phillips, George Washington ............................ Silver Gate, 296.
Phillips, William Harvey .................................... Flethlehem, 453.
Pierce, Francis Warren ........................................ Mount Oso, 460.
Pinkston, Lovick Pieru ...................................... Solano, 229.
Pirmir, Charles ........................................................ Pacific, 136.
Pollin, George A ................................................... Schofield, 443.
Pools, Pervy Lake .................................................. Charter Rock, 410.
Portman, Joseph Theodore ................................ Silver Gate, 296.
Powers, Harry Wilbur ........................................ Delano, 309.
Price, Robert Preston ........................................ Veteran, .373.
Price, Herbert Victor.......................................... Crescent, 45.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Price, Arthur J .................................................... South West, 283.
Prastka, Anthony .................................................... Solano, 229.
Presley, James Arthur.. ...................................... Hawaiian, 21.
Preston, George Arthur ........................................ Ulackmer, 442.
Putz, Armand .......................................................... Colden Gate, 30.
Quinby, E. E .......................................................... .Las Palmas, 366.
Quinn, Frank J. .................................................... :;chofield, 443.
Quinto, Michael A .............................................. Schofield, 443.
Raahauge, Robert ................................................. Solano, 4,29.
Radcliffe, Peter Edward ...................................... N a val, 87.
Randall, Louis F ................................................. Hollywood, 355.
Ransdall, James T., Jr ......................................... Washington, 20.
Rass, Clarence Douglass .................................... Veteran, 373.
Rasmussen, George Henry ................................ Pentalpha, 202.
Raymond, Joseph ................................................... Solano, 229.
Rea, Frank \Vheeler .............................................. So. California, 278.
Ream, George Daniel............................................ St. John's, 37.
Redline, Ralph Leland .......................................... Park, 449.
Reed,, Charles S ..................................................... Schofield, 443.
Reed, Wallace Allison .......................................... Covelo, 334.
Reeder, Paul H ..................................................... Pomona, 246.
Rafert, \Villiam Henry ....................................... .Silver Gate, 296.
Rehman, Rudolf ...................................................... Pacific, 136.
Reilly, James ............................................................ Naval, 87.
Reinhardt, Joseph William, Jr ......................... Live Oak, 61.
Reimers, Irwin Harold ........................................ Yosemite, 99.
Reinhaus, Stanley Mart.. ....................................Santa Ana, 241.
Repp, Archibald Herbert .................................... Golden Gate, 30.
Rewett, Carl Jene .................................................. Eel River, 147.
Reynolds, Charles Edward .................................. Naval, 87.
Richesen, Franklin Carter ....................................Dinuba, 385.
Richeson, Austin B. ............................................Schofield, 44.l.
Ringressy, Albert Pre~ton .................................. Oriental, 144.
Robb, William ..........................................................Excelsior, 166.
Robert, Frank Hamilton ......................................Solano, 229.
Roberts, \V. Humes ................................................ Corona, 324.
Ro bin son, H. P ..................................................... Las Pal mas, 366.
Robinson, Beverly Maynard .............................. Crockett, 139.
Robinson, Leslie St. Clair.. .................................. Libertas U. D.
Robinson, Thomas Henry .................................... Yerba Buena, 405.
Robson, Ralph Ewart.. .......................................... Paso Robles, 286.
Rockhold, John Ellsworth ..................................Dnity, 368.
Rogers, Homer ...................................................... Bakersfield, 224.
Rogers, Samuel Lucius ........................................ King Solomon's, 260.

349

350

PHOCEEIJINW:l Of<' 'l'lll~

Rose, Harold \Villiam .......................................... Standard, 440.
Ross, Bernard ........................................................ Fidelity, 120.
Ross, Karl Erskine ................................................ Morning Star, 68.
Ross, John Nelson ................................................. Mill Valley, 356.
Rowe, Charles Palmer ......................................... Pomona, 246.
Rowe, Horace DeWitt ...................................... Willits, 365.
Rowland, \Villiam Jo)m ........................................ Fraternity, 399.
Rowser, William Joseph ............ ,......................... Naval, 87.
Roy, Neil .........: .......................................................... Coronado, 441.
Russell, John Wesley ............................................ Naval, 87.
Rutten, Paul Gerhardt .......................................... Fairmount, 435.
Rutledge, Frank B. ................................................Lancaster, 437.
Rycroft, John Edmund ........................................ Kennett, 456.
Sadtler, Otis H. ..... ,.............................................. Schofield, 443.
Sample, Elmer Julius ............................................ Santa Barbara, 192.
Sampson, Eugene Hartley .................................. Redwood City 169
Saunders, Ernest Layton., .................................. Solano, 229. '
.
Sawyer, Carlisle Loveland.................................Fairmount, 435.
Saxton, \Villiam Eugene ...................................... Naval, 87.
Schaeffer, Max Putman ..........,............................. Naval, 87.
Schenck, Alexander Turner ................................ San Francisco, 360
Schmid, J ohn ............................................................Alcatraz, 244.
.
Schoch, David L. ..................................................Schofield, 443.
Schreiber, Benjamin .............................................. Coronado, 441.
Schroth, Arthur Matt ............................................ Sacramento, 40.
Schwass, John Franklin .............................. ,. ........ Naval, 87.
Scott, Donald \Vallace .......................................... Crockett, 139.
Scott, William Priest ............................................\Vashington, 20.
Searles, Hiram Rex .............................................. California, 1.
Seaver, Frai;ik R ..................................................... Pomona, 26.
Seay, Randolph ........................................................South Pasadena, 367.
Seiss, John ................................................................ Coronado, 441.
Seymour, George Nivens ...................................... So. California, 278.
Shade, Samuel Luther............................................ Naval, 87.
Shannon, Robert Veasey ...................................... Parnassus, 388
Shapiro, Samuel... ................................................... Pacific, 136. .
Shaw, Carl. Raymond ............................................ Alta Vista, 464.
Sheetz, William Howard ...................................... Pacific, 136.
Shelow, John L. .................................................... Schofield, 443.
Sherman, Edwin Allen, Jr ................................. Brooklyn, 225.
Sherman, Carl Frederick ...................................... Naval, 87
Sherwin, Frank Anson ......................................... Maricopa: 434.
Sherwin, Zenas Abner .......................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Sherwood, Robert .................................................. Coronado, 441.

GRAND LODGfi OF CALIFORNIA

361

Short, Norman Truesdale ................................... Amity, 370.
Short, William Frederick ....................... :............ Benicia, 5.
Shugert, Jay G....................................................... Schofield, 443.
Simmons, Bert Joseph ........................................ Needles, 326.
Simpson, \Verden Erle ...................................... Anaheim, 207.
Simpson, Gerald R. ............................................ Anaheim, 207.
Sittig, Stuart ............................................................Midway, 426.
Skeggs, John Hunt................................................Wilshire, 445. ·
Skinner, Cleveland .................................................. Schofield, 443.
Slaten, Alfred Theodore ........................................Temescal, 314.
Sleppy, Kirby B. ········'···········································Phoenix, 178.
Smith, Russell Gordon ........................................... Crockett, 139.
Smith, Jolm Jacob .................................................. Fairmount, 435.
Smith, George Martin .......................................... Henry Clay, 95.
Smith, Robert Martin ............................................ Occidental, 22.
Smith, William E., Jr ......................................... Pomona, 246.
Smith, Myron J .....................................................Hollenbeck, 319.
Smith, Clarence Fairchild ....................................West Lake, 392.
Smith, Arthur ........................................................ Solano, 229.
Smith, Joseph James .............................................. Pacific, 136..
Smith, Robert Lewis Irvine ............................. '...San Jacinto, 338.
Smith, Evert Owens .............................................. Silver Gate, 296.
Smith, Walter Thomas ....................................... Eel River, 147.
Snaider, Josef ........................................................ Monterey, 217.
Sparks, Lloyd Myroan .......................................... Hammonton, 443.
Speed, D. M ............................................................. Las Palmas, 366.
Spence, Robert ........................................................ Claiborne, 185.
Sperhake, Otto L. .................................................. Coronado, 441.
Spreckles, Charles John ........................................ Presidio, 354.
Schlman, Eskiel \Verner .................................... Naval, 87.
Solomon, Ira Selig............................................... Fidelity, 120.
Sormano, Guisseppe .............................................. Vallee de France, 329.
Stafford, John .......................................................... Silver Gate, 296.
Stafford, Charles E ............................................... Mountain View, 194.
Stafford, Arthur .................................................... Hollenbeck, 319.
Stalker, Edward W ............................................. Schofield, 443.
Stamey, Nelson VirgiL....................................... Mt. Moriah, 44.
Stanfoeld, Henru M ............................................. Buena Park, 357.
Stange, John Ernest.............................................. Crockett, 139.
Startman, Charles Frederick. ...............................South Gate, 320.
Steinbaugh, Neil Cornelius .................................. King Solomon's, 260.
Steinberg, James .................................................... \Vest Gate, 335.
Steinberger, Harvey Hogan ................................ Sierra Madre, 408.
Steinbring, Charles George .................................. Park, 449.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

352

353

PROCBEDINGS OF THE

~tep~en,

Herbert L. ........................................... Mon eta, 405.
tep . enson, George .............................................. :::olano 229
~terhng, Sidney .......................................................Crock~tt 1J9.
Stevens, Edgar Everitt.. ........................................ Pomona: 246.
Stevens, Thomas N ewton ....................................Stanislaus, 206.
S t~ venson, Enos H ............................................. Clovis. 417
ti es, William Enos ............................................ Solano 229
Stobo, Isaac Alvert.. ...................... c..................... ::sunset: 352.
~toc~well, Nathaniel Yeomans .......................... \Vest Lake. 392
toe well, Harry A11en ........................................ Berkeley 3,63 ·
SStohler, A?olph Nicholas ...............,....................Crockett.' 139.'
• tone, vVa1d · k
Solomon , s, 260.
St
S one, F re d enc John ..........................................Fairmount 435
Stranahan, \Villiam ................................................ Las Palm;s 366
S tromee, Leo Al?in ................................................ San Bernardino," 348.
trong, Harry \V1lson ............................................ Whittier, 323
Stuart, Bradley Robert. ..................................... Naval, 87.
.
Stuart, Moore Alex.
349
~ull~van, Alan Elwood .......................................... Oriental, 144.
S u::~van, Theodore 0 ......................................... Morning Star, 68.
u 1van, Harry R. ...................................... ... Pentalpha 202
~utliff, Howard Donald ...........................::...:::::south We~t 2S3
wanson, Egbert ]. ................................................ £! Centro, 378..
~wanton, Charles Leslie ......................................'iacramento 40.
wartz, B. A. .......................................................... Las Palma~. 366
Sw~nsen, Azel William ........................................ Berkeley, 363. ·
Sw;nson, Arthur Edward .................................... Oriental, 144.
SSw1thenback,
Charles Edward........................ .... Naval, 87 .
k
Ed
Y es,
ward D ................................................... Schofield 1 443
Symons, Matthew.......................................
Brookly 11 ??~·
Taber, Beach
·············
(s5-V·

1

4

Taylor, Fred ............................................................ Park, 449. ·
Taylor, Gorman ....................................................Penrhyn, 258.
Taylor, Benjamin .................................................. Francis Drake 376
Taylor, Frank Keer ............................................ Palo Alto, 346.
.
Teague, R. F ......................................................... Moneta, 405.
Teal, Eugene Bercher............................................ Presidio, 354
Tebbitt, Robert Launcelot...................................Wilshire, 445·.
Thaler, Conrad Henrlic ........................................ Occidental, 22.
Thomas, Clarence \Vilber .................................... Mill Valley, 356.
Thomas, Charles Wilbur, J r ............................. Woodland, 156.
Thomas, Samuel Whittingham ........................San Francisco, 360.
Thomsen, Arnold ................................................. Salinas, 204.
Thompson. Charles Henry, Jr ......................... Charter Rock, 410.

Thompson, Frank ].
Gate, 296.
Thompson, Roy Gai<lge ........................................ King Solomon's, 260.
Throp, George Spafford ........................................ Naval, 87.
Thurber, Judson .................................................. Oakland, 188.
Thurston, Eugene True ........................................ Live Oak, 61.
Timmer, Henry August ..................................... Presidio, 354.
Tisell, Charles Hugo T. B. ................................Balder, 393.
Titus, Harry Lewis, Jr ......................................... Coronado, 441.
Toles, Walter Washington ............................... Naval, 87.
Tomke, Edward ...................................................... Naval, 87.
Tracie, Maurice Harding ......................................Temple, 14 .
Tracy, Howard S.
California, 278.
Tracy, Ralph F ..................................................... Crockett, 139.
Tryon, George Edwin, Jr ................................. Crescent, 45.
Tryon, Lorin Howard ................ ,......................... Excelsior, 166.
Tuller, Walter Kimple ......................................... Pentalpha, 202.
Turner, William ....................................................Schofield, 443.
Turner, \Villiam Pearce ........................................ Naval, 87.
Turpin, Lon Mack. ................................................. Mill Valley, 356.
Turrentine, Lawrence N eul.. .............................. Consuelo, 325.
Tuttle, Paul Vernon .............................................. Naval, 87.
Underdown, Robert L. ........................................ Schofield, 443.
Usherwood, Owen Thomas .................................. Golden West, 455.
Van Dugteren, Chester H.
California, 278.
Vannier, Charles Frederic .................................... Sierra Madre, 408.
Vassilopulos, Antonio ............................................ Perris, 411.
Vial, James Smith G ........................................... Midway, 426.
Vine, Ernest E ..................................................... Naval, 87.
Vogel, Bethold .......................................................... Crockett, 139.
Vogt, George M ..................................................... Mosaic, 218.
Von Boden, Chester ................................................ Mountain View, 194.
\Va<le, Chauncey ...................................................... Schofield, 443.
Wailes, E. S.
Palmas, 366.
Waites, Robert Artell Lee ...................:.............. Natoma, 64.
Wall, William \Vallace .......................................... Natoma, 64.
Wallace, Richard J ohn .......................................... Brentwood, 345.
Wallace, Montgomery E .............................'.':...... Schofield, 443.
\Vallace, Donald McVicar.................................. Temescal, 314.
Walker, George Cleveland .................................... Pii.:iole, 353.
\Valther, Gustave A ............................................. Visalia, 128.
Walsh, Thomas A ...............................................Schofield, 443.
Walters, William B .............................................Schofield, 443.
Walters, Elmer J ...................................................Schofield, 443.
Walters, Clifford Walter .................................... Pentalpha, 202.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

364

355

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Walton, Arthur StuarL........................................ Silver Ga.te, 296.
Ward, Roy Culver .................................................. Mill Valley, 356.
Wampelmeier, Henry Franklin ........................Sequoia, 349.
\Varren, Charles M............................................. Glendora, 404.
Waters, Richard James ....... ~................................ Oriental, 144.
Watkins, \Valter Morgan .................................... Alpha, 451.
Watson, William .................................................... Hollenbeck, 319.
Watson, James Read ............................................... Mt. Jackson, 295.
Watson, Harry ...................................................... Golden Gate, 30.
Wauzer, James Olin .............................................. Yerba Buena, 405.
Webb, Jam es Miles .............................................. Monterey, 217.
\Vebh, Leland Dobson ........................................ Naval, 87.
Weber, Adolph G................................................. Charter Rock, 410.
Weber, Wilmer Worthy ...................................... Naval, 87.
Weil, Paul ................................................... :.............. Schofleld, 443.
Weitzenberg, William Frederick ...................... Presidio, 354.
W erecka, Frank .................................................... Schofield, 443.
Werner, Richard Luckow .................................. Oak Grove, 215.
Wershehora, Alexander........................................Schofield, 443.
\Vesterdahl, Gustas Julius ..................................Hollenbeck, 319.
Whitaker, Victor .................................................. Schofield, 443.
White, Clarence Elmer........................................Oak Grove, 215.
White, Howard Pool... ......................................... Naval, 87.
\Vhite, Raymond Adelbert .................................. Palos Verdes, 389.
Whittington, William Robert... ........................... Hawaiian, 21.
\Vickham, Frank Dickenson ................................ Monterey, 217.
Wierda, Lambert ......................................................McKinley, 347.
Wikander, John ......................................................Mt. Moriah, 44.
\Vilks, Julius ............................................................Solano, 229.
Willsford, David Samuel... ................................... Live Oak, 61.
William, Harry ........................................................ Naval, 87.
Williams, Leroy Carlisle ......................................Apollo, 396.
Williams, Alan Frank ............................................ Monrovia, 308.
Williams, William ................................................ Fairmount, 435.
Williams, Frederick Harry .................................. Park, 449.
Williams, Obed Everett.. .................................... Solano, 229.
Williams, Arthur.................................................... Wilshire, 445.
Williams, George Verse!L. ................................. Eel River, 147.
Williams, Samuel John ........................................ Union, 58.
Williamson, George McKnight ..........................California, I.
Wilkinson, Erastus N elson .................................. Crockett, 139.
Wilson, Seldon Meredith .................................... Charter Rock. 410.
Wilson, Wynn E ................................................. Cor~na, 324.
Wilson, Russell J oy.............................................. Bethlehem, 453.

Wilson, William Leonard..................................Fairmount, 435.
Wilson, Paul White ............................................. Whittier, 323.
\Vilson, Thomas John .......................................... Excelsior, 166.
Wilson, Glenn William ........................................Mountain View, 194.
Wilterdink, William Henry .................................. Silver Gate, 296.
Winegar, Daniel Phillips .................................. South Pasadena, 367.
Winthar, Ernest William ....................................Alcatraz, 244.
Wirt, Duane Arthur ..............................................Antioch, 175.
Wiser Frank Clayton ............................................ East Gate, 290.
Wish;rd Harry Albert........................................ Highland Park, 382.
\Visnom: Samuel Fleming.................................... Amity, 370
Wood, William Albert .......................................... Brooklyn, 225.
Woods, Robert Henry .......................................... Suisun, 55.
Woods James Lee ................................................Evergreen, 259.
Woods'. Ernest ...................................................... Fairmount, 435.
Woodward, Walter MacDonald ........................Occidental, 22.
\Volbert, Leslie Ewe!L. .......................................$an Mateo, 226.
Wolcott, Russell Guy ............................................Oriental, 144.
\Vol ff, Norman C. ..................................................Visalia, 128.
Wolford, Harlan Wilmer ...................................... Naval, 87.
Wolters, John Bernard, Jr ...............................Crockett, 139.
Wondolleck, Rudolph Arthur ............................ Apollo, 396.
Worden, Frank Lee.............................................. Santa Ana, 241.
Wright, Gilbert William...................................... Alameda. 167.
Wright, Vaughn Forest... ..................................... Naval, 87.
\Vyatt, Frank K ..................................................... San Diego, 35.
Wyman, Irwin Berle .............................................. Solano, 229.
Young, Harry Alfred............................................ Fraternity, 399.
Young, Burton Garner.......................................... Fairmount, 435.
Yandell, Charles Marion ......................................Paul Revere, 462.
Zeidner, Samuel I. ..................................................Schofield, 443.
Zeigler, Emil PatiL...............................................Y erba Buena, 405.
Ziegelmeyer, John ..........................: ..................... Crockett, 139.
Zilka, Stephen ....................................................... .Schofield, 443.
Zillgitt, Lester Burt................................................lnglewood, 431.
Zimmerman, John Wilson E .............................University, 394.

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
Proposal to amend section 17 of the Constitution, so as to fix
the time of election in Grand Lodge for the second day of each
Annual Communication.
Proposal to amend section 30 of the Constitution by adding
the following: "The Committees on Jurisprudence, on Grievances,
and on Finance shall convene at the place of holding the Annual.
Communication of Grand Lodge at least twenty-four hours Qrevious to its opening. All propositions subject to reference to the
above said Committees must be presented in writing and delivered
to the Grand Secretary prior to the time of convening of said
Committees."
During the year ending July 31, 1917, I have drawn against
the Grand Treasurer as follows:
Warrant
No.
300.00
1. John Whicher, salary, August, 1916
250.00
2. T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1916 ..................................... .
175.:JO
3.• H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1916 ............................. .
150.00
4. Masonic Temple Association, rent, September, 1916
25.00
5. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
25.00
6. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master......................... .
7. Leo Longley, stenographic reporter, trial of A. F.
81.00
Locke ·································································-;-················
18.00
8. vV. K. Brunt, 2000 copies program Grand Lodge ..... .
65.80
9. T. J. Baker, expenses, July 29 to August 26, 1916..... .
10. N ea! Publishing Co., 500 letter circulars, Grand
5.25
Master ............................................................................... .
5.00
11. L Graden, 150 copies Inspector's reports ..................... .
1.50
12. Remington Typewriter Co., 2 ribbons ........................... .
9.00
13. Pioneer Plate Glass Co., plate 36" x 72" for desk ....
14. Star Towel Supply Co., rent, June to September,
1916 ....................................................................................... .
2.25
9.17
15. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, July, 1916 ............................. .
16. John Whicher, expressage, 27c; telegram, 6lc;
11.38
stamps, $10.50 ................................................................... .
17. Edward H. Hart, Chairman, Committee on Corre200.00
spondence ........................................................................... .
300.00
18. John Whicher, salary, September, 1916....................... .
250.00
19. T. J. Baker, salary, September, 1916..............................
175.00
20. H. S. Johnson, salary, September, 1916....................... .
150.00
21. Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1916... .

GRAND LODGE O.B' CALIFORNIA

357

22. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master............... .
25.00
23. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge
25.00
24. Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 representative mileage
tags, $3.50; 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75 ..............
16.25
25. T. J. Baker, expenses, August 26 to September 24,
1916 ...................................... ,................................................. .
80.15
26. W. S. Mancke & Co., silk cord for 21 aprons ............ ..
10.50
27. Remington Typewriter Co., repairing machine ......... .
1.50
28. J. S. Godeau, 1 dozen gloves ............................................. .
2.00
29. Geo. R. Armstrong, 16,500 receipts for dues ............... .
30. N cal Publishing Co., 2000 Credential cards, $11.00;
60,000 endowment slips, $36.00 .................................. .
47.00
31. E. & M. Teahon, multigraphing letter (Endowment
Fund) ................................................................................. .
11.20
32. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, September, 1916................... .
8.30
33. John Whicher, postage stamps (Endowment Ftmd)
12.25
34. E. S. Valentine, auditing books of Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer........................................................
50.00
35. John H. McGehee, mileage pay of members................ 7,812.45
36. Masonic Temple Association, rent of hall, Annual
Communication ............................................................... .
150.00
37. George P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler. .................. .
125.00
38. Samuel D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist.. ............. .
60.00
39. San Francisco Board of Relief, appropriation by
Grand Lodge ...................................................................... 2,629.90
40. Los Angeles Board of Relief, appropriation by
Grand Lodge ...................................................................... 2,500.00
41. Oakland Board of Relief, appropriation by Grand
Lodge .................................................................................... 1,209.42
42. Sacramento Board of Relief, appropriation by Grand
Lodge .................................................................................... 1,500.00
43. Humboldt Lodge No. 79, reimbursement a/c Mrs.
C. Benton ........................................................................... .
143.00
44. Santa Ana Lodge No. 241, reimbursement a/c Mrs.
Hellman ....... '.......................................................................
65.87
45. Masonic Temple Association, 3000 shares stock .......... 30,000.00
46. Palmyra Lodge No. 26, reimbursement a/ c Mrs. S.
J. Small ............................................................................. .
249.00
47. Lassen Lodge No. 149, reimbursement a/c Bro. L.
S. York .............................................................................. .
335.64
48. Board of Relief of Portland, a/c Agnes Brown ......... .
125.00
49. Pasadena Lodge No. 367, reimbursement a/c Bro.
A. G. H. \Vood ..................................................................
55.00
50. San Benito Lodge No. 211, reimbursement a/c back
dues Bro. Shore ................................................................
4.80

358

51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.

64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.

70.
71.
72.

73.
74.
75.
76.
77.

78.

79.
80.
81.

PROCEEDINGS Oli' THE

Burlingame Lodge No. 400, reimbursement a/c back
dues ..................................................................................... .
Francis V. Keesling, contingent expenses Grand
Master ..................................................................................
George P. Adams, sundry expenses Annual Communication ............................................................................... .
T. A. Bird, stenographer to committees ....................... .
John Whicher, salary October, 1916 ..............................
T. J. Baker, salary October, 1916 ................................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary October, 1916 ..............................
Masonic Temple Association, rent November, 1916....
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .. ..
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ......................... .
Phillips & Van Orden Co., 60,000 circulars, 60,000
slips, 60,000 cards (Endowment Fund) ................... .
Remington Typewriter Co., rent qf machine ................
A. L. Auradou, engrossing six charters ...................... .
H. F. ·wright, assistant to Grand Tyler ....................... .
Shreve lk Co., silver service for Grand Master ............
S. D. Mayer, choir at Memorial services and opening
Grand Lodge ................................................................... .
W. S. Mancke & Co., relining 21 collars ..................... .
E. C. Hughes Co., 1000 letterheads Grand Master ......
F. G. Watson, tyling Lodge of instruction ................. .
E. & M. Teahon, multigraphing letter (Endowment
Fund) ................................................................................. .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent September, 1916 ..................
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ................................................................................... .
N ea! Publishing Co., 600 copies summary of Proceedings ..............................................................................
T. J. Baker, expenses September 29 to October 15,
1916 ....................................................................................... .
Schwabacher-Frey Co., 1000 clasp envelopes, twine,
etc. ..................................................................................... .
H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes ............... .
John Whicher, postage stamps (Endowment Fund),
$50.00; postage stamps, $13.40; expressage, $2.13;
telegrams, $1.70 ................................................................
Neal Publishing Co., 1300 copies Grand Oration and
Grand Master's Address ............................................. .
Portland Board of Relief, account Agnus Brown .... ..
John Whicher, salary November, 1916 ...................... ..
T. J. Baker, salary November, 1916 ............................ ..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

4.80
300.00
2.30
21.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
267.50
l.50
6.00
15.00
3()0.00
40.00
i0.95
16.50
3.00

82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.

88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.

94.
95.

31.24
8.16

96.
97.
98.
99.
100.

4.00

102.

101.

12.50
20.45

103.
104.

21.05
.40

67.23
57.25
85.00
300.00
250.00

105.
106.

107.

359

175.00
H. S. Johnson, salary November, 1916 ......................... .
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent December, 1916 ... .
25.00
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ....................... .
25.00
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
2.25
Star Towel Supply Co., rent to December 1, 1916 ..... .
Gabriel Myerfeld Co., 500 examination blanks, $9.25;
100 reference to law blanks, $4.25; 500 circulars,
18.25
$4.75 ................................................................................... .
T. J. Baker, expenses October 27 to November 22,
95.80
1916 ....................................................................................... .
10.67
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent October, 1916 ....................... .
125.00
D. G. Balkiston, oil portrait B. F. Bledsoe ................. .
10.50
'vV. N. Brunt, 1000 receipts (Endowment Fund) ..........
N ea! Publishing Co., 500 slips amendments to Constitution ............................................................................... .
5.50
E. C. Hughes Co., 1000 letterheads (Filmer), $16.00;
500 2c envelopes (Filmer), $13.25; 1 check book,
43.25
$14.00 ................................................................................... .
Royal Indemnity Co., premium bonds Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer ........................................... .
62.50
E. & M. Teahon, multigraphing letter (Endowment
Fund) ................................................................................. .
23.55
John 'vVhicher, salary December, 1916 ..........................
300.00
2.50.00
T. J. Baker, salary December, 1916 ............................ ..
H. S. Johnson, salary December, 1916 ....................... .
175.00
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent January, 1917 ..... .
25.00
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge .. ..
J *1\i: Heit~an, order of Grand Master ......................... .
25.00
Neal Publishing Co., 996 Constitutions, $560.00; 4
Constitutions interleaved, $1.50; 1300 copies Proceedings, $965.10 ............................................................. . 1,526.60
Remington Typewriter Co., 1 ribbctn ............................ .
.75
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 Monitors, $150.00; 1500
large 2c envelopes, $38.25; 1000 small 2c envelopes,
$25.00; 400 copies list of rejections. $18.00; 2000
address labels, $4.50; 50 sheets wrapping paper,
75c; 500 certificates of election, $4.00; 3000 Inspector's certificates, $12.50; 500 certificates of election, $4.00; 400 copies list of rejections, $18.00 ....... .
275.00
Fred T. Purdy, services a/c trial of \V. A. Ward ..... .
3.10
Filmer Bros., zinco signature, 90c; printing same on
Endowment Fund receipts, $1.75; 2 rubber stamps,
$1.20 ..................................................................................... .
3.85
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent November, 1916 ................... .
8.45

360

108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.

123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135.
136.
137.

138.
139.
140.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Rabjohn & Morcom, frame for Bledsoe's picture ....... .
John Whicher, postage stamps, $82.60; expressage,
$1.74 ······················································································
T. J. Baker, expenses November 22 to December 23,
1916 .................. :.....................................................................
G. R. Armstrong, 21,500 receipts for dues, $86.00;
3400 special receipts, $16.00 ......................................... .
Francis V. Keesling, contingent expenses Grand
Master ................................................................................. .
John Whicher, salary January, 1917 ............................. .
T. J. Baker, salary January, 1917 ....................................
H. S. Johnson, salary January, 1917 ............................. .
Masonic Temple Association, rent February, 1917 ... .
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 988 small diplomas ........... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ....................... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
N ea! Publishing Co., 500 2c envelopes ........................
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent December, 1916 ....................
John Whicher, typing for Grand Master, 75c; hanging portraits Past Grand Masters, $1.00; cable to
Fenwick, $1.00 ................................................................. .
Remington Typewriter Co., adjusting machine ........... .
T. J. Baker, expenses December 28, 1916, to J anuary 26, 1917 ..................................................................... .
John Whicher, salary February, 1917 ........................... .
T. J. Baker, salary February, 1917 ................................. .
H. S. Johnson, salary February, 1917 ......................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent March, '1917 ..... .
Mrs. C. 'vV. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ......................... .
Star Towel Supply Co., rent to March 1, 1917 ........... .
H. S. Crocker Co., changes on addressograph ......... .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent January, 1917 ....................... .
John Which er, postage stamps, $34.26; expressage,
$1.83; telegrams, $1.20 ................................................. .
N ea! Publishing Co., 500 2c envelopes ......................... .
D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait Stevenson ..................... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 small 2c envelopes, $25.25;
1000 large 2c envelopes, $25.50; 500 inter-reports
board of relief, $7.00; 400 lists of rejections, $18.00
E. & M. Teahon, multigraphing letters (Endowment
. Fund) ................................................................................... .
T. J. Baker, expenses January 26 to February 21,
1917 ..................................................................................... .
John Whicher, salary March, 1917 ................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35.00
84.34
85.40
102.00
300.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
138.32
25.00
25.00
12.50
8.00

2.75
1.10
54.75
300.0'.l
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
2.25
4.46
9.25
37.29
12.50
100.00

75.75
22.88
134.15
300.00

141. T. J. Baker, salary March, 1917 ················-...................... .
142. H. S. Johnson, salary Man:h, 1917 ............................... .
143. Masonic Temple Association, rent April, 1917 ........... .
144. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ..........................
145. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
146. Mrs. M. Tower, washing 61 pairs of gloves and 713
aprons ................................................................................. .
147. John \Vhicher, postage stamps, $16.50; expressage,
$1.67 ......................................................................................
148. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent February, 1917 ..................... .
149. T. J. Baker, expenses February 22 to March 27, 1917
150. B. M. Jc•seph, floral piece H.J. Owen ............................
151. Rabjohn & Morcom, frame portrait of J. D. Stevenson ....................................................................................... .
152. Schwabacher-Frey Co., l De Luxe binder, $2.10; 400
ledger sheets ruled 2 sides and "punched, $7.50;
wrapving paper, twine, pens, etc., $7.91 ................. .
153. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait J. A. Tutt ......................
154. Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 clasp envelopes, $5.50; 700
copies roster, $198.75; 400 lists of rejections,
$18.00 ................................................................................... .
155. G. R. Armstrong, 23,500 receipts for dues, $95.50;
1000 life membership receipts, $4.00; 75 funnels,
$7.50 ......................................................................................
156. Francis V. Keesling, contingent expenses of Grand
:Master ................................................................................. .
157. John Whi<;her, salary April, 1917 ....................................
158. T. J. Bake:r, salary April, 1917 ....................................... .
159. H. S. Johnson, salary April, 1917 ..................................
160. Masonic Temple Association, rent May, 1917............
161. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ......................... .
162. Mrs. C. \V. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
163. Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit box to April,
1918 ...................................................................................... ..
164. Gabriel Meyerfcld Co., 1500 circulars (Endowment
Fund) ................................................................................... .
165. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent May, 1917 ............................... .
166. Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ......................................................................................
167. Schwabacher-Frey Co., envelope moistener ................
168. E. C. Hughes Co., 1000 letterheads (Baker) ............... .
169. Shannon-Conmy Co., 2000 address labels, $4.00; 1000
2c envelopes, $25.75; 1000 Monitors, $150.00 ........... .
170. Filmer Brothers, 60,000 reports and 60,000 enclosures (Endowment Fund) ............................................

361

250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
38.70
18.17
8.10
80.80
15.00
35.00

17.51
100.00

222.25

107.00
300.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
12.50
20.00
8.50
4.00
1.00
5.75
179.75
256.45

362

GllAND LODG.li: 01'' CALIFORNIA

PROCFEDINGS OF THE

171. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait W. H. Howard
172. T. J. Baker, expenses March 31 to April 25, 1917..... .
173. John \Vhicher, telegrams, 80c; expressage, 42c ..........
174. Ida Graden, typing Starr King's oration for Grand
Master ................................................................................. .
175. vValter F. Haas, attending meeting Trustees Masonic Homes ......................................................................
176. Dana R. Weller, attending meeting Trustees Masonic Homes ..................................................................... .
177. John Whicher, salary May, 1917 ................................... .
178. T. J. Baker, salary May, 1917 ..........................................
179. H. S. Johnson, salary May, 1917 ....................................
180. Masonic Temple Association, rent June, 1917 ......... .
181. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
182. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ..........................
183. E. C. Hughes Co., 61,000 circulars a/c Liberty Bonds
184. Filmer Brothers, 61,000 circulars (Endowment Fund)
185. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait C. M. Radcliffe ................
186. T. ]. Baker, expenses April 26 to May 25, 1917...... ..
187. Alice C. Smith, typing 43 letters to Inspectors (Endowment Fund) ............................................................... .
188. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent April, 1917 ............................. .
189. Rabjohn & Morcom, frame portrait A. ]. Tutt ........... .
190. Schwabacher-Frey Co., 1 cone twine and eraser
191. Phillips & Van Orden Co., 31,000 cards (employ1nent bureaus) ................................................................. .
192. E. & M. Teahon, 750 letters and envelopes (Endowment Fund) ....................................................................... .
193. S. F. Chro,nicle, classified directory ............................ ..
194. John Whicher, postage stamps (Endowment Fund),
$57.54; 500 2c envelopes for Inspectors, $10.66;
telegrams, $3.00; cartage, $2.00 ................................ ..
195. Geo. P. Adams, railroad fare to Merced and return ..
196. Star Towel Supply Co., rent to June 1, 1917 ............
197. Francis V. Keesling, contingent expenses Grand
Master ..................................................................................
198. John Whicher, salary June, 1917 ....................................
199. T. J. Baker, salary June, 1917 .......................................... ..
200. H. S. Johnson, salary June, 1917 ................................. .
201. Masonic Temple Association, rent July, 1917 .......... .
202. Mrs. C. \V. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
203. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ...................... ..
204. L. Levingston, 11,000 cards, $22.75; 1500 programs,
$5.50 (Endowment Fund) .......................................... ..

100.00
90.40
1.22
5.00

205.
206.
207.
208.
209.

44.00
210.
44.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
140.00
197.45
100.00
56.80
5.00
8.10
35.00
1.05
31.00
28.00
2.00

73.40

211.
212.
213.

214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.

223.
224.

8.10
2.25
300.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
28.25

225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.

Pacific 'I. & T. Co., rent May, 1917 ..............................
H. S. Crocker Co ... City directory, $7.50; addressograph plates, 3lc .......................................................... .
Rabjohn & Morcom, frame portrait Howard ............ ..
Underwood Typewriter Co., 3 machines ................. .
E. & ..M. Teahon, multigraphing letter (Endowment
Fund) ................................................................................ ..
John 'vVh icher, postage stamps, $40.63; telegram, 40c;
expressage, $1.29 ............................................................ ..
\Velis, I• argo & Co., shipping circular (EndO\vment
Fund) .................................................................................. ..
T. J. B;ker, expenses May 25 to June 22, 1917 ........... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 large 2c envelopes, $26.00;
500 small 2c envelopes, $12.75; 400 lists of rejections, $18.00; 450 envelopes annual returns, $5.50;
400 special made envelopes, $7.50; 2000 address
labels, $4.00; 200 blanks for Boards of Relief,
$3.00; 850 annual return blanks, $115.00 ................ ..
Geo. R. Armstrong, 21,500 receipts for dues, $86.00;
2000 second sheets, $4.00 ........................................... ..
T. J. Baker, expenses June 28 to July 17, 1917 ........... .
John Whicher, salary July, 1917 ................................. ..
T. J. Baker, salary July, 1917 ......................................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary July, 1917 ................................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent August, 1917 ....... .
Mrs. C. W. Taylqr, appropriation by Grand Lodge .. ..
Jack Fleitman, order of Grand Master ......................... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 large 2c envelopes, $26.00;
1000 small 2c envelopes, $25.50; 400 lists of rejections, $22.50 ..................................................................... .
'vVilliam P. Filmer, salary as Grand Treasurer.. ........ ..
John \Vhicher, postage stamps, $8.00; expressage,
$1.91; telegram, 25c; paper for adding machine, 6
rolls, $1.26 ........................................................................ ..
W. P. Jackson, oil portrait A. G. Burnett ................... .
N ea! Publishing Co., 1000 sheets letter paper ............. .
Pantergraph Printing Co., 400 lists of Regular
Lodges, $130.00; postage, $15.08 ................................ ..
E. & M. Teahon, multigraphing 825 letters, postage,
etc. (Endowment Fund) ............................................. .
Rabjohn & Morcom, frame portrait C. M. Radcliff ... .
Pacific T. & T.
rent June, 1917 ............................. .

363
8.16
7.81
35.00
211.75
35.50
42.32
41.33
162.95

191.7 5
90.00
191.90
300.00
250.00
175.00
150.00
25.00
25.00

74.00
200.00

11.42
125.'.lO
4.IJO
145.08
32.7'i
35.00
8.1')

Total ............................................................................$67,893.07

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of
California for the fiscal year ending, July 31, 1917.
Dues from Subordinate Lodges ..............................................$ 62,811.85
Fees for Charters (6) ..................................................................
300.00
Dispensation to form new Lodge ................. ·...........................
75.JO
Special dispensations for various purposes ............................
300.00
Pay Roll, balance not paid Representatives ........................
54.60
Money returned by Grand Master Burnett ........................
580.65
Ophir Lodge, balance dues 1916 ................................................
8.70
Sales for the year543.25
Monitors (2173) ................................................................... .
Constitutions and Ceremonies (882) ............................. .
882.00
394.00
Receipts for dues ................................................................. .
Holders ..................................................................................... .
76.50
7.00
Proceedings ............................................................................. .
List of Regular Lodges ..................................................... .
.75
Bound Volumes ..................................................................... .
5.00
222.0'J
Diplomas (large) (111) ..................................................... .
175.50
Diplomas (small) (702) ..................................................... .

365

RECAPITULATION-GENERAL FUND.
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1916 ........................ $ 24,190.49
Receipts by Grand Secretary .................................................... 66,436.30
Interest on bonds and deposits ................................................
3,348.23
Total ..........................................................................................$ 93,975.52
Less warrants Nos. 1 to 230 ...................................................... 67,893.07
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1917 ................ $ 26,082.45
For the current fiscal year August 1, 1917, to October 4, 1917,
inclusive, I have collected and paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum
of $155,868.95, segregated as follows:
Home Maintenance Fund .......................................................... $ 59,987.00
Home Building Fund .................................................................... 29,993.50
General Fund .................................................................................... 57,537.25
Representative Fund ....................................................................
8,351.20
A total of .................................................................................. $155,868.95
JoHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Total Receipts General Fund .................................................. $ 66,436.8!J
Total Receipts Home Maintenance Fund ............................ 57,856.00
Total Receipts Home Building Fund .................................. 28,928.00
Amounting in the aggregate to ................................ $153,420.30

Which was referred to the same Committee as that to
which had been referred the Address of the Grand Master.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :30 o'clock
this afternoon.

All of which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per
receipts on file in this office, and as should be shown by his report.
Interest on bonds and deposits has been collected by the GranJ
Treasurer as follows:
Interest on deposits with banks .......................... $1,342.23
Seven Blue Lake Water Co. 6% bonds ............ 420.00
Six Southern Pacific 4% refunding bonds .......... 240.00
Nine California Gas & Electric 5% bonds .......... 450.00
Eight Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5% bonds .................... 400.00
Two Los Angeles Gas & Electric 5% bonds ...... 100.00
Collection on El Centro Building Ass'n Note.... 396.00
Total receipts from all sources for the year
enJing July 31, 1917 ..................................

3Ju "rauli 1Jlnlige
Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 9, 1917.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.

$

3,348.23

Brother Angus MacKillop, for the Committee on Grand
Master's Address and Report of Grand Secretary, reported
as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

$156,769.03

In compliance with our duties as a Committee on the Most W·orshipful Grand Master's Annual Address, we have the honor to report as
follows:

PROCEEDINGS OF '£HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A careful digest and close analysis of this most important document has impressed our Committee most deeply. It is indicative of
the high sense of duty and careful and devoted supervision with which
our Most \Vorshipfol Grand Master entered upon his high official
duties.

Relative to increase of minimum dues, to the Finance Committee;
Extension of the powers of Finance Committee and designation as
\Vays and Means Committee, to the Jurisprudence Committee:
Decisions one to eighteen inclusive, to the Jurisprudence Committee.
Relative to the date of report of the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes, to the Board of Trustees;
Relative to report carrying affirmative recommendation, to the Jurisprudence Committee.
Relative to the physical occupation of residents of the Home, to the
Board of Trustees.
Relative to the pay residents at the Home, to the Board ·of
Trustees.
Re-organization of Board of Trustees, to the Jurisprudence Com·
mittee.
As a supplement to the Most Worshipful Master's Address, the
Committee on said message note with pleasure the very thorough and
scientific examination made by the two eminent specialists, Mr. Arthur
J. Ritter and Dr. Harold K. Faber of Stanford University on the
physical and mental qualifications of our orphan wards at Covina. It
is gratifying to note the favorable conditions prevailing, and it speaks
volumes as to the care and administration of Brother E. B. Spencer
and the :Ylatron, Mrs. Maude E. Miller, and will be a valuable aid in the
future management of the Home. We recommend that the unanimous
thanks of the Grand Lodge be officially conveyed to these eminent
professors for their gratuitous and valued services.
Your Committee on the Report of the V. W. Grand Secretary
recommends the document for its lucidity, and in the hands of the
hrcthrcn it will prove a valttablc sottrce of information.
In our jmlgment we beg to rder to the Committee on Charters
the application of Lihertas Lodge of Bakersfield, Culver City Lodge of
Culver City, and Rockridgc Lodge of Oakland, now under dispensation;
To the Committee on Jurisprudence, the special dispensations for
various purposes issued by the Grand Master;

366

In its every line it accentuates his earnestness of purpose to remedy
weaknesses or defects in :\fasonic administration and ritualistic work.
It indicates strongly, by his extensive official itinerary, his earnest
desire to come in close fraternal touch with the brethren of the jurisdiction and by wise counsel, and at times admonition, to impress ,upon
them the responsibility they owe to the fraternity and the line of conduct
to pursue to a void the pitfalls of error and possible contravention of
the ancient landmarks and sovereign rights of the Grand Lodge.

\Ve commend the foresight and judgment of the Most \Vorshipful
Grand Master in forestalling delay and possible litigation in the erection
of the Covina Home and his practical financial solution of the situation
by drawing temporarily on the Endowment Fund, thereby enabling
the work to go on to a successful conclusion.
\Ve are also pleased to recognize the desirability of extending the
fraternal and humanitarian scope of the Homes by means of the annual
Endowment Fund, and in this connection we note with gratification
the donation of an additional $19,000.00 for the betterment and extension
of the Decoto Homes from the same anonymous philanthropic brother
who previously, in the kindness of his heart and love for the orphan
and the needy, had already given $21,0CO.OO to the Home at Covina,
and we therefore fully indorse the action of the Most Worshipful
Grand Master in extending to this most benevolent and practical Mason
the heartfelt thanks of the brethren of the jurisdiction.
Altogether, we recommend to the Brethren a careful perusal of this
ahle document, which ranks high in its conception of what Masonry
stands for and its beneficient influence, not alone on the individual
Mason, but on our State, our Nation and Humanity in general.
'vVith reference to the various suggestions set forth in the Most
\Vorshipful Grand Master's message, we recommend the following to
the various Committees for their consideration and judgment:
Suggestion relative to change of method of initiation, to a speciill
Committee, with instructions that the working of the plan in other
jurisdictions be investigated;

367

To the Committee on By-laws, the various amendments to by-laws
submitted by Lodges, and all resolutions relating to Life Membership
and ap1}lication fees.
Fraternally submitted,
ANGUS MACKILLOP,

CHAs. R. M1u1cR,
C1Bs. H. V1c'l'OR.

The report was adopted.

368

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother Gustav A. Hutaff, for the Grand
reported as follows:

Tr,~asurer,

369

ASSETS.

Balance on hand July 31, 1917....................................... c......................$26,082.45

7 6% Blue Lakes Water Co. bonds ..............................$7,700.00

GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand August 1, 1916.........................................................$24,190.49
Received from Grand Secretary ....................................$66,436.80
Received from interest from banks.............................. 1,342.23
Received from interest on bonds ................................ .. 1,610.00
Received from El Centro collections ........................... .
400.00
69,789.03

6 4% Southern Pacific Railroad bonds .......................... 5,580.00
9 5% California Gas and Electric Co. bonds .............. 8,550.00
8 5% Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Co. bonds ...... 8,000.00
2 5% Los Angeles Gas and Electric Co. bonds ........ 1,860.00
31,690.00
34,500 shares Jviasonic Temple Association .................................. 345,000.00

Total Assets ....................................................................................$402,772.45
WM.

$93,979.52

P. FILMER,

Grand Treasurer.

DISBURSEMENTS.

MASONIC HOMES "SPECIAL HOME FUND" TO JULY 31, 1917.

Checks Nos. 1 to 230........................................................$67,893.01
Charges on El Centro collections..................................
4.00

RECEIPTS.

67,897.07

Balance on hand July 31, 1917......................................................$26,082.45
Union Trust Company
3,998.21
German Savings and Loan Society.............................. 22,084.24
$26,082.45
RECEIPTS FROM INTEREST ON BONDS.

Blue Lakes Water Co....................................................... $ 420.00
California Gas and Electric Co.......................................
450.00
Southern Pacific Railroad Co ....................................... :.
240.00
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Co...........................
400.00
Los Angeles Gas and Electric Co.................................
100.00
$1,610.00

Balance en hand July 31, 1916.............................................................. $ 527.50
Received interest on bonds ..................................................$85{1.00
Received interest on bank deposits ........................ .'........... 13.39
863.39
$1,390.89
California Gas and Electric Co ...................................$475.00
Los Angeles Railway Co ............................................... 250.00
Pacific Gas and Electric Co ........................................... 125.00
$850.00
EXPENDITURES.

Paid Building Fund ..............................................................$790.54
Balance on hand July 31, 1917 (Humboldt Sav. Bank) ......

790.54
600.35

370

EXPENDITURES.

ASSETS.

Paid Endowment Fund ................................................. $ 2,646.50
Paid Trustees .................................................................. 105,653.99

Balance on hand
600.35
Pacific Gas and Electric bonds ....................................... . 5.000.00
California Gas and Electric Co. bonds ....................... . 9.000.00
Los Angeles Railway Co. bonds ................................. . 5,000.00

108,300.49

Total Assets July 31, 1917.....................................$19,600.35

Balance on hand July 31, 1917...................................................... $496.98
BANK BALANCES.

MASONIC HOMES BUILDING FUND.
RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand July 31,
Received per capita tax for 1916..................................$28,928.00
Received from Special Home Fund.....................
.. 22,140.34
Received from Endowment Fund (Loan) ................ 35,800.00
Received from General Fund (Loan) ........................ 35,648.34

216.72

Los Angeles Bank & Trust Co .................................$ 20.20
Humboldt Savings Bank .............................................. 435.48
Savings Union Bank and Trust Co. No. !............ 20.75
Savings Union Bank and Trust Co. No. Z:........... 20.55
$496.98

122,516.68
$122,733.40
EXPENDITURES.

Warrants paid Trustees ................................................$121,371.60
Interest on loans
................................
1,361.80

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND TO JULY 31, 1917.
RECElF'.rS.

122,733.40
LOANS.

Balance on hand July 31, 1916....................................................... .

$8,801.08

Received interest on Bank Deposit ................................$ 223.32
Received from endowment clays and other sources.. 59,418.93
Received from Bond redeemed ............................ ........
974.25
Received interest on Bonds.............................................. 3,444.28
City of Santa Barbara ..............................$822.92

Permanent Endowment Fund ..................................... $35,800.00
Masonic Homes General Fund .................................... 35,648.34
Deficit balance July 31, 1917 ................................$71,448.34
MASONIC HOMES GE:.:-ERAL FUND TO JULY 31, 1917.
RECEJPTS.

Balance on hand as per last Report July 31. 1916 ....$ 4,083.38
Less balance Building Fund inclnded in above........
216.72
Balance General Fund .................. ...........................
Received from per capita tax for year 1916..............$57,856.00
Received from Secretary Masonic Homes................ 8,356.39
618.42
Received interest on hank deposits...........
Received from other sources.......................................... 3,100.00
Received from Bank of Italy (Loan) ........................ 35,000.00

371

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$3.866.66

Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Co ... 800.00
City of San Diego...................................... 43.86
City of San Francisco ............................. 100.00
City of Richmond ...................................... 250.00
Hetch Hetchy ........................................... 540.00
City of Uplands ........................................ 187.50
City of Ashland ........................................ 450.00
California Gas and Electric Co ............. 250.00
Total receipts ........................................................................

64,060.78

104,930.81
$108,797.47

Total receipts, including balance on hand ................................ $72,861.86

372

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

373

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXPENDITURES.

REPORT OF ::VJASO:\fIC TEMPLE

Paid for Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Bonds ....$11,183.30
Paid for California Gas and Electric Bonck ............. 10,166.50
Paid for Liberty Bonds.................................................... 11,000.00
Paid to Building Fund (Loan) ................................ ., .. 35,800.00

ASSOCIATIO~.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

68,149.80
Balance on hand July 31, 1917 (Humboldt Sav. Bank).... $ 4,712.06

The Board of Directors of the Masonic Temple Association of
California presents herewith a full and complete statement of receipts
;111d disbursement.s for the year ended ,August 31, 1917. The interest
payments were $12,532.35 as against $15,388.45 the previous year. This
is due partly to the payment of $25,000 on indebtedness, and partly to
.
reduction in the interest rate to five per cent:
RECEIPTS, SEPT. 1, 1916, TO SEPT. 1, 1917.

ASSETS.

Balance on Hand September 1, 1916......................

Balance on

$ 4,712.06

21-4;1,%

City of Santa Barbara
Bonds
7-4}'2% City of Santa Barbara
Bonds
16-5%
Pacific Tel. and Tel. Co.
Bonds ................................@
2-5%
City and County of S. F.
Bonds ................................ @
5-5%
City of Richmond Bonds .. @
5-5%
City of Upland Bonds ........ @
12-5%
Retch Hetchy Bonds ........ @
9-5%
City of Ashland Bonds ...... @
1()-5%
California Gas and Elect.
Bonds ................................ @
11-3%
Liberty Bonds ·····················\YJ

$ 537.50 $11,287.50
1,000.00

7,000.00

1,000.00

16,000.00

1,000.00
1,000.00
625.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00

$ 1.801.96

From Grand Lodge F. & A. M., purchase of stock $30,<X!O.OO
From Grand Commandery K. T., purchase of stock

2,500.00

From Rentals

26,490.78

From Rebates and Discounts .................................. ..

86.67

59,077.45

Total Receipts ....................................................... .

$60,879.41

2,000.00
5,000.00
3,125.00
12,000.00
9,000.00

Disbursements 12 Months .......................:................. .

55,181.50

Bnlance Cash on Hand September l, 1917 .. ..

5,697.91

Present Indebtedness, Mortgage ............................. .

$240,000.00

10,000.00
11,000.00

We respectfully ask that Grand Lodge subscribe for stock to the
amount of $25,000.00.
WM. H. CROCKER,
President.
E. PEABODY,
Secretary.

86,412.50
Building Fund (Loan) ............................••• ••••••H•••••••••H•MH•M<W••••H••• 35,412.50

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
Total Assets July 31, 1917...........................................................$126.924.56
WM. P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMlVUTTEE O~ ACCOUNTS.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts beg to report that since the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge it has regularly me~ on the
last Saturday in each and every month in the Grand Secretary's office,
examined and audited all bills presented throughout the year, none
having been paid without the approval of the committee; your committee being at all times most agreea!Jly assisted by our genial, most
efficient and Worthy Grand Secretary and his able Assistant.
EDWARD
JOHN

E. CONN,

B. WUERSCHJNG,

R F. CONLISK,
D. F.. EASTON.
Adopted.
The Grand Secretary read a letter from Brother Tames
\IV right Anderson, commendatory of the form and ~atter
of the Constitution and Ceremonies as now printed. recommending that Lodges present to each candidate, immediately after receiving the Master's degree, a copy of the
book. This was referred to the Committee on Finance.
BOARDS OF RELIEF.
The Grand Secretary presented the report of the several Boards of Relief, all of which were referred to the
Committee on Finance.
BOARD OF RELIEF OF SAN FRANCISCO.
To the l\f.". w: .Grand Lodge of California:
We beg to submit the following report for the year commencing
August 28, 1916, and ending August Zl, 1917, both dates inclusive.
We still note with regret the evident desire of Lodges, for whom
we have spent a great deal of money, to try and evade their responsibilities, and we deplore their obvious endeavor to see how little they
can do, instead of realizing how much they ought to do.
The commercial spirit which enters into their dealings seems to
have superseded the Masonic spirit which should be there.

375

It is very refreshing to have the Grand Master of a sister jurisdictio11 defend the actions of this Board in doing its Masonic duty,
and our thanks are due to Brother George R. Malcolm, Grand Master
of the State of Washington, for the able manner in which he presented
the claim of this Board against one of their Lodges; in his address
at the opening of said Lodge.
The .following from the address of the Grand Master of Arkansas
at its Communication in November should be of interest to the Craft, ·
and is hereby submitted to them:
"I have been compelled to make several subordinate Lodges pay
to other Lodges money that had been expended for the purpose of caring for the sick, and in som£ instances burying the deceased. It is a
deplorable fact that some of the Lodges of this jurisdiction have
allowed Sister Jurisdictions to care for their .ick and bury their deal),
and then repudiate the debt, on account of being financially poor.
And in this connection I want to take the time to express lo the representatives of the subordinate Lodges my utter contempt for a Lodge
which refwes to pay for the care of a sick Brother or the burial of
a dead one. If it is wrong to defraud a Lodge of Master Masons,
under ordinary circumstances, it is doubly so to refuse to pay the expense incurred by a sister Lodge in caring for our sick and afflicted,
and a Lodge that 'Will not do that, should have their charter arrested
and have their organization 'Wiped off the map, for of all the contemptible, mean thiings it is possible for a Lodge to do, I think that
it is the worst, and I would' feel more kindly to a Lodge that would
wilfully viola1te every edict of the Grand Lodge than. the one who
obeys every edict implicitly and then refused to pay the {11neral expenses of a deceased Brother, when such e:rpense was incurred by a
sister Lodge."
We also desire to thank our medical Brethren who have so ably
assisted us during the year by generously giving their professional
skill without any remuneration. We refer to Doctors H. L Block,
J. C. Egeberg, D. E. F. Easton, Otto Freyermuth, A. S. Green, William
P. Read, Jacob Schwartz, George A. Wood, Wilhelm Waldeyer and
A. L. W. Zillmer.

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BALANCE-SHEET.
Cash on Hand August 28, 1916..................................................$ 5,081.11
Balance Andronetti Bequest Fund.................... ....................... .
494.43
RltCI\IPTS.

Refunds-California Jurisdiction ................. .
4,509.19
Refunds-Other Jurisdictions in U. S ................ . 6,006.82
"Refunds-Foreign Jurisdictions ......................... . 1,067.05
Refunds-Grand Lodge ........................................ .. 2,629.90
Total Refunds ..........................................................
Assessments-City Lodges ................................... .

i:!:~::~ ~~ B;;Pd:~l-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 510.00
174.20

$14,212.96
3,787.25

Miscellaneous ........................................................... .

684.20
2.00

Total Cash Available ..............................................

$24,261.95

DISBURSl!MtNTS.

Relief-California Jurisdiction .......... $ 6, 121.68
Relief-Other Jurisdictions in U. S. 8,411.89
Relief-Foreign Jurisdictions............ 1.504.66
Relief-Unknown Lodge ..................
360.00
Relief-Demitted Members ..............
521.40
Total Relief ........ ...............................
Expense-Salaries and labor ............ $ 2,100.00
Expense-Office supplies, etc...........
389.25
Expense-Rent ....................................
360.00
Expense-Telephone, etc. ................
90.59
Total Expenses ..................... ~ ........... .
Invested in Liberty Bond-From
Andronetti Bequest Fund ....$ 494.43
From City Lodges ...................... ..
505.57

388

$ 2,939.84
$ 2,939.84

393
400
435
449
453
454
455
461
462
464

440.00
53.45

204.40
California
62.05
La Parfait Union ..................................................................... .
Occidental ................................................................................. . 214.80
Golden Gate ............................................................................ .. 193.10
Mt. Moriah ................................................................................ 127.10,
Fidelity ....................................................................................... . 197.95
70.90
Hermann ................................................................................... .
Pacific ........................................................................................ .. 235.75
Crockett ..................................................................................... . 161.05
Oriental .................................................................................... .. 129.65
Excelsior ................................................................................... . 144.70
Mission ....................................................................................... . 313.55
South San Francisco ............................................................... .
69.85
Doric ............................................................................................ 177.80
Speranza Italiana ..................................................................... . 75.65
San Mateo ................................................................................. .
53.20
King Solomon's ........................................................................ 193 ..J5
Starr King ................................................................................. . 107.8()
Presidio ...................................................................................... 112.00
San Francisco ......................................................................... .
92.70
Amity ........ :............................................................................... .. 114.80
Jewel ........................................................................................... .
33.85
Richmond .................................................................................. 111.70
Parnassus ................................................................................. . 106.05
Balder ......................................................................................... .
73.70
Burlingame ............................................................................... .
60.20
Fairmount ................................................................................. . 129.50
Park .......................................................................................... ..
66.20
Bethlehem ................................................................................. .
31.15
Crocker .................................................................................... ..
15.60
Golden West ..............................................................................
45.65
Argonaut ................................................................................... .
14.85
Paul Revere ............................................................................. .
38.15
Alta Vista ................................................................................. .
8.80
$3.787.25

21,352.92
Balance on Hand .............'................. ..

1
17
22
30
44
120
127
136
139
144
166
169
212
216
219
226
260
344
354
360
370
374
375

$16.919.63

$ 1,000.00
Donations to Employment Bureau ..
Endowment Day Expense ..................

ASSESSMI\NTS REC!llVI\D FROM LODGI\S CONSTITUTING THE BOARD.

$ 2,909.03

378

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY
JURISDICTIONS.
UN1TED STATES.

! urisdiction-

Received from
lndh>iduals. Lodges.
9.00
10.00
$ 35.00
40.00
40.00
240.00

Alabama
Arizona
Arkansas
Colorado
Delaware
District of Columbia ......
Georgia ............................
Illinois ••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••
55.00
Iowa
Indiana
5.00
Idaho ··············•d••••·-·······-·
Kansas
Kentucky
10.00
Louisiana -------·················
Massachusetts
Maine
22.00
Montana ..........................
Michigan ••••••••••H••••""••••••••
10.00
Mississippi ····-········-········
20.50
Minnesota ........................
20.00
Missouri
61.00
Nebraska ··-------··-·······--·-···
North Dakota ···············25.00
New Hampshire ·---- ...... ............
New Jersey ••••••H••••••••····
Nevada •·•·•••••u•••••••••••••••••
95.00
New York ...................... 222.31
North Carolina ..............
New Mexico ..................
6.00
Ohio ----·-·-··························
38.50
Oklahoma ---------·······----····
Oregon
33.20
Pennsylvania -·-·---··········- 248.00
Philippine Islands ·····-··
43.00
Rhode Island ..................
40.00
Tennessee
Texas H•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o
Utah •••·······-··-··h••••H•••• .. •••Wo
O••··--•MH•••••••w• . . ••••••

WW•••»WW••••••+•HH••MMoo

W•MHMw•• . . MHW•••••••••••

Received
Total.
9.00
$
45.00
40.00
280.00

•w••••••••••Ow••HH••••oo

··················----·~·······--MMnM•••••MMMMM•M•MWW•H••oo

MM••H•M••<>•••••MMHWoMooooooo

109.50

109.50

251.44
387.50

406.44
387.50
10.75
132.75
10.50
10.00
128.00
129.90
22.00
101.00
77.50
20.50
284.45
106.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
117.25
316.60
1,149.79
30.00
21.00
287.50
2.00
205.55
542.30
163.00
40.00

5.75
132.75
10.50

MOMMMHooo•oooooo•MMMMWo

M••OOHHOOooooo

128.00
129.90

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . w. • • • • •

~···••••••H••••••••••••••

·-~--·········--············

................... *" ...

101.00
67.50
264.45
45.00
10.00
5.00
117.25
221.60
927.48
30.00
15.00
249.00
2.00
172.35
294.30
120.00

••••••••••H

15.00
20.00

15.00
20.00

Disbu•rsements.
9.00
$
20.00
260.00
309.50
330.00
109.50
30.0:)
433.09
304.50
10.75
120.00
251.30
10.00
108.UO
231.23
550.25
341.00
124.70
20.50
347.9J
126.00
25.00
197.00
117.85
556.6:)
882.74
21.00
547.95
215.55
542.55
143.00
38.50
7.00
15.00
23.00

Vermont
Virginia ........................... .
vVashington ....................
Wisconsin ....................... .

379
.40
43.44
887.59
100.SO

30.00
5.00
100.50

13.44
581.10
16.00

43.44
586.10
116.50

Total ..... _ ............$1,189.01
California ....... ................ 549. 75

$4,817.81
3,959.44

$ 6,006.82
4,509.19

$ 8.411.89

Total U. S ..............$1,738.76

$8,777.25

$10,516.01

$14.533.57

Received
Total.
20.00
$
146.50
150.00
49.35

Disbwrsamen ts.
10.00
$
109.00
120.50
137.90
124.63
305.7::1
25.DO
454.93
36.90
180.10

6,121.68

1''0REJCN.

R cceii:cd from
JurisdictionIndividuals. l,odg('s.
Alberta ............................$ 10.00
$ 1000
British Columbia ..........
60.00
86.50
Canada ·-----·--·-·········--......
150.00
England ............ -. .........
49.35
Germany ........................ ..
Ireland ........................... _
216.70
Manitoba ......................... .
25.00
New Brnnswick ........... .
Saskatchewan .............. .. 374.50
85.00
Scotland ·-·-········ .... .

216.70
25.00
374.50
85.00

----

----

Total ........................ $529.50
$537.55
$1,067.05
$1,504.65
Demitted cases ..............................................................................................$521.40
Lodge unknown-woman vouched for.. .................................................. 360.00

During the year the following have been buried or their remains
shipped according to the wishes of the families :
1916
Aug. 30 Ferdinand Hauss .............. Enterprise No. 70............ Yuba City, Cal.
Sept.12 Edwin H. Stone.. .............. Lily Ko. 342...................... New York, N. Y
15 Frank 0. Elmore ............... \Vash.Centennial No. 14 .. Washington, D. C.
25 Chas. W. Harding........ __ .....Pentalpha X o. 202.......... Los Angeles, Cal.
30 Thos. A. Atchison .............. Oroville No. 103..............0roville, Cal.
Oct. 2 Otto J. Crossfield ................ Reedley Xo. 304 ................ Reedley, Cal.
7 Emison A. Boulton ............ Corinthian No. 9 ............ Marysville, Cal.
10 Frederick W. Cook. ...........Tyrian No. 96.................. Spokane, Wash.
27 Robert Chipchase ................ Victoria-Columbia No. !..Victoria, B. C.
28 Anders P. T. Anderson .... Anvil No. 140.................... Nome, Alaska.
N'ov. 4 Chas. D. Gunn ................... Northwestern No. 105 .... Prescott, Wis.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Nov. 4 Adalbert Dobson .............•Cleveland No. 21L ......... Chicago, Ill.
6 William H. Herbert ........ Vitruvius No. 145 ............ Bloomfield, Cal.
6 William Higginson .......... St. Patrick No. 602..........Derriaghy, Ireland.
11 Edward Jordan .................. King David No. 209....... .San Luis Obispo, Cal.
21 Chas. Wm. Hornick ........ Summit No. 163............... .St. Paul, Minn.
25 George B. Dales .................. :VIt. Shasta No. 281... ..... Anderson, Cal.
25 Mrs. Alice Dahl ................ So. California No. 278 .... Los Angeles, Cal.
29 John M. Purington ............Escurial No. 7..................Virginia City, Nev.
Dec. 2 William M. Shawler ..........Ely No. 29.......................... Ely, Nev.
9 Hugh Logan ...................... H. W. Bigelow No. 438 ..Chicago, Ill.
13 Chas. L. Marks .................... Silver Gate No. 296........ San Diego, Cal.
18 Richard J. Walkden ..........Alleyn No. 2647................London, Eng.
19 Chas. J. Gitlesen ................Beacon Light No. 701........New Brighton, N. Y.
1917
Jan. 1 John B. Phinney................Thatcher No. 439............ Cleveland, Ohio.
3 Isaac H. Storey.................. Vancouver No. 68............Vancouver, B. C.
6 Jeremiah Watts ................Gravel Range No. 59...... Camptonville, Cal.
12 John C. Clcmens ................ Golden State No. 358 ...... Los Angeles, Cal.
13 Mrs. Anna M. Irwin........ Missoula No. 13 ................ Missoula, Mont.
23 Lewis McMahon ............. Euclid No. 599 .................. Cleveland, Ohio.
25 Chas. Boone, Jr .................Potter No. 44 L. ... ., .......... Philadelphia, Pa.
26 John G. Heid ......................Mt. Juneau No. 147........Juneau, Alaska.
29 George T. Phelps ................ Brighton Park No. 854.Chicago, Ill.
Feb. 19 Mrs. Louise Roberts .......... Porterville No. 303 .......... Porterville, Cal.
Mar. 7 Hugh P. Jones ....................St. John No. 618..: ........... Hong Kong, China.
14 Louis C. F. Wiedemann .. Vesper No. 84 .................. Red Bluff, Cal.
19 John W. Widner ................Hiram No. 21... .................Colfax, Wash.
21 Chas. M. Prosek. ............... :\1t. Jackson No. 295 ......Guerneville, Cal.
Apr. 10 Mrs. Wm. M. Johnson ......Fresno No. 247 ................ Fresno, Cal.
17 George F. Moss .................. Union No. 334..................Bradford, Pa.
18 William B. Shumann ........ Arcana No. 246...............New York, N. Y.
19 Robert MacRae Cain ........ Mt. Pisgah No. 96..........Cripple Creek, Colu.
May 5 John W. Harvey ................Chico No. 111................. Chico, Cal.
7 Walter W. Gillespie.......... Friendship No. 210.......... San Jose, Cal.
7 Jam es Redington .............. Nevada No. 13. ................Nevada City, Cal.
16 Wm. G. B. Erdmann ........Temple No. 14.................. Albany, N. Y.
18 Thomas B. Manning ......... .Vesper No. 84.................. Red Bluff, Cal.
19 Nelson C. Merriam ............ State No. 68......................Tacoma, \Vash.
23 John A. Davison ...............Montrose No. 63 ..............Montrose, Colo.
June 2 Mark Bailey ........................Orland No. 265 ................ 0rland, Cal.
12 Charles H. Tully ................Roseville No. 432.............. Roseville, Cal.
19 Mrs. Hunter Williams ...... Idaho Springs No. 26 ....Idaho Springs, Colo.
21 George B. Granger.. ..........Starr King ........................Salem, Mass.
22 Lawrence H. Bither ..........Mendocino No. 179......... Mendocino, Cal.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

30 Andrew D. Herold ............ Phoenix No. 178.............. San Bernardino, Cal.
July 6 Ambrose Walsh .............. :.Washington No. 46.......... Portland, Ore.
13 Clarence F. Montell .......... Day Star No. 798 ............ Brooklyn, N. Y.
13 August Bahler ..................Benicia No. 5.................... Benicia, Cal.
14 Sidney A. Johnston ..........Guadalupe No. 237 .......... Guadalupe, Cal.
16 Nathan W. Spaulding........Oakland No. 188.............. 0akland, Cal.
16 Joseph Holland .................. Reno No. 13...................... Reno, Nev.
19 Robert P. Traxler .............. Oakwood No. 100..............0akwood, Mich.
30 Eugene McPhetridge ......Covert No. 11.................... 0maha, Neb.
Ang. 3 Frank Ey ............................ Berkeley No. 363 ........... Berkcley, Cal.
Tntal, 64.
Fraternally ~uhmitted,
THOMAS ANDERSON,
LEO BRUCK,
Chairman.
Secretary.

REPORT OF THE MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
Another' year has nm its course. With unabated fnry and horror
the most terrible war of all times continues. The sacrifice of onr
brethren over the seas staggers us; the war's effect now reaches directly to our own land, and there is much distress and suffering to be
alleviated.
The demands upon the :Masonic Employment Bureau of San
Francisco have become greater and greater each succeeding year,
am! fortunately the Bureau h;is kept apace with these demands anrl
has become a more potent factor for good to the unemployed in the
Fraternity. Distress in many instances has meant the want of a job,
and the Bureau finds for the able-bodied brethren, who have still
something to give to the world and mankind, a market for their
honest industry.
The Bureau takes this occasion to thank the Fraternity at large
for the whole-hearted assistance it has received. The members have
put their shoulders to the wheel with the gratifying result shown in
the appended report. Let us hope that the good work will continue,
and that each succeeding year may show greater usefulness on the
part of the Employment Bureltu for the members of our bC'loved
Order.
l<'raternally submitted,
ARTHUR JOEL,
President.

THOMAS IRWIN,
Secretary.

:is2

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

Applications filed during the year__ ________________ .. ________ ·----------------·------ 2,067
Total positions secured-----------------------------···---··-·--··--··-·---··-····-···· 1,995
Applications withdrawn -----·----·······--·--··-·-········· .. ···········-····........
27
Applications on file .......................... -···················-.. ··················--·
45
Male.
- - 2,067
Applications filed ....... ___ :................. ________________________ ....... ·--········-····-········ 1,789
Applications withdrawn ..............................................................
12
Applications on file......................................................................
20
Positions secured ····························--······················-··--·----·····- .. ·· 1,757
Female.
---1,789
Applications filed .... _................ _........ --.......... _.................................... _. 278
Applications withdrawn ---···························································
15
Applications on file .................... -- .... -........................................ -..
25
Positions secured .......................................................................... 238
278
Total expense for the year .............................................................. $1,761.33
fotal positions secured ................................................................. --1,995
Average cost per position secured................................................
88c
BALANCE SHEET.
Balance on hand August 28, 1916............................................... _: ......$ 294.17
RECEIPTS.

California Commandery No. l, K. T .................. ~ .............. $120.00
Golden Gate Commandery No. 16, K. T...............
120.00
San Francisco Commandery No. 41, K. T......
60.00
San Francisco Chapter No. 1, R. A. M ........................... 120.00
California Chapter No. 5, R. A. M ..................................... 120.00
Mission Chapter No. 79, R A. M..................................... 120.00
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection No. 1...................... 120.00
California Lodge of Perfection No. 10............................ 120.00
Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. Shrine.............................. 195.00
San Francisco Pyramid No. l, A. E. 0. Sciots............ 60.00
Board of Relief of San Francisco...................................... 440.00

BOARD OF RELIEF OF LOS AI\'GELES.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles, herewith presents the following report of its labors from September 1,
1916, to August 31, 1917.
The Masonic Board of Relief is composed of the Masters (exofficio) of the 27 Blue Lodges of this City and two members appointed
by him, together with the Past Grand Masters residing within the City
of Los Angeles, the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts of Los
Angeles City, one representative from each of the several Royal Arch
Chapters, the Council. the Commandcries, the Scottish Rite bodies
and the Shrine, the manager of the Masonic Employment Bureau, and
one Past Worthy Matron of the Order of the Eastern Star.
Officers:
President, J olm Hill Bean; Vice-President, Dana
Reid Well er; Treasure:-, Motley Hewes Flint; Secretary, John Marcus
Dunsmoor.
Stated Meetings arc held on the first Sunday of each month.
officers form an Executive Board and are on duty daily.

The

In presenting our report for 1916-1917, we arc pleased to say that
although the '~Great Conflict" has produced the condition of "High
Cost of Living," yet the actual calls for monetary consideration have
not been so heavy as heretofore.

The Employment Bureau has been of great assistance in putting
many in the way of self-supporting, who would of necessity have been
obliged to ask for aid, had it not been for our Employment Bureau.
However, the calls have generally been exceedingly urgent.

1,595.00
Total Cash Available ........................................................................$1,889.17

There have been fewer Masonic tramps, and it is to be hoped that
this class will soon realize that "Once a Mason, always a Mason,"
lloes not hold good unless he shall have deported himself in a manner
to convince the Craft that he is Worthy, and well Qualified.
MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.

DISBURSEMENTS.

Salaries ...................................................................................$1,210.00
Rent ........................................................................................ 180.00
Printing ..................................................................................
25.75
Telephone and messenger.................................................. 241.55
Carfare, stationery, postage, etc....................................... 104.03
----

383

Our Masonic Employment Bureau 1s doing a great work.
object is to bring to the brethren:

Our

First-The need of service and their own cn~ploymcnt in helping
others.
1,761.33

Balance on hand August 27. 1917...................................................... $ 127.34

Second-The fact that this Bureau is an institution of service,
desirous of being of aid wherever it is possible.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
APPLICATIONS.

NAME.

1916
Men ..................................................................................................... 1085
Women ................................................................................................ 620

1917
1098
345

Total applications ........................................................................ 1705

1443

POSITIONS FILLED.

1916
Men ................................. ............................................ .................... .. 771
Women ................................................................................................ 137

1917
707
145

Total positions filled ...................................................................... 908
Temporary jobs ................................................................................ 622

852
872

Total ............................................................................................... 1530

1724

APPLICATIONS CANCELLED.

Twelve applications cancelled during the year for good and sufficie:1t reasons.
Three applications cancelled for placing their various labor unions
before Masonry and refusing good paying positions.
Five applications cancelled for refusing good .paying positions
because they were out of the city.
Two applications cancelled for drunkenness.
Two applications cancelled for failing to report for duty after positions were secured.
DEATHS.

During the year ending August 31, 1917, the following 85 Masons
or meinbers of their families have passed to their final reward, and
their remains have been given burial with Masonic honors, or shipped
according to the wishes of the families, viz. :
NAME.

Joshua Reid
D. Irving Sanford
John A. Williams
Carleton Branch-White
J. Willard Smith
Phillip Schaub
Wm. H. Merrill

LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION.

DATE 'JF DEATH.

Perfect Ashlar, 12Bisbee, Ariz.
Rushford, Minn.
Mystic Star, 69
Lamar, Colo.
Lamar, 90
King Solomon, 460Birmingham, Ala.
Missoula, 13
Missoula, Mont.
St. John, 9
Seattle, Wash.
S. M. Dalzell, 805Spring Valley, Ill.

Sept.2, 1916
" 9, "
" 19, "

"20, "
"23, "
"24; "
"26, "

George C. Vivian
Robert Ferguson
George Raynolds
Jam es Bastable
James H. Sloan
Stephen E. Cobb
John Hadden
George L. Bugbie
Rumsey Saling
Jackson Lee Powell
Spencer M. Hillebert
Paul Scott
Joseph H. Kuhns
Leonard J. Thompson
Ivory M. Marston
Wm. G. Runyan
Evan Evans
John E. Cohn
Wm. T. Payne
Dr. Frank Lyon
Wm. R. De Ford
William L. Cooper
Jonathan ou,stard
Charles W. Fuller
William Bittig
Andrew Jackson Doggitt
Robert R. Knowles
Daniel H. Curry
Charles G. Emmert
Henry Desmazes
William W. Noble
Alexander B. Cook
Frank T. Taylor
Emil F. Ackerman
Dr. Wm. E. Graf
Dr. Clyde J. Elmer
James F. Medbury
Frank P. Simonds
Edward Chas. Pew
Alexander White
George N. Sceets
Nathaniel S. Later

LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION.

385
DATE <W DEATH.

Idaho Springs, 26Idaho Spgs., Colo. Oct.11,1916
" 15, "
Vancouver, B. C.
Acacia, 22
" 16, "
Rural, 53
Sidney, Maine
"28, "
Ada, 344
Ada, Ohio
Santa Paula, 291 Santa Paula, Cal. Nov. l, "
Eme1 son, Neb.
" 3, "
Magnolia, 220
,, 6, ,,
Fides, 842
Chicago, 111.
H
6, H
Wilcox, 10
Wilcox, Ariz.
" 9, ,,
Papilleon, Neb.
Papilleon, 39
Gage Valley, 24 Gawatomie, Kan.
" 12, "
Victor, 99
Victor, Colo.
" 13, "
Flint Creek, 11
Phillipsburg, Mont.
" 15, "
., 18, "
Temple, 6
Albu~uerque, N. M.
Los Angeles, Cal.
" 18, "
Pentalpha, 202
Alpha, 431 ·
Richmond, Cal.
" 18~ "
Pocahontas, 211 Seneca Falls, N. Y. "21, "
"24, ,,
Denver, 5
Denver, Colo.
Dec. 1, "
Ontario, 301
Ontario, Cal.
Monterey, 626
Monterey, Tenn.
" 1, "
Argenta, 3
Salt Lake City, Utah " 8, "
Oklahoma City, 360klahoma City, Okla. " 18, "
c. 24, "
Washington, 17
Hamilton, Ohio
Lima, 205
Lima, Ohio
"26, "
Phoenix, 28
Randolph, Vt.
Jan. 4,1917
Mozart, 656
Bloomington, Ill.
" 11, "
,, 11, "
Saratoga, 14
Saratoga, Wyo.
St. Johns, 13
Dayton, Ohio
" 12, "
Mason City, 403 Mason City, Ill.
" 14, "
Temple, 84
Denver, Colo.
" 17, "
Thomas Talbot Billerica, Mass.
" 17, "
Williams, Cal.
Tuscan, 261
" 21, "
Redlands, Cal.
"26, "
Redlands, 300
Temple, 399
Kansas City, Mo.
"27, "
.• 28, "
Hiram, 105
Buffalo, N. Y.
Consuelo, 325
Escondido, Cal.
"29, "
Feh. 1, "
Reynolds, 114
Albion, Wash.
,, 4, "
Reno, 14()
Hutchinson, Kan.
,, 4, "
Normal Park, 797 Chicago, Ill.
El Paso, 130
El Paso, Tex.
" 5, "
Highlands, 86
Denver, Colo.
" 8, "
H
16, H
Englewood, 690 Chicago, m.
Bernard, 225
Listowel, Ont., Can. " 18, "

386
NAME.

PROCEEDINGS Ol<' THE
LODGI\ A:ND NO.

LOCATJON.

387

GRAND LODGE OF CAI...lFORNIA
DATE OF llEATH.

John Henry Wollbrinck
Jerome G. Kiah

Erwin, 121
Huron, 361

St. Louis, i\1o.
Feb. Hl, 1917
Harbor Beach, l\fich. " 25, "

Ewing M. Thomas

Clarksville, 89

Clarksville, 1~enn.

Thomas J. Boden
. A.ndrew J. Robinson
John Bartholomew
Abram A. Wenger

Ionic, 35
Orient, 272
Newport, 358
Weber, 6

Wm. H. l\tlcKnight

Sikeston, 310
Wichita, 99

" 28, "
l\far. 4. "

J. Pierce M. Torrey
Edward L. Ruark
Benj. Franklin Snowden

Nicola, 53
Estill, 469

Leadville, Colo.
Loga11sport, Ind.
" 4, "
Newport, Ky.
" 17, "
Ogden, Utah
"22, "
Sikeston, l\1.o.
" 24, ''
'Wichita, Kan.
·• 27, "
Merritt, B. C.
" 27, "
Spout Springs, Kan. Apr. 1, "

James Cushing

Dubuque, 3

Dubuque, Iowa

'John L. Marsh

Tarbolton, 351

Fairburg, Ill.

John l\tiacLean
Joseph H. Grissinger

Ione. 80
Lordsburg, 30

Ione, Cal.
Lordsburg, N. M.

" 8, "

" 9, "

12, "
" 17, ''
James A. Hadley
Center. 23
Indianapolis, Ind.
" 19, "
Albert G. Liddle
Gate City, 522
Kansas City, Mo.
" 19. "
George M. Savage
F~ureka, 20
Seattle, \Vash.
·• 21, "
Byron i\. Carr
Glen· Falls, 121
Glen FaJls, N. Y.
22, '•
Edgar B. Carroll
Concord, 117
Sacramento. Cal.
May 3. "
Charles P. Mallory
Orange Grove, 2930range, Cal.
•' 7, "
David Thorburn
\Veber, 6
Ogden, Utah
" 13, "
John M. Sands
Mount Olivet, 3 Parkersburg, W. Va. " 23, "
Thomas Franklin StevensonCapitol, 110
Des Moines, Iowa Jnncl4, "
Ferriss S. Hafford
Hawaiian, 21
H., Hawaiian Island " 28, "
John J. Forney
Camden, 15
Camden, N'. J.
" 29. "
Darwin 0. Hills
Oroville, 103
Oroville, Cal.
July 8, "
J. Harry Willard
Assiniboine, 114 Winnipeg, Manitoba " 5. "
\Varren Woolston
Yates, 675
Lyndonville, N. Y. Aug. 10, "
Oscar R. Harden
\Vaverly, 407
Waverly, N'. Y.
" 14, "
John Armantage
Needles, 326
Needles, Cal.
" 17, "
Charles B. Kennedy
Evergreen, 17
1-iadison, So. Dak.
" 18, "
Dr. Thomas Elmer Grubbs \Vestern Star, 2 Shasta, Cal.
'· 24, "
Aaron Levy
Rising Star, 126 Philadelphia. Pa.
" 27, "
Roger Thomas Hopkins
St. Johns, 21
Ladysmith. B. C.
" 28, "
Ora B. Kizer, wife of Jas. A. Raymond, 170
Raymond, \Vash.
" 23, "
1'

H

llltTA!Ll(D

STATJ!ME~~·

OF RECltIJ'TS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASS!FlED BY
JURISDIC'rlONS.

Alabama
Arizona ...........................

....................................... .

Paid
15.00
30.00

l\.rkansas ·----·-----~·····-·····--····--······---···-···-·· ············-···u··-······

Australia ............................................................................ .
British Columbia ............................................................ .
California ............................................................................
Canada ................................................................................. .
China .................................................................................. ..
Colorado .............................................................................
Connecticut ..........................................................................

5.00
16.00
882.11
402.50

District of Columbia ............................................... ·······

30.00
20.00
85.00
95.00
419.50
419.00

England ............................................................................... .
Hawaiian Island ..............................................................
Idaho ... -···u······-· .. ················ ....................................... · ····
Illinois
Indiana ...................................................................... .
Iowa
Kansas ....................................................................... ..
Kentucky ............................................................................. .
Loui'siana ........................................................................... .
1v1aine ................................................................... ..
Jl..1assachusetts .....................................................................
JVfanitoba ............................................................................. .
Mexico ............................................................................. ..
1v1ichigan ..............................................................................
Minnesota
Missouri
Montana ................................................................................
Nebraska ......................................................................... .
Nevada ................................................................................. .
New Jersey ..........................................................................
New Mexico ........................................................................
New York ........................................................................ ..
New South Wales ............ ,................................................ .
North Carolina .................................................................
New Zealand ...................................................................... ..
Ohio ................................................................ .
Oklahoma ........................................................................ .
Oregon ................................................................................. .
Pennsylvania .................................................................... ..
Rhode Island ......................................................................

Receiyed
$
5.00
30.00
40.00
to.OD
853.&i
207.50

5.00
241.00

211.75
114.00
181.00
95.00
105.0D
89.00
5.00
498.25
245.00
24.00
157.00
110.00
133.00
28.00
87.50
20.00
583.60
5.00
32.20
10.00
242.50
120.00
72.50
388.50

208.00
5.00
30.00
85.00
105.00
485.10
355.00
135.00
110.00
120.m
212.30
105.00
190.00
180.00
298.00
10.00
156.00
90.00
68.00
60.00
25.00
20.00
537.10
5.00

266.65
105.00

45.00
360.00
10.00

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Paid
Scotland ............................................................................. .
South Dakota ..................................................................... .
Tex as ................................................................................... .
Utah ..................................................................................... .
Virginia ............................................................................... .
Vermont ............................................................................. .
Washington ....................................................................... .
West Virginia ................................................................... .
Wisconsin ........................................................................... .

38!)

Received

SACRAMENTO BOARD OF RELIEF.

12.50
40.00
254.20
31.25
45.00
192.50
5.00
216.00

45.00
271.20
5.00
. 5.00
65.00
190.00
5.00
90.00

$7,014.36

$6,208.71

Rl(CAPITULATJON.

To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of CaBifornia:
RECEIPTS.

Cash on hand, October !st, 1916.......................................$ 208.19
Received from Grand Lodge ................................................ 1,500.00
Refund from other Lodges .................................................. l,376AO
Donation from Sacramento Lodges................................ 310.90
Dividend on Savings Account............................................
39.90
Total cash ....................................................................... .

$3.435.39

DISBURSEMENTS.

Expense printing, etc ........................................................... $ 30.90
Salary of Secretary............................................................... . 180.00
Masonic Employment Bureau:.......................................... . 225.00
In hands of President... ........................................................ .
10.40
General Relief ....................................................................... . 1,636.89

RECEIPTS.

Balance on hand September !st, 1916............................ $ 4.492.08
Interest and Miscellaneous..............................................
110.21
Received from Grand Lodge.......................................... 2,500.00
From Sister Jurisdictions.............................................. 6,193.71
Total

Total disbursements ..................................................... .

$2,083.19

Cash on hand, October 1st, 1917..................................... .

$1,352.20

$13.296.00
DISBURSEMENTS.
CLASSII'IED BY JURISDICTION.

Telegrams ............................................................................ $ 276.34
Drugs and Medicines ....................................................... .
225.70
Christmas Dinners ............................................................. .
107.00
Christmas Charities ........................................................... .
455.72
Classified by Jurisdictions ............................................... . 7,014.36
Total ............................................................................... .

8,079.12

Balance on hand, September !st, 1917 ............................................ $ 5,216.88
All which is re~pectfully submitted.
Attest:

]. H. BEAN,

J. M. DPNSMOOR,
Secretary.

President.

Received
California ....................................................................$ 584.30
Illinois .......................................................................... 141.25
Iowa ................................................... :..........................
3.15
Kansas ..........................................................................
10.00
Michigan ......................................................................
50.00
Nevada .......................................................................... · 2.00
Nebraska ......................................................................
5.00
New York .................................................................. 110.00
41.50
Ohio ..............................................................................
South Dakota .............................................................. 176.14
Virginia ........................................................................
5.00
Washington ............................................................... .
22.39
Mem. ............................................................................
Individual .................................................................... 225.67

Disbursed
$ 496.39
383.85
38.00
15.00
2.00
198.61

$1,376.40

$1,636.89

113.00
201.79
5.00
39.75
143.50

All of which is most respectfully and fraternally submitted.
R. c. IRVINE,
Secretary.

3()0

39i

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OAKLAND BOARD OF RELIEF

Stationery and postage ·······-·······-······················

49.99

To the },f.".W.'.Grand Lodge of California:

Total expense .................................................................$1,744.25
Total disbursements ···-···········-·····-····--····--·----····-·--·······-·····

S,670.69

The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith presents the
following report of its labors for the year embracing September l,
1916, to August 31, 1917.

Balance on hand September 1, 1917 --··--·······················-··

$2,659.22

The Board is composed of the Masters and Wardens of the Nine
Blue Lodges of this city.
The officers elected to serve until the first W cdnesday in J an11ary.
1918, are: Edwin L. Hiteman, Chairman; Albert B. Cosad, Treasurer;
Robert G. Evans, Secretary.
A continuance of the trade and labor conditions, to which reference
was made in our report for 1916 as affecting the last half of that
fo;cal year. has effected a marked decrease in applications for relief,
causing a falling off, as compared with last year, of about twenty-five
per cent.
RECEIPTS.

Refunded by Lodges in California .................................... $1,209.04
Refiu.nded by other U. S. jurisdictions .............................. 1,403.79
Refunded by Foreign jurisdictions.................................... 254.93
Refunded by Individuals........................ ·····--······················ 360.42
Grand Lodge account sundry jurisdictions .................... l,209.42
Aahmes Temple, share in BalL....................................... 188.26
Interest received .................................................................... 124.23
Total receipts ··-······--···--·····-········-····----··---···-··--·······-·····Balance on hand September I, 1916................................. .

$4,750.00
J,579.82

Total receipts and balance --·····-····-··-····--····---········-··

$3,329.91

RECEJPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSTFJED BY JCRlSD!CT!ONS.

United States.
Received from
Individuals.
Lodges.

Jurisdiction

For California Lodges ..........................................................$1,686.55
For other U. S. jurisdictions .............................................. 1,801.35
For Foreign jnrisdictions...................................................... 438.54
Total relief ·----··--···---···- -···--····--·-···--····---·········--·······--···-$3,926.44
Rents, salaries and incidentals .........................$1,558.65
Office equipment --·····-···-·····-·····················-············
83.00
Telegram and Telephone ....................................
52.61

Disbursements.

$ 55.00

35.00
20.00
67.00
46.00
................
100.00

51.90
6.50
15.00
5.00
60.00
305.00
242.93
84.00
25.00
81.00
46.50
103.00
241.53
35.00
50.00
-·············-·
35.00
20.00
67.00
56.00
8.00
100.00

Colorado ...................... $51.90
Connecticut ................
District of Col. ........ 5.00
Florida ·--···-----·-·····
5.00
Haw;!iian Ter. .......... 10.00
Idaho
Illinois •••••••••O•••••••••••H••• 20.67
Indiana ........................ 25.00
Iowa •><.-••••·••••••*->•·n••••••• 25.00
Kansas ........................
Maine .......................... 26.50
Massachit:setts wo•·••••--••
ll1ichigan ···-················
20.00
,,
Minnes~1Hn
35.00
Mississippi ..................
Missouri ......................
Nevada ........................
New Mexico
New York ....................
Ohio .............................. 10.00
Oregon
8.00
Pennsylvania ..............
Texas ............................
Vermont ············--········ 75.00
Washington ................
Wyoming

H••w . . ••H>•o•O

................

................
2.50
5.00

75.00
2.50
5.00

Total .................... $317.07
California .................... 20.00

$1,403.79
1,209.04

$1,720.86
1,229.04

••••••••OM••• . . ••••••••••••

O•••H#•••H•

••••••••---•••••••••n••

DJSBURSEMEN'tS.

Received
Total.

.............. u

Total u.

• • • ,.

s. ..........$.)37.07

................
6.50
10.00
-···············

50.00
305.00
222.26
59.00
•..........•....

81.00
20.00
103.00
221.53
................

50.00
·············-··

$

•

••••••• u

......

10.00
5.00
95.00
250.00
297.00
92.00
. ...............
96.00
10.00
112.00
233.78
35.00
40.00
30.00
35.00
................
150.75
8.00
23.00
140.00
16.82
65.00
2.00
................

---$1,801.35
1,686.55

----

---

-----

$2,612.83

$2,949.90

~3,487.90

393

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'HOCEEDINGS OF THE

392

Foreign.
Jurisdiction.

Received from
Individuals.
Lodges.

Received
Total.

Disbursemen ts.

$200.17

$297.58

Canada ....................... .
Engiand
Portugal
............... $23.35
Scotland

$200.17

54.76

78.11

16.00
123.71

Total ...................... $23.35

$254.93

$278.28

$438.54

+••••····-~~····

H•••••••••••••>

Sept. 1, 1916, to Aug. 31, 1917.

1.25

During the year ending August 31, 1917, the following named
twentv-four Masons, or members of their families, have been given
Maso;1ic burial, or shipped in accordance with the wishes of the
families :
1916-Sept. 30-Valentine W. Miller, Bear Mountain No. 76, Angels Camp, Cal.
Oct. 17-John C. Bawden, Bodie No. 252, Bodie, Cal.
Oct. 26-William Scott, Union No. 58, Sacramento, Cal.
.!\'ov. 2-Romeo Pozzi. Corinthian No. 9, :Marysville, Cal.
Nov. 18-William A. S~eley, Vattier .No. 386, Cincinnatti, Ohio.
Dec.
2-Ralph Kern, Chico No. 111, Chico, Cal.
Dec. 6--John H. Struing, Herman No. 127, San Francisco, Cal.
Dec. 26--Miriam Davies, Sylvan Grove No. 275, New York City, N. Y.
Dec. 29-Louis Levy, Santa Ana No. 241, Santa Ana, Cal.
Dec. 30-Walter H. Elleard, Charity and Relief No, 72, ~Iystk, Conn.
'.·:1

SAN DIEGO BOARD OF RELIEF.

\,
191711-William
H.
Peake,
Chico
No.
lll,
Chico,
Cal.
Jan.
Jan. 18-Jatnes A. Bouck, Red Jacket No. 346, Lockportt N. Y.
Jan. 29-James G. Pinex, Cherryvale No. 137, Cherryvale, Kansas.
Feb. 26--John T. English, Mt. Holyoke Lodge, S. Hadley Falls, 1'Iass.
May 19-John A van, Doric No. 216, San Francisco, Cal.
May 22-Charles C. Leavitt, Jr., Las Palmas No. 366, Fresno, Cal.
June 19-H. W. Wanamaker, Bay City No. 129, Bay City, Mid1igan.
June 22-George W. Kenney, Star No. 69, Hanover, Kansas.
June 30-Peter A. Dickson, Anvil No. 140, Nome, Alaska.
July 21-Alfred Berg, Pacific No. 136, San Francisco, Cal.
Aug. 2-R'obert Cunningham, Tekoa Ko. 78, Tekoa, Washington.
Aug. 28-John Charles Patterson, Crockett No. 139, San Francisco, Cal.
Aug. 30-William A. Dayton, Richmond No. 357, San Francisco, Cal.
Respectfully suhmitted,
Ron't. G. EVANS,
EDWIN L. HITEMAN,
Secretary,
Chairman.

u:o:1ns.
September 1, 1916-Balance on hand ............
....$1,917.72
From Local Lodges ........................................... .................. 652.05
Interest ..................................... ..............................................
61.08
Tncidental ....................... :..........................................................
5.10
Refunded by California Lodges .......................................... 131.45
Refonded by Lodges in U. S. ............................................ 595.12
Refunded by Individual Ylasons ...................................... 705.65
Refunded for Funerals advanced ................................ ... 730.25
Refunded for Widows and Orphans.................................
15.00

DISIIURSEMEN'tS.

Advanced to Masons in California ..................................
Advanced to other Jurisdictions ..................................... .
Advanced to Foreign Jurisdictions .............................. ..
Advanced to Individually ......................................
Advanced to Funerals of Masons ................................. .
Advanced to Donation Employment Bureau .............. ..
Advanced to Charity
......................................... ..
Advanced to '{i1idows and Orphans .............................

$ 156.45

773.30
40.00
40.00
909.63
322.75
238.36
181.12

EXPENSES.

Salary of Secretary ............................................ $675.00
Telegraph and telephone .................................. 23.91
Postage and carfare .......................................... 23.80
Printing and stationery ....................................
7.55
Incidental minor expenses ................................ 54.20

784.46

Aug. 31, 1917-Balance on hand ....................................

$3,446.07
1,367.35
$4,813.42 $4,813.42

D.R. SAUM,
C. vVoonMAN PoTTJ;R,
Secretary.

President.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

394

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

395

SAN DIEGO E.MPLOYMENT BUREAU.
Lodges of
San Diego
Work offered
91
Work accepted ........ 86
Jobs, few dys. time .... 49
Work, 2 to 4 wks ..... 56
Permanent positions 21

Lodges of
Lodges of
California other jl!lrrisdictions
67
383
63
335
26
68
37
187
12
28

Total
541
484
143

To ·the M. W. Grand Lodge of Californ.ia:

The Masonic Board of Relief of Honolulu begs to submit the
following report for the year ending August 31, 1917:

280
61

The Employment Bureau has secured several lucrative positions and
plaees of responsibility and honor. To find employment means more to
the man who is physically able to work, than the loan of money.
Rl\Cl\IPTS.

Rl\Cl\IPTS.

Balance as of August 31, 1916....................................................... $ 383.79
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, assessment...................... $ 155.52
Honolulu Lodge, No. 409, assessment......................
91.20
74.88
321.60
Oceanic Lodge, .:.Jo. 371, assessment...........................
Reimbursed by LodgesSouth San Francisco Lodge, No. 212 ......................... ..
Prince of Wales Chapter, No. 10, N. S .............................
Cape Breton Preceptory, No. 43, N. S ................. ..
Home Lodge, No. 508, Chicago ................................. .

Al Bahr Temple, San Diego .......................................... :.....$120.00
A. & A. S. Rite, San Diego ...................................................... 40.00
S. D. K. T., No. 25, San Diego .............................................. 60.00
S. D.R. A. M., No. 61, San Diego .......................................... 60.00
Masonic Board of Relief ............................................................ 322.75
Total ..................................................................................... ..

HONOLULU BOARD OF RELIEF.

$602.75

Reimbursed by Individuals ..............................................

75.00

DISBURSl\llll\NTS.

Salaries ............................................................................................$600.00
Printing and Stationery .............................................................. 2.75
Total disbursements .............................................................. .

$602.75

The Employment Bureau has stimulated interest in the "Craft" and
a new self respect in those whom we have helped.
\Ve have recorded on our files the names and number, where
located, etc., of different Lodges by whom relief has been given, direct
from Lodge to applicant. These Lodges requested this Board to call
on the one in need, and we have visited thorn frequently and had considerable correspondence. None of this money appeared upon our books,
amOU!Ilting in the aggregate to approximately $3,000 additional business.
This service has been a real pleasure, as it is helping fulfill the object in
maintaining a Board of Relief, and is in line with our idea of Masonic
service.

D.R. SAUM,
Secretary.

450.00

$1,230.39

DISBURSJ<:Ml\NTS.

C. WOODMAN POTTER,

225.00
25.00
25.00
175.00

President.

South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212................$225.00
Memher of SoutH S. F. Lodge, No. 212................ 25.00
Home Lodge, No. 508, Chicago ............................ 175.00
riidividual Loan ............................... ... ...................... 50.00 $475.00
Cablegrams, funeral expenses, etc ....................... ..

30.77

505.77
$724.62

SUMMARY.

Cash balance as above ............................................
Note of individual .................................................. ..
Total assets

$724.62
100.00
$824.62

Respectfully submitted,
R. W. PERKINS,
Secretary.

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

SAN JOSE BOARD OF RELIEF.
Receipts, October 1, 1916, to October 1, 1917.
October 1, 1916, balance on hand ....................................................$ 160.79
Reimbursements during the year.. .........................- ......................... 1,404.04
Total receipts ...................................................................................$1,564.83
Disbm·sements for relief... ..................................................................... 1,151.70
Postage and other expenses..................................................................
37 .72
October 1, 1917, balance on hand ................................................$ 375.51

A. E. SANDBO,
Chairman.
L. M. S1MONSEN, Secretary.

REPORT OF GRA)JD LECTlJRER.
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:

I herewith submit my report as Grand Lecturer, giving an ac·
count of my stewardship foc the year just closed.
I have visited every distric;.t in the jurisdiction and have held
schools of instruction, both day and night sessions, in most of the
Lodges therein, also giving private instruction to. many of the officers
and members in my office. I am always glad to have the brethren
call on me for this service when in San Francisco.
The condition of the Lodges is generally good, many of them
having an unusual amount of work, due in ma.ny instances to the
desire of petitioners to receive their degrees before being called to
the colors. Quite a few Lodges have been badly crippled by the loss
of their Masters, ·wardens and other officers who have either enlisted
or have been called in the draft. Most of the Lodges have met this
condition by simply advancing the officers in line and going along with
the work with slight interruption.
It is certainly gratifying to learn from the splendid showing
of the reports that many of our brethren who have enlisted have
received commissions, from Sergeants up. This surely speaks well for
the caliber of our membership and the high standard of the Masons
who have enlisted in this great war.

vVe most sincerely trust, and we offer up our most fervent
t)ra,yers, that a permanent and lasting peace will soon be established.

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

397

Three new Lodges have received dispensations this year, making
now a total of 379 Lodges, with a membership of over 60,000. There
are several small Lodges throughout the State that are having a
hard time to exist, and I fear they will eventually have to consolidate
with some near-by Lodge, the membership being so scattered that
it is difficult for them to get a quorum. This is indeed an unfortunate condition, for all those Lodges are composed of good men and
enthusiastic Masons, who have worked hard for many years to maintain their Lodges, but who must ere long submit to the inevitable
through lack of numbers. We trust that something unforeseen will
come about to change this condition.
I would suggest that some uniform method be adopted by which
Lodges may check up the standing of visitors. The card system
now in use by many Lodges seems to be the simplest and most inexpensive way to handle this. These cards can be obtained :1t a very
nominal cost. Many Lodges do not in any manner check up the
register of visitors. I trust this Grand Lodge will take the nrcessary
action requiring all Lodges to do this.
I have received reports from all the inspectors, and they report
the Lodges over which they preside to be doing good work, and
most of them increasing numerically and financially. I regret that
space will not permit the printing of some of these reports. Several
Lodges have under course of erection new Temples.

I desire to express to the Inspectors my sincere thanks and deep
gratitude for their able assistance, and for the many courtesies extended to me during the year, and to congratulate them on the
splendid condition of the work in their respective districts. The
work they are doing is worthy of the highest and just commendation
by this grand body.
My thanks are due the V. \V. Grand Secretary and his assistant
for many cou,rtesies extended to me during the year.
It has been my great pleasure to accompany the Most \Vorshipful
Grand Master on many of his visits to the Lodges throughout the
jurisdiction. The Most Worshipful has visited almost every district
in the State, and only the lack of time and pressing business prevented him from reaching all. Most of these vfaits were joint meetings, at which all the Lodges of the Distr.ict were represented by
large delegation~. The inspiring and instructive messages which the
Grand Master left with the brethren at these meetings were certainly
greatly appreciated, and cannot fail to make those who were privileged
to hear the profound lessons illustrated and explained in these masterly
addresses better men and Masons, and which gave the brethren much

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

food for thought. A detailed account of the visits of the Grand
Master is herein given.
Visitations of the Grand Master to the Lodges of the jurisdiction:
October 18, 1916:
and address.

Evening visit to Starr King Lodge.

Reception

October 19, 1916: Evening visit to South San Francisco Lodge.
Reception and address.
October 26, 1916:
ception and address.

Fortieth anniversary of Alcatraz Lodge.

Re-

November 4, 1916:
Yreka. Address.

Visited St. Joh n's and Howard Lodges of

November 10, 1916:
Degree. Address.

Roseville Lodge, evening meeting and Third

November 11, 1916: Susanville. Lassen Lodge, evening meeting
and Third Degree. District meeting address.
November 12, 1916:
Lodge members.

Alturas Lodge; evening conference with

November 13, 1916: Adin Lodge.

Reception and address.

November 18, 1916: Oakland. .Masters of Oakland Lodges con.ferred Third Degree for Pruitvale Lodge. Reception and address.
November 20, 1916:
and address.

Bethlehem Lodge in evening.

Reception

November 21, 1916: Richmond. Alpha and ).fcKinley Lodges.
Third Degree by Inspectors. Reception and address.
November 23, 1916: Conference with Masters and \l\Tarclens of
Silver Trowel Lodge. Evening, University Lodge. Address.
November 24, 1916: Addressed Masters and Wardens at Masonic
Temple, Los Angeles.
November 25, 1916:

San Diego.

Conference with .Masters and

V,f ardens of District Lodges.

November 28, 1916: Fairmont Lodge in the evening. Reception and
address.
November 29, 1916:
and address.

Mission Lodge in the evening.

Reception

December 7, 1916: Annual. meeting of California Lodge.
Lodge.

399

Mother

December 14, 1916:
dress.

Installation of officers of Jewell Lodge.

December 15, 1916:
the evening. Address.

Meeting and installation, Amity Lodge in

December 16, 1916:
Reception.

Masonic Board of Relief of San Prancisco.

December 18, 1916:
Address.

Mill Valley Lodge.

Installation of officers.

December 19, 1916:
evening. Address.

Brooklyn Lodge.

Installed officers in the

Ad-

December 27, 1916: Sacramento. Installed officers of . 'l'ehama,
Washington, Sacramento, 'Union and Concord Lodges.
December 28, 1916: San Jose. Installation of officers of San
Jose, Friendship, Fraternity and Morgan Hill Lodges.
December 29, 1916:
Lodges.

Installed officers of Santa Cruz and Pajaro

December 30, 1916: Stockton. Installed officers of San J oaqnin
and .Morning Star Lodges. Reception and address .
January 6, 1917: Benicia. Installed officers of Benicia, S1tis1tn
and Vacaville Lodges and Silveyville Lodge. Reception and address.
January 9, 1917: Santa Rosa. Installed officers of Santa Rosa
and La Fayette Lodges. Reception and address.
January 11, 1917:
Reception and address.

Installation of officers of Petaluma Lodge.

January 13, 1917: Installed officers of Ione Lodge. Reception and
address.
January 17, 1917: Installation of officers, at Y1u1ba City, of Enterprise, Corinthian, Nicolaus and Hammonton Lodges. Reception and
address.
January 18, 1917: Installation of officers of Woodland, Buckeye
and Landmark Lodges. Reception and address.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

400

January 19, 1917: Colusa.
Lodge. Reception and address.

Installation of officers of Colusa

April 14, 1917:
Address.

January 20, 1917: Crockett.
Lodge. Reception and address.

Installation of officers of Carquincz

April 16, 1917:
Address.

Installed officers of Mt. Diablo

April 17, 1917:
address.

January 24, 1917: 1fodesto. Installed officers of Stanislaus Lodge.
Address.

April 18, 1917:

January 23, 1917:
Lodge. Address.

January 27, 1917:
Lodge. Address.

Concord.

Hollister.

Installed officers of San Benito

February 5, 1917: Visited El Centro Lodge in the evening.
Degree Lodges of District present.
Febriuary 22, 1917:
evening.

Third

Meeting and reception at Needles Lodge in

February 23, 1917: Meeting and reception at Evergreen Lodge,
Riverside. District meeting.
February 24, 1917: l\Ieeting and reception at Ashier Lodge, Colton.
District meeting.
February 25, 1917: Lodge instruction, Phoenix, San Bernardino
and Redlands Lodges.· Address.
March 10, 1917: Bakersfield Lodge.
in evening. District meeting.

401

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

First Degree and address

San Jose.

San Jose Lodge and District Lodges.

Reception by Pasadena and District Lodges.
Pomona.

District Lodges, reception, dinner and

Reception by South Gate Lodge.

Address.

April 19, 1917: Monrovia Lodge and District Lodges. Address.
April 20, 1917:

Santa Ana.

District meeting.

April 21, 1917:

San Diego district meeting.

Address.
Address.

April 23, 1917: "Whittier Lodge in evening, Second Degree, reception and address: District meeting.
April 25, 1917:
dress.

Mission Lodge in evening.

Reception and ad-

April 26, 1917: Visited officers and brethren, Coalinga Lodge,
Third Degree and address.
April 30, 1917:
address.
May 9, 1917:

Evening at Richmond Lodge.

Third Degree and

Marin Lodge. Reception and address.

May 10, 1917: San Mateo. Meeting of Thirty-seventh District.
Third Degree by Past Masters. Reception and address.

March 16, 1917: Gathering of Thirty-fifth District Masons at
Mission Hall, under auspices of Amity Lodge.

May 12, 1917:
dress.

District meeting at Salinas.

March 20, 1917: Visited Golden West Lodge with Past Masters.
Reception and address.

May 15, 1917:
Address.

Fairmont Lodge.

March 28, 1917:
address.

Crockett Lodge in the evening.

May 16. 1917:
evening. Address.

Paul Revere Lodge and Thirty-third District in

:\larch 30, 1917:
ception and address.

Vi~ited

May 23. 1917:
and address.

Park Lodge.

May 25, 1917:
address.

Mariposa in evening.

March 31 . 1917:
April 6, 1917:
Lodges.
·

Reception and

Live Oak Lodge in the evening.

Visited Burlingame Lodge.

Re-

Six Lodges.

Reception and address, Visalia Lodge.

Four

April 7, 1917: Visited Clovis. Evening, Third Degree and address
at Selma Lodge. Five Lodges.

Reception and ad-

Third Degree, Past Masters.

Raising of 200th member.

Reception

Third Degree, recept10n and

May 26, 1917: Stockton. District meeting.
Counties Inspectors. Reception and address.

Third Degree by Bay

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

May 30, 1917: Reception and address. Lodges of Eighteenth
District.
May 31, 1917: Tuolumne. District meeting. Third Degree. Reception and address.
June 1, 1917: Placerville. District Meeting. Reception and
address.
June 2, 1917: Sacramento. Dedication of Scottish Rite Temple
111 evening.
June 4, 1917: Weaverville. Meeting of Trinity Lodge.
June 5, 1917: Redding. Reading Lodge. Evening meeting.
Lodges of Fifth District.
June 6, 1917: Sisson. Fornrth District 'Meeting. Reception and
address.
June 8, 1917: Corning. Seventh District Meeting. Reception and
address.
June 13, 1917 : Downieville. District Meeting. Reception and
address.
June 14, 1917: Quincy. District meeting, reception and address.
June 15, 1917: Loyalton. Lodge of instruction ; in evening
reception.
June 16, 1917: Truckee. Reception and address.
June 21, 1917: San Luis Obispo. Forty-ninth District l'.Ieeting.
E'.eception and address. Third Degree.
June 22, 1917: Santa Paula. Fiftieth District Meeting. Reception
and address.
June 23, 1917: Los Angeles. Get-together, biennial and endowment celebration.
June 28, 1917: Fort Bragg. Second District Meeting. Reception
and address.
June 29, 1917: Ukiah. Abell Lodge, evening meeting. Reception
and address.
June 30, 1917: Fortuna. Eel River Lodge. Reception and u<ldress. ·
July 2, 1917: Crescent City. Evening meeting. Reception and
address.
July 3, 1917: Eureka. First District Meeting- under auspices of
Humboldt Lodge. Reception and address.
July 4, 1917: Afternoon at Sequoia Park and Fourth of July
address.
July 24, 1917: Parnassus Lodge. Degree and reception. Address.

July 26, 1917: At Municipal Auditorium. Reception to Ambulance Corps.
July 28, 1917: Joint meeting and reception, Durant, Berkeley and
Charter Rock Lodges, at Berkeley. Address.
August 9, 1917: Conference with Master and Wardens, South San
Francisco Lodge.
August 27, 1917: King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260. Third Degree
by Past Masters. Reception and address.
September 7, 1917; Reception at Watts, by Lodges of th<:! Sixtyfirst District. Third Degree by Masters. Address.
September 10, 1917: Reception and Address at Bishop. District
Meeting.
September 15, 1917: Reception and Address at Lakeport. District
Meeting.
October 1, 1917: Hermann Lodge, No. 127. Reception and Address.
California, No. !. Reception and
October 4, 1917: Mother
Address.
October 8, 1917: Reception by the Inspectors of the jurisdiction at
Masonic Club, S. F. Address.
October 9, 1917: Get-together Dinner of Delegates to Grand Lodge.
Address.
October 10, 1917: Reception and ball by San Francisco Lodges.
Lodges of instruction have been held at the following places and
times:
19 16.
San Francisco .: ........ October 14-15 Petaluma .................... November 23
San Jose ........................ October 22 Wheatland ................ November 24
Pinole ................................ October 24 Yuba City .................. November 26
Fresno .............................. October 29 Biggs ............................ November 27
Benicia ............................ November 1 Chico ............................ November 28
Vacaville ...................... November 2 Colusa ........................ N overnber 29
Suisun ............................ November 3 Willows ........................ December 1
Davis ............................ November 4 Tehama ........................ December 2
Esparto .......................... November 5 Sacramento .................. December 3
Woodland .................... November 6 El Dorado ...................... December 4
Truckee ........................ November 10 Concord ........................December 5
Susanville .................... November 11 Lodi ................... ,............ December 7
Alturas ........................ November 12 Maxwell ..........................December 8
Adin ............................ November 13 Grafton .......................... December 9
Fort Bidwell .............. November 14 Winters ........................ December 10
Cedarville ................ November 15 Roseville ...................... December 11
Pleasanton................ November 17 Marysville .................... December 12
Stockton ...................... November 19 Napa .............................. December 17
Guerneville ................ November 22 Sacramento ................ December 24

402

403

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Francisco ............ January 12
Jone .................................. January 13
Colusa ............................ Jantlary 19
San Jose ...................... January 22
Modesto .......................... January 24
Turlock .......................... January 25
Madera ............................ January 26
Merced ............................ January 27
Reedley ............................ January 28
Dinuba ............................ January 29
Fresno ............................. January 30
Newman .......................... January 31
San Pedro .................. February 3
Los Angeles .................. February 4
EI Centro ...................... February 5
Calexico ........................ February 6
San Diego ·--·········----····February 7
Coronado ........................February 8
Oceanside ...................... February 9
Lancaster ...................... February 10
Burbank .........................February 11
Santa Ana .................... February 12
Wilmington .................. February 13
Long Beach ................ February 14
Redondo ........................ February 15
Los Angeles ----·········---February 16
Whittier .......................... February 17
Anaheim ...................... February 18
Claremont .................... February 19
Perris ............................ February 20
Ontario ........................ February 21
Needles ·····--·-·····-·--···--·February 22
Corona ............................ February 23
Colton ............................ February 24
San Bernardino .......... February 25
Covina .......................... February 26
Glendora ................: ..... February 27
Pasadena ...................... February 28
Sierra Madre ·--····----·--·-··::\farch 1
Ramona ······----·········---······--··March 2
Huntington Park ............ March 3
Santa Monica ················----March 4
Gardena ................................ March 5

1917.
Glendale ................................ March 6
Artesia ·--··········-·········---······March 7
Tehachapi ········-----···············March 8
Taft ........................................ March 9
Bakersfield- .......................... March 10
Coalinga ·········-······-·····--·--···March 11
Hanford .............................. March 12
Exeter ................................ March 13
Alameda ............................ March 20
Berkeley ............................ March 23
San Leandro ....................1farch 24
Santa Rosa ...................... March 25
Cloverdale ···-------······-------·--March 26
San Francisco ................ March 27
Porterville .............................. April 3
Tulare
4
Delano ······----··········-·············----April 5
Visalia ·······-----·········-----··········April 6
Selma ...................................... April 7
San Mateo ............................ April 9
Walnut Creek .................... April 10
Linden ..................................April 11
Oakdale ................................ April 12
Knights Ferry .................... April 13
Lodi ----········---·········:............... April 14
Galt ........................................ April 15
Ione ...................................... April 16
Jackson ----·····-····--················-April 17
San Andreas ...................... April 18
Sonora .................................. April 19
Pittsburg .............................. April 20
Brentwood ............................ April 21
Crockett ................................ April 22
Oakland
23
Coalinga ................................ April 26
Los Gatos ................................ May 1
Santa Clara .......................... May 2
Stockton -·--·····-------····················May 4
Bloomfield ................................ May 5
Manteca .................................... May 7
Gilroy
11
San Juan ······-----·········--·········-".\-fay 12
San Francisco ...................... May 13

405

Stony Ford ............................ May 17 Willits ..................
........ August 14
Arbuckle ................................ May 18 Mendocino ........................ August 15
Pleasanton .............................. May 19 Point Arena ...................... Augu.st 16
Cal. Lodge, No. 1, S. F ....... May 20 Petaluma .......................... August 17
Mariposa ................................ May 25
Greenville .......................... August 19 Stockton .................................. May 26 Quincy ·········-------·- ........... August 20
Sacramento ............................ May 27 Beckwith ·······-···········---·--·August 21
Vallejo .................................. May 30 Sierraville ........................ August 22
Tuolumne .............................. May 31
Downieville ...................... Augnst 23
Placerville ............................. June 1 Alleghany .......................... August 24
Courtland ................................ Ju:ne 3 Camptonville .................... August 25
Weaverville ............................ June 4 Salinas ................................ August 28
Redding ....................................June 5 King City .......................... August 29
Sisson ...................................... June 6 San Miguel -----··-·····------···August 30
Yreka ........................................June 7 Arroyo Grande ................ August 31
Corning .................................. June 8 Santa Maria ................ September 1
Tehama ................................... _June 9 San Luis Obispo .......... September 2
Auburn ....................................}une 10 Lompoc ...................... September 3
Grass Valley ........................June 11
Santa Barbara -----··-···-September 4
Nevada City ........................ June 12 Ventura ........................ September 5
Downieville ............................June 13 Fillmore ··----···-·········---September 6
Quincy ................................... .] une 14 Watts ............................ September 7
Loyalton ................................ June 15 Bishop .......................... September 10
Watsonville ............................ June 18 Big Pine ...................... September 11
Pacific Grove ...................... June 19 Independence ............ September 12
King City ............................. June 20 Lakeport ...................... September 15
San Luis OJ:;ispo .................. June 21
Lower Lake ................ September 16
Santa Paula ........................ Ttu111e 22 Middletown ................ September 17
Fort Bragg ............................ June 28 Richmond .................... September 20
Ukiah ......................................June 29 Dutch Flat ................ September 21
Fortuna .................................. June 30 Colfax .......................... September 23
Crescent City ...................... July 1-2 Forest Hill .................. September 24
Eureka ......................................] uly 3 Georgetown ................ September 25
Honolulu ............................ July 24-27 El Dorado .................. September 26
Hilo ....................................] uly 29-30 Anderson ------·----··-···--·September 27
Honolulu ................................. _July 31
Kennett ........................ September 28
San Francisco .................. August 8 McCloud ·---···---············September 29
Eureka .............................. August 11 Dunsmuir .................... September 30
Arcata ................................ August 12 San Francisco .............. October 7-8
Ferndale ............................ August 13

I
J

I

i?ROCEEDiNds OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAJ,JFORNlA

407

I
I

With sincere thanks to the Grand Lodge and the brethren fcjr
the confidence reposed. in me as your Grand Lecturer at the close df
my tenth year, and with deep appreciation for this high honor conferred.
Fraternally submitted,
THOM AS

J. BAKiiR,
Grand Lecturer.

\Vhich was referred to a committee composed of Fred
\V. Nish, Thomas Ingram and James W. Davies.

The status of the Endowment Fund for the past three years is
as follows:
July 31, 1914:
37,237.5\J
Municipal and Public Utility Bonds ................... .
981.l.XJ
Cash ................................................................................................. .
Total .......................... .

. ......................................'!'

38,218.50

July 31, 1915:
39,237.50
Municipal and Public Utility Bonds ...................... .
Cash ................................................................................................. . Z,143.7'.)
Total

41,381.20

ENDOWMENT COM1HTTEE OF MASONIC HOMES.
February 1, 1916:

The Report of the Endowment Committee of the Masonic Homes was read. That portion relating to the purchase of securities from, moneys of the Fund was referred
to the Committee on Finance. In all other respects the
report was accepted as read:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ca'l'ifornia:

We, members of ycmr Endowment Committee of the Masonic
Homes of California, appointed by the Grand Master at the close of
the last Grand Lodge, beg to report that thiS> very important matter
has received our very best thought and attention during the past year.
When it is taken into consideration that since the close of our last
Grand Lodge session two Endowment Days have been held-namely,
Thanksgiving, :\fovember 30th, 1916, and St. John's Day, June 24th,
1917-it will be apparent that the very large amount of correspondence
handled by your Committee has meant untold labor, but the m,ost
satisfactory results secured have more than compensated for the efforts
put forth.

It has seemed to be almost an impossible task to convince some
of the Lodges that the Endowment Fund is essentially necessary, as
they fail to appreciate that without endowment funds many of the great
universities, colleges, and also many of the i1111portant charities of our
country could not be maintained. In practically every case it has been
noted that where the Masters, and more particularly the Secretaries,
have been deeply interested in Endowment Day, the results have been
more than satisfactory, but where enthusiasm was lacking, the returns
from those Lodges were most discouraging.

Municipal and Public Utility Bonds ........................................$ 53,362.50
Cash .................................................................................................. 1,162.18
Total ..........................................................................................$ 54,524.68
July 31, 1916:
............................._, l l ,300.:l8
Cash on Hand
Securities ......................................................................................... 55,387.50
Total ..............................................................................................."' 66,687.88
April 1, 1917:
27,429.85
Cash on Hand
Secu:ri ties ......................................................................................... . 76,387.50
Total ..........................................................................................$103,817.35
Results of our first Annual Endowment Day, Thanksgiving,
1916 .................................................................................................... $34,547.61
October 1, 1917:
Cash on Hand
14,837.65
Securities ............ ,........................................................................... . 122,ZlZ.50
Total ................................................................................... :......$137,050.15
Those who will study the table will note the marked and steady
increase in our totals, indicating quite clearly that with the proper
support of the Brethren, the goo! for which we are striving-namely,
ONE MILLION DOLLARS-will be reached in a very few years.

\

\

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Endowment Fund was increased $11,102.56 during the past/
year through the contribution of the Executive Committee of the 33rq
Triennial Conclave Knights Ternplar. The Grand Commandery o;
Knights Ternplar made a liberal appropriation for the entertainment
of the Grand Encampment, and practically one-half of the total amount
raised was thwugh the Grand Commandery, the balance being raised
locally in Los Angeles. After .all the bills were paid, it was· found
th.at this balance remained, and it was difficult to apportion to the
various funds from which it was derived, the amount on hand; hence
your Chairman of the Endowment Committee, who was also Chairman
of the Executive Committee for the entertainment of the Knights Templar, suggested to his fellow-members the des.irability of recommending
that the entire balance be given to the Endowment Fund. The matter
was presented to the Grand Commandery, Knights Templar; the recommendation approved; the money forwardecl to the Grand Recorder of
Knights Templar, and by him turned over to our Grand Treasurer.
This, as before stated, amountecl to $11,102.56.
No set rules or regulations have ever been made for the pltrchas~
ing of securities for the Endowment Funcl, and so far as we can ascertain the only regulations that we have are that the Grand Treasurer
shall be the custodian of all the funds of the Grand Loclge.
Your Committee believes it desirable that the Grand Treasurer
shall have the co-operation of some of the able men in the Grand Loclge
in the purchase of securities, and also that the securities be uncler
jurisdiction of two or more persons. We therefore offer as a &uggestion or recornmenclation that the Grand Treasurer be the custodian of
the funds and securities of the Endowment Fund, under the joint super
vision of himself, the Grand Master and the President of the Board of
Trus-tees of Masonic Homes, and that these three shall be the Committee to purchase securities for the investment of the Endowment
Fund.
'vVe take pleasure in transmitting in cletail the result of the co:1tribu:tions for both Endowment Days, and earnestly recommend that
each representative at Grand Lodge examine the list most carefully
and note the returns from his Lodge, and if the contribution has• not
been in proportion to their ability, when next Endowment Day is decided upon, will not the respective Lodges urge each member to have
the necessary enthusiasm and appreciate the real necessity of this
splendid undertaking?

\

409

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'I

Membel'·
ship Aug.

No.

Lodge.

Location.

1, 1916.

Contributions.

Nov.

June

30, 1916.

24, 1917.

1. California ............ ., .... San Francisco.......... 583 $ 550.50 $ 578.U9
17.50
2. Western Star .......... Shasta ...................... · 87
105.llO
250.00
3. Tehama .................... Sacramento .............. 239
79.50
114.50
s Benicia ......................Benicia ...................... 111
21.25
86.00
S. Tuolumne ................ Sonora ...................... 119
23.!10
66.50
9. Corinthian ................ Marysville ................ 210
4?7
89.50
350.25
10. San Jose .................. San Jose.................... - 0
42.50
137.(X)
12. Yount ........................ Napa ······ ··· ··········· I':_
27.50
57.00
13. Nevada ......................Nevada City .............. bl
23.00
67.50
14 Temple
..... Sonoma .................... 84
14.00
29.50
16'. Eureka :::::::::::::::::.....Auburn .................... 116
44.50
109.00
17. LaParfaite U nion ....San Francisco .......... 181
10.00
68.00
28
18 Mountain .Shacle_ .....Downieville .............. 3?7
117.50
150.00
19.. San J oaqmn
.............. Stockton .................. 50.00
190.00
20. Washington .............. Sacramento ............ 173
449.00
523.50
21. Hawaiian .................. Honolulu ,................. 324
81.00
288.00
22. Occidental ................San Francisco .......... 582
3.50
46.00
23. Madison ....................Gras.s Valley .............. 124
4
24. Mariposa .................. ~1anposa .................. S
13.00
25. Georgetown ..............Georgct.own ............ 48
35.0:)
63.00
26. Palmyra .................... Placerville ................ 207
26.75
27 Trinitv ......................Weaverville .............. 62
130.CO
371.50
Golde~ Gate .............. San Francisco........ 5~
50.00
67.00
32. Gold HilL.................Lincoln .................... :iO
25.00
33. Ophir ..........................Murphy's ................. 46
78.00
202.00
35. San Diego.................. San Diego .................. 414
41.00
36.50
37. St. John's ................... .Yreka ........................ ~19
44.U'J
86.50
38. Santa Cruz...............$anta Cruz ................ -16
26.00
52.50
40. Sacramento .............. Sacramento .............. 217
131.75
89.00
41 Martinez ....................Martinez .................. 92
34.tiO
133.00
42: Los Angeles .............. Los Angeles ............
43. Hiram
Dorado ............... .
57.00
164.50
44. Mount Moriah.......... San Fr:mcisco .......... 386
27.00
51.50
.45. Crescent ....................Crescent City............ ;~
15.00
5.00
46. Texas ........................ San Juan ....................
35.00
50. Forbestown ..............Forbestown .............. 29
45.00
51. Illinoistown .............Colfax ........................ 70
35.00
67.00
SS. Suisun ........................ Suisun ....................... 102
6.00
18.50
56. Volcano ....................Volcano .......
26
12.00
133.75
57. Santa R"osa ..............Santa Rosa ................ 251
214.00
316.50
58. Union ........................Sacramento .............. 259
!50.60
86.00
59. Gravel Range ............Camptonville ............ 32

30:

s;;

411

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

410

No.

Lodge.

Location.

Membership A'ug.
1, 1916.

60. Plumas ...................... Quincy ...................... 67
61. Live Oak .................. Oakland .................... 738
62. Geo. Washington ......Chinese Camp.......... 37
64. Natoma ......................Folsom ...................... 79
65. A.mador .................... Jackson .................... 75
66. Forest ........................ Alleghany.................. 47
68. Morning Star ............ Stockton .................... 255
70. Enterprise ...................Yuba City.................. 145
76. Bear Mountain.......... Angel's Camp ................85
78. Calaveras .................. San Andreas............ 73
79. Humboldt ..................Bu:reka, ...................... 312
80. lone ............................Ione ............................ 55
81. Yolo ............................Yolo............................ 47
83. Rising Star................Forest Hill................ 38
84. Vesper ........................Red Bluff.................... 162
87. Naval .......................... Vallejo ...................... 419
89. Rose's Bar.................. Smartsville .............. 51
91. North Star ................Fort Jones.................. 52
93. St. Helena.................. St. Helena.................. 97
95. Henry Clay................ Sutter Creek............ 57
96. Howard ....................Yreka ........................ 85
97. Jefferson ....................LaPorte .................... 40
98. Hornitos ................... Hornitos .................... 27
99. Yosemite .................... l\1erced ...................... 128
101. Clay ............................Dutch Flat.................. 61
103. Oroville .......................Oroville .................... 207
104. Lexington ..................EI Monte.................... 79
106. Arcata ........................ Arcata ....................... 123
110. Pajaro ........................Watsonville .............. 133
111. Chico ..........................Chico .......................... 220
112. Summit ...................... Knights Ferry.......... 31
113. Eden .......................... San Leandro............ 132
117. Concord .................... Sacramento .............. 127
119. Clinton ...................... Igo .............................. 48
120. Fidelity ...................... San Francisco .......... 561
122. Alamo..........................WaJ.nut Creek............ 77
123. Sotoyome .................. Healdsburg .............. 192
124. Table Mountain ........ Cherokee .................. 59
126. La Fayette .................. Sebastopol ................ 122
127. Hermann ..................San Francisco .......... 207
128. Visalia ........................Visalia ........................ 159
129. Nicolaus ....................Wheatland ................ 71
131. Woodbridge ..............Woodbridge ............ 92

Contributions.
Nov.
June ,
24, 1917. i
30, 1916.

41.00
1,536.50
18.00
95.00
58.00
110.50
115.00
90.00
26.50
125.50
46.00
45.00
69.75
250.15
34.00
47.00
59.90
16.50
19.00
23.00
30.00
60.00
25.00
64.50
26.50
101.00
10.00
107.75
87.50
22.50
336.15
6.00
92.50
36.00
35.00
351.00
96.50
30.00
7.00

15.00:
241.00
9.00
65.00
28.00
:.!l.00
28.50
2.00
82.00
12.00
62.50
6.50
22.50
5.00
22.00
69.00
18.50
20.00
8.00
34.50
33.00
16.00
7.00
18.00
37.50
18.l.iO
11.00
7.00
54.50
18.00
22.00
28.50
18.00
119.00
32.50
18.00
40.50
50.50
210.50
22.50
12.50
13.00

No.

Lodge.

Location.

"contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

Member·
ship A'ug.
1, 1916.

132. Sincerity ....................Greenville ................ 46
134. Vacaville ....................Vacaville .................. 128
135. Valley ........................Linden ........................ 43
136. Pacific ........................ San Francisco .......... 675
139. Crockett .................... San Francisco .......... 442
140. Curtis ........................Cloverdale ................ 56
141. Grafton ......................Grafton ...................... 30
143. Franklin ....................Courtland .................. 66
144. Oriental .................... San Francisco .......... 361
145. Vitruvius .................. Bloomfield ................ 57
146. Abell .......................... Uki:ah ........................ 122
147. Eel River ..................Fortuna .................... 121
149. Lassen ........................Susanville .................. 104
150. Molino ........................Tehama...................... 72
156. Woodland ..................Woodland ................ 178
161. Keystone .................. Milto~ ........................ 27
164. Harmony* ................... Sierra City................ 12
166. Excelsior .................. San Francisco .......... 403
167. Alameda ....................Centerville ................ 109
168. Redwood City.......... Jtedwood City............ 150
169. Mission ...................... San Francisco .......... 902
173. Elk Grove .................. Elk Grove.................. 71
174. Drytown .................... Plymouth .................. 29
175. Antioch ......................Antioch ..................... 108
178. Phoenix .................... San Bernardino ........ 275
179. Mendocino ................Mendocino ................ 144
180. Petaliuma .................. Petaluma ................. 227
181. Russian River ............Windsor .................... 81
182. Meridian ....................Arbuckle .................... 51
183. Clear Lake .................. Lower Lake.............. 29
184. Sierra Valley............ Sierraville ................ 33
185. Claiborne .................. Point Arena.............. 50
186. Evening Star.............. Etna Mills.................. 35
187. Keith .......................... Gilroy ...................... 118
188. Oakland ....................Oakland .................. 572
190. Northern Light........Millville ................ ,... 82
191. Marin ........................ San Rafael... ............. 230
192. Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara
169
193. Ferndale ....................Ferndale ................... 85
194. Mountain View ........ Mountain View ........ 107
195. Buckeye ......................Winters .................... 87
196. San Simeon ..............Cambria .................... 39
198. Wilmington ..............Wilmington .............. 64

21.00
57.50
380.50
270.00
2.50
12.00
417.50
58.50
53.50
74.40
68.00
93.75
10.00
15.00
155.50
179.00
145.60
596.00
2.00
20.50
170.50
145.00
251.00
44.00
27.50

42.00
791.50
179.00
100.00
7.00
79.00
84.00
15.00

!

34.00
9.00
5UJO
161.50
142.50
6.00
29.00
55.00
255.00
21.CX)
17.00
12.50
24.00
15.[X)
27.00
15.00
147.00
78.50
102.50
245.00
8.50
8.50
49.UO
21.50
63.UO
90.50
11.50
10.00
24.UO
32.25
10.GO
100.eo
145.00
123.50
16.50
38.00
62.50
7.50
13.00
15.00

412

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.

Location.

Member·
ship •.\:ug.
1, 1916.

199. Hartley ......................Lakeport ................... 107
200. Truckee ...................... Truckee .................... 113
201. Silveyville .................. Dixon ........................ 77
202. Pentalfha ....................Los Angeles .............. 499
203. Confidence ................ Castroville ................ 25
204. Salinas ........................ Salinas ...................... 152
205. Newville .........- ......... Paskenta .................... 39
206. Stanislaus .................. Modesto .................... 1J3
207. Anaheim ;................... Anaheim .................. J 19
208. Rio Vista .................. Rio Vista.................... 67
209. King David's .............. San Luis Obispo ...... 210
210. Friendship ................. San Jose .................... 260
211. San Benito ................ Hollister .................... 94
212. So. San Francisco .... San Francisco .......... 198
214. S. Buenaventura ....... Ventura ...................... 132
215. Oak Grove .................. Alameda .................... 448
216. Doric .......................... San Francisco .......... 503
217. Monterey .................. Monterey .................. 112
218. Mosaic ........................Livermore ................ 98
219. Speranza I talrana.....San Francisco .......... 210
220. Downey ....................Downey ...................... 96
221. Inyo ........................... .Independence .......... 55
222. Granite ......................Rocklin ...................... 59
224. Bakersfield ................ Bakersfield .............. 312
225. Brooklyn .................. Oakland .................... 385
226. San Mateo ................ San Mateo ................ 152
228. Athens ........................Davis .......................... 77
229. Solano ........................ Vallejo ...................... 274
230. North Butte... ............. Gridley ..................... 91
231. Covelo ........................ Covelo ........................ 43
232. Janesville .................. Lassen ...................... 52
233. Calistoga ....................Calistoga .................. 83
234. Hope ..........................Beckwith .................. 52
235. Surprise Valley........Cedarville .................. 48
236. Hill's Ferry .............. Newman.................... 70
237. Guadalupe ..................Guadalupe ................ 70
240. Colusa ........................ Colusa ........................ 85
241. Santa Ana ................Santa Ana .................. 330
242. Magnolia .................... Santa Barbara .......... 100
243. Eucalyptus ................ Hayward .................. 99
244. Alcatraz ......................Oakland .................... 384
245. Lau:rel ........................Willows .................... 111
246. Pomona ···-············· ... Pomona .................... 264

Contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

32.50
44.50
71.75
307.50
23.00
70.00
59.00
31.00
87.00
244.50
119.00
225.50
115.50
215.60
-115.50
79.00
123.00
270.00

10.00
16.50
87.00
35.50
40.00
15.00
30.00
20.00
86.50
49.()1)
46.00
93.50
33.00
126.50
100.0J
65.00
44..50
219.50
66.()()

11.00
15.50
345.00
459.50
103.50
26.00
117.55
20.00
36.50
28.50

11.UO

109.60
168.50
24.00
2.50
62.50

3.00
26.50
29.00
86.00
24.00
33.00

5.00
49.50
62.00
110.00
55.00
125.00
326.00

108.QfJ

94.00

11.00
163.27

8.50

60.GlJ

No.

Lodge.

Location.

Member·
ship A'ug.
1, 1916.

247. Fresno ........................ Fresno ...................... 355
248. Alturas ...................... Alturas ...................... 67
250. Adin ............................ Adin .......................... 45
252. Bodie .......................... Bodie .......................... 30
253. Landmark .................. Madison .................... 49
254. Reading ......................Redding .................... 140
255. Welcome .................... Lemoore .................... 83
256. Lodi ............................ Lodi ............................ 197
258. Penrhyn .................... Penryn ...................... 83
259. Evergreen .................. Riverside .................. 306
260. King Solomon's ....... .San Francisco .......... 513
261. Tuscan ........................Williams .................. 57
262. Lompoc ...................... Lompoc ....................... 106
264. Hesperian .................. Santa Maria .............. 195
265. Orland ........................Orland........................ 83
266. North East .............. Fort Bidwell............ 44
267. Galt ............................Galt ............................ 47
268. Durant ........................ Berkeley ................... 435
269. Olive Branch ..............Tulare ........................ 143
271. Snow Mountain........ Stony Ford................ 38
272. Pasadena .................... Pasadena .................. 428
273. Anchor ......................Compton .................. 78
274. Arroyo ··-----········--······Arroyo Grande........ 50
275. Oakdale ......................Oakdale .................... 71
277. Selma .......................... Selma ........................ 151
278. So. California ............Los Angeles .............. 680
279. Hanford ....................Hanford .................... 173
280. Madera ......................Madera ...................... 106
281. Mount Shasta ............ Anderson .................. 55
282. Callayomi .................. Middletown ............ 33
283. South West ..............National City............ 117
285. San Miguel ................San Miguel................ 79
286. Paso Robles ................ Paso Robles.............. 61
287. Winnedumah ............ Bishop ........................ 104
288. Maxwell ....................Maxwell .................... 35
289. Elsinore ......................Elsinore .................... 59
290. East Gate .................... Los Angeles.............. 706
291. Santa Paula ................ Santa Paula .............. 138
292. Los Gatos ....................Los Gatos .................. 130
293. Orange Grove ........... ;Orange ...................... 121
294. Traver ···············-··---··Kingsburg ................ 70
295. Monnt Jackson ..........G1ierneville .............. 87
296. Silver Gate ................San Diego ................. 424

413
Contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

215.50
26.00
32.00
55.00
114.50
110.00
10.50
112.00
356.00
38.00
194.00
48.00
5.00
6.00
525.00
15.50
22.50
196.00
25.00
34.00

433.00
29.10
114.50
13.50

36.00
41.50
27.00
13.00
259.50
56.50
42.00
14.00
67.00
90.00

63.00
15.50

58.50
43.00
170.50
68.00
192.rn
18.50
100.00
163.50
80.00
10.l})

LOO
113.00
16.50
33.50
10.00
35.00
27.00
47.50
132.50
18.00
100.00
15.00
25.<JO
58.50
22.00

21.00
78/()
5.00
39.50

36.75
68.50

PHOCl~ElJ1N08

4-.14

No.

Lodge.

Location.

OF '.IHE
Member·
ship A'ug.
I, 1916.

297. Dunsmuir ..................Dunsmuir ................ W7
298. Mokelumne HilL. .....Mokelumne Hill...... 52
299. Liberty ........................ Santa Clara ................ 187
300. Redlands .................... Redlands .................. 252
301. Ontario ...................... Ontario .................... 139
302. Santa Lucia................ King City.................. 69
303. Porterville ................ Porterville ............... ; 172
304. R'eedley ......................Reedley ...................... 63
305. Azm.sa ..........................Azusa ........................ 85
306. Ashlar ........................ Colton ........................ 127
307. Santa Monica ............ Santa Monica ............ 144
308. Monrovia .................. Monrovia .................. 124
309. Delano ........................Delano ...................... 95
310. Sisson ..........................Sisson ........................ 80
312. Los Banos ..................Los Banos.................. 56
313. Tehachapi .................j'ehachapi .................. 128
314. Temescal ....................Corona ...................... 89
315. Norwalk ....................Norwalk.................... 67
316. Sanger ........................Sanger ...................... 88
317. Fallbrook ..................Fallbrook .................. 44
318. Emmanuel ................Biggs .......................... 53
319. Hollenbeck ................Los Angeles .............. 810
320. South Gate..................Los Angeles ............ 742
321. Alisa! ..........................Pleasanton ................ 62
322. Alhambra .................. Alhambra .................. 260
323. Whittier ....................Whittier .................. 164
324. Corona ........................ P1asradena .................. 369
325. Consuelo .................... Escondido ................ 71
326. Needles ......................Xeedles ...................... 144
327. Long Beach ...............J.,ong Beach ................ 344
328. Redondo .................... Redondo .................... 136
329. Vallee de France ...... Los Angeles .............. 106
330. Kilauea .....................:Hili, T. H ................ 173
331. Pacific Grove .............. Pacific Grove............ 66
332. San Pedro ..................San Pedro.................. 199
333. Alta ............................Bridgeport ................ 31
334. Covina ........................Covina ........................ 154
335. West Gate..................Los Angeles .............. 422
336. Fruitvale ....................Oakland .................... 291
337. Carquinez ..................Crockett .................... 104
338. San Jacinto ................San Jacinto ................ 107
339. Fullerton ....................Fullerton, .................. 201
341. Oxnard ...................... Oxnard .................... 176

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

87.00
3.50
188.50
41.50
1.00
82.60
5.00
30.00
21.50
100.00
30.50

41.11
2.00
49.50
18.00
18.00
22.m
42.00
15.00
68.25
21.00
21.00

150.50
20.00
42.50
30.00

112.00
50.00
25.50

31.00
62.50
257.88
84.00
128.50·
71.60
210.00

5.00
388.00
94.00
35.00
150.00
13.50
51.00
21.(JO
20.00
20.50
86.50
12.00
144.05
32.00
12.00
25.llO
38.50
98.00
135.00
43.00

38.00
78.00
100.00
31.00
47.00
42.50
25.00
25.00
150.50
448.00
103.50
52.50
175.00
59.33

60.50
42.00

No.

Lodge.

Location.

Member·
ship Aug.
1, 1916.

343. San Fernando............ San Fernando.......... 81
344. Starr King .................. San Francisco .......... 301
345. Brentwood ................ Brentwood ................ 85
346. Palo Alto .................... Palo Alto .................. 207
347. McKinley .................. Richmond .................. 181
348. San Bernardino ........ San Bernardino ........ 283
349. Sequoia .....................,Oakland .................... 543
351. Palestine .................... Los Angeles .............. 320
352. Sunset .......................,Los Angeles .............. 419
353. Pinole .......................... Pinole ... .................... 83
354. Presidio ...................... San Francisco .......... 312
355. Hollywood ................Hollywood .............. 357
356. Mill Valley................. Mill Valley ............. 189
357. Buena Park. ...............Buena Park................ 67
358. Golden .State .............. Los Angeles .............. 480
359. Loyalton ....................Royalton ... ................ 36
360. San Francisco ............ San Francisco .......... 250
361. Fort Bragg ..................Fort Bragg................ 71
362. Charity ......................Campbell .................. 84
363. Berkeley .................... Berkeley .................. 347
364. Olivet ..........................Corning ...................... 60
365. Willits ........................Willits ...................... 96
366. Las Palmas............... Fresno ........................ 322
367. South Pasadena ........ South Pasadena ........ 172 .
368. Unity .......................... Glendale .................... 194
369. Ocean P1ark................ Ocean Park. ............... 198
370. Amity .......................... San Francisco .......... 322
371. le Progres de
l'Oceanie ................ Honolulu ................. 156
372. Gardena ......................Gardena .................... 80
373. Veteran ...................... Sawtelle .................... 168
374. Jewel .......................... San Francisco.......... 95
375. Richmond .................. San Francisco .......... 308
376. Francis Drake ............'3outh San Francisco 73
377. Artesia ......................Artesia ...................... 87
378. Mizpah ........................Los Angeles... ........... 410
379. Fillmore ...................... Fillmore .................... 89.
380. Huntington- Beach .... Huntington Beach.... 63
381. Oceanside ..................Oceanside .................. 47
382. Highland Park.......... Los Angeles ............ 317
383. Orosi ............................ Orosi .......................... 61
. 384. El Centro .................•El Centro.................. 118

415
Contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

57.90
151.00
5.00
138.00
152.00
75.00
469.00
166.00
122.00
67.50
173.50
157.50
155.50
24.00
65.00
110.00
43.00
26.50
278.75
7.50
15.00
223.50
23.00
68.00
27.50
193.00
126.00

52.50
180.00
68.00

65.50
31.00
40.50
37.00
20.00
100.00

10.00
54.50

100.00
82.00
14.00
105.75
35.00
13.00
66.50
48.00
156.50
149.00
43.!Y.J
64.50
11.00
56.50
11.00
123.50
16.00
8.00
58.50
8J.()

8.00
34.50
12.00
57.50
35.00
100.00
267.50
79.SO
19.4()
81.00

132.00
47.50
22.00
86.25
40.00
33.00
90.00
5.00
8.00

416

No.

Lodge.

Location.

Membership Aug.
1, 1916.

385. Dinuba ........................ Dinuba ...................... 113
387. Coalinga .................... Coalinga .................... 147
388. Parnassus .................. San Francisco .......... 290
389. Palos Verdes .............. Long Beach .............. 160
390. Imperial ...................... Imperial .................... 64
391. East Belt... .................. .Tuoiumne ................ 46
392. West Lake ................. Los Angeles .............. 579
393. Balder ...................... San Francisco .......... 201
394. University ................ .Los Angeles .............. 218
395. 'Dur.lock ..................... .Turlock ...................... 67
396. Apollo ........................ Alameda .................... 145
397. Rising Light... ........... Huntington Park .... 113
399. Fraternity .................. San Jose .................... 167
400. Burlingame ............... Burlingame .............. 156
401. Bay View .................... Oakland .................... 217
402. Brawley ..................... Brawley .................... 76
403. Yerba Buena ..............Oakland .................... 199
404. Glendora ....................Glendora .................... 51
405. Moneta ........................ Los Angeles .............. 283
406. Burbank .................... Burbank .................... 75
407. La Mesa ......................La Mesa...................... 65
408. Sierra Madre .............. Sierra Madre............ 66
409. Honolulu .................... Honolulu, T. H ....... 190
410. Charter Rock. ........ .-.... Berkeley .................... 355
411. Perris .......................... Perris ........................ 50
412. Calexico .................... Calexico .................... 85
413. Wam.:oba ................. .Big Pine...................... 29
414. Arlingt<m ...................Los Angeles .............. 130
41~. Silver TroweL. .........Los Angeles .............. 146
416. Lindsay ...................... Lindsay...................... 56
417. Clovis .......................... Clovis ........................ 43
418. Elysian ........................Los Angeles ............. 208
419. Upland ........................ Upland ...................... 65
420. Kerman .................... ..Kerman ...................... 42
421. Inglewood ..................Inglewood ................ 70
422. Eagle Rock. ................. Eagle R'ock................ 47
423. York ............................Watts ........... :............ 64
424. Exeter ........................ Exeter ........................ 53
425. Holtville .................... Holtville ...........-......... 51
426. Midway ...................... Taft .......................... 112
427. Chino Valley ..............Chino ......................... 42
428. San Dimas.................. San Dimas................ 58
429. Pittsburg .................... Pittsburg .................. 48

417

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

41.00
130.50
173.50
40.00
20.00
18.50
294.00
192.50
104.00
29.50
141.00
40:00
39.50
125.00
112.00
41.50
373.50
15.00
72.50
25.00
8.00
32.00
510.50
275.50
55.00
10.00
137:00
31.00
23.50
35.50
77.50
17.50

60.50
205.00
64.50
13.00

26.i5
11.00
73.00
28.50
32.75
50.00
44.50
48.00
37.50
40.50
3.00

12.0')
12.00
7.50
375.00
85.50
8.00
83.00
10.00
32.00
83.00
3.00
15.00
lOOW
16.00

8.00
30.50
11.50
19.00
80.50
22.00
100.00
41.50

5.50
14.0C
10.00
91.00
9.i.JO
15.oJ
42.50

No.

Lodge.

Location.

Membership Aug.
1, 1916,

430. McCloud ....................McCloud .................... 41
431. Alpha ..........................Richmond .................. 181
432. Roseville .................... Roseville .................. 85
433. Hammonton .............. Hammonton ............ 44
434. Maricopa ....................Maricopa .................. SO
435. I;airmount .................. San Francisco .......... 336
436. Claremont .................. Claremont ................ 55
437. Lancaster ..................Lancaster .................. 41
438. Germania .................... Los Angeles .............. 65
439. Tyrian ........................ Manteca .................... 28
44-0. Standard .................... Oakland .................... 101
441. Coronado ...................Coronado .................. 67
442. Blackmer .................... San Diego .................. 113
443. Schofield ....................Schofield B'ks, T. H. 74
444. ·Carpinteria ...............Carpinteria .............. 31
445. Wilshire ..................... Los Angeles ............ 212
446. La Puente ....................Puente ........................ 41
447. Torrance ...................:rorrance .................... 30
448. Mount Diablo ............ Concord .................... 38
449. Park ............................ San Francisco .......... 159
450. Van Nuys ..................Van Nuys.................. 43
451. Montebello ................Montebello ................ 39
452. San Pasqual... ........... Pasadem .................. 77
453. Bethlehem ..................San Francisco.......... 74
454. Crocker ......................Daly City.................... 34
455. Golden W esL ............ San Francisco .......... 98
456. Kennett ......................Kennett ...................... 39
457. Ramona ...................... Alhambra ................ 49
458. Henry S. Orme .......Los Angeles .............. 68
459. Riverbank .................. Riverbank ................ 30
460. Mount Oso..................Tracy ........................ 34
461. Argoniaru:t .................... San Francisco ........ 45
462. Paul Revere ................ San Francisco .......... 64
463. Morgan Hill... ............Morgan Hill.............. 19
464. Alta Vista ................ San Francisco.......... 21
465. Center ..........................Fresno ...................... 18

Contributions.
Nov.
June
30, 1916.
24, 1917.

26.50
61.00
56.00
22.50
100.50
344.50
7.50
35.00
65.50
65.25
19.50
47.50
80.50
18.00
138.00

85.iO
32.00
29.00
60.50
117.50
21.00
45.5'.)
32.50
10.50
37.00
19.75
45.00
101.50
9.00
169.50

19.00
13.00
39.50
19.50
134.00
87.50
Liberty Bond 100.00
4.50
17.00
28.50
29.50
66.50
22.00
33.00
41..SO
112.00
100.00
56.50
68.11
35.00
183.22
169.50
23.00
11.00
30.')Q
16.00
85.00
60.50
177.00
138.60
39.00
13.DO
8.50
50.')0

TotaL ....... _..............$34,246.61

$18,837.55

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

418

419

PROCEEDINGS OF THrn

Liberty Bonds reported and shown in totals :
OTHER BODIES

Calexico Lodge No. 412..............................................................................$ 50.00
Libertas Lodge ............................................................................................ 50.00
Mizpah Lodge No. 378................................................................................ 50.00
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224........................................................................ 50.00
Dinuba: Lodge No. 385................................................................................ 50.00
Center Lodge No. 465.................................................................................. 50.00
Lindsay Chapter No. 306, 0. E. S. ........................................................ 50.00
Rising Light Lodge No. 397...................................................................... 50.()()
Van Nuys Lodge No. 450 (Interim Certificate No. 205233) ............ 100.00
H. S. Orme No. 458..................................................................................... 100.00

Nov. 17. Supreme Pyramid Sciots ..................................$ 5.00
Nov. 28. San Jose Chapter No. 31, 0. E. S ............... 100.00
Nov. 29. California Lodge Perfec., No. 10.................. 25.00
Dec. 16. Oakland Chapter No. 140, 0. E. S. .............. 5.00
Feb. 6. Silver Wave Chapter No. 75 ............................ 20.00

$155.00
FROM INDIVIDUALS
Dec. 1.
Dec. 6.
Dec. 6.
Dec. 6.
Dec. 20.
Jan. 24.

Total ..............................................................................................$600.00

Mrs. John Whicher.. ..........................................$ 5.00
J. Speme .............................................................. 1.00
E. V. Elliot.......................................................... 25.00
A Friend .............................................................. 25.00
F. G. Watson ........................................................ 100.00
Joe M. King.......................................................... 5.00

Stock (25 shares), Colma Land Ass'n., from B. F. Stromberg,
Yountville, California, par value ......................................................$ 25.00
*Check for $15.00 from Harmony Lodge No. 164 forwarded during 1916 was lost in the mails; duplicate was forwarded June 12, 1917,
and credit given in above table.

$161.00

Fraternally yours,
Total, November 30, 1916....................$34,562.61

MOTLEY H. FLINT, Los Angeles.
LEE C. SAWIN, Whittier.
CLAYTON F. DRAPER, Kingsburg.
ROBERT GREIG, Berkeley.
EDWARD F. LouIDECK, Berkeley.
ALFRED R. Dou, Hammondton.
FREDERICK W. CLOUGH, Angels Camp.
EDWARD F. DELGER, San Francisco.
FRED DOERR, San Jose.
Endowment Committee Masonic Homes of California.

OTHER BODIES
S. F. Lodge Meeting Hat Receipts .................................. $ 11.75
Acacia Assembly, San Francisco...................................... 25.00
Amity Chapter No. 262, 0. E. S. ...................................... 10.00
Acantha Chapter No. 249, 0. E. S. ................................ 10.00
Oakland Pyramid of Sciots ................................................ 102.75
Maui, No. 984, Scotland .................................................... 2.00
Ft. Th.omas No. 808, Kentucky..........................................
1.00
Joint Siu,bscription-Oakland, Berkeley, Alameda
Lodges ............................................................................ .. 149.05
J ewe! Chapter No. 238, 0. E. S ..................................... .. 5.00
Lindsay Chapter No. 306, 0. E. S., Liberty Bond ........ .. 50.00
Long Beach Chapter, 0. E. S., Liberty Bond .............. .. 100.00
Libertas Lodge, Liberty Bond .......................................... .. 50.00

516.55

Brother Denman A. Wagstaff presented a revised
funeral service, and on his own motion it was referred to
the Ritual Committee with instructions to report thereon
at the next annual communication.

FROM INDIVIDUALS
Fred F. Bay, Placerville ......................................................$100.00
Frank G. Watson, San Francisco ...................................... 100.00

200.CO
Total..................................................................................

$19,554.10

A recess appointment by the Grand Master of William
P. Filmer as a member of the Committee on Ritual, vice
Edward H. Hart, deceased, was reported, and confirmed
by Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF '"HE

420

A pet1t1on was presented from Lassen Lodge No. 149,
praying to have included within the jurisdiction of Lassen
Lodge all that portion of the county of Lassen which now
lies within the jurisdiction of Sincerity Lodge No. 132. A
formal objection by Sincerity Lodge and a counter-petition
by brethren residing at \Vestwood were also presented.
All which were referred to the Committe~ on J urisprudence.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126 presented the following:
To the Most W orshipfu•l Grand Lodge of California:

Whereas, The present schedule of Moon dates causes confusion and
inconvenience; and
Whereas, The table as given for 1917 seems to conflict with Section
78 of t\1e Constitution, by apparently giving in some instances more
than one stated meeting in a lunar month; and
Believing that an interpretation of the wording of the by-laws
should not take precedence over the Constitution, we respectfully request that Regulation "d," Section 78, of the Constitution be eliminated,
and the time of stated meetings in subordinate Lodges be determined
by Section 78 of the Constitution.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Brother Jesse M. vVhitecl introduced the following
proposed amendments to the Constitution:
That the following sections of the Constitution be
amended as follows:
See. 3. Acid "Grand Chancellor" after "Grand Orator."
Sec. 28.
each."

Strike out "am! on Library to consist of five members

Strike out Section 32A.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

421

PART 2.
Sec. 50.

Strike out Subdivision 14.

Add Sec. 59A.

It shall be th<: duty of the Grand Chancellor:

1. To promote, encourage and direct the study, collection, preservation and circulation of Masonic history, tradition, literature am! philosophy among the brethren and Lodges of the jurisdiction.

2. To establish and supervise Masonic meetings or associat10ns
for the purpose of study, research and discussion at various places
in the jurisdiction, and general quarterly communications of Masonic
students and others interested, to he called at such times arnl plc1ces
as the Grand Master may designate.
3. To act as Grand Librarian of the Library of the Grand Lodge,
under such rnles and regulations as the Grand Master may establish,
with power to incur such expenditures for its maintenance and enlargement as the Grand Master may authorize.

4. To establish and maintain, in connection with the Library, a
museum of Masonic and historical articles.
5. To perform all such other duties appertaining to his office, as
the Grand Master may direct, and to render a report to the Grand
Lodge at each Annual Communication, giving a summary of his
services du,ring the year.
Sec. 59B. He shall be reimbursed for such necessary expenses
as he may incur in performing the duties of visitation required in
Section 59A, Subdivision 2, and for postage and printing necessary
to carry out the provisions of Section 59A, Subdivision 1.
Sec. 59C. The Grand Master shall divide the jurisdiction into
districts, and shall appoint for each district a Deputy Grand Charicellor,
who shall be a resident of the district for which he is appointed.
Sec. 59D. It shall be the duty of each of the Deputy Grand
Chancellors to assist the Grand Chancellor in the discharge of his
duties within his re-spectivc district, and at the general Q11arterly
Communications.

Referred to the Committee on

J urispruclence.

Reading Lodge No. 254 presented a claim for reimbursement for account of relief extended to a r:1ember of

423

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODG.H: OF CALIFORNIA

Mountain View Lodge No. 194, which was referred to the
Comm'ittee on Finance.

scientific, artistic, an<l fictional literature which the Grand Lodge
Library Committee 'shall by majority vote consent to catalogue. The
same to be secured, as far as possible, by donation, and in exceptional
cases by purchase through appropriations made by the Grand Lodge for
the service of the Grand Lodge Library.

422

Enterprise Lodge No. 70 presented a claim for reimbursement for Grand Lodge dues paid for account of
members whose dues had been remitted at the June stated
meeting.
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF LIBRARY COMMITTEE.
To the Most Worshipfu'l Grand Lodge of California:
Y.our Committee on the Grand Lodge Library herewith i:iresents
the following report :
The Grand Lodge Library, as at present constituted, consists of
a considerable number of books, reports, and ot~er l_iterary matt~r
deposited in rooms adjacent to the ~rand. Lodge ?ff1ces m the Masonic
Temple. There is no catalogue to give either their names or er.ui:ieration. Some are in bookcases, some on shelves, and the rem~mder
piled upon the floor. They have all been secured by exchange, m the
ase of R'eports of the various grand bodies of Freemasonry, and by
~onations from brethren of the craft and others, since the dPstrnction
of the original Grand Lodge Library in the great fire of 1906. Tl~e
books comprise a number of volumes of value to student~ of ~asomc
lore together with many others which have no connect1on with the
ritu;l, history, or symbolism of Freemasonry. Th_e Gra~d Secretary
has. in addition to his other multifarious Masomc duties, collected
anci in some measure co-ordinated the collection.
No appropriation has ever been made by the Grand Lodge for
the cataloguing of the books on han<l, for the acquisition of .new books,
or for the regular care and upkeep of the Grand ~o<lge Library. No
specified accommodation has been regul~rly set as1d~ for the present
or future depository and perusal of the Library m~ter1al.
Your committee is of the opinion that the Grand Lodge Lib:ary
should consist of substantially bound copies of all pa.st proceedmgs
of all the Grand bodies of Freemasonry and its concordant orders_; of
Masonic histories, encyclopaedias, rituals, and works on symbohsm;
and of any philosophical, psychological, religious, historical, antiquarian,

Your committee would recommend the npproprfation by th<~ Grand
Lodge of the sum of five hundred dollars for the immediate purpose
of preparing and printing n catalogue, providing extension bookcases,
and of binding, as far as possible, any single copies of reports of
Grand bodies necessary to the completion of any series up to <late.
Your committee would further recommend that the former Board
of Relief room on the floor of the Grand Secretary's office, and such
other accommodations as the Grand. Secretary shall deem best to
provide, shall be for the present used as the rooms of the Grand
Lodge Library. That these rooms shall be open to Master Masons,
in goo<l standing, who may desire to read or study, between the hours
of 10 :00 a. m. and 4 :00 p. m., and 7 :00 p. 111. to 10 :00 p. m., daily,
Sundays excepted. Smoking and talking not permissil1le in the room
or rooms of the Library.
The Grand Lodge Library Committee should receive the authority
of the Grand Lodge to present all books donated and not deemed
suitable to the purpose of the Grand Lodge Lihrary, to the Library
of the Masonic Home at Decato; and in the case of books suitable
to children, to the Masonic Home at Covina.
Since,Octnl1t::r, 1916. the following gifts of books have be<>n made
to the Grand Lo<lge I.,ibra ry :
Library of the vVorld's Best Literature, 5 vols., donated by Brother
G. F. Sand, Richmond Lodge, No. 375.
The Old Constitutions of Freemasonry, 1772, by the National
Masonic Research Society of Iowa.
General Lafayette's Fraternal Connections, by the Grand Lodge of
Pennsylvania.
A History of the First Fifty Years of Freemasonry in South
Australia, 1834-1884, by the Grand Lodge of South Australia.
Proceedings of the Grand Lo<lge of California for the years 1885,
1888, 1890, 1891, 1894, 1895 and 1901, by the mother of the late Henry
Ascroft, Past Master of California Lodge, No. 1.
The Bible of Progress Lodge, No. 125 (Charter revoked), J,y Oak
Grove I.,odge1 No. 215,

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

California Digest of Masonic Law, the History of Willamette
Lodge, No. 2, of Portland, Ore.; The Defense of Freemasonry, the
:'vlanual of the Lodge, and Freemasonry in the Holy Land, donated
by Brother Clarence W. Doble, Oriental Lodge No. 144.
The Queens of Aragon, donated by Brother Frank G. \Vatson of
Presidio Lodge, No. 354.
Also, fifty-two miscellaneous volumes donated by Brother M. H.
Landers of Richmond Lodge, No. 375, and books by Brother Harry L.
Simon of Starr King Lodge, No. 344, and by Brother Frederick W.
Kellogg and Denman S. Wagstaff.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

425

Brother \Villiam P. Jeffries introduced the following:
Resolved, That all of the unexpended balance in the hands of
the Endowment Committee be used for the purchase of four per cent
Liberty Bonds;
That $25,000 of the funds of this Grand Lodge be also appropriated
to purchase four per cent Liberty Bonds.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

Fraternally submitted,
FRANCIS

H.

E. O'DONNELL,

MARTIN SCHMIDLJN,
SIDNEY B. FORCE,
HARRY

B. LELAND,

HENRY M. OWENS.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Secretary introduced a resolution to permit Lodges, when desired by them, to remit the dues of
members who are in the military or naval service of the
enited States or its allies. Referred to the Committee on
Jurispruclence.
Brother Hervey presents the following:
Resolved, That the indebtedness of the El Centro Masonic Teri1µle
Association to the Grand Lodge. amounting to $5000.00, be forgiven
to said Associatkm and the note given therefor be cancelled and delivered to said Association.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Secretary presented a resolution providing
for a tax on petitioners for the degrees, for the support of
the Masonic Homes, and. it was referred to the Committee
on Finance.

On motion of the Deputy Grand :\faster, a vote of
thanks was extended to Prof. Arthur Ritter and Dr. Harold K. Faber and to Stanford University for the survey of
the Homes at Covina, and the Grand Master was directed
to appoint a committee to draft suitable resolutions of
thanks. The following committee was appointed:
William Rhodes Hervey, Alonzo J. Monroe, Bradford Webster.

T.he Grand Secretary was instructed to telegraph the
greetmgs and felicitations of Grand Loclge to our Senior
Past Grand Master, George Clement Perkins.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
\V ednesday morning.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

426

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

427

IN MEMORIAM

Morning Session.
Wednesday, October 10, 1917.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
Past Grand Master Artemas Groves, of Arizona, was
introduced and escorted to a seat in the East with the honors due to his rank and jurisdiction.

&amutl C!Irawforb ltn1:u1u
BY CHARLES L. PATTON, PAST GRANO MASTER

M.'.W.'.Grmtd l'vfastcr and Brethren:
Samuel Crawford Denson was born near Quincy, Adams Connty.,
Illinois, September 23, 1839. He belonged to an old American family,
am! his forefathers were found
"Where once the embattled farmer stood
And fired the shot heard 'round the world."

MEl\IORIAL SERVICES.
Services in memory of Past Grand Masters Denson,
Nutting an<l Hart were now held, the program being as
follows:
Organ prelude-Samuel D. Mayer, Grand Organist.
Prayer-\Villiam A. Chapman, as Grand Chaplain.
Vocal Solo-Brother Benjamin Liederman.
Eulogy, Samuel Crawford Denson-Charles I,. Patton.
Violin Solo-Gino Severi.
Eulogy, Charles vVilber K utting-Gcorge W. Hunter.
Vocal Solo-Brother Liederman.
Eulogy, Edward Henry Hart-George F. Rodden.
Organ postlttde, Aloha Oe-Grand Organist.
Benediction.

He was educated in the district school and at Abingdon College,
and commenced-the study of law at Quincy, but before completing his
cou.rse, he came in 1860, across the plains, behind an ox team, to Bntte
county, where for a time he engaged in mining near Oroville; there
continued his legal studies at night, and was admitted to the Bar in
1863. In March, 1864, he located at Carson City, Nevada, and in the
fall of that year was elected a member of the first State Legislature
from Ormsby county, and there practiced his profession, serving as
District Attorney from 1866 to 1868. In December of that year he
removed to Sacramento and there practiced law until 1875 in partnership with Hon. H. ·0. Beatty and with his son, Hon. Wiiliam H.
Beatty, afterwards Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of this State.
In 1875 he was elected Judge of the Sixth Judicial District, composed of the counties of Sacramento and Yolo, and in 1879, when. the
new Constitution went into effect. he was elected Superior J t:dgc of
Sacramento county. In 1882 Judge Denson was the Republican candidate for Justice of the Supreme Court, but the State went strongly
Democratic that year and the nominees of that party were all elected.
J ndge Denson removed to San Francisco in 1839, and from that
time until his death was in the active practice of the law there.
In the early sixties Judge Denson married Mary Beatty, sister of
Chief Justice Beatty, and hy this marriage he had three children, Mary
Beatty Denson, wife of Douglas A. Lindly, now residing in Sacra-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

428

429

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mento; Henry Beatty Denson, now residing in San Francisco, am.1
Laura Gertrude Denson, wife of George M. Mott, now residing in
Berkeley.
His first wife died many years ago, and about 1906 he married
Laura Ames, who survives him.
Brother Denson's Masonic record is as follows:
He received the degree of Entered Apprentice April 27, 1861; the
degree of Fellow Craft October 5, 1861. and the degree of Master
Mason November 26, 1861, in Oroville Lodge No. 103, served that
lodge as its Steward in 1862, as its Secretary in 1863, and withdrew
from it in 1868. He affiliated with Carson Lodge No. 1, :N'evada, November 19, 1868; withdrew from that lodge March 4, 1869; affiliated
with Union Lodge No. 58, of Sacramento, April fah, 1870, and served
as its Master for two terms in 1872 and 1873.
He was elected the Deputy Grand Master of this Grand Lodge in
October, 1879, and Grand Master in October, 1880.
He became a member of Sacramento Chapter .No. 3, R. A. M.,
March 23, 1875;. a member of Sacramento Council No. 1, R. an•J S. M ..
.November 29, 1880; a member of Sacramento Comtpandery No. 2,
K. T., July 10, 1879, and remained a member of the Ma.sonic bodies
in Sacramento until July 26th of the present year, when, after an illness
of about eight months, at the close of a life exceeding three score
years and ten, our brother passed away, quietly and peacefully, as one
who, at the end of a perfect day, lies down to calm repose.
The record of our brother's professional career and of his Masonic
life cannot give us a distinct or well-defined appreciation of the man
himself or the Mason himself. Would that you could picture him as
he was over a quarter of a century ago when I first entered the Grand
Lodge.
He was of commanding presence, dignified and courteous,
quiet and unassuming. There was that about him that made one feel
he was forceful and successful in his chosen profession, true to his
family, to his friends and to his Brethren, and true to his country
as a thorough American should be.
I distinctly remember him again when Past Grand Master Atkinson
and he appeared before the Grand Lodge and presented for its con·
sideration the reviskm of its ritual. How forcefully he placed before
us the proposition that under our Constitution the ritual of Masonry
could not be changed, and how thoroughly he convinced us that these
proposed changes were simply for the purpose of making our degree
work conform more fully to that which had been handed down from
time immemorial.

In thinking and speaking of a life like this and a death like this
our minds refuse to be content with the philosophy which characterizes
all beyond our finite comprehension as the unknowable. althoucrh
indeed, in regard to matters affecting· life, death, and the Great He~e~
after we are but "infants crying in the night, infants crying for the
light, and with no language but a cry"; yet, we as Masons hold a different be lief as to all these matters, for it is one of the landmarks of
our Institution that there is a life beyond the grave where we will know
each other again. 'Ne can therefore feel assured that in a brighter,
better land, aiter we, too, shall have passed the portals of the grave,
we shall meet our Brother again in that "Celestial Lodge above, where
the Supreme Grand Master of the Universe forever presides." Until
we do so meet, dear Brother, until then, farewell.

IN MEMORIAM

<llqarlrs llilhrr Nutting
BY GEORGE W. HUNTER, PAST GRANO MASTER

Most T-Vorshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
\Ve gather here each year mainly for the purpose of exchanging
friendly greetings, the transaction of business of the Grand Lodge, the
election of its officers and to participate in a work which is in the
interest of humanity and for the general benefit of this great fraternity.
While it is not always so, usually an hour is set apart at each
Annual Communication for memorial services. In the course of nature
many members of this great brotherhood within this jurisdiction die
each year, and rarely does a year roll round without taking as toll
one or· more of our Past Grand Officers, and within the last few
months three of them have passed away and all were held in the highest esteem.
It has been about twenty years since I first attended this Grand
Lodge, and since that time quite a number of the Past Grand Masters
of this Lodge, men who were then strong in mind and body and who
took an active part in Masonic as well as public and business affairs,
have gone from the scenes of this transitory life.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We can in memory and imagination recall their form and features
and listen to their voices in debate or conversation, and we know that
the noble example set by them1the work that they did and the good
thev accomplished while here, has had a wholesome influence upon our
ow~ lives and will continue to redound to the benefit of men and
::VIasonry for long years to come.

childhood and early youth. Four years of his young manhood were
spent as a clerk in a bank, and then he decided to take up one of the
learned professions. Brother Nutting would have succeeded in almost
any profession. He was a man of fine presence, had a clear, logical
mind, strong perceptive and reasoning powers and would have made
a good lawyer, but he chose as his life work the medical profession,
and there is no higher calling, for it is a field in which his. best efforts
were devoted to the preservation of human life and the alleviation of
human suffering.

430

There is nothing so very dreadful about death, and yet most of
us dread it. In this time of stress and destruction, when millions of
men are under arms and almost thousands slain daily, and we read in
the papers of this terrible loss of human. life, we in a m~asure gr?w
accustomed to death by reason of its frequency, and sometimes I thmk
we do not consider it as seriously and thoughtfully as we should.
There is something very .instructive in the reverence and tenderness with which we cherish the inemory of the dead. It is hard for
us to part with family or friends, and when gone from earth, there is
still an affection for them of the sincerest kind. Our thoughts are
frequently of them, and there is a longing for them which causes us
to believe that this tie of sympathy and love is so strong and far-reaching that we have reasonable ground to believe that in some. way they
may be thinking of us, and this is one of the strongest evidences of
immortality.
"No man liveth to himself alone and no man dieth to himself."
In order to have happiness and be useful in this world we mnst
have companionship, and this great fraternity to which we belong
enables us to make friends, enjoy our intercourse with them, and to
do something for our fellow-man.
These memorial services, solemn though they be, give us an opportunitv to express our appreciation of the value of the friendship, character- and worth of departed brothers, three of whom but a short time
since held
rank in this Institudon and who by their zeal, intellect
and power, always wielded an influence for good and left a lasting
impression upon Masonry throughout the great State of California.

It is my privilege to say a few words on the life and character of
Past Grand Master Charles Wilber Nutting, whose death occurred at
his home at Etna Mills on the 20th of September, 1917.
Brother Nutting was born in Georgia, October 3d, 1852, and possessed the chivalrous spirit, the high sense of honor, and the true hospitality characteristic of men of Southern birth and environment. Twice
after coming to this State he made long visits to his old home in the
South, and no doubt enjoyed thoroughly visiting the scenes of his

431

In 1876 he graduated from Atlanta Medical College and for two
years thereafter held the position as demonstrator of anatomv in that
institution, and during the same period was one of the city 1;hysicians
for the city of Atlanta.

Jn 1878 he came to California and located at Etna Mills, in Siskiyou county, where he lived for nearly forty years, built up and maintained an extensive and lucrative practice and enjoyed the confidence,
respect, and esteem of all the people in that part of California.
Dr. Nutting ranked high as a surgeon, and years ago I had heard
of this skill, and knew that his reputation was not confined to hi6 home
county, and had been told of his performing very difficult and critical
operations in the large hospitals of San Francisco. On one occasion
I spoke to him of this, and asked him why he did not locate in San
Francisco, as he was well known here, and I felt confident that with
him it would not be a venture or an experln1ent, but that he would
succeed from the: start and soon become one of the leading physicians
and surgeons of this great city. His reply was characteristk of the
man, and showed that he cared little for wealth or fame. He stated
... to me that a similar suggestion had been made to him many times by
others and he had given it serious consideration, but he had lived in
Northern California the most of his life, liked the people of that part
of the State, had known many of them from the time of thc:ir birth,
was comfortably situated with his family in his own home and he felt
that he could be happier and do more good in Siskiyou county than
he could in San Francisco, and tl.1erefore he would not make the change.
Dr. Nutting took great pride. in. his profession, qualified himself
thoroughly for the performance of his duties, for ten years was a
member of the State Board of Health, was a member of the American
Medical Association, and President of the Medical Society of Siskiyou
county at the time of his death.
On October 3d, 1881, he was married to Janet Parker, rlaughter
of Alexander Parker of Siskiyou county. His wife and seven children
survive him, fonr sons and three daughters, and as an eviden•:e of his

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

belief in education, an indication of the refinement and home life of
this family, it may be said that one of the sons is a graduate of Cooper
Medical College and was associated with his father in practice at the
time of the latter's death, another son is a graduate of the State University and Harvard Law School, still another son a graduate of the
same University and the youngest daughter is a senior in that institution at the present time.
The Masonic record of Brother Nutting is a fine one, and shows
plainly his desire for knowledge, and the deep interest he took in all
branches of 11fasonry. He was a member of Evening Sta:- Lodge
No. 186; was raised February 25th, 1882, and served continuously as
Master of that Lodge for a period of ten years. He was a member of
Cyrus Chapter No. 15, Royal Arch Masons, a member of Oakland
Council No. 12, Royal and Select Masons, a Past Commander of Mt.
Shasta Commandery No. 32, Knights Templar, a member of the Order
of the Eastern Star, a member of the Masonic Veterans' Association,
and had received the degrees up to and including the thirtieth of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry in San Francisco
Council N'o. 1. In recognition of his merit and zeal in the cause of
Masonry, he was elected Junior Grand Warden of this Grand Lodge
in 1899, and Grand Master in 1903, and although most of his training
in parliamentary matters was doubtless gained by experience in Lodge
work, he made a splendid presiding officer, was capable, dignified,
courteous and fair.
One paragraph of the address delivered by him as Gran•l Master
read as follows :
"Masonry is not only the oldest, but the most conservative of
institutions in the affairs of men, and we should endeavor to preserve
it as it has been handed clown to us from time immemorial. Its dignity
should never be lowered by any act of ours .• and. we should endeavor so
to conduct ourselves as to be pointed out for the peculiarities of our
lives and walks. Proud we should be that we 'are a part of an Institution that in all ages of the world has attracted to its membership men
pre-eminent in all the walks of life, and that has ever exercised an
influence toward the uplifting of human character of which we c<m have
no conception; but after all is said and done, what .\fasonry has been
in times past, what it may be in the future, is very little use to us individually, unless we at the present time weave its principles into the
warp and woof of our daily lives."
Brother Nutting endeavored to live uir to the principles and teachings of Masonry and to practice them in his daily life as defined in his
own beautiful language. He was honest, generous, charitable and
just; an ideal husband and father, an exemplary citizen and faithful
servant, a true friend and brother, and his loss will be sadly felt not
only by the members of his family, but by the community in which he
lived and his brethren of the Mystic Tie.

433

IN MEMORIAM

iElituarli f!;eury ijart
BY GEORGE F. RODDEN, JUNIOR GRANO WARDEN

\.Yhen I was invited by the Grand Master to speak to you in
kindly recollection of the Most \Vorshipful Past Grand Master
Edward H. Hart, the commission was accepted with an admixture of
sentiments. It was a great pride that the Grand Master should have
thought me worthy; pleasure that opportunity would be given to
hring heforc you, his beloved brethren, additional evidences of his
great heart and matchless mind; and, conscious of my own weakness,
apprehension lest a subject deserving the master touch should be
all too feebly treated.
And, too, one approaches with greatest trepidation the task of
eulogizing with mere words one whose life work and accomplishments
have spoken so forcefully and so eloquently.
Especially is this true when addressed to an audience composed
of the leaders of Masonry in California, each of whom bv contact
or observation, has been made aware of the virile stren~th: indefatigable energy and splendid efficiency with which Brother Hart prosecuted the many duties assigned to him. and of Masonrv's tremendous
obligation to him, an ohligation which can only be - liquidated by
giving to him his deserved place among our highest and best.
His advent into the world was under conditions none too propitious. Divested at an early age of those tender parental influences
which are the fonts of inspiration of all youth's ambitions, and, in
lives more happily circumstanced, the directing forces of their development, the young lad soon realized the necessity for reliant selfdependence.
Then and there were born those exalted ideals towards which
he continually and tmn;mittingly struggled, and then and there were
laid the foundations of those qualities of mind and character which,
in their elaboration, carried him to such great heights and made
humanity his debtor.

PROCEJ<";DINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Accepting Abraham Lincoln as his ideal, and the pattern by
which he should shape his .life, he carried bravely over obstacles,
smilingly disregarded adversity, made light of the thousand and
one trials that would have appalled a less gallant spirit, and finally
succeeded in winning his way, with high honors, through the law
department of Ann Arbor University. The first mile post' was
[)assed, but that was all. The goal of his ambition was ·not yet
reached. The practice of the law was not a part O'f his predetermined
scheme of things.

"But the thing a man does practiwlly believe-the thing a man does
lay to heart and know for certain concerning his vital relations to
this mysterious universe, that is in . all cases the primary thing for
him and creatively determines all the rest. That is his religion."

434

All of. those heart-rending, heart-breaking years of toil and selfdenial were but a fragmentary leaf in his program of life; hut
he had fought through them with the fervor of an ascetic for the
general enrichment of his mind, the strengthening of those qualities
which he deemed necessary to success ; and, finally, when all demands
had been met, and all duties to his friends and family had been
fulfilled, that his knowledge of the law, broadened and embellished by
a lifetime of faithful study, might be utilized in the service of his
country and his people.
While still a young man, his talents attracted the attention of
men high in the insurance world, and he was sent to California to
establish and manage a western branch of the Penn J\'Iutual Insurance
Company.
~ow was brought to light his theretofore undiscovered genius
for organization and administration. He attacked the problems which
confronted him with that zeal. attention to detail and steadfastness
of purpose which were so characteristic of him, and which brought.
not only a full measure of success to his undertaking, but likewise made
his name one to conjure by in the insurance world. His knowledge
of the ramifications of the complex business in which he was engaged
was so absolute, his attitnde towards his clients so equitahle arnl just,
it has heen said of him, and truthfully said, that in the more than
thirty years of his business career not a single bit of litigation has
been entered against his company.

Thomas Carlyle has advanc<:d this philosophy:
"It is well said. 111 every sense, that a man's religion is the
chief fact with regard to him.
"By religion, I do not mean the church creed which he professesthe articles of faith which he will sign and in words or otherwise
assert: This is not what l call religion, this profession and assertion.

435

My brethren, could any of us in any wise familiar with Edward
Hart, with his increasing, undiminishing activities, with the sacrifice of
home and personal comforts made in the name Df Masonry, and the
tremendous influences which he exerted in its behalf, question for a
moment to what he had practically laid his heart-accepted as his
religion ? I think not.
And having accepted Masonry as such, his every thought, act
and deed were moulded and directed by its precepts. Faithfully and
loyally did he adhere to its divine lessons. To those of us who
would falter and complain that our Masonic burdens were become
too heavy; to those of us who would interpret too broadly or even
view with a note of incredulity the demands laid upon us by our
obligations, what an inspiration and support reflection upon his
Masonic life must ever be.
The great honors received at the hands of the brethren of his
mother Lodge, Live Oak No. 61, the exalted place of Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons in California (in our belief the highest
to which any man can aspire), to which we, his associates of the
Grand Lodge were glad to elevate him, were but the natural and inevitable rewards for faithful and brilliant service.
He was, according to the records, initiated in Wellington Lodge
No. 127, State of Ohio; passed and raised August 21, 1891, by Live Oak
Lodge No. 61 of Oakland, California.
A simple statement that, and cold, but distinctly significant, for
the date of that raising marked an epoch in Masonic annals. On that
date a new and brilliant star rose in the Masonic heavens.
On that day was recruited a mind conceiving the most wondrous
thoughts, a tongue capable .of their adequate expression, and a will and
determination to see them duly executed.
His last months were months of patiently-endured misery of body
and mind, fighting but without hope against the ravages of a dread
disease; accepting and enduring, with mute resignation, the failure of
his last great ambition, that he might be permitted to serve you and
me in the halls of Congress; but to the last a man, to the end a Mason,
tender, courageous and true. May I be permitted to offer this as a
fitting epitaph. But of a great man, especially of him, I will venture
to assert, it is incredible he should have been other than true. It
seems to me the primary foundation of him and all that can lie in him,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The thanks of Grand Lodge were extended to all who
participated in the memorial service, and the entire programme, including the eulogies, was ordered to be printed
with the Proceedings.

m.ore than the collection of per capita taxes, the adjustment of
grievances or the enactment of legislation.
There are many standards for our guidance and our government. We establish standards for ourselves in our sessions and
in our intercourse,-we have our traditions and our customs. We
are bound by Masonic law and the Constitution of this body; by the
tenets of our Institution and its ancient landmarks. But by far
the most inflexible standard is imposed neither by ourselves nor
by the law, but by others; by the Masons of California who claim
no membership in this body, by the men of California who never
have knelt before a Masonic altar. The woman who sins is ostracized; the clergyman who is fourid in a compromising position
10rfeits his influence and his career; the judge who swerves from
the path of strict integrity is universally condemned. They are
constituted like ourselves, they have the same instincts and the
s::.me desires; but what is ignored among men means downfall
among women; what is condoned in the business man, the laborer,
the physician, the merchant and the attorney, is condemned in the
clergyman or in the judge. I have no wish to plead the cause
of double standards, but it is an irresistable fact that for each of tis.
according to his position and his profession, society has established
bo'unds which he may not pass. Our mental justification of our
acts is of no effect in this great court of human kind. We are judged
not alone by what we are, and by what we believe, and by that
to which we aspire; but even more by that which we profess, and
Ly the extent to which, in the opinion of our fellow men, practice
goes hand in hand with precept. It is a law more ancient thar; the
law of Moses, as inflexible as the law of the Medes and the
Persians, and as enduring as the word of God itself. The influence
and the effectiveness of this grand body, its leadership among
Masons and its respect among men, depend not so much upon its
organization, its rules and its traditions, as upon its conformity
to the standard which others impose; the standard which in the
mature judgment of men comports with the dignity of such a body,
with the precepts of the Institution of which it is the titular head,
and with the pre-eminence which this Grand Lodge itself asserts.

436

Then followed the masterly Oration of \;Vorshipful
Robert B. Gaylord, Grand Orator, as follows:
ANNUAL ORATION.
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren
of the Grand Lodge:
Masonic custom has decreed that it shall be the duty and the
pleasure incident to this office, to deliver at the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, an address upon matters appertaining to the craft. It would be superfluous, if not presumptuous,
:ipon my part, to attempt on this occasion to eulogize our Institution or to extol its principles; that service already has been too
well performed by those who have preceded me. It is my purpose
to briefly direct your attention to this grand body itself.
While the Grand Lodge of California is the executive head
of the Lodges in this jurisdiction, it is essentially a union of
individuals, and not of Lodges. Upon its rolls are found many of
rhe greatest names in our State, men of honor and of fame, men
who have accomplished much. There are others whose faces are
unknown and whose personality has been impressed only upon their
immediate environment. Every one of them, however, has been,
and every member of this Lodge to-day is, without exception, a
chosen man. Each of them has stood forth among the brethren
of his Lodge and by them has been deemed worthy to be a
Master, with the power, the responsibility and the opportunity,
which that office affords. Because of that fact others have
watched him; his strength has been an encouragement, and where
he has slipped they· have fallen. \Ve glory in the history of
Masonry, in the fact that none but good men and true may enter,
that it represents the best element in every community. If this
Grand Lodge indeed be the select body of such a constituency,
what opportunities stretch before it, what responsibilities rest upon
it, how impressive are the requirements for its standards and its
accomplishments! The time devoted by such men must accomplish

437

The principle which underlies the law is that even as they
worship God Himself, so do men revere integrity, square-dealing,
,·onsistency, and truth. They despise the sham and the surface,
while they admire and cleave to the· substance; to rugged, fundamental honesty. The apple must not be rotten at the core, the
grain must stand the test of milling, and men must stand the test
of time and the judgment of their fellow men.
We read in the Book which all Masons revere, the story of One
·vho died in Palestine nearly two thousand years ago. Many of us

43S

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

nelieve in His divinity, some of us reject Him; but believing or
rejecting, we all recall with abhorrence the name of another par1icipant in that tragedy, Judas Iscariot. There were those who
arrested Christ, who pressed upon His brow the crown of thorns
and spat upon His face; there were those who persecuted Him,
who demanded His life and the freedom of a robber; there were
the soldiers who crucified Him; there was the one who thrust
the spear into His side; and there was Pontius Pilate who sat in
Judgment upon Him and washed his hands. Silently, one by one,
they pass before us, and one by one they pale into insignificance
l>eside the figure of Judas. He committed no act of violence, he
was guilty of no insult; he identified the victim-that, and nothing
more. We remember him because he betrayed his Lord and Master,
because he betrayed that Master with a kiss, because the truth was
r:ot in him, because he professed much and practiced little; because,
my brethren-because he was a hypocrite. In high places and in
low, in business, in society, in government, in religion and in
Masonry, men demand that precept and practice go hand in hand,
and they make that same demand upon the Grand Lodge of Masons
in the jurisdiction of California.

intelligent, upright men. If we conform to those standards we are
good men; but unless we rise above them, we are not leaders.
I realize that this is not the occasion for the discussion of
concrete points in Masonic law, which might arouse material
differences of opinion; but I trust that for the purpose of illustration, I. may be permitted to refer to one of the laws of this
Jurisdiction; I trust also that you will understand that the reference
is for illustration exclusively. It is the general sentiment of the
better element in our country, that the retail liquor dealer, the
saloon keeper, the bar tender, have crossed into that land which
lies beyond the pale. Conforming to that sentiment (conforming to
it, not leading it) this Grand Lodge has denied to them the privilege
of membership in our Institution. Should prohibition progress in
fifty years to come, as it has in fifty years last past, we can readily
imagine that the man of half a century hence will ask of the Grand
Lodge of California this question: "By what technical distinction,
by what finespun reasoning, did you draw the line between the
man who stands behind the bar, the man who employs the man
behind the bar, the man who supplies the employer of the man
liehind the bar, and the man who stands in front of the bar, and
who alone makes possible the man behind the bar?" Assuming
that such a question will be asked of us in fifty years, should we
not, to-day, ask ourselves this further question: "If Masonry is
a worthy leader, if it rises above the deadly level of the general
average, should it not possess the consistency and the vision, which
will enable it to answer for itself, to-day, the question which all
mankind may ask of it in fifty years?"

You may have listened to some silver tongued orator; ,his
phrases soothe your , ears, his thoughts hold your attention, his
rounded periods rouse your enthusiasm; but he does not grip your
heartstrings, because you realize that, after all, they were only
words-graphically, scientifically and beautifully arranged, but
words nevertheless. Another speaker follows him; halting in his
( 1iction, meager in his ideas, with poorly chosen phrases, and his
audience becomes restless; suddenly, as he relates some simple
incident (it may be a tale from his own experience) there is a hush;
perhaps the tears come into your eyes; he has struck the chord
of human sympathy; he holds you because you know he speaks the
truth; he has touched the underlying reverence we all possess, for
simple, elemental truth, in whatever form it may be found. And
if, among the silver tongues, Masonry is to reach the heart of its
audience, our words and our acts must bear the impress, and have
the ring, of sincerity and consistency. Masonry aspires to leadership, but leadership means more than a name, even though it be a
name to conjure with. Leadership implies clearer vision than that
of the rank and file. \Ve recognize it to be axiomatic that the
world is not perfett to-day-neither in theory nor in practice; and
if we are to lead, we must be in advance of the times; we must
espouse principles which are nobler than those which are generally
•~ccepted. Certain standards are maintained, certain principles are
accepted, by popular sentiment; by the general average of dean,

439

Continuing the illustration (and remember it is only an illustration): It is an edict of the Christian Order of Knights Templar
that no man in Templar uniform shall enter a saloon. With his
t:niform safely locked in the asylum, he may do as he pleases with0ut violating the prohibitions of Templarism. We have sought to
distinguish between the Order and its,membership, between the
man and his uniform; and we have exalted the uniform above the
man. We forget that without Knights Templar, the Order is empty
armor, and that if the principles of the Order are not the principles
oi its Knights, its teachings are an idle dream, and that it never
can aspire to the day when it will become the force in the community which its dreams justify. If you or I as Master, or as
Grand Master, feel obliged to refrain from doing that which as
man or as Mason we do without compunction, we pay unconscious
tribute to our own insincerity. I do not, at this time, attempt to
a~sert that the Templar, or the Master, or the Grand Master, should
do that which our law now prohibits; nor do I attempt to assert

GRAND LODGE OJ<' CALIFORNIA

440

441

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that the man or the Mason should refrain from doing it; but I do
assert that that which the Templar, or the Master, or the Grand
Master is unwilling to do, the man as an individual can not justify.
When Moses was called from Jethro's flocks and turryed aside
to behold· the flaming bush, which was not consumed, he was
;1dmonished to take his shoes from off his feet because the place
·whereon he stood was holy g.round. Holy, because the bush was
not consummed? because God was there? because he spake to
Moses? No; holy, because it was a spot which marked a crisis,
a parting of the ways; because upon the decision of Moses, his
action, his vision of the future, depended the emancipation of a
nation and the development of a race which had been chosen as the
instrument of Jehovah for the enlightenment of a world. Review
the history of Masonry; it precepts; the men, able, honorable and
worthy who gather here; the vast number of ·men, clean, intelligent
and conscientious, who look to this Grand Lodge for leadership
and for example; and you will say with me, that if ever an
organization stood upon holy ground, that organization is the
Grand Lodge of Masons of California. Not only will men and
Masons repudiate the man who prostitutes this body from selfish
motives or for personal aggrandizement; but equally will they
condemn the man who proves himself unequal to the emergency
and unworthy of the opportunity.
A few days ago I stood in this Temple and watched our boys
warch by-to war. And as I watched, I wondered how many of
them would come back to us; I wondered how many of those who
return will be maimed, or blinded or insane; how many of them
will be so diseased or deficient in body or in mind as to be worse
than dead. I thought of the price they pay for an idea, a visionfor democracy and their native land; I thought that no price is too
great to pay for such an idea, and that every one of us, if need be,
stands ready to pay that price. And then as we returned to the
peaceful quiet of this room, with its mighty cross above us, I
thought that no price-in time, in money, in body, or in mindis too great to pay for another idea, a vision, a native land: for the
kingdom, whether it be in the heavens or upon the earth, of the
/dmighty Father who reigns above. One of the leading clergymen
of this coast (a man who appeals to men) said recently, that if
l11asonry fails, the world is lost. He gave as his reason, the fact
that while our churches accept all who chose to come, Masonry
t<.kes only the best; and that if the best shall fail, no one can
succeed. We may or may not agree with his statement, but we
will all agree, that if the church shall fail, and if Masonry shall

fail, it will not be because of any weakness or inefficiency in that
Old Book of ours. It will be because we need less Sunday religion
and more Man religion; because we need less Lodge Masonry, and
more Man Masonry.
Masonry recognizes no creed or dogma, no restricted belief in
Deity, save a belief in the Great Father of All who is worshipped
alike by Jew and Gentile, Mohammedan and Christian. We meet
upon that common ground, and from that meeting point each must
rrspect the individual views and opinions of his brother. By
virtue of that very spirit of toleration, we may freely learn our
lessons from the best of that in which any one of us believes. In
the Book which we all revere, we find a rule of brotherhood which
is greater than the law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth, greater than the golden rule that we should do unto ot.h:rs
"s we would that they shall do unto us, greater than the admomt10n
that if a man smite thee on the one cheek thou shalt turn to him the
other: it is the new commandment, that "ye love one another
as I have loved you." It is the greatest teaching ever given to
man· that we render to our brethren the kindly, tolerant, sym11ath~tic and forgiving love, which inspires the Father of all, as He
beholds His children. If that love were embedded in your heart
and in mine, in the heart of Kaiser, President and Emperor, if it
were the motive power behind diplomacy, if it animated the
capitalist and the laborer, and the men of every race and creed,
the strifes and animosities of the world would vanish like the dew
before the sun, and peace and prosperity would reign from pole
to pole.
There dwells in the tropic seas a speck of animal life whose
essential usefulness ls, that it shall die. Its tiny skeleton rests
upon the bed of the ocean, and others gather and die, above, and
l•eside, and around it. Through the centuries, they live and they
die, not knowing whence they come or whither they go; until at
last there arises above the waters an island of coral, upon which
men may live and prosper. So we receive our spark of life, perform
our pygmy task, and, after passing the allotted span, leave behind
what there has been of substance in our lives. Year by year,
through the centuries the countless millions come and go. Though
we strive blindly,' though we never behold. and comprehend but
vaguely if at all, that for which we have lived, there will at last
c>.rise above the seas of time, our coral isle-a goodly land-a land
upon which He who reigns above may establish His eternal
Vingdom.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGl'J OF CALIFOI!.NlA

\Vhen I was King and a ~fason-a master proven and skilled! cleared me ground for a Palace, stlch as a King should build.
I decreed and cut down to my levels, presently; under the silt,
1 came on the wreck of a Palace, such as a King had built.
There was no worth in the fashion-there was no wit in the planH ither and thither, aimless, the ruined footings ranMasonry, brute, mishandled, but carven on every stone:
"After me cometh a Builder. Tell him, I too have known."

Afternoon Session.

442

Swift to my use in my trenches, where my well-planned groundworks grew
T tumbled his quoins and ashlars, and cut and reset them anew.
Lime I milled of his marbles; burned it, slacked it, and spread;
Taking and leaving at pleasure the gifts of the humble dead.
Yet I despised not nor gloried; yes, as we wrenched them apart,
I read in the razed foundations the heart of that builder's heart. .
As though he had risen and pleaded, so did I understand
The form of the dream he had followed, in the face of the thing
he had planned.
· VVhen I was a King and a Mason-in the open noon of my pride
They sent me a \Vord from the Darkness-They whispered a'nd
called me aside;
They said "The end is forbidden." They said "Thy use is fulfilled,
"And thy Palace shall stand as that other's-the spoil of a King who
shall build."
· T. called my men from my trenches, my quarries, my wharves and

my sheers;
All I had wrought, I abandoned to the faith of the faithless vears.
Only I cut on the timber,-only I carved on the stone:
·
After me cometh a Builder. Tell him, I too have known!
Kipling.

On motion, the thanks of Grand Lodge were extended
to Brother Gaylord for his ·brave and splendid utterances.
It was further moved that copies of the Oration, with the
Address of the Grand Master, be printed for distribution
to the Lodges; which motion was referred to the Finance
Lommittee.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :15 o'clock
this afternoon.

~Wednesday,

443

October 10. 1917.

The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :15 o'clock, the
Grand l\faster presiding.
The following telegram from
George Clement Perkins was read:

Past

Grand l\faster

Oakland, Oct. 10, 1917.

V. W. John Whicher,
San Francisco.
DEAR SIR AND BROTHER: I am again, through your kindness,
placed under renewed obligations to the members of the Grand Lodge
for their fraternal greetings and kind words of sympathy for my ill
health which deprives me of tJ:ie pleasure of participating in the proceedings of its annual communications. It is gratifying to learn of the
prosperous condition of our beloved Order and the increased influence
for the good of humanity. Masonry is the shibboleth that opens the
door to charity and good will to our fellow citizens, and is working hand
in hand as an organization and individual Masons with the Red Cross
Association in relieving the distress and afflicted, regardless of nationality or creed. May its good mission continue to benefit humanity
as we meet on the level and part upon the square, and carrying its
influence and blessing like the benediction that follows a prayer. \Vith
kindest regards to the members of the Grand Lodge, I remain
Fraternally and faithfully,
GEO. c. P!lRKINS.
176 Perkins Street, Oakland.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HO~IES ..
Brother Spencer, for the Trustees of the Homes, formally presented the report of the Iloard of Trustees ( printerl
copies thereof being in the hands of Representatives present). That portion of the report relating to amendments
to the Constitution was referred to the Committee on

444

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jurisprudence, and that portion relating to the finances
of the Homes was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The consideration of the report was made special order
for 10 o'clock Thursday morning. The full text of the
report is as follows :
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith sl'bmits for your consideration and approval its Annual Report
for the year ending September 30th, 1917.
l\1ost vVorshipfol Grand Master reappointed Elmer E. Stone, vice
self, term expired. The Board held its annual meeting at the offices of
the Grand Secretary on Friday, October 13th, 1916, electing William S.
Wells, President; Motley H. Flint, Vice-President; Elmer E. Stone,
Secretary. During the year the Board has held its regular and special
meetings at both Dccoto and Covina.
This has been a most important year for the Trustees, principally
for the reason that our magnificent new home for Orphans at Covina
has been completed, dedicated and occupied. The wisdom of the
Grand Lodge in authorizing the immediate construction of a home for
uur orphans at Covina has been clearly demonstrated. Anticipating
the great increase in cost of building materials, a number of contract~
were let considerably in advance. The result is that the Grand Jurisdiction of California has probably the most modern and substantial
Masonic Home for Orphans in the entire United States. The buildings are so constructed as to be an enduring monument to Freemasons. Every possible convenience, consistent with safety, has been
installed, and the amendment to our constitution providing for fireproof buildings for our charges has been rigidly adhered to.
The Decoto Home has progressed most satisfactorily, our increased space having amply provided for all the needs of the Fraternity.

In view of the recommendations following for the reorganization
of the Board, and the probabilities that some of the present Trustees
will cease their activities after the meeting of the Grand Lodge, it
might not be out of place to call attention to the excellent service
rendered by our Superintendent at Decoto, Brother. Frank B. Hart.
man. Few realize the responsibilities of the position of Superintendent of the Home of the Aged. There are at present 152 men and
women comfortably installed at Decoto. \Vhen it is understood that

445

there were 23 deaths during the year, you can readily realize that our
Superintenden't, Brother Hartman, in looking after our departed
brothers and their widows, comfortin~ them in their last hours, attending to their many wants when they lay stricken in bed, and last but
by no means least, conducting the Home so that peace and harmony
prevails, has performed a task, the importance of which is appreciated
by hut few except your Trustees, who have observed the faithfulnesB
,1! Brother Hartman, and believe that the entire Fraternity should he
fully advised as evidenc;; that our confidence has not been misplaced.
Your Truf':ees fully realize that no more competent person than
Brother Hartman could be secured for the performance of the exacting duties at the Home.
The question of financing the Children's Home at Covina was
rnost important, and it required the very serious consideration of the
Trustees, who felt that the advice and good judgment of our Gran;\
Master was necessary; consequently each step in very transaction had
the approval of M.'. W.'. Brother Keesling. The Trustees assumed
that, as the Grand Lodge had approved the letting of contracts for the
Covina Home, it was their duty to arrange the necessary finances to
meet the situation, and it was decided that the best method to pursue
was for the Endowment Fund to advance the cash on hand and to
pledge the securities for the balance needed. By this means, the interest paid would accumulate in the Endowment Fund; furthermore,
all funds to be returned to the Endowment Fund as rapidly as possible through the per capita tax raised for building purposes.
In the matter of the Masonic Home property at San Gabriel,
which was disposed of some two years since, it developed that the
owner of the land which we acquired at Covina for our new home,
felt that the Trustees were not altogether fair in their treatment of
him, and in order that no reflection might be cast upon the Fraternity
for any act of the Trustees, it was decided to refer the entire matter
to arbitrators selected by the Trustees and the former owner of the
land. The result of said arbitration was the adjustment of a delicate
situation, and the San Gabriel property was reconveyed to us. We
have recently given an option to purchase the San Gabriel property,
which, if it be consummated, will return to the Masonic Homes fond a
very nice profit.
It is with sincere regret that we announce the resignation of
Mary B. Noble, Matron at Decoto. Said resignation was effective
March 10th, 1917. Mrs. N'oble had served the Home efficiently and
well, bnt impaired health rendered her resignation necessary. She:
r(;;moved to Yuba City, and passed to the Great Beyond on June 6th.
1918.

H6

PTIOCEElJlNGS OF '!'HE

,

Miss Sallie Dangerfield was appointed successor to Mrs. Nob le,
and ass.urned the position of Matron on July 1st last. Judging from
the energy and ability displayed, she will prove a most competent and
worthy employe.
The new building for the aged erected at Decoto has met every
need, and we are very glad to report that at this time there are 17
vacant rooms for men and 11 vacant rooms for women; hence the
needs of our Fraternity can be provided for at any time should occasion arise. Up to this time we have no knowledge of any applications for admission which have not been acted upon.
The Decoto Home is provided with an antiquated and decidedly
old-fashioned bus used for the conveyance of officers, trustees, visitors·
and residents of the Home from the depot to the Home and back
Our Superintendent, Brother Hartman, some two or more years ago
purchased an automobile at his own expense. This has been used for
Fraternity needs, and it seems .rather unfair to impose upon the goO\l
nature of our Superintendent, although the automobile has been use<l
nntil it is now practically worn-out. It would seem, in a spirit of fairness, that some adjustment should be made with Brother Hartman
for his outlay in the matter; but to keep up with modern conditions,
it is earnestly recommended that a substantial ~utomobile truck be purchased which can be so constructed as to be used for the carrying of
freight and passengers, which will result not only in the disposal of
a number of horses, but in the saving of a great amount of time, and
more satisfactory results all along the line will be secured.
As a further means of economy, it is recommended that a Ford
touring car be purchased for emergeney purposes or when it would
be more economical to use a lighter car rather than the heavy truck.
For several years, through the active co-operation of Brother
Hartman, it has been possible to provide weekly two moving picture
entertainments for the residents at Decoto. For some months owin~
to the increased cost of films, but one moving picture entert~inmei;~
has been provided each week. In view of the fact that these moving
pictures are not only entertaining but decidedly instructive, and that
the necessary films can be provided at an additional expense of $100
a year, so that two entertainments can be
weekly, it is recommended that this increased expenditure be immediately provided for.
The entire Board of Trustees has served for quite a number of
y<:'ars, and it is the feeling of the entire membership of said Boar<l
that the Grand Master should be more intimately in touch with the
situation than he is at the present time. Practically none of thcGrand Masters realize the tremendous responsibility of looking after
the affairs of the Masonic Homes until they are actually installed in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

447

their high office, and with the many duties suddenly thrust upon them
they cannot grasp the situation without devoting a large part of their
time to the affairs of the Home; hence ycur Board of Trustees feels
that a reorganization of the Board would be very advisable, and that
1he Deputy Gran<l Master and Senior and Junior Grand Wardem
should serve upon and be member.s of the Board of Trustees. A
Junior Grand Warden, if elected Grand Master, after three years of
service on the Board, would have a complete understanding and knowledge of the requirements of the Home, and would not have to make a
study of it or its policies. He would be familiar with all of its wants.
criticisms and complaints, ·and would have had some of the burde!1S
and responsibilities of its rrianagement and direction.
Your Board, in order to accomplish this change, recommends a
reorganization of the Board along these lines.
To carry this recommendation into effect, it will be necessary
that Article VIII, Section 33, of the Constitution, be amended to read
us follows:
"Sec. 33. The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California shall
be seven in number, four of whom shall be appointed by the M.". \V.".
Grand Master and the three others to consist of the R.". W:. Deputy
Grand Master, R.". \V,'. Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, who
stall be ex-officio Trustees. The term of office of the four appointed
shall be respectively one, two, three and four years, to be designated
and determined by the Grand Master appointing. Two of the Trus·
lees shall be from Lodges in the vicinity of Decoto, and two from
Lodges in the vicinity of Covina. Succeeding Grand Masters shall
appoint successors, who shall hold office for four years. They shall
be the successors of the present Trustees and of the Trustees of the
Masonic ·widows' and Orphans' Home heretofore appointed under
the resolutions of the Grand Lodge adopted in 1892, and subsequently
iliereto, and shall be vested with all the powers given such Trustees
and with all the rights by them or any of them acquired."
\Ve also believe that the business of the Home has developed
to such an extent that it is imperatively necessary to have a Secretary
other than one of the members of the Board, for the reason that it L~
impossible for any Trustee engaged in the ordinary affairs of life t:>
properly take care of the voluminous correspondence and business
matters continually
between Board meetings. To that end, we
believe the Crand Secretary should be Secretary of the Board of
Trustees, and that provision should Le made to supply additional
clerical assistance in the form of a stenographer to properly care for
the work, or such assistance as may be necessary to best handle the
details as hereinbefore suggested.

'148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'

In order to carry this recommendation into effect, it will be
necessary that the following amendment be adopted:
Section 35 of the Constitution to be amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 35. Said Trustees shall organize by the election of officers
each year; the Grand Treasurer, however, shall always be the Treasurer of the Home, and the Grand Secretary shall always be the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and of the Homes. They shall be
furnished and maintain an office in the same building and in connec:ion with offices of the Grand Secretary. They shall adopt By-Laws
(subject to the approval of the Grand Master) for their own guid·
ance and. for the management of said charity, which By-Laws they
may alter and amend at any time, subject to like approval of the
Grand Master. The Grand Master shall at all times have the right
of visitation and inspection of the books and entire management of
the charity, and may remove a Trustee at any time, upon request of
two-thirds of the Trustees, and appoint another in the place of the
person so removed."
Brother John Ruckstell, Expert Accountant, has carefully checked
the entire financial condition of both the Decoto and Covina Homes,
and also has installed an up-to-date system of accounting which simpiifies the accounting methods. He has prepared, and the same is
now in use, a loose leaf system which gives in detail the expenditures of the various departments. This system keeps a close check
on materials purchased by the Homes and the issuance of same t,)
the various departments. ·
Brother Rt1ckstell has compiled a very splendid system, afh~r
giving it much thought and consideration and comparing the various
accounting systems used in public and private institutions.
This system of accounting will permit the Trustees to issue a
detailed sheet in their Annual Report so that the Fraternity may
have a very accurate knowledge of the cost of operating the Homes
in the various departments.
WM. S. WELLS,
~IOTLEY H. FLINT,
E. B. SPENCER:,
THOMAS FLINT,
E. E. STONE,
Trustees.

GRAND LODG.hl 01•' CALIFORNIA

449

DEDlCA'l'JOK OF HOME ~'OR CHILDREN.

The crowning event of the year at Covina was the dedication Sept.
8th of the new buildings. Prominent Masons from all parts of the state,
particularly from San Francisco, were present. Grand Master Keesling conducted the ceremony in a most dignified and impressive maaner. When requested to perform this ceremony by Past Grand Master Flint, Brother Keesling was presented a beautiful hand embroidered apron by Alice Virgo, ten years old, in behalf of the girls of tlw
Home, who made the apron for the occasion. Her presentation wa~
~\S follows :
"Most \Vorshipful Grand ]\faster : A little more than a year
ago the children, through one of our boys, presented you a trowel
with which to lay the corner stone of this beautiful Home. Tocby
you see on that foundation· stone these beautiful buildings, nice!y
furnished and echoing with the voices of happy children. You have
made us very, very happy, not only because you have given us th;s
pretty Home, but because it was in the big generous hearts of the
Masons to do it for us, and we all pledge you today our strongest
endeavor to make ourselves worthy of the many privileges we enjoy
through the Grand Lodge and its members.
"Most \;l/orshipful Brother Keesling, you live a long way from
us, but you have visited us often. We have learned to know yo11
and to love you, and our girls have made an apron for you with
their own hands. \;I/ e have thought of you and of the day you
would dedicate this Home as we took the many stitches in making
these designs, and as this hour has arrived for the ceremony we ask
you to accept this apron from us and wear it on this occasion, tlw11
1ake it to your home and wear it at Grand Lodge or any other occa·
sion you may desire, but we want you to keep it to remind yon that
cur little hearts and hands reach out to you in strongest ties. Yon
will always be associated in our memories with these buildings, and
we want you to have some small token to think as kindly of us as we
do of you."
The Grand Master responded appreciatively and fcdingly, addressing Alice and the girls especially in his remarks. The following program was. then given before an attendance of more than three
thousand:
2 :00 P. M.-Grand Lodge F. & A. M., Grand Cornmandery Knights
Templar, Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons, and Grand
Council Royal and Select Masons assemble at building, and
open for ceremony.

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE)

2 :30 P. M.-Arrival of Golden West Comrnandery Band with several
Commanderies, and representatives of tlie several Lodges,
Chapters and Councils.
Selection by Golden West Commandery Band.
Meeting called by Motley H. Flint, P. G. M., Vice-President Board of Trustees, and address to Grand Master.
Presentation of apron, made by the girls of the Home,
to the Grand Master, by Alice Virgo.
Address-Grand Master Francis Valentine Keesling.
Invocation-Rt. Rev. William MacCormack.
Song by Children-"God Bless Our Native Land."
Dedication with Corn, Wine and Oil.
Prayer-Grand Chaplain.
Selection by Golden West Commandery Band.
Remarks-Right Eminent Robert Waulowski, Grand General of th.-~
Grand Commandery.
Most Excellent Edward B. Spencer, Grand High Pric,;t,
R. A. M.
Most Illustrious Harvey Le F. Marvin, Grand Master
Council, R. and S. M.
Description of Boys' Building-Victor Wehe.
Description of Girls' Building-Bernice Raftery.
Description of General Plans-Harry Bascnach.
Oration-Worshipful Robert S. Gaylord, Grand Orator.
Old Hundred.
Benediction.
An effective part of the program was in the ceremony of dedication by the symbols of corn, wine and oil. At the conclusion oi
the Grand Honors of the first the children sang a verse of Home,
Sweet Home, from the steps of the main building. At the conclusion
of the second the girls sang a verse from the steps of their own
building, and of the third, the boys sang a verse from their building.
Readers of this report who have not been privileged to see these
buildings, can best obtain an idea of them by tlie descriptions given
by the children on this occasion.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOR'l'1IA

451

BoYs' HALL, by Victor Wehe.
"The building forming the east wing of this group is the Boys'
Luilding. It is 82 feet long by 48 feet wide, exclusive of porches, and
44 feet high from basement floor to top of firewalls. The top' floor
i~ made up of several dormitory rooms, a large lavatory room, supply closets and broom closets open from the hallway, and a locker
room or large airy closet opening from each sleeping room. These
locker rooms contain one steel locker 18 x 22 inches for each boy,
with separate shelves for hats and shoes, also a pole for coat hangers on one side of each closet. The window arrangement is so designed that the best ventilation is secured without draughts. An
isolation room is provided so that in case of sickness indicating some
contagion, the boy can be removed from others without inconvenience
or exposure.
"The first floor contains two dormitory rooms for small boys,
with a capacity of twelve beds each, making a maximum bed space for
Beventy-four boys. A large lavatory room, baths and shower room
are also located on this floor. At one end of the hall, commanding
every entrance and exit to building and rooms, is the House Mother'3
room, with private bath and control service to all parts of the buihling. Our study room and· a parlor are on this floor.
"The basement contains a large space given to wood working,
machinery lathe work, and storage for materials for making furniturn, etc. On the opposite end is the indoor play room for smaller
boys, furnished with locker seats for their toys and playthings. The
center space is occupied by storage rooms, private laundry and lavatory
room.
"The building is provided with vacuum cleaning outlets clo'~
enough to operate with fifty feet of hose so that medium-sized boys
can operate it. Drinking fountains are placed in the center hall on
each floor. All lights are operated by switches in reach of the smallest boys.
"The roof of the buildings is designed with firewalls of sufficient height to provide for outdoor sleeping without being in view,
and a full protection from night breezes. We expect to take care of
the building ourselves. We like it very much. We thank you."
GmLs' HALL, by Bernice Raftery.
"I want to tell you about the Girls' Building. Like the Boys'
Building we have drinking fountains, tiled lavatories and bath rooms,
vacuum cleaning, sleeping quarters on the roof and many other features, but the interior arrangement is entirely different. Our dormi-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

452

453

PHOCE!iJDINGS OF THE

tory rooms are smaller, upstairs for the larger and middle sized girls,
and one large dormitory room for the little girls downstairs. Our
foll capacity is 66 beds.
"Our ground floor has a nice House Mother's room with private
bath, and double parlor, also used as a study and music room, and a
practice room with closets and hangers for our stringed instruments.
Then we have a dandy big sewing room with nice cases and sliding
glass doors for our work and supplies. This room has electric connections for motors for our sewing machines. We want to make
our own curtains and drapings for our windows here. \Ve will make
nice drapes and pads for our chairs and parlor furniture, and many
cde little
for our new dressers and walls in our new bedrooms. vVe will make aprons and sell them to your Lodges and buy
our furniture for our parlors. The boys are going to make their
0wn furniture, but they cannot beat us that way. We have already
saved $190.00 by selling aprons to Lodges in this State, and are going
to get the prettiest furniture in California for those two rooms.
"Our basement is high and light. One end of the basement
will be fitted up for domestic science and general care of everything used in a house. It will be divided up like a five room cottage
nnd we will make everything for it ourselves. 'We will learn to
rnok and our Matron says we can call the boys over once in a while
and try our biscuits on them. The rest of the basement is occupied
as storage, private laundry and a large play room for the little girl:;.
You kind hearted men of the Grand Lodge have done so much for
t•s, and we will remember our training here all our lives. We all
thank you so much."
TnE GENERJ\L PLAN, by Harry Basenach.
"The plan of this group of buildings is designed for all future
needs and extensions. A line drawn through the center of the main
building gives an equal amount of construction on each side, which
is called the main axis. A cross axis rtms through the center of the
;.tairway and hallway of the girls' hall across the front of the main
building and throl1gh the middle of the hall and stairway of the boys'
hall. These axes cross just eight feet in front of the center of the
main building, which point will always be the center of construction,
regardless of extensions. For this reason, the plan calls for future
buildings for the boys to be erected on the cross axis east of the
present buildings, and future buildings for girls on the cross axis
west of their present building. Any extension to the main building
wiH he built on the main axis to the south.

"All conduits, steam lines, supply pipes, drains, etc., are carried
from the machinery room direct through the pergolas to the other
buildings with connections ready to extend to other buildings in the
future. The front grounds of the buildings will be beautifully parhd
according to designs made by Brother John McLaren, who designed
the gardens for the Exposition grounds at San Francisco. Th~
ground in the rear is divided into two play grounds, one giving tennis and hand ball courts for the girls, with croquet and basket ball
grounds, and the other with a ball diamond and field track for the
boys. About nine acres cast of the buildings will be set out with a
variety of citrus fruits. Three acres west of us arc now in lemon~.
The remainder of the twenty-three acres on the high grounds will be
put in a variety of berries and vegetables that cannot stand frost, as
our high ground appears to be almost frostless. The terraces we now
have in grapes and eucalyptus trees. The lower ground will be occupied by our barns, chicken yards, dairy, a few deciduous fruits, about
four acres of alfalfa, and general garden truck. There are thirtyeight acres in the entire tract.
"Our domestic water comes from the San Dimas \Vatcr Company,
which reaches us with over forty pounds pressure. Our water for
farm use comes from the Covina Irrigating Company. Our drainage
nnd sewage is carried to a septic tank 800 feet from the buildings.
This is connected with a 35,000 gallon reservoir for irrigating the alfalfa, etc., on the lower ground. The soil is all good, and we feel
with the work tis boys can do here, that we can assist materially in
producing much of our own fruits and vegetables. The temporary
Luilding where we have lived the past year will be changed over into
barns, chicken houses, fencing, etc. All the lumber was selected for
this purpose and used in lengths to save waste when the change is
made. \Ve have watched these new buildings go up and we know
every part of them. We are all very, very happy here and think you
bave selected the very best place for us."
To which we append a description of the mam building as foilows;
The main huilding is built in two parts. The front part, 44 x 80
feet, contains the assembly room for all the children, used also as a
chapel and social hall, the office, a reception room and the Matron's
quarters. The second floor has on one end of the building the sleeping rooms for Grand Officers and Trustees, and on the other two
hospital wards, nurses' quarters, operating room, sterilization room,
diet kitchen, etc. The entire basement of the building is occupied by
the gymnasium room, plunge and dressing rooms. The second part
of the main building is but one story in height and contains the large

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

airy dining room, 56 x 72 feet in size, with high ceilings, kitchen,
pantry, refrigeration room, employes dining room, etc. Under this
portion is located the machinery room, heating plant, laundry, rooms
for employes, pump room, ice plant, receiving and checking room and
storage for supplies. The basement ceiling is high and well designed
for all purposes.

animal Ii fe upon the land and populated the seas and as a final
;1chievement, that, in His own image, He created a man and a
woman; and then He rested, for His work was done. He neither
ueated nor developed the race. Upon that man and that woman
and their desr'.endants devolved the responsibility for their own emancipation; it was left to them to determine the characteristics the
<.ccomplishments, and the goal of humanity. From the day whe; Eve
obeyed the dictates of the serpent and when Adam followed his
spouse to the tree of knowledge, the demand of mankind has been
for a leader, a guide to point the way for better or for worse. Men
require leadership to clarify their thoughts, to animate their desires
and to. unite their purposes; there must be some commanding pre:;~
ence with power to draw all eyes to himself and to focus them upon
:he purpos: w?ich ~1e seeks to accomplish. In all the great struggles
,or emanc1pat1011, tn government and in religion, in war and in
peace, we find that one leader after another has been tried and found
,wanting, until at last there nrises the man with the magnetism, the
force, the power and the energy to prove himself the man of the
hour. Tcday the question comes to us whether Masonry is equal to
the emergency of human need,. whether it possesses the characteristics
which qualify it to lead the race.

454

0RA'rION, by Robert B. Gaylord, Grand Orator.
'fhe Masons of California are proud of the event for which we
have gathered here today, of the building in whose presence we stand,
f!nd of the spirit of love and generosity which has made it a possibility. It is a spot to which we can bring the children of Masonry
as a hen gathers her chickens under her wings, for consolation and
5helter, for protection and happiness. We realize that in our land
today the orphan does not starve; public charity guarantees that fact.
But when our orphans come to us here, they come to their own, to
that which is theirs by right, to the shelter of the family roof. The
difference which they find should be the difference between the man
who spends his declining years beside the fireside of his children, and
he who enjoys the cold hospitality and the barren comfort of a public
almshouse. If the children of our Order find here a home and not an
institution, if they realize that they are the heneficiaries of love and
not the victims of charity, then this edifice will be worthy of its
name.

I have suggested that we are proud of this day and of this
building, and yet if we look fact soberly in the face there is no
occasion for pride. The man who pays his bills, who tells the truth,
who meets his obligations, may be worthy of commendation, but
there is little occasion for pride. He does his duty and no more.
In caring for those whom it is our duty to shelter, for the children
of our own great family, we merely exemplify that instinct to car~
for our own young which is the law of nature, and which is shared
alike by the beasts of the fields and the vultures of the air. When
~' man raises himself above the level of his daily instincts, when he
proves himself worthier than his fellows, an example whom children
may see and imitate, we are proud to be numbered among his friends;
and when our Order shall prove itself worthy of the principles lt
t·spouses, worthy of the men who founded it, and of the illustrious
names which honor our rolls, when it proves itself worthy of the
leadership to which it aspires,-then, and not till then, may we consistently be proud.
We read in the Holy Writ that in the beginning, the Almighty
urought order out of chaos, that He created the heavens and the
cnrth; that He separated the seas and the dry land, that He placec.I

455

\Ve s?enk frequently and glibly of the lessons of :\fasonry, but
we. som~t1mes forget the hroad distinction between its principles, it:<
l1eltefs, its creed, on the one hand, and its lessons on the other.
Masonry has but one lesson to teach. Its great lesson, is not the virtnt's of temperance, fortitude, prudence, and justice, nor the brotherhood of man, nor the fatherhood of God, nor the resurrection from
the dead; these are its ideals, and its beliefs. The great lesson it
teaches, is the practical application of those ideals and beliefs, which
you and I personally and individually make in our daily lives. If
we learn that lesson, we become better citizens, better associates for
th~ man upon the street, worthy examples for little children. If we
fail to learn that lesson, Masonry has nothing to teach us. The underlying principle of Masonic philosophy, of every religion which j~
wort~y of the name, of the Great Book which God has given us as
a gmde f?r human conduct, is the development of individual initiative.
t<; err;anc1pate us from the necessity of leadership, and to qualify us
to .pomt the v:ay for others to right living and right dying. This re~;11res somethmg more than mere axioms and platitudes and general·
1t1es.
Our own land and the entire world today demand much oi
Masonry a~d ~Iasons. .There is a call for men' who are willing to
pay the price m. blo?d 1~ the trenches, who are willing to pay it in
money at home, m time, 111 energy, and in the sacrifice of loved ones.

456

PROCEEDINGS QF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~o

one can convince you, as no one can, too, convince me, that the
children and the suceessors of those who crossed the deep that they
Plight have freedom of speech, of government, and of religion, who
figned the Declaration of Independence, and who fought at Bunke.Hill and Valley Forge, who fought again in 1812 to preserve their
freedom, and maintain their self respect, and who again in 1861, for
liberty, entered upon the bitterest of stn1ggles, that of brother against
brother; no one can convince us that the descendants of such for<"·
fathers will be found wanting in the hour of their country's need.
The red blood of patriotism still flows in our veins, and the men and 1
women from North, and South, and East and \Vest will rally around
their flag as long as memory exists and as long as duty calls.
But although patriotism be the noblest of human attributes, we
must remember that for Him to whom a thousand years are as a
day, the greatest war of history, with its sorrow, its sacrifices, its
heart aches, and its desolation, is only an incident in the accomplishment of His will. In one of his addresses, Ingersoll tells of a
visit to the tomb of Napoleon. He says that as he stood gazing down
upon the marble where rest at last the ashes of that restless man, he
thought of the career of the greatest soldier of modern history. He
-;aw Napoleon as a youth in the streets of Paris, he saw him crossing
the Alps into Italy; before the Pyramids in Egypt; at Marengo, am!
t;lm, and Austerlitz, he saw him crossing the barren wastes of Russia, at Waterloo, and finally at St. Helena gazing out across the sea.
He thought of the widows and the orphans whom the Emperor had
made, of the tears that had been shed, for his glory, and of the
only woman who loved him, pushed from his heart by the cold hand
of ambition. And then Ingersol! says that he would rather h<l'le
been a French peasant and worn wooden shoes; that he would rather
have lived in a hut with a vine growing over the door, and grap~s
ripening in the sunshine, with his wife sitting beside him, and his
children gathered about his knees; that he would rather have been
that peasant to go down to the tongueless silence of the dreamte~s
dust, than to have been that imperial personification of blood am!
inurder.
My friends, the men and women of today are laying the foundation upon which our children must raise the superstructure even as
generations gone by have built for us. Regardless of their effect upon
our lives beyond the veil, our virtues and our vices remain to ble5s
or curse our issue. They reap as we have sown, and the influence
which we exert must remain through time, even as it must go with
us into eternity. God grant that from the ashes of this war ther.:
may arise, like the phoenix of old, a rejuvenated America, that her
wings may be outstretched to shelter the oppressed of every land;

457
that there may be a littl 1
f
. .
"t"
e ess o commercialism and greed 1 that her
c1 izens may be worthy of the blood h. h fl
.
. . .
th
h
. .
w ic
ows 111 their vems and
C a~ t e pat~1ot1sm of peace may excel even the patriotism of war
•O
~rant t at the Order of Free and Accepted Masons ma
...
;,ate 111 those great events and that we, as Masons, may qu:iirar~~~:~

~;~:~:i:\!~1:~d;n~; to see the truth as the Almighty Father ~f All
God of our fathers, known of oldLord of our far-flung battle JineBeneath whose awful hand we hold
Dominion over palm and pineLord God of Hosts, be with us yet
'
Lest we forget-lest we forget!
The tumult and the shouting dies!he Captains and the Kings departStlll stands Thine ancient sacrifice,
A humble and a contrite heart
Lord God of Hosts, be with us 'yet,
Lest we forget-lest we forget !
Far-called, our navies melt awayOn dune and headline sinks the fireLo, all our pomp of yesterday
Is one with Ninevah and Tyre!
Jttdge of the Nations, spa re us yet,
Lest we forget-lest we forget.

If, d_nmk with sight of power, we loose
Wild ton_gues that have not Thee in awe,
Such boastmg as the Gentiles use
Or lesser breeds within the La'wLord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forget-lest we forget.

458

459

GHAND LOIJGl<J OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OPERATIKG EXPENSES, INCOME, ETC.,
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
August 1, 1916, to July 31, 1917.
EXPENSE.

SECRETARY'S REPORT.
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Ilomrs of California:

I herewith submit my annual report as your Secretary for the
year ended July 31, 1917, making the report of the Accountant 1ny

financial report.
Fraternally Yours,
ELMER

E. STONE,
Secretary.

San Francisco, Cal., September 29, 1917.
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
GENTLEMEN:
We have examined the accounts and financial
records of the Masonic Homes for the fiscal year ending Jul,Y 31,
and are pleased to report that the accounting has been regular and

Maintenance:
Decato.
Groceries ................................. $ 4,497.41
Meats ·······-······················------····
1,675.48
Fish ............................................
233.60
Provisions, Sundry ................
969.59
Fruits and Vegetables ..........
566.18
Farm Produce ........................ 11,454.76
Butter, Milk and Eggs..........
1,687.20
Bakers' Supplies ....................
61.50
Medical Supplies and Drugs
526.99
Hospital Expense ..................
2,279.68
Clothing and Dry Goods......
985.00
Shoes .........................................
270.29
Bedding ....................................
246.77
Dental Expense ....................
144.50
School Supplies ..................... .
Kitchen and Dining Room:
Repairs & Maintenance
76.73
Labor and Expense ....... . 2,805.51

Covina.
$ 3,008.10
306.29
59.01
501.97
113.40
1,288.08
350.37
53.80
73.05
117.50
1,384.74
449.65

Combined
Total.

13.50
496,84

$ 7,505.51
1,981.77
292.61
1,471.56
679.58
12,742.84
2,037.57
115.30
600.04
2,397.18
2,369.74
719.94
246.77
158.00
496,84

32.18
1,841.87

108.91
4,647.38

$28,481.19

$10,090.35

$38,571.54

$837.66
328.58

$........... .
981.10

$837.66
1,309.68

$1,166.24

$981.10

$2,147.34

$5,234.99
2,105.35

$2,544.08
517.51

$7,779.07
2.622.86

$7,340.34

$3,061.59

$10,401.93

$ 500.79

$ li2.55

40.30
5,394.10
2,416.93
1,330.67

21.96
677.30
104.00
365.62

$ 673.34
62.26
6,071.40
2,520.93
1,696.29

$9,682.79

$1.341.43

$11,024.22

correct.
\Ve submit herewith a detailed statement of operating and
other expenses, a cash statement to show the status of the various
Funds, and a balance sheet of the Homes at July 31, 1917.
In the statement showing expenditures an effort has been
made to show such general subdivisions and detailed distri~ution
of expenses under each as will enable a clearer tmderstandmg oi
the cost of operating the Homes.

Laundry:
Labor
Expense ....................................... .

General Pay Roll :
Salaries ........................................
Wages ......................................... .

Respectfully,

J. R. RUCKSTELL,
Certified Public Accountant.

Farm:
Tools and Equipment ............. .
Seeds .....
Feed ....................... -.................... .
Labor ........................................... .
Sundry Expense ......................... .

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Maintenance:

Decoto.

Covina.

Combined
Total.

General Expenses:
Light, Heat, Power, Water...... $ 5,568.42
1,481.24
Plant Repairs & Maintenance
262.14
Freight and Express ······-·········
Traveling Expense ••••u,.•••••••••••••
007.62
Printing and Office Supplies ..
209.21
Insurance and Taxes ................
1.017.03
427.80
Insurance Pro Rated ................
516.96
Furniture and Equipment... .....
Telephone and Telegraph ........
173.51
724.01
Sundry •••••••••••H•••••••••••••••••••••••••••·•

$ 424.76
86.76
63.39
916.04
181.92
36.31
105.19
147.00
597.73

$ 5,993.18
1,568.00
325.53
1,523.66
391.13
1,053.34
427.80
622.15
320.51
1,321.74

$10,987.94
Unclassified Expenditures :
Rule No. 16 .................................. $ 189.95
125.00
Allowances
898.50
Burials •ww•H••••••••••••··········•••••H•••••••
1,396.14
New Buildings

$2,559.10

$13,547.04

$ ............

••••H••••~··••••••••••••••<••••••

122,W3.90

wo-.•H•U••••••••••o•••••

$

189.95
125.00
898.50
124,000.04

$2,609.59 $122,603.90 $125,213.49
Common Expenses :
Sundry Covina Expenditures........................................................ $1,295.38
Trustees ................................................................................................ 765.55
Interest and Overdraft Charges .................................................. 835.85
Accounting .......................................................................................... 525.00
San Gabriel Property ...................................................................... 327.45
$3,749.23
SUMMARY OF I\XPENDITUR!\S.

Decoto.
Subdivision.
Maintenance ....................................... . $28,481.19
1,166.24
Laundry ............................................... .
7,340.34
Pay Roll-General ............................
9,682.79
Farm ......................................................
Gener.al Expense ................................ 10,987.94
2,609.59
Unclassified ......................................... .

Covina.
$ 10,090.35
981.10
3,061.59
1,341.43
2,559.10
122,603.90

Combined.
$ 38,571.54
2,147.34
10,401.93
11,024.22
13,547.04
125,213.49

$60,268.00 $140,637.47 $200,905.56
Common Expenses ................................................................................ 3,749.23
Grand Total Expenditures ........................................................$204,654.79

461

INCOME AND REVI\NUI\.

Maintenance:

Decoto.

Fund bal. on hand Aug. 1, 1916..... .
Per Capita Tax ....................... ,......... . $57,856.00
Decato Farm Rental and Sales ..... . 12,959.48
Covina Farm Sales ......................... .
1,288.08
Donations ........................................... .
4,380.00
Interest Earned on Deposits ......... .
1,992.06
Funeral Expenses Refunds ............
564.00
Decoto Home Operations (Cr.) ... .
141.51
Loan-Bank of Italy ...................... .. 35,000.00
Miscellaneous ......................................
492.67
Special Rule No. 16 Fund ............. .
1,104.04
Building Fund .................................... 51,168.34
Permanent End. Fund (Net)
29,884.78
Residents' Deposit Fund (Net) ... .
406.17
Headstone Fund ............................... .
200.00
Special Home Fund (Net) ........... .
72.85

Covina.

Combined
Total.

$ 16,088.49

197,500.98

Total Available ....................................................................... .

213,598.47

Balance of Funds on Hand AJug. 1, 1917 ...................................... $8,943.68

COMPOSITJON OF BALANCE.

Balance with Grand Treasurer (All Funds) ..... . $5.809.39
Revolving Fund ........................................................... . 2,250.00
Bank of Italy ................................................................
235.30
Central National Bank
1,233.13
P. B. Hartntan, Trustee ~~~:~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~~~~~
1,148.70
Less Checks Outstanding (vouchers payable)....................
Balance as Above

•••••••••••••••••H~h•••••••u•u+•••••••••••••••h••••••••••••

$10,676.52
1 732 84

'

.

$8,943.68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

462

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

463

CAPI'rAL ACCOUNT.

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA-GENERAL BALANCE<:
SHEET JULY 31, 1917.
ASSETS.

$ 10,676.52
Cash .........................................................
445.60
Funeral Exp•;nse Account ..................
105,412.50
Securities (see Schedule) .....:............. .
Decoto Assets :
45,469.90
Real Estate
Buildings ......................................... 242,411.12
Improvements -·---------··------------------· 31,664.26
Building Equipment ----·----------------· 26,119.85
Farm Investment .......................... 8,850.00
Farm Equipment ............................ 5,006.{){) 359,521.13
San Gabriel-Covina Assets:
21,800.00
Real Estate, Covina ....... ..
Buildings, Covina ......................... . 131,656.04
San Gabriel Property ................ .. 24,300.00
I mprovernents .............................. .. 2,957.23
Building Equipment ----··----·----·------ 4,442.28
Real Estate Investment ..................... .
Remittance due from Secretary ........ ..
Building Construction Fund:
Expended ··-----·--------------··--··------------ 122,833.40
R'eceived ........................................ .. 51,385.06

LlABILJTlES.

Vouchers Payable ................................
Bank of Italy-Loan .......................... ..
Trust Funds :
Residents' Personal Deposits ...... $ 1,148.70
Special Rule No. 16 ...................... 5,866.30
Headstone ........................................
1,700.00
Total Liabilities ........................... .

$

66.69
127,597.66
19,600.35
543,028.36
$690.293.06

Balance as above ------------------------··

SCHEDULE. OF CASH BALANCES AND SECURITIES
:VJASONTC HOMES OF CALTFORNIA JULY 31, 1917.
Cash Balances;
, Humboldt Bank, Special Home Fnnd ............ $ 600.35
Los Angeles Bank & Trust Co ........................ .
20.20
Humboldt Savings Bank ...................... (.Treas.)
435.48
Humboldt Sav. Bank-Endowment ( " )
4,712.06
Sav. Union Bk. & Trust Co. No. L (
)
20.75
20.55
Sav. Union Bk. & Trust Co. No. 2..(
)
1,233.13
Central National Bank
Bank of Italy.................... ::::::::::::::::::(T·~~-~-~~~~-)235.30
F. B. Hartman-Trustee ...
1,148.70
Revolving Funds ............... ::::::::· ::::::::::::::::::::: 2,250.00 $ 10,676.52

185, 155.55
1,900.00
1,181.26

71,448.34
$735,740.90

Total Assets .......................... ..

COMPOSITION Of' BALANCE.

Entertainment Fund ........................... __
Permanent Endowment Fund............
Special Horne Fund ................ :............ .
General Fund-Invested Capital... ...

$ 1.732.84
35,000.00

8,715.00
$ 45,447.84

Securities-Permanent Endowment:
City of Santa Barbara ........................4:Yi%
City of Uplands ...................... _____________ 4Yz%
Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co ........................... 5%
Hetch Hetchy ......................................... 5%
City of Richmond ................................. 5 %
City & County of San Francisco ........ 5%
City of Ashland ................... ----------·--------------------California Gas & Electric Co
Liberty Bonds .. . ..
------------------·---------·
·-------·--···-··············---·····-------·Special Home Fund Securities:
Pacific Gas & Electric Co
California Gas & Electric "c~;-------------··------·----···
Los Angeles Railwav
...........................
w

····················------- .. •••••••••••••

11,287.50
3,125.00
16,000.00
12,000.00
5,000.00
2,000.00
9.000.00
10,000.00
11,000.00

$86,412.50

5,000.00
9.000.00
5,000.00

19,000.00

Excess Assets Over Liabilities ................................................$690,293.06
$105,412.50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

464

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SUPJ!RINTENDENT'S REPORT.
Decoto, Alameda County, Cal., October 1, 1917.

~~~~~

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California.

~§~~~
.,...;N"'
00

The undersigned presents the nineteenth annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Homes of California.

<"">

vr

The past year has been one of great interest in the history oi
the Decoto and Covina Homes.
The permanent buildings at the Decoto Home erected during the
past several years have enlarged the work and have enabled the
management to reach a higher standard of service in the care of the
e>lder members of our family.
The completion of the new buildings at the Covina Home has
firmly established the work for the care of the younger members.
Those entering on the evening of their lives, can enjoy the comfort and quiet so much desired by them, while those who are enter-ing the threshold of life will be given the physical, moral, mental anJ
spiritual development to prepare them to meet successfully the experience awaiting them during the coming years.

i

~

!

l :!
I i·. !.
'

,
.•

···•

l.

I \.

~J~
'·:, i

!.·

= ..
... ~ §
= '"'"
"tn = ca

~
0

There has been a greater individual effort on the part of the
Members of our large family to interest themselves in the general
routine work and to contribute their bit, according to their strength,
to the general welfare of the Homes.
Suitable entertainments, school instruction, out-of-door recreatiom,
picnic parties, camping trips, excursions to nearby places of interest,
etc., have enriched the social and family life of the Homes, affording
<liversion for those enfeebled by advancing years, and giving wholesome and beneficial exercise to those who find their strength increasing as the years unfold.
DECOTO HOME.

Since our last report 24 persons have been admitted to the
Home, 15 men and 9 women; 23 have passed away. There are now
present 97 men and 55 women .

bl) -

"'g :§ '()

... ·;; ~

::::: ~ (/)

The health of the Home has been good with the exception vf
those who, by reason of age, have become infirm and helpless.

466

PROCEEDINGS OF TRW

The Coleman Hospital, thoroughly equipped with all the advanced medical and sanitary appliances, enables our physician and
trained nurses to give to those who are ill the best medical attention. Day and night nurses are in constant attendance. There are
now twenty members being cared for in the hospital.
The new water supply is practically inexhaustable. At th:s
season of the year, when the natural supply of water is lowest, there
seems to be no decrease in the service given by the deep-well pump.
At the close of each day there are 700,000 gallons of water in our
rt'servoirs. The springs, our former source of supply, contribute in a
very small way to the storage of water on hand.
The steam plant has supplied all the steam heat during the winter months and hot water for domestic purposes during the entire
year. It also furnishes power for the operation of the laundry and
pumping plant.
The cold storage plant is operated by electric power and enables
the Home to care for a large supply of meat, butter, eggs, etc., and
manufacture at the same time all the ice for our needs.
The steam laundry has attended to all the demands made upon
it in a very satisfactory manner. The hand laundry located in the
basement of the main building has been equipped with two porcelain
tubs, hot and cold watei-, ironing boards and table, clothes rack, electric stove for the making of starch, electric irons. The work done
here relieves the laundry and gives the ladies of the Home, who are
able, an opportunity to do their own work.
The greater portion of the hill ranch has been leased, either •)'.l
ohares or cash rental. The hay crop has been good; about 80 tons
have been stored for our use.
The chicken ranch has given good returns. In addition to the
chickens and eggs sold and for table use, 10,000 eggs have been put up
in water glass. There are now 22()0 chickens on hand.
The hog ranch has supplied us with fresh pork during the year.
There are now 60 hogs on hand.
The dairy has supplied all the milk and cream we need. There
are now 15 Holstein cows on hand. \Ve also have 7 horses in our
stable. Two teams are used to haul freight, etc., and for general
:anch work; three horses for mail and passenger service and oth,::r
work about the grounds.

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The vegetable gardens have been eularged and have furnished
a plentiful supply of fresh vegetables for table use and greens for the
form yard.
The orchards have yielded ·a good crop. The new orchard is
now beginning to bear. A large part of the fruit crop was sold. Our
tables were well supplied and the balance dried and stored for future
needs. There is now in storage three-fourths ton of dried apricots,
one ton dried plums, and about four tons· dried prunes.
A large quantity of fruit· has been preserved by the ladies of the
Home; about 700 quarts being now on hand. All of the mending and.
making of household linen has also been done by them. In additio'1
to caring for their individual rooms, they have taken entire care of
the halls, corridors, wash and bath rooms, reception and assembly
rooms in the buildings occupied by them.
All the rooms and halls of the cottages and main buildings have
been tinted, woodwork and furniture varnished and beds enameled.
The woodwork inside of the hospital has been enameled and the
woodwork on the outside has been painted.
A garage building has been built and is located south of the
main building. The labor on this building was furnished entirely by
the brethren of the Home.
A large number of brethren have contributed to the welfare of
the Home during the past year by their labors in carpenter, tailor,
shoe and barber shops, picking fruit, watering lawns, kitchen work
;ind light chores in a general way. One of the brethren looks after
the garage, while another, a graduate optician, looks after the
spectacles worn by the members of the family and keeps them in
good condition.
A flag pole, 84 feet' high, has been erected on the grounds south
of the main building. It was set in a concrete base, 5 feet square
and 7 feet deep. It is surmounted by a halyard block and a gold
ball. The presentation and dedication of the flag pole took place
June 16, 1917.
The following program gives the order of exercises which attended the presentation and dedication of the flag pole and flag. A large
~umber of brethren from the bay cities and towns near the Home
were present and took part in the ceremonies.

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Program.

Arrangements haye been made whereby the members of our family, a few at a time, visit Alameda Lodge No. 167, F. & A. M., and
Orient Chapter No. 177, 0. E. S., at Centerville, California. Occasionally, individual visits are made to Lodges and Chapters located
near the Home.

March, "Stars and Stripes Forever," Islam Temple Band.
2.

Introductory Remarks-Frank D. Hartman, Superintendent Masonic Homes of California.

3.

Presentation of Flag Pole-Henry M. Owens, President Past
Masters' Association of California.

4.

Acceptance on Behalf of Home-Bro. David Johnston, resident of
Home.

5. Presentation of Flag-Mrs. Abbie E. Krebs, Past Grand· Matron,
0. E. S.
6.

Presentation of Flag to Home-Judge John D. Murphey, P. G. M.

7.

Acceptance of Flag on Behalf of Home-Mrs. Anna M. Elliott,
resident of Home.

. 8.

Hoisting Flag-Charles H. Wood, Secretary Past Masters' Association of Alameda and Contra Costa counties.

9.

(a) "Star Spangled Banner," Islam Temple Band.
(b) Song, "My Own United States," Bro. L. A. Larsen.

4.69

Many entertainments have been given for the pleasure and benefit of the family by Lodges, members of Lodges and their friends,
also at times by members of the Home. The following is a list of
the events which have contributed to our enjoyment:
October 21, 1916--Y erba Buena Lodge No. 403; second degree i:1
the Temple, smoker and entertainment.
Oct. 28, 1916--Marietta Chapter No. 256, 0. E. S.; floral degree in
the Temple, followed by a musical program.
Nov. 4, 1916--Lodges of the 37th District; formal presentation of
five hat and coat racks and one pair of massive andirons as furnishings for new Club Room .
Nov. 11, 1916--Live Oak Lodge No. 61 ; first degree in Temple,
entertainment and smoker.
Nov. 30, 1916--Thanksgiving services in Assembly Hall.

10.

Dedication of Pole and Flag-Bro. Thomas Flint, Trustee Masonic Homes of California, and Past Grand Master.

Dec. 19, 1916--Fraternity Lodge No. 399; third degree in the
Temple, entertainment and smoker.

11.

"America," Islam Temple Band and audience.

Dec. 25, 1916--Christmas services in Assembly Hall, attended by
residents and employes; large Christmas tree; rooms, halls and corriclors decorated with green and red festooning, bells and wreath,;
visit of Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus; distribution of presents.

Since that day, the flag has with appropriate ceremony been
raised each morning at 6 :45 a. m. by the Color Guard. A few
members of the family gather together at that time in the Assembly Hall and sing the National Air as the flag is being raised. The
singing is accompanied by violin and piano. The flag is lowered
each evening at 6 :30 p. m.
New cedar book shelves have been built on the four sides of
the library room by the brethren of the Home. There are now
2700 books, 565 books having been donated during the past year.

Dec. 31, 1916--Reception, musical program, games and dancing; '
watch party at 12 midnight, attended by residents and employes.
Feb. 12, 1917-Lincoln's Birthday; patriotic exercises in Assembly Hall.
Feb. 22, 1917-Washington's Birthday; patriotic exercises in Assembly Hall.

A moving picture and musical entertainment have been given each
Wednesday evening throughout the year at the Temple; the socials on
Thursday evenings, the chorus practice on Friday evenings, and the
services on Sunday afternoons, followed by a musical program by our
orchestra, have been regularly held,

March 16, 1917-Hershey Chocolate Co.; moving pictures and lecture illustrating the methods of manufacturing chocolate, etc., at
Hershey, Penn.

Stereopticon entertainments have from time to time been given.

April 21, 1917-Charity Lodge No. 362; third degree at Temple,
and smoker.

April 8, 1917-Easter services in Assembly Hall.

470

i>ROCEED!:NdS OF 'i'ltlt

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

471

May 8, 1917-Hayward Amateur Minstrel Show; program given
the Temple.

Sept. 22, 1917-Aahmes Temple Shrine Band; band concert on the
grounds of the Home.

May 26, 1917-Live Oak Lodge No. 61; entertainment at Temple; basket lunch in Palm Grove.

Sept. 22, 1917-0akland Lodge No. 188, and ladies; basket lunch
m Palm Grove; musical and literary entertainment in Temple.

May 21 to 26, 1917-Chautauqua at Niles, Cal.; forty-two members of the Home had the daily privilege of attending the Chautauqua
programs at Niles, for the week ending May 26, 1917.

All these gatherings, together with the comforts afforded by our
"plendidly equipped club, music and library and reading rooms, croquet grounds, etc., are factors in creating an atmosphere of peace and
contentment through the Home.

2t

May 30, 1917-Memorial Day exercises in Assembly Hall; ceremony of placing floral tributes on graves of members of the Home who
have passed away, at Cypress Cemetery, at Decoto.
May 30, 1917-Fruitvale Lodge No. 336; third degree at Temple,
entertainment and smoker.
June 8, 1917-Jewel Lodge No. 374; band concert; basket lunch
in Palm Grove.
June 16, 1917-Past Masters' Association of California; presentation of flag pole and flag, Islam Temple Shrine Band taking part
m the ceremonies.
June 16, 1917-lslam Temple Shrine Band; musical concert on the
grounds in the afternoon and program in the evening at the Temple;
lunch in Grove; cigars and candy for residents of Home.
July 4, 1917-Independence Day; patriotic program in the afternoon; moving pictures at Temple in the evening, followed by display
of fireworks on the grounds at 8 p. m.
July 7, 1917-East Bay Matrons' Association; Eastern Star degrees for the benefit of the Eastern Star members of the family;
musical program; candy.
July 20, 1917-0akland Municipal Band; band concert on the
grounds of the Home.
July 21, 1917-Apollo Lodge No. 396; third degree at the Temple; entertainment and smoker; candy for all the members of the
family.
Aug. 25, 1917-Brooklyn Lodge No. 225; second degree at Temple and smoker; candy for all the residents of the Home.
Sept. 1, 1917-Sequoia Lodge Ko. 349; first degree in the Temple, followed by entertainment and smoker; cigars and candy for
residents.

COVJNA HOME.

The Covina Home has been in almost perfect operation. disregarding the inconveniences of the temporary buildings, and the natural disturbances and interruptions by dust, teaming, workmen, anrl
:he noise and confu~ion of the erection of the new buildings. The
health of the children has heen almost perfect, their discipline and
deportment have been exemplary, and their school work very creditable
indeed.
The garden has produced well, but limited in space because of
construction, interruption of water and lack of fencing. No cows o~·
horses have been purchased because the farm plan cannot be installcJ
until the temporary buildings for the children can be taken down.
A portion of the higher ground has been set out to Valencias,
Navels, grapefruit and tangerines. These trees are doing well. A
new reservoir has been built on the highest point of the ground and
connected by pumps in the machinery room to the plunge in th~
gymnasium room, so that our irrigation water for the high ground
can be received through the plunge, thus providing fresh water for
the children at all times. The same pump and pipe used for supplying the temporary buildings is used for this purpose.
The securing of pressure water from the city of San Dimas is a
very desirable and very economical feature. We now have the same
conveniences in the country that those in the most modern city enjoy. It cost $1550 to connect with this system, all of which is returned to us in water, and we thereby saved the cost of a $2000
pressure tank on the roof and the continuous care and cost of
pumping to the tank.
We have also been able to connect with the Covina gas mains
at a cost of less than $100, and our fuel bill for cooking with thts
natural gas is about one-third our former cost with manufactured
gas or distillate.

PROCEEDINGS OF '!'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We are on one of the power lines of the Edison Electric Company. Our lighting system is good and the company has made us
a most satisfactory power rate. We can now profitably operate our
new laundry and refrigeration plant at the new buildings, aµd have
the conveniences of vacuum cleaning, plunge, boys' workshop, etc.,, .at
minimum cost.

operated under self government, the children electing their own
officers, caring for all departments of the work by committees, and
publishing a daily paper. The children are all good swimmers, which
can be appreciated by the fact that seven girls swam from Balboa
to the camp, a distance of more than a mile and a half.

472

The basement arrangement is built to install a perfe~t arrangement of receiving, checking and distributing supplies, preventing was"Le
and carrying a continuous inventory of supplies on hand. The system
is taken from that operated in the Masonic Home at. Elizabethtown,
Pennsylvania, which is probably the best regulated institution of its
kind in the country. The records all conform to the accounting system installed by Brother Ruckstell. The new buildings will naturally
:equire some change in operation of general detail, which will take
but a short time, as the scheme was worked out completely before
the buildings were constructed. The limited space in the temporary
buildings precluded much of the training that will now be vigorouslv
renewed, particularly manual training, drills and shop work for the
boys, and domestic science, orchestra, and classic dancing for th~
girls. The play grounds will soon be graded and equipment will be
placed on them from time to time as convenience permits. This wi1l
probably be supplied by sonie of the local Lodges.
Five of our boys, who have comparatively recently graduated
from the Home, are now in the service of our country. Two of
them, although very young, are non-commissioned officers. They
passed their examination largely by their experience in the cadet drills
used at the Home.
Patriotic holidays have been particularly emphasized this yea~·,
although all have been fittingly observed. Indoor diversions were
necessarily limited, but outdoor trips were most enjoyable. Many
"hikes" were made to nearby places. One of particular mention was
a walk of eight miles from car line to Camp Baldy with a rise nf
4000 feet and a further climb of 2000 feet and six mile hike next
day. Again the following day they walked the eight miles down the
mountain. There were twenty-nine children on this trip. All made
it nicely. They held their Easter service in the snow. A rich expe·
rience to nineteen of them who had never been in the snow before.
Another notable trip was the annual outing at the beach, made
possible by the generous contribution of the lodges and individuals
to the Christmas fund. The children are more than g1ad to carry
a portion of their Christmas allowance over to enj~y tl1t'? happy,
healthful camping trip during their summer vacation. The ·camp 15

473

The intere.ot manifested by the Craft in our Home has been unusual this year. Possibly because of the erection of the new buildings, we had more visitors than any year previous. Many friends
from the north called frequently. Grand Master Keesling and Deputy
Grand Master Hervey visited often, and the children have become
much attached to them. The children also made several visits, particularly just prior to Endowment Day, and their program assisted
materially in stimulating interest in this work. We are pleased with
the visits of Lodges and Chapters where they come in a body and
participate in some entertainment with the children. Some of these
visits of special interest since our bst report are as follows:
September 30th-Hon. Albert G. Burnett, Grand Master, with Mrs.
Burnett, visited the children. Brother Burnett gave the children a
splendid talk and seemed much interested in the Home.
November 25th-Fifteen children with the Matron visited Long
Beach. The children gave a good program and Trustee Spencer
addressed a joint meeting of all the bodies on the Endowment fund.
November 26th-Grand Master and Mrs. Keesling, Deputy Grand
Master Hervey and Mrs. Hervey visited the children. The children
gave a program, and both Brother Keesling and Brother Hervey gave
instructive and entertaining talks to the children.
November 29th-A trip to San Bernardino in the interest of the
Endowment fund was made similar to that at Long Beach, San Bernardino. Masons and their ladies received the children most cordially.
December 17th-Long Beach Day. For several years Long Beach
Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S., has visited the children near Christmas
time, and besides leaving a generous amount of apples and candy,
has always left a dollar bill for each child's bank account. This
year they not only did this same thing, but they brought their strong
ally, The Shriner Club of Long Beach, with them, who also gave the
children a dollar bill each for their bank account. Through this
kindness each child has a bank account, and it is sure to grow with
friends like Long Beach Chapter and Shrine Club. The children responded with a good program.

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

December 19th-Children were entertained at Christmas party
given by La Paloma Chapter No. 202, 0. E. S., at Covina. Favors
and candy generously passed.
December 28th-Children gave a program at Masonic Hall at
Covina at joint installation of officers of Covina Lodge and La Paloma
Chapter. Many favors shown.
January 6th-Visit of Robert Hewitt DeWitt, Grand Master
Royal and Select Masters. Brother DeWitt gave the children a good
description of Northern California in winter.
January 9th-The children were takea in automobiles to Pomona,
where they rendered a good program prior to the installation of officers
of the Lodge and Star. A very fine meeting. The children were
treated royally and felt they had made some new friends.
March 18th-University Lodge Day. The first Lodge to be entertained in the new buildings, although cnly partly constructed. This
generous Lodge has a Home Day each year and always provides some
clever program for the children. Our children are always prepared
to respond.
March 24th-The Southern California Past Masters' Association
visited the Home, viewed the buildings and grounds. The children
decorated the dining-room and gave a good program. The Past
Masters were much interested, and several Lodges offered to furnish
some of the rooms.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

July 9th-A Masonic evening given at ranch of Brother C. D.
Griffith. Several of the older children attended. Boys gave their
Cadet drill.
July 18th to August 22d-Camp at Balboa.
August 16th-Brother Chas. G. Landscheit of Redwcod City visited Camp. The children are laughing yet at his English stories.
August 26th~Wm. H. Brown, wife and son gave the children a
live visit. Brother Brown, as star on the screens, gave the children
some active comedy.
Most Worshipful Francis V. Keesling, Grand Master, and other
members of the Grand Lodge have made a nnmber of visits to both
Homes, and many brethren of California Lodges and other jurisdictions have spent pleasant hours with as.
I desire again to express my appreciation of the efficient and conscientious work of the Matrons, whose earnest efforts have been a
potent factor in maintaining a high standard of service in their respective departments.
I also wish to express my sincere gratitude to the Board of
Trustees for the friendly advice and support they have at all times
given me.

Fraternally submitted,
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

April 5th-Whittier Lodge and Lura Chapter called for the children in autos and took them over the valley. They were entertained and fed ·well.
April 8th-Easter trip to Camp Baldy.
April 22d-James W. Foley, noted author of New York, with
his wife, visited the Home. He gave the children many readings of
his own composition.
April 22d-Grand Master Keesling and wife, Deputy Grand Master
Hervey and wife visited the home.
May 5th-Piano recital by the children in charge of Mrs. Buckham. A very creditable showing made by the children.
June 11th-Boys gave fancy drill at the installation of officers of
Covina Commandery. All were well entertained.
June 23d-$everal of the children attended the reception given to
Grand Master Keesling, and gave a few numbers for their program.

475

DONATJONS TO DllCOTO HOME.
DONOR.

AR Tl CLE.

Past Masters' Association of California ......................................................! flag pole, 84 feet long.
:\frs. Abbie E. Krebs .............................. 1 large American flag.
Lodges, 3ith DistricL .............................5 hat and coat racks, 1 pair andirons.
San Francisco Lodges ............................6 settees, each 6 feet long.
Islam TC"mple, A. A. 0. N. M. S .......72 packages playing cards, $100 for Islam
Temple Film Fund.
Mechanics Institute ................................500 books for library.
::Vlason:c Club of San Francisco ............::VIonthly donations, magazines and periodicals.
J. Silverstein ........................................... .15 books for library.
Magnus Kjelsberg .................................200 cigars.

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DONOR.

ARTJCU:.

Mrs. Magnus Kjelsberg ........................60 boxes candy.
David Johnson ..........................................2 cement trays for flower pots.
H. M. Swalley ..........................................32 books for library.
Y erba Buena Lodge No. 403 ............... .100 cigars, 52 boxes candy.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61... ....................... 100 cigars, strawberries.
The Needlework Guild of America ....Large box assorted clothing.
Geo. C. Berg..............................................7 packages reading matter.
Fraternity Lodge No. 399......................100 cigars.
E. A. Grau ................................................ ! collie shepherd dog.
Robt. C. Hanford......................................2 boxes oranges.
Ladies' Auxiliary, Berkeley Commandery No. 42....................................54 boxes candy.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 ............... .154 Christmas cards.
Mrs. F. G. Hagerty..................................3 large boxes assorted clothing.
East Bay Matrons' Association ............1 large bunch bananas 1 box orano-es
Oroville Lodge No. 103..........................5 gallons ripe olives. '
"' .
Jesse Miller ......................,........................ 11 ladies' leather hand bags, 3 ladies'
leather purses.
Oscar Lubbock ........................................! package magazines.
Oliver H. :.\feyer. .......................................3 vols. Shakespeare.
L. ]. Clark ................................................2 packages magazines and periodicals.
W. R. J. Edwards ....................................50 slides Passion Play, 50 slides Trip to
the Philippines, 100 slides Trip
Around the World.
Maria Trumbull ......................................! couch, clothing (assorted), 1 framed
picture.
Mrs. T. K Andrews ............................. .! package magazines.
J. A. Mad1eekin .................................... ! package violin and piano music.
California Nursery Company ...............l large Christmas tree.
Pacific Lodge No. 136............................... 15 books for library, 1 trunk men's
clothing.
:V1rs. H. W. Emerson ..............................! large package women's clothing.

DONATIONS 'l'O COVJNA HOME.
DONOR.

ARTICLE.

Pacific Electric Railway Company.... Special car to and from the beach.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S. Many favors, "melon day," candy, etc.
Long Beach Shrine Club .................... Aut-0 outing, fruit, candy and other
favors.
Hollywood 0. E. S. Constellation ........21 bibs, 5 comforts, 2 girls' night gowns,
15 dish towels.

477

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DONOR.

AR'l'ICI.Jl.

Bonties & Roth ........................................? hats.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378........................ -Generous with candies and favors
throughout the year.
John V. Eliot............................................ 3 sacks walnuts, 6 rabbits.
L. W. Miller, Covina.............. :...............30 rabbits.
J. D. Humiston, Long Beach ................Good tent.
Wm. Klusmann, University Lodge
No. 394 .................................................. Several 10-lb. boxes candy during the
year.
Southland Chapter No. 307, 0. E. S.,
Pasadena ................................................2 hammocks, 2 porch swings.
Oscar Lawler ............................................Mahogany roll top office desk.
A. Baird, Pasadena ...............................Books.
A. B. White, South Gate No. 320........ Books.
Mr. and Mrs. F. J. Elsensohn, Wilshire Chapter No. 329, 0. E. S .......5 dozen enamel cups.
Wilshire Chapter No. 329, 0. E. S .....2 qts. peaches, 7 pts. fruit, 11 glasses
jelly.
Pearl Chapter No. 147, 0. E. S.,
Compton ..............................................-53 qts. fruit, 1 qt. preserves, 2Yz qts. fig
jam, 6 glasses jelly, 10 squashes.
Al Malaikah Shrine ................................ Donations of food following ceremonials-real banquets.
M. J. Neuberg, San Bernardino ..........6 lbs. fancy chocolates.
Mrs. W. R. Harvey and Mrs. Chas.
Wier ....................................................... 25 lbs. candy.
Artesie Chapter No. 253, 0. E. S .......8 sheets, 8 pillow cases and 8 drrssrr
scarfs.
H. Barnes, Madera, Cal... ...................... Postal card album.
Fred B. Gaul, San Dimas......................Fine Edison disc phonograph.
F. C. Macy, Puente ..................................105 lbs. beans.
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286..................5 boxes apples.
Gardena Chapter No. 260, 0. E. S .....48 qts. canned fruit, 6 qts. pickles, 19
qts. jam and marmalade, 8 glasses
jelly.
Walter H. Allen and T. E. Berry,
Mizpah Lodge No. 378........................5 lbs. candy.
Jesse L. Lasky· Feature Play Company ........................................................ Liberal contributions of food supplies
several times during year.
N. Bonfilio, Southern California
Lodge No. 278 ......................................Candy.

GRAND LODG.lil OF CALIFOHNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

478
DONOR.

ARTICLE.

Whittier Lodge No. 323 and Lyra
Chapter No. 124, 0. E. S ................... Sack nuts, sack oranges, sack apples, 2
jars jam, 11 qts. fruit, 4 pts. jelly, 6
glasses jdly, 135 paper dolls,.and dolls'
clothing.
Mrs. D. J. Brownstein, West Gate
No. 335 .................................................. Many useful articles of clothing and
shoes.
E. B. "Wyckoff and son, Velorus,
University No. 394 ............................ Ball, bat and mit.
Mrs. E. B. Wyckoff and daughter,
Carmi, University No. 394................. Several games.
Dr. C. H. Von Breton, University
No. 394 ........... ,. ..................................... Picture.
Beatrice and Austin Gale ...................... Candy.
R. W. Masters, Unity Lodge No. 368.. 200 candy eggs.
L. L. Test, Corona Lodge No. 324...... Books of Jas. W. Foley's poems.
Mr. and Mrs. Jno. R. Ruckstell, Mission No. 169.......................................... Confections.
Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Sotow, Lexington Chapter .......................................... Candy.
Lyra Chapter No. 124, 0. E. S .............Graduation outfits for 4 girls.
Frank X. Pfaffinger, So. California
Lodge ......................................................Books.
Joe A. Antoni, Monrovia Lodge No.
308 ..........................................................60-pound pig.
F. B. Comfort, University No. 394.... Fruits and candies throughout the year.
Southland Social Club, 0. E. S., No.
307 ............................................................Ten dollars treat money.
~fotley H. Flint ........................................ Souvenirs, dolls, novelties, etc.
R. L. Jones, Covina ................................ 71 cones ice cream.
Lewis D. Wallenstein ............................ One dollar for candy.
Hortense Osborne ..................................1 dozen bags peanuts.
Wm. H. Brown, Golden West Commandery .................................................. Several good books.
C. H. Lee, Azusa
of peaches.
Special mention must be made of some who are performing exceptional service for the Home. Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor is always generous with his time and always at call for the physical needs of the
children. We are much indebted to him for the good health enjoyed
by the children. His good wife, Dr. Nannie Dunsmoor, and son, Dr.
Robert M. Dunsmoor, have frequently assisted him.

479

Careful attention is given to the general ailments and physical
defects of children. Examinations are frequently made for adenoids,
enlarged tonsils, and similar affiictions, and all cases needing attention
are promptly cared for. In this particular we are indebted to Doctors
F. J. Old, F. D. Bullard, Clarence E. Ide, Agusta Zuber and Lawrence
R. Linhart, all of whom are expert in this character of work. None
of these physicians would accept compensation for their valuable services.
Many others donated in service what would be difficult to estimate
in money value. Brother P. L. Nash of Covina is always at hand in
emergency or otherwise, and Brother Wm. Schneider gives his annual
barbecue and generous allowance of meats, etc .. for the occasion. The
business houses from whom we purchase supplies extend many favors.
The Masons of San Francisco, the members of the San Francisco
Board of Relief, The Southern California Past Masters' Association,
the Grand Officers and Inspectors, several Subordinate Lodges and
Eastern Star Chapters, and many individrials are now contributing generously to the furnishing of the New Orphans' Home. Some are selecting stated rooms to furnish, some pianos, victrolas, hall clocks, drinking
fountains, etc. It is impossible at this time to make the list, but this
splendid Honor Roll will be carefully compiled for our next report,
by which time the several Lodges will have completed their work in
this line, and their donations properly installed.
The Charter Oak Citrus Association, Bro. Wm. Hoogendyk, manager, supplies the children with oranges at all seasons. · Any time the
boys drive up with their wagon they receive a generous supply of the
golden fruit.

CHRlS'fMAS DONATJONS-COVINA HOME.
DONOR.

ARTICLE.

Cunningham, Curtis & Welch Company, Bro. Fred J. Young, Manager ........................................................2 dozen pencils, 1 dozen paint boxes, 3
dozen artist paints, 1 dozen pencil
boxes, 3 dozen household stories, 1
dozen nursery story books, 1 dozen
"Animal Friends," 1 dozen "Night
Before Christmas."
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S.,
Hanfonl ········--·····-········--······-·-·-··-····Christmas box-present for each child.

DONOR

481

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

480

ARTICLE

San Rafael Chapter No. 215, 0. E. S.:.Christmas box-2 presents for each child
and check for $10 for table use.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S ...$1 for each child, apples and candy.
Long Beach Shrine Club ........................ A dollar bill for each child.
T. \V. Sprague, Pasadena......................20 pounds peanuts, 25 pounds candy.
F. B. Silverwood, So. Cal. Lodge No.
278 ..........·................................................80 boxes candy.
Mrs. W. H. Mead, Shrine Committee..22 dressed dolls.
R. S. Saunders, Westlake Lodge..........Candy.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408................Pail of candy.
Upland Lodge No. 419............................25 pounds Christmas mixed candy, 60
candy boxes and cones, 62 Christmas
cards, $6.50 cash for Matron to use
for children.
Wm. Hoogendyk and P. L. Nash ........Christmas tree.
Geo. II. Whyte, Corona Lodge ............50 pounds candy.
Scottish Rite Bodies of Pasadena...... Sewing machine.
Palos Verdes No. 387............................Christmas card for each child.
University Lodge No. 394......................42 choice books.
Oriental Chapter No. 258, 0. E. S .....Toys.
Jasmine Chapter No. 155, 0. E. S .......70 boxes home-made candy.
Oroville Lodge No. 103..........................Keg ripe olives.
Lilly M. Thomas, Columbus, Ohio......One dollar treat.
Dr. and Mrs. B. C. Davies ....................Walnuts.
Robert Hewitt De\Vitt, Yreka, CaL...John Martin's book.
University Lodge No. 394.................... ..29 second hand books.
CAMP DONATIONS-COVJNA HOM!.

F. \V. Beckwith and J. P. Greely........Use of boat "Balboa" for transportation
of children.
W. V. Whitson, Santa Ana Lodge
No. 241 .................................................. Sack oranges, box apricots.
Phil Swearingen, Wilshire Lodge No.
445 ............................................................5 pounds figs.
H. R. MacLafferty .................................. 10 pounds candy.
E. V. Stewart ............................................Bathing suit.
Leonard Ruegg, Inglewood Lodge
No. 421 .................................................... Pails, shovels, and popcorn.
E. B. Trago and W. V. Whitson ........ Box peaches.
Mrs. S. G. Fahnestock............................Bathing suit.
Ralph A. Chase, Sunset No. 352 .........2 lugs peaches.
Al Malaikah Shrine ................................Over one thousand pounds of supplies
from barbecue.
Wm. Schneider ........................................ Barbecue of 20 sides of lamb, 30 steaks,
sack of rolls, relishes, etc.

CHRISTMAS CASH DONA'l'IONS-1916.

Lodge.

No.

Amt.

Abell ............................ 146........ 5.00
Alameda ...................... 167........ 5.00
Alamo .......................... 122........ 5.00
Alcatraz ..................... .244........ 10.00
Alhambra ....................322........ 20.00
Alisa! ............................ 321........ 5.00
Alpha ............................431........ 10.00
Alturas ....................... .248........ 5.00
Amador ........................ 65........ 10.00
Amity .......................... 370........ 20.00
Antioch ........................ 175........ 10.00
Apollo ..........................396........ 5.00
Arcata .......................... 106........ 20.00
Argonaut ....................461... ..... 10.00
Arlington ................... .414........ 35.00
Ashlar .......................... 306........ 5.00
Bakersfield .................. 224........ 25.00
Balder ..........................393........ 20.00
Bay View ................... .401........ 10.00
Bear Mountain .......... 76........ 5.00
Benicia ........................ 5........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 363........ 10.00
Blackmer ....................442........ 5.00
Brooklyn ...................... 225........ 10.00
Buckeye ........................ 195........ 5.00
Burlingame ................ ..400........ 10.00
Calaveras .................... 78........ 10.00
California .................... L. ..... 30.00
Carquinez ....................337........ 5.00
Charity ........................362........ 8.40
Charter Oak ............ ..410........ 10.00
Chico ............................ 111........ 10.00
Clay .............................. 101........ 5.00
Clear Lake .................. 183........ 5.00
Clovis ............................417........ 5.00
Coalinga ......................387........ 5.00
Colusa ......................... .240........ 5.00
Concord ...................... 117........ 10.00
Confidence .................. 203........ 5.00
Corona ..........................324........ 20.00
Coronado ....................441........ 5.00

Lodge.

No.

Amt.

Marin ............................ 191........ 15.00
Martinez ...................... 41... ..... 10.00
Mendocino .................. 179........ 5.00
McKinley .................... 342........ 10.00
Mill Valley ................ 356........ 25.00
Mission ........................ 169........ 25.00
Mizpah ........................378........ 20.00
Molino ........................ 150........ 5.00
Monrovia .................... 308........ 10.00
Monterey ...................... 217........ 5.00
Morning Star .............. 68........ 10.00
Mosaic .......... ,...............218........ 10.00
Mountain View ..........194........ 2.50
Mt. Diablo .................. 44........ 10.00
Mt. Jackson '................ 295........ 5.00
Mt. Moriah ................. 44........ 25.00
Natoma ........................ 64........ 7.50
Naval ............................ 87........ 5.00
Needles ........................ 326........ 5.00
Nevada ........................ 13........ 5.00
Nicolaus ...................... 129........ 5.00
Norwalk ......................315........ 5.00
Oak Grove ................. .215........ 5.00
Oakland ...................... 188........ 10.CO
Occidental .................... 22........ 10.00
Olive Brand ................ 269.'. ...... 10.00
Ontario ......,................. 301........ 7.00
Oriental ....................... .144........ 25.00
Orland ..........................265........ 5.00
Oxnard ........................341... ..... 25.00
Pacific Grove ..............331........ 5.00
Palo Alto .................... 346........ 5.00
Palos Verdes .............. 389........ 10.00
Parnassus ....................388........ 10.00
Pajaro ....... __ ................. 110........ 10.00
Paso Robles ................286........ 5.00
Pasadena ................... .272........ 10.00
Phoenix ..................... .178........ 15.00
Pinole ..........................353........ 10.00
Pittsburg .................... ..429........ 10.00
Plumas ........................ 60........ 5.00

482

Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ko.

Amt.

Corinthian .................. 9........ 10.00
Crescent ...................... 45........ 5.00
Crockett ..................... .139........ 25.00
Di11uba ........................ 385........ 5.00
Doric ........................... .216........ 25.00
Downey ........................ 220........ 5.00
Dunsmuir ....................297........ 10.00
Durant ....................... .268........ 10.00
East Belt .................... 391........ 5.CO
East Gate ....................290........ 10.00
Eden .............................. 113........ 5.00
El Centro .................... 384........ 10.00
Elysian ........................418 ........ 15.00
Eucalyptus ................. .243 ........ 25.00
Eureka .......................... 16........ 2.50
Evening Star .............. 186........ 5.00
Evergreen ................... .257........ 5.00
Excelsior ...................... 166........ 25.00
Exeter ........................ .424 ........ 10.00
Fairmount ................. .435 ........ 10.00
Fidelity ........................ 120........ 25.00
Forest .......................... 66........ 5.00
Francis Drake ............ 376........ 10.00
Franklin ...................... 143........ 10.00
Friendship ................. .210........ 10.00
Fruitvale ...................... 336........ 10.00
Galt ............................... .267........ 5.00
Golden 'Gate ................ 30......... 25.00
Gold Hill .................... 32........ 10.00
Granite ......................... .222........ 10.00
Hammonton ............... .433 ........ 15.00
Hanford ..................... .279........ 10.00
Hawaiian .................... 21... ..... 50.00
Henry Clay ............... 95........ 10.00
Henry S. Orme ........458........ 10.00
Hesperian ................... .264........ 5.00
Hermann ....................127........ 15.00
Highland Park ..........382........ 10.00
Hills Ferry ................ 236........ 9.50
Hollenbeck .................. 319........ 10.00
Hollywood ..................355 ........ 10.00
Honolulu. .................... ..409........ 20.00
Howard ........................ 96........ 5.00

Lodge.

483

GRAND LODGE OF CALII<'ORNIA

No.

Amt.

Presidio ........................ 354........ 25.00
Reading ........................254 ........ 10.00
Redondo ......................328........ 10.00
Redwood City ............ 168....... 20.00
Reedley ........................304........ 5.00
Richmond .................... 375 ........ 10.00
Rio Vista ................. .208........ 5.00
Rising Light ..............397........ 5.00
Rose's Bar .................. 89........ 5.00
Roseville ..................... .432........ 5.00
Sacramento .................. 40........ 15.00
Salinas ......................... .204........ 5.00
San Benito ................. .211........ 5.00
San Bernardino ........ 348 ........ 15.00
San Diego .................... 35 ........ 10.00
San Fernando ............ 343 ........ 10.00
San Francisco ............360........ 10.00
San Jacinto ............... 338 ........ 10.00
San Jose .... ................. 10........ 10.00
San Mateo ..................226........ 5.00
San Miguel ................ 285 ........ 10.00
San Pedro ..................332........ 5.00
San Simeon ................ 196........ 5.00
Santa Ana ....................241... ..... 10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 10.00
Santa Monica ............ 307........ 5.00
Santa Rosa .................. 57 ........ 25.00
Sequoia ........................349........ 10.00
Sierra Valley .............. 184........ 5.00
Silveyville ................... .201... ..... 10.00
Silver Gate ..................296........ 10.00
Sisson ..........................310. ...... 7.50
Snow Mountain ....... .271........ 5.00
Southern California . .278. ....... 25.00
South San Francisco..212........ 10.00
South Gate .................. 320........ 5.00
Speranza Italiana ..... .219........ 10.00
Stanislaus ................... .206 ........ 15.00
Starr King ..................344 ....... 10.00
Su.isun ........................ 55........ 2.50
Sunset .......................... 352 ........ 10.00
St. John's .................... 37........ 5.00
Tehachapi .................... 313 ........ 10.00

Ko.
Amt.
Lodge.
Humboldt .................... 79........ 15.00
Illinoistown ................ 51........ 10.00
Inyo ...................:......... .221........ 7.25
Ione .............................. 80........ 5.00
Jewel ............................ 374........ 5.00
Kennett ....................... .456........ 10.00
King David's ....... :...... 209........ 5.00
King Solomon's ......... .260........ 25.00
LaFayette ................... .126........ 5.CO
Las Palmas ................ 366........ 5.00
La Parfaite Union .... 17........ 10.00
Liberty ..........................299........ 10.00
Live Oak .................... 61... ..... 25.00
Lodi ..............................256........ 10.00
Lompoc ....................... .262........ 10.00
Long Beach ................327........ 20.00
Los Angeles ................ 42........ 10.00
Los Gatos .................... 292........ 10.00
Madera ........................ 280........ 10.00
Madison ...................... 23........ 5.00
Magnolia ..................... .242........ 10.00

Lodge.
No.
Amt.
Tehama ........................ 3........ 40.00
Temescal ...................... 314........ 10.00
Tex«s ............................ 46........ 5.00
Trinity .......................... 27........ 5.00
Truckee ..................... .260........ 5.00
Tuolumne .................... 8........ 5.00
Tuscan ......................... .261....... 5.00
Union ........................... 58 ........ 25.00
Unity ............................368........ 5.00
Upland ......................... .419 ........ 29.00
Vacaville ...................... 134........ 5.00
Vesper .......................... 84........ 5.00
Veteran ........................ 373 ........ 27.00
Visalia .......................... 128........ 10.00
West Gate .................... 335....... 10.00
Whittier ...................... 323 ........ 10.00
Woodbridge ................ 131........ 5.00
Woodland .................... 156........ 5.00
Yolo .............................. 81 ........ 1.50
Y {)Semite ................. :.... 99........ 10.00
Yount ......................... 12........ 5.00

CHAPTER, R. A. M.

Chapter.

No.

Amt.

Alameda ...................... 70........ 5.00
Antioch ........................ 65... ..... 10.00
Benicia .......................... 7........ 10.00
. Berkeley ...................... 92........ 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00
Chas. F. Crocker ........ 106........ 5.00
Coalinga ..................... .114........ 2.50
Cyrus ............................ 15........ 5.00
Delta ............................ 27........ 2.50
Dixon .......................... 48........ 10.00
Donner .......................... 39........ 5.00
Doric ............................ 66........ 5.00
East Gate .................... 103........ 5.00
Ferndale ...................... 78 ........ 10.00
Fresno .......................... 69........ 5.00
Grass Valley ................ 18........ 5.00
Hollister ...................... 68........ 5.00
Howard ........................ 14........ 10.00

Chapter.

No.

Amt.

Kern Valley ............... 75 ........ 10.00
La Purissima ............. .104........ 10.00
Long Beach ................ 84........ 5.00
Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Mill Valley .................. 108........ 10.00
Modesto ........................ 49........ 10.00
Napa .............................. 30........ 5.00
Naval .......................... 35 ........ 10.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Oakland ...................... 36........ 5.00
Palo Alto ...................... 93........ 5.00
Petaluma ...................... 22........ 5.00
Sacramento ... .............. 3........ 50.00
Salinas .......................... 59........ 5.00
San Luis ...................... 62......... 5.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
Sebastopol ................... .117........ 5.00
Shasta .......................... 9........ 10.00

484
Chapter

No.
Amt.
Siloam .......................... 37 ........ 10.00
Sonoma --··-----·----··-------- 2 ·------ S.00
Temple ---·-----------·---.. --- 4L_ _____ 10.00
Tulare ______________________ ,, __ 7L _____ 10.00
Unity -----·--·------···--------.! 16_.______

485

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

o. E. s.

Chapter

No.
Amt.
Vacaville ----·--·-··--·-····-. 8L ..... 10.00
Visalia .... ·---·-·----·---------- 44________ 10.00
Washington -------------··- 13 ........ 10.00
Woodland .................... 46........ S.00

S.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Amapola ---·-----·-----------.119 ........$23.3S
Golden Rod ---·-----·-----.22L ..... 10.00
Los Gatos __ ,, ___________ ,____ 126........ 10.00
Mill Valley ................. .219........ lS.00
San Jose -----·--.. ·----·--·-·- 3L ..... 2S.OO

Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Rafael ................. .21S ........$10.00
Santa Clara ................ 19S ........ 2S.OO
West Gate .................. 290........ I 0.00
Wheatland ________ .......... 48 ........ IO.OD

COUNCIL, R. & S. M.
Council.

No.

Amt.

California ---·-·---·--·--·---- 2 ........$10.00
Gateway ---------------··---·- 13........ 2.SO
Los Angeles ---------··-.. -- 1 L______ 10.00

Council.

No.

Amt.

Sacramento -------·-------- L ......$10.00
San Jose ---·----.. -----·------ 20........ 5.00
Siskiyou --·----·-.. ·-·------·- 24........ S.00

COMMANDERY, K. T.
Commandery.

No.

Amt.

Auburn -------------·-------··- S2........$ 2.SO
Bakersfield ---·----------.. -· 39 ________ 10.00
Berkeley ---------------·----·- 42........ 10.00
California ---·-----·-----·---- L_ _____ 2S.OO
Eureka ---·-------------·-------- 3S________ 10.00
Fresno -----·--·----·-----·------ 29 ........ 10.00
Glendale ---·-----------·------ SL.____ S.00
Golden Gate --------.. ------ 16........ 2S.OO
Golden West ---·---------- 43 ________ 2S.OO
Lassen --------------.. ·----·---- 13________ S.00
Los Angeles --.. ---------- 9........ S0.00
Mount Olivet __ ,, _____ ,____ 20________ S.00
Napa ---------------------·------ 34._______ S.00
Nav;il -----.. ··------·----.. ··---- 19........ 10.00

Commandery.

No.

Amt.

Nevada -·-----------.. ·--·----- 6 ........$ S.00
Oakland ---·-·----·--------·-- 1 L_ ____ , S.00
Pacific ---·------------------.. -- 3........ S.00
Palo Alto __ ,, ________________ 47________ S.00
Pasadena ....... --·-------·-- 3L ..... 14.70
Redding ---.. ··---·-----.. ·----- SO. _______ lS.00
Riverside ---------·---·-·---- 28. ....... 10.00
Sacramento ---·---·-·---·-- 2 ________ S0.00
San Jose ---·----·--·---------- 10._______ S.00
San Luis Obispo ________ S3........ S.00
Santa Cruz -·-·----·--------- 44________ S.00
Santa Rosa ------·-·------·-- 14........ 14.30
Watsonville -·-·---- -----.. 22 ........ 10.00

A. A. 0. N. M. S.

Islam Temple ........................$100.00
LODGE OF PERFECTION, A. & A. S. R.
Lodge.

No.

Amt.

Fresno -------------·----.. ··---- 6........$ S.00
California ---------·--·------- lQ. _______ 2S.OO
Isaac Davis ---------------· 4 ________ 10.00
Oakland ---------·---------.. - 2_. ______ lS.00

Lodge.

No.

Amt.

San Jose ................... ___ 13... .....$ S.00
San Francisco ---------·-- 1._ _____ , 25.00
Santa Rosa ..... -------·----- 1 L..... 10.00

INDIVIDUALS.
Baker, Thos. J·--------··---- .. ·--·----$10.00
Bush, ]. H.---·-----------·-----·---···---.SO
Cornish, H. L----·---·------·----------- S.00
Dunning, L. H. ............... __________
.SO
Frey, M. L................................. 1.00
Hart, Edward H·-·-------·---·-·---· lS.00
Heywood, Wm. A................... S.00
Hamburger, ]. G..................... S.00

Hutchins, James ...................... $ 1.00
Jackson, Grant --.. ·--·-··---····-·--·- S.00
Kitchen, E. W.-----------------·-·--··
.SO
Mardough, ]. C.·--·---·-·------··---· S0.00
Manwell. Wm. ---------------·-------·
.SO
Merrill, B. E ....... ·-···---·-·------·---·
.SO
Perkins, Fred C....................... 1.00

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME-Men 97, Women SS.
The following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto
Home, the dates of their admission, their respective ages, the names
and number of the Lodge nominating them, and the location of such
Lodges:
MEN, 97.
NAME.

ADMITTED.

Anderson, C. A .............'..Feb. 9, '09
Bell, Bradford ________________ Dec. S, '15
Bemis, Ernest H, ____________ Mar. 19, '16
Bieler, Nicholas ---·----------Aug. 2S, '17
Branthaven, D. ---------------.Jan. 18, '04
Bradbury, Wm. W ......... Oct. 29, '14
Bartholemew, ]. S. __________ June lS, '13
Broadwell, Melvin L ....... Dec 7, 'lS
Brown, James M. ____________ Mar. 22, '17
Bullier, Leon --------------------July 2, '12
Burner, Henry ----------------Jan. 10, '16
Chamblin, M. R. __ ,___________ Sept. 28, '10
Chapman, J. A ................. Oct. 6, '11

LODGE.

NO.

Mt. Moriah ---------·-- 44
Mt. Jackson ---·---·-.29S
Hollenbeck ---·-----·--319
Jefferson ---------·-----· 97
Durant ---·---------------.268
St. Helena ---·---·------ 93
Mt. Jackson -------·-.29S
Oakland ------------------188
Santa Lucia ---·--------302
Texas ··-------·------------ 46
Occidental ·--·---·-·---- 22
Hartley ................... .199
Concord ---·-----·-·------117

LOCATION.

AGE.

San Francisco.69
Guerneville .... 7S
Los Angeles .. 66
La Porte ________ 76
Berkeley ---·---·-.87
St. Helena ______ 73
Guerneville ....69
Oakland ---·---·--6S
King City ...... 79
San Juan .........88
San Francisco.70
Lakeport ........89
Sacramento .... 67

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

486
NAM!\.

ADM!TTJ\D.

LODGI\.

487

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NO.

LOCATION.

AG!\.

Cogswell, James L ......... May 19, 'lS California .............. 1 San Francisco.SS
Davidson, Frank M ....... Dec. 1, 'lS Porterville ..............303 Porterville ...... 68
Davis, Charles H ............. Dec. 12, 'lS Naval ...................... S7 Vallejo ............ 6S
Davis, John M .................July 26, '17 Keith ..................... .1S7 Gilroy ............ 68
Dennis, John S ............... Aug. 19, '16 San Jose ................ 10 San Jose ........SI
Dennis, William ............ Feb. 28, '11 Sierra Valley ........ 1S4 Sierraville ...... SS
Diithmann, G. H ............. Aug..... , '17 Hiram ...................... 43 El Dorado .....S4
Dolt, Alexander ............ May lS, '99 Rising Star ............ S3 Forest Hill ...... 72
Dunham, Murray .......... Dec. 11, 'lS Plumas .................... 60 Quincy ............S7
Franck, Isadore .............. Jan. 10, '16 La Parfait Union .. 17 San Francisco.70
French, John A. .............. June S, '07 Western Star ........ 2 Shasta ............. .83
Fink, Conrad .................. Aug. 23, '12 Hermann ................ 127 San Francisco.79
Gates, Dawson D ............. Feb. S, '14 Eden ....................... .113 San Leandro ..64
Gregory, Anwyl ..............Jan. 31, '16 Mizpah ....................37S Los Angeles .. 70
Guisto, John .................... Aug ..... , '17 Amador .................. 6S Jack son ..........S3
Hamilton, John ................ Feb. 6, 'lS Humboldt .............. 79 Eureka ............ 69
Hardage, James M ......... Mar. 13, '17 Sunset ......................3S2 Los Angeles .. 71
Hawkins, Edward K. ...... July 1, '17 Occidental .............. 22 San Francisco.SI
Heath, George B ............. Aug. 19, '16 Brooklyn ............... .22S Oakland .......... 59
Hill, Maxwell G...............June 30, '16 Forbestown ............ SO Forbestown ....80
Hodge, Edward T ........... Feb. 20, 'lS South Gate ............ 320 Los Angeles .... 73
Jeffers, S. ........................Jan. S, '10 Eden ........................ 113 San Leandro .. 79
Johns, Josiah .................. April lS, '12 East Belt ................ 391 Tuolumne ...... 64
Johnson, David ................ Aug. 29, '13 Santa Monica ........ 307 Santa Monica ..85
Jones, Samuel A ............. April 2, '16 Mission .................... 169 San Francisco.71
Keene, James .................. Sept. 4, '10 Mendocino .......... ,.179 Mendocino ...... 80
Keller, Willis A ............... N ov. 11, 'lS Mendocino ........... .179 Mendocino ...... 67
Kelly, Charles M ............. Nov. 21, '16 Live Oak ................ 61 Oakland ..........SS
Kennedy, Duncan ..........June 19, '17 Redlands ................ 300 Redlands ........ 70
Kerr, Earl ........................ Sept. 11, 'C9 Pacific ...................... 136 San Francisco.SO
Knickerbocker, Niles ....June S, 'lS Pentalpha ................202 Los Angeles .... 76
Knight, Lewis W ........... April 2, '14 Evergreen ............. .259 Riverside ........6S
LaBonte, Francis X ....... Nov. 2, '14 Reading ................. .254 Redding .......... 70
Lewty, David .................. June 27, '16 Guadalupe .............. 237 Guadalupe ...... 75
Lindsey, Orville A. ........ Aug. 30, '13 Rio Vista ............... .208 Rio Vista ........ 79
Lippoldt, H. A ................ Jan. 20, '07 Northern Light ... .190 Millville .......... 87
Lippman, George ............ Nov. 2, '13 Pacific ..................... .136 San Francisco.73
Mayer, Joseph ............... .]an. 10, '10 Mokelumne Hill ..298 Mokl'ne Hill....88
Magee, David B ............. April 19, '11 Doric ....................... .216 San Francisco.76
Mehrtens, Richard ........ Nov. 12, '13 Crockett .................. 139 San Francisco.72
Mallory, Charles P ......... Aug. 31, '14 Orange Grove ..... .293 Orange .......... 73
Maniece, John ............... .June 17, 'lS San Diego .............. 3S San Diego ...... 81
Mitchell, Charles E ......... N ov. 20, 'lS Los Angeles .......... 42 Los Angeles .... 75

NAM!\.

ADMITTED.

Meyer, Wm. D ................. Aug. 31, '12
Morgan, Josiah W ........... Aug. 11, '14
McElroy, Joseph T ....... Aug. 25, '17
McEwen, John H ........... Aug. 21, '13
Ogden, B. F ..................... April 19, '05
Olson, Ole ...................... Mar. 22, '16
Ong, Jackson W ........... May 12, 'lS
Payne, Edwin H ............. Mar. 23, '14
Parini, Daniel .................. Feb. 10, '14
Potting, Henry F ........... May 2, '11
Preston, J. N ................... May 22, '12
Potts, Archibald R ......... Feb. 21, '14
Quinn, Michael .............. Nov. 5, 'lS
Robertson, Wm. B ......... July 25, '14
Redican, B ....................... Mar. 1, 'OS
Rumbo!, R. F ...................Jan. 30, 'OS
Redmond, Samuel .......... Aug. 21, '10
Rosengarn, John H. ........ Dec. lS, '16
Ross, Elias E ................... Nov. 12, '14
Rowley, Albanus B ......... Oct. 19, '14
Rossow, Ernest F ........... Mar. 19, '16
Spencer, T. C ................... Aug. 25, '12
Smith, Eli M ................... Nov. 25, '00
Schneider, Edward W ... Sept. 13, '08
Scull, Charles ........... :.... Sept. 11, '09
Stafford, R,~\ph L,.,m·····Feb. 17, '14
Schwartz, Jacob P.: ....... May 4, '16
Silver, Mark B ................. June 20, '16
Speidel, Adolph F ........... May 19, '16
Stickney, David ............ June 15, '16
Surface, John P ............... Aug. 19, '16
Tupper, John H ............... Feb. 14, '09
Treat, James M ............... Nov. 2, '15
Van Howe, Charles G... Aug. 19, '16
Whipple, Wm. M ............. Mar. 6, '09
Walton, Oscar M ............. Nov. 2, '05
Weil, Aaron ....................July 26, '17
Winkler, Theophilus ......Jan. 24, '16
Woodruff, Andrew F ..... Aug. 19, '16
Yates, Enoch .................... Feb. 14, '17
Zimmermann, W, T, ...... Feb. 2, '10

LODGI\.

NO.

LOCATION.

AG!\.

Mountain View .... 194 Mountain Vw.56
Phoenix ................... 178 S. Bernardino.SS
Golden Gate .......... 30 San Francisco.57
Pajaro ...................... 110 Watsonville .... 72
Mission .................. 169 San Francisco.7S
Solano ................... .229 Vallejo .......... 62
Hornitos ................ 9S Hornitos ......... ~S7
Whittier .................. 323 Whittier ........ 79
Nevada .................... 13 Nevada City .... 79
So. San Francisco .. 212 San Francisco.69
South Gate ............ 320 Los Angeles ....SS
East Gate .............. 290 Los Angeles .... 77
Nevada .................... 13 Nevada City....88
Yount ...................... 12.... Napa ................ 68
Los Angeles .......... 42 Los Angeles .... 93
Redwood City ..... .168 Redwood City.S7
Truckee ..................200 Truckee .......... 73
Occidental .............. 22 San Francisco.74
Ophir ...................... 33 Murphy's ........ 70
San Jose .................. 10 San Jose ........SS
Naval ...................... S7 Vallejo ............ 63
Chico ..................... .111 Chico ................69
Concord ................. .117 Sacramento ....87
Oriental ................. 144 San Francisco.73
Excelsior ............... .166 San Francisco]O
Granite ................... .222 Rocklin ............ 69
Welcome ............... .255 Lemoore ..........64
King Solomon's ... .260 San Francisco.72
Hermann ., ............. .127 San Francisco.70
Oroville .................. 103 Oroville .......... 64
Ione ........................ 80 Ione ..................80
Petaluma ................ 180 Petaluma ........ 77
Hesperi~m ............. .264 Santa Maria .. 64
Monterey ................217 Monterey ........ 56
Brentwood .............. 245 Brentwood ......S4
Enterprise .............. 70 Yuba City ...... 82
Hiram ...................... 43 El Dorado ......S4
Charter Oak ......... .410 Berkeley ........ 69
Emmanuel .............. 31S Biggs ..............S4
San Diego .............. 35 San Diego ...... 71
Abell ............ ,........... 14<i Ukiah .......... ,... 77

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
WOMEN, 55.
NAME.

ADMITTED.

Ames, Minnie P ........... Oct. 21, '13
Baxter, M. F ..................... April 16, '02
Blair, Penelope M.W.B .. June 19, '17
Briggs, Mary J. .............. April 24, '07
Barclay, Cornelia B......... May 6, '16
Bell, Lucy .......................... Dec. 5, 'JS
Davis, Eliza A ............... July 26, '17
Donaldson, A. R:. ............ Mar. 10, '14
Dyer, Sarah ...................... July 17, '00
Davis, Grace G............... July 25, '16
Dennis, Lydia .................. Aug. 19, '16
Elder, M. J. .................... Jan. 8, '08
L!liott, A. :VI. .................. May 1, '04
Field, Bessie M ................. May 25, '13
7, '06
Fountain, H.
Fuller, C. T ..................... Feb. 9, '08
Grant, Permelia .............. Feb. 2, '11
Reith, Catherine ............ Oct. 16, '10
Hogan, Minnie G......... Nov. 22, '16
House: . .-.manda
13, '08
Hunter, Mary R. S ......... Feb. 8, '17
J ohauningsmier, Amelia April 28, '17
Johnson, M ..................... Mar. 6, '03
Julian, B. M .....................Jan. 7, '00
Kt1ight, Anna R. ............ April 2, '14
Kane, Eliza J ...................June 30, '16
Keller, Maude E............. Oct. 18, '15
Lawrence, Lucy P ......... Nov. 21, '17
McKinnon, M. A ........... Dec. 31, '14
M.allory, Anna
31, '14
Mueller, Elizabeth .......... Aug. 13, '14
).foore, Emily N ............. May 7, '12
Mast, Frances C........... Aug. 31, '13
Nash, M. A. ....................June 11, '01
Potting, Nellie E ............. May 2, '11
Proll, Anna R. G........... Feb. 5, '15
Ramsden, •VJ.aria L ......... Dec. 8, '16
Redican, M. A ................. Mar. l, '05
Reaves, Mary M ............. June 8, '13
Rossi, Josephine ............ Oct. 20, '14
Richards, Lillian
19, '16
Richardson, Julia A ......... Mar. 26, '16

LODGE.

NAME.
NO.

Oak Grove ............. 215
Santa Rosa ............ 57
Oakland .................. 188
Long Beach ........... 327
Union ...................... 58
Mt. Jackson ..........295
Keith ...................... 187
Vacaville ................ 134
Oriental ................. .144
Naval ..................... 87
San Jose ................ 10
Pacific ...................... 136
Occidental .............. 22
Hesperian .............. 264
Evergreen ..............259
Michigan City ...... 47
Antioch .................. 175
Fresno .................... 47
Palmyra .................. 26
Georgetown .......... 25
Russian River ...... 181
Frmtvale ...............336
Summit .................. 112
Madison ............... 23
Evergreen ............. .259
Mission .................. 169
Tehama .................. 3
Board of Relief ........ ..
Morning Star ........ 68
Orange Grove ..... 293
Benicia .................. 5
:\fadison .................. 23
Yosemite ................ 133
Palmyria ................ 26
So. San Francisco.. 212
King Solomon's ... .260
:\fission .................... 169
Los Angeles .......... 42
Bear Mountain .... 76
Alhambra ................ 322
McKinley ..........,. .... 247
Live Oak ................ 61

LOCATION.

ACE.

Alameda ..........60
Santa Rosa ......80
Oakland .......... 79
Long Beach ....81
Sacramento ....77
Guerneville ....69
Gilroy ............ .71
Vacaville ........85
San Francisco.79
Vallejo ............63
San Jose ........73.
San Francisco.BS
San Francisco.76
Santa Clara ....84
Riverside ........85
Michigan City-.72
Antioch ......... .77
Fresno ............ 71
Placerville ......60
Georgetown ... .79
Windsor .......... 56
Oakland .......... 72
Knight's F'y .. 67
Grass Vallcy ..44
Riverside ........69
San Francisco.77
Sacramento ... .47
San Francisco,55
Stockton ........69
Orange ............63
Benicia ............75
Grass Vallcy....85
Coulterville .... 72
Placerville .... .. 79
San Franciseo.73
San Francisco.60
San Francisco.67
Los Angeles ....86
Angels Camp ..81
Alhambra .......57
Richmond ......57
Oakland ..........67

ADMITTED.

Seeley, Nancy C.
... Sept. 3, '10
Smith, Annie T ............. May 12, 'IS
Smith, Elizabeth ............ Aug. 28, '13
Sawyer, Ella B ............... Aug. 30, '13
Sly, Ellen S ................ Nov. 5, '13
Smalley, Emily A .........June 22, '14
Surface, Emma .............. Aug. 19, '16
Thomas, F. W ................. Jan. 4, '04
Taylor, Mary J. ............Mar. 15, '16
Weil. Esther .................... July 26, '17
Wentworth, L ................. Feh. 16, '00
Wooley, Jane .................. Dec. 29, '03
Wright, Sarah G............. Sept. 13, '14

LODGE.

489
NO,

Manzanita .............. 102
California .............. 1
Friendship ............. .210
Natoma .................. 64
Silver Gate ............296
Santa Ana .............. 241
Ione ........................ 80
Abell ........................ 146
Masonic Bd. of Relief
Hiram ...................... 43
Hawaiian ................ 21
Alcatraz ................. .244
Eden ........................ 113

LOCATION.

DIED DL"RINC YEAR-23.

NAME.

DATE.

Bowes, William E ...................... July 9, '17
Bryan, Stephen D ........................... July 15, '17
Bradley, John H. .......................... Nov. 21, '16
Castellaw, Thomas. L. ................ June 13, '17
Cramer, George F......................... Jan. 7, '17
Dunlap, Rebecca E ....................... Jan. 26, '17
Edwards, Edward R. ]. ................ April 1, '17
Frasier, Ji1ihn .................................. Jan. 9, '17
Fielder, John L ............................. Feb. I, '17
Jensen, Niels P ............................. Dec. 23. '16
Meyers, Oliver H ......................... Kov. 29, '16
Pierce, Nelson .............................. Feb. 13, '17
Robinson, Isabelle ........................ Feb. 2, '17
Redington, James ........................ May 3, '17
Stricker, Henry ............................ Feb. 6, '17
Stanton, Andrew P ..................... May 11, '17
Tack, Nicolas .................................. June 23, '17
Tonkins, John L........................... May 23, '17
Trumbull, Marie J. ...................... Feb. 12, '17
White, Ambrose :Vi. .................... Aug. 27, '17
Wells, Mary .................................... Mar. 9, '17
Wooley, Eliphat B ....................... Mar. 9, '17
Young, Sarah A........................... Feb. 13, '17

AGE.

N. San Juan ....81
San Francisco.76
Sanjose ..........74
Folsom ............67
San Diego ...... 72
Santa Ana ...... 74
Ione ................65
Ukiah ..............89
Oakland .......... 76
El Dorado ...... 72
Honolulu ........ 72
Oakland ..........83
San Leandro ..79

DURJRD A'!'

Dccoto.
Deco to.
Decoto.
Deco to.
Santa Clara.
Oakland.
Decoto..
Decoto.
Deco to.
San Mateo Co.
Decoto.
Decoto.
Decoto.
San Francic:co.
Decato.
Deco to.
Crescent City.
Decoto.
Oakland.
Decoto.
San Francisco.
Decoto.
Petaluma.

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

491

RESIDENTS AT COVINA HOME.

Following is a complete list of the children living at the Covina
Home, the dates of admission, their respective ages, the names and
numbers of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such
Lodges:
GIRLS,
NAME.

ADMITTED.

29.

LODGE.

Basenach, Clarice M..... May 23, '16
Borland, Jessie G........... May 21, '15
Brown, Margaret ............ Jan. 30, '10
Buletti, Margherita ........ Nov. 10, '07
Conley, Louise ............... Sov. 16, '16
Ferguson, Blanche B .....June 16, '16
Ferguson, Esther M ....... June 16, '16
Fisher, Alice E ............... Mar. 8, '14
Fisher, Ruth H ............... Mar. 8, '14
Fisher, Muriel ................ Mar. 8, '14
Fischer, Doris C........... Oct. 14, '16
Herrington, Mercedes E.Aug. 11, '17
Herrington,GuinevereR.Aug. 11, '17
Herrington, Lolita E.......Aug. _ll,'17
Mooneyham Myrtle M... Jan. 29, '16
Neustadt, Henrietta ...... June 20, '14
Pascoe, Aline A ............... Sept. 6, '17
Pascoe, Edna .................. Sept. 6, '17
Pritchard, Ruth E ... -...... June 14, '15
Raftery, Bernice ............ May 11, '13
Riley, Effie A. M ............. April 11, '11
R'iley, Rebecca ................ April 11, '11
Rice, Edith W ................... Nov. 10, '16
Stevens, Irene ................Feb. 25, '10
Villalobos, Evelyn F. R.Oct. 4, '16
Virgo, Alice M ............... Dec. 5, '13
Virgo, Winifred ........ -.. Dec. 5, '13
Virgo, Sadie V ............ _.. Dec. 5, '13
Yaeger, Isabelle ............ Aug. 30, '16

NO.

La Parfaite Union 17
Richmond .............. 375
Wilmington ..........198
Speranza-Italiana .. 219
Hollenbeck ............319
Humboldt .............. 79
Humboldt ............. 79
Presidio .................. 354
Presidio ..................354
Presidio ..................354
Masonic Bd. Relief....
San Francisco ...... 360
San Francisco ...... 360
San Francisco ...... 360
Upland ................... .419
Sunset .................... 352
Amador .................. 65
Amador .............. --.. 65
Phoenix .................-178
Mizpah .................... 378
Martinez .. -............. 41
Martinez ................ 41
Golden Gate .......... 30
Agreement Bd. Trust
Mizpah .- ................. 378
Mizpah ............... _....378
Mizpah ... -............... 378
Mizpah ....................378
Inglewood ............ ..421

LOCATIOX.

AGE.

San Francisco. 8
San Francisco. 9
Wilmington ..14
San Francisco.18
Los Angeles .... 5
Eureka ............ 14
Eureka ............ 12
San Francisco.IS
San Francisco.13
San Francisco. 7
San Francisco. 9
San Francisco.14
San Francisco.11
San Francisco. 9
Upland ........... .16
Los Angeles .... 14
Jackson ............13
Jackson ....--....-.10
S. Bernardino.. 15
Los Angeles .... 9
Martinez ........ 13
Martinez ........ 10
San Francisco. 6
........................... .15
Los Angeles.... 'j
Los Angeles._ .. l!
Los Angeles ... .
Los Angeles.... 9
Inglewood ...... 15

EOYS, 28.

Basenach, Harry L ....... May 23, '16
Borland, Robert M ....... ~fay 21, '13
Borland, John C............. May 21, '13
Brown, Edmund E .........June 15, '15

La Parfaite Union 17
R'ichmond ..............375
Richmond .............. 375
Pentalpha ..............202

San Francisco.12
San Francisco.13
San Francisco.12
Los Angeles.... 13

:\AME.

ADMIT'fED.

LODGE.

NO.

Brown, Herbert E ........ _June 15, '15

LOCATION.

AGE.

Pentalpha ............. 202
Cadwell, George H ....... Oct. 20, '13 Masonic Bd. Relief.... Los Angeles ... .11
Fisher, William D ....... April 10, '15 Presidio ..... -.......... 354 San Francisco.11
Fisher, John E ............... Mar. 8,,'14 Presidio ............. ... 354 San Francisco.11
Fisher, Harrison ............ Mar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 S:in Francisco.JO
Fischer, Douglas E ......... Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. RelieL. San Francisco. 8
Fischer, Eugene A. ........ Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. RelieL. San Francisco. 5
Howard, Homer E....... Feb. 17, '13 Oriental .................. 144 San Francisco. 6
San Francisco. 9
H.yncr, Lewis .. :.............. .June 14, '12
Volcano ...... ·---........ 56
Mooneyham, \Villiam O.Jan. 29, '16 Upland ............. --.... .419 Volcano ......... .13
.\lcDowell, John C......... Sept. 27, '16 :\ft. Jackson .......... 295 U pl.and ....... _.! o
Guerneville .. _.14
Ncustadt. Lawrence ...... June 20, '14
Sunset ................... 352
Parke, Stanley E ........... Feb. 28, '16 Sequoia ....... _.......... 349 Los Angeles .... 12
Pascoe, Richard ............ Sept. 6, '17 Amador ............. -.... 65 Oakland ......... 10
J:ickson .......... 7
Quintoll, Albert .............. Dec. 18, '09
Mission ··- ............ .169
Ramsden, Thomas ........ Nov. 16, '16 Mission ........ -..... ___ J 69 San Francisco.12
Raftery, Earl A ..... _....... April 11, '1.3 Mizpah .................... 378 San Francisco.13
Robert, Albert L ........... Aug. 11, '13 Volcano ................. 56 Los Angeles ... .11
Riley, Jahiel T ............... April 11, '11 Martine·~ -.. -............ 41 Volcano -........ .15
Rice, James Peter ......... .July 2, '15 Golden Gate ........ ,_ 30 Martinez ....... .16
Schwartz, Emil P. ··---..... June 29, '17 West Gate ......... _._ ..335 San Francisco. 9
Los Angeles .... 8
Schwartz, Sidney .. _.......June 29, '17
West Gate ...... -.......335
Smith, Robert ···-·-.......... Nov. 7, '15 University ... -.......... 394 Los Angeles._ .. 6
Los Angeles .... 4
\\',•he, Victor ··-----........... Aug. 28, '13
Amity .............. _... :... 370 San Francisco. l l

DEPARTt;Rl\S DURING THE YEAR

James Wingate ................ Sept. 12, '16
John B. Westfall ............ Sept. 12, '16
Edith Hyner .............. ___ ... Sept. 12, '16
Lester Howard .... -......... Sept. 16, '16
Emily Robert .................. Sept. 22, '16
23, '16
Tsmena French
Harvey Gill
30, '16
DOl1ald Wingate ............ Nov. 17, '16
Myron Lakey --.......... :.... Dec. 4, '16
May Ramsay _................... Dec. 30, '16
Lawrence M. Tate ··---...June 25, '17
Emroy Evers ........ ____ ...... July 7, '17
Lysle Tilston ............... _.. Aug. 6, '17
Ferdinand French .. -... -... Aug. 24, '17

1917.

Employed in business house.
Mother remarried.
With friends in East
At work in Fresno.
\Vith mother.
To live with mother.
Pl;iced in another Home.
Lives with mother.
Employed in business.
Lives with grandmother.
Gene on ranch.
Work in machine shop.
Employed in business house.
Employed in machine shop.

GRAND LODGE OF CALII ORNIA

493

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

492

RECEJVEJJ AND D!SMJSSED DURJNG YEAR.
AD)<flTTED.

2. '16
Ethel Donovan
2,
'16
Ulmer Warren
Daphne Whittingham ............................ Nov. 27, '16
Phyllis Whittingham .............................. Nov. 27, :16
Lorna \Vhittingham ................................ Nov. 27, '16
Martin Whittingham .............................. Nov. 27, '16
Gwendolvn Whittingham ...................... Nov. 27, '16
· 1mm .................................Nov · 27, '16
Joyce W·h.1ttmg
David Whittingham ................................ Nov. 27, '16
Stanlev E. Parke ......................................July 14, '16
Marie.Ferguson ........................................June 16. '16

Rio Vista

DEPARTED.

Aug. 2, '16
Sept. 12, '16
Dec. 31, '16
Dec. 31, '16
Dec. 31. '16
Dec. 31, '16
Dec. 31, '16
Dec. 31, '16
Dec. 31. '16
Mar. 8, '17
Aug. 23, '16

No. 208, presented the following:

To the lvlost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Rio Vista Lodge respectfully represents that 011 the night of July 3~,
our hall, paraphernalia, charter and records were all destroyed by. fire,
and that it leaves the Lodg<' and its members in a hard way fmanc1ally.
The Lodge prays that in view of this unfortunate cir:umst:rnce and also
that all obligations ·to Grand Lodge have been paid, that the Grand
Lodge refund the dues of Rio Vista Lodge No, 208, F. & A. lVL, for

Sec. 217. Upon the report of said Committee, if one-third of the
votes shall be in favor of such proposed amendment, it shall be passed
to print, and Hie Grand Secretary shall within thirty (30) days after
the close of such communication of the Grand Lodge, transmit a copy
of such proposed amendment to each Lodge of this Grand Jurisdiction.
Sec. 218. Such proposed amendment shall be read to the Lodge
by the Secretary thereof at the next stated meeting of the Lodge after
receipt, and a vote thereon shall be taken by the Lodge not later than
its stated meeting for the month of July following, a majority vote
determining the approval or disapproval of such proposed amendment
of the Lodge. The Secretary of the Lodge shall make return to the
Grand Secretary at the time of making the annual returns of the Lodge.
If two-thirds of the Lodges shall approve the adoption of such proposed amendment, the Grand Master shall proclaim such amendment
adopted and it shall become a part of this Constitution on the thirtieth
(30th) day after the date of such proclamation.
Sec. 219. No vote upon a proposed amendment shall be taken
after the election of the Grand officers, but a proposed amendment may
be presented, which shall lie over until the next annual communication
of the Grand Lodge.
Sec. 220. All provisions of the Constitution of this Grand Lodge
and all Regulations, or parts thereof, which are repugnant to or inconsistent with this Constitution are hereby repealed, and no Regulation
shall hereafter he adopted which shall be in violation of, or inconsistent
with, any of its provisions.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

1917.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
t()

Brother George W. Madeley, }\faster of Eucalyptus
Lodge, No. 243, introduced the following proposed amendment to the Constitution:
Resolved, That Article I, Part VII of the Constitution be amended
to read as follows :
Sec. 216. Any proposed amendment to this Constitution shall be
presen ted at an .An nual Communication., and shall in all cases be .referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence who, at the same session,
shall report to the Grand Lodge before a vote thereon is taken.

Brother J. E. Hughes proposed the following addition
the Constitution:

Resolved, That a new subdivision of Section 50 of the Constitution be inserted therein and become a part thereof, to read as follows:
18th: To standardize all forms used by subordinate Lodges. keep
on hand a supply of same. and furnish same to the Lodges at cost.

The Committee on Jurisprudence, to which the ahove
was referred, reported thereon as follows:
We deem the adoption of this proposed amendment to be advisable,
and recommend its adoption.

The report was adopted and section 50 of the Constitution was unanimously amended by adding Subdivision 18.

-i94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE 0:\ GRAND
LECTURER'S REPORT.
Brother Fred 'vV. ;\Tish, for the Committee to which had
been referred the report of the Grand Lecturer, presented
the following:
To the Most Wotshipful Grand Lodge of California:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In conclusiorl, we desire to commend the report of the Grand
Lecturer for the ahle manner in which he has presented the condition
of the LDdges in the jurisdiction, and have to compliment him upon
the high standard of efficiency in the ritualistic work of, the craft
thrpughout the jurisdiction, due in a larg-e measure to his indefatigable
energy.
Respectfully submitted,

FRitD<:RrCK W. NrsH,
THOMAS INGRAHAM,

J. W. DAvr:r:s.

your Committee to whom was referred the annual report of the
V. \V. Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, has had the same under co\1sideration, and begs leave to report as follows:

The report and indorsement were adopted.

The report, which details the very satisfactory condition of Lodges
throughout the State, under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lecturer,
shows most emphatically the wonderful ability with which the Grand
Lecturer performs his ever increasing duties.

REPORT OF co.:vnnTTEE ON MASOI\'TC
EDUCATION.

\Ve highly indorse the suggestion of the Grand Lecturer that the
Grand Lodge take immediate action to enable the Lodges to carry out
the card system to check the standing of visitors. As it is now, a
brother can produce his recei:pt, be examined, and he can visit the
Lodge for years without ever being asked again to sho.w his receipt.
By adopting the card system, if he is not in go~d stan~mg the Secretary of his Lodge would inform the Lodge of his standmg.
We also note with great pride the interest the Grand Lecturer is
taking in our officers and members wh-0 have been called to the colors,
and without a doubt those that have been promoted can thank the
Grand Lecturer, who no doubt laid the foundation for their success by
his instruction in the ritual, covering the ground of exactness and
punctuality.
\Ve agree with the Grand Lecturer that it is unfortunate there arc
Lodges in communities throughout the State that are having a hard
time to exist, owing to these places being thinly populated and the
members widely scattered; but your Committee is satisfied that under
the guidance of the Grand Lecturer, if there is anything possible to be
<lone, he will attend to it.
It is especialiy gratifying to note that new Temples are being
erected (even with the world at war), as it shows that Masonry is
still progressing operatively as well as speculatively, and it is a pleasure
to know that many of our Lodges are desirous of owning their own
homes.

495

Brother Irving J. ~1itchell, chairman of the Committee
on }f asonic Education, reported as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on sfasonic Education, appointed last year, beg
leave to report as follows :
During the past twelve months we have given the subject referred
to us very earnest and careful attention.
\Ve have endeavored to awaken the active interest of the ablest
thinkers and scholars of the Craft. We have tried to gain their cooperation in the development of this splendid and much needed work.
We have voiced the needs of a deeper understanding of why we arc
here, and have met with enthusiastic response wherever we have gone.
We find a growing conviction that is nation-wide that the rank and file
of our membership lack a proper appreciation of the meaning underlying
the teaching of our Institution.
This is not a cause for despondency or despair, for side by side
with this feeling there is a growing desire to supply this lack in every
possible way.
We believe that in our work we should depend less on formalism
and more on enlightenment. We owe more to the candidates who
knock at our doors than we sometimes give them after they have
entered the portals. Mere ritualism will not suffice; it is appealing so

496

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCF;EmINGS 'OF THE

far as it goes, but it does not go far enough; not every man is prepared to grasp its hidden meaning without adequate instruction. To
that end we bave prepared lectures on the Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft, and Master Mason degrees to be presented to candidates after
receiving each of the several degrees. These lectures have been submitted to the Most Worshipful Grand Master for his approval. If
found satisfactory by him, the lectures will be printed and will soon he
in circulation among the Lodges of this grand jurisdiction.
1

While these lectures have entailed a considerable degree of labor,
we are quite conscious of the fact that, of ·themselves, without the
earnest co-operation of the brethren, they must fall short of accomplishing the purpose that inspired the appointment of this Committee.

It is personality more than ideas that is the dominant factor of
human progress and development. And so we ask the members of the
fraternity to supplement our effort by commending these lectures and
furthering their uses for the purposes for which they ·are intended.
If the Masters and other officers of our Masonic Lodges will faithfully try the plan that is hereby presented. we are satisfied the results
will amply justify om expectation and we shall know better the virtue
of the plan.
In addition, we would further suggest that the members of our
fraternity should be encouraged and exhorted to do some re.search
work for themselves. To that end we wish most cordially to commend
the following Masonic books as worthy of serious study: Gould's
"Concise History of Freemasonry"; Mackey's "Encyclopedia of Freemasonry"; "The Builders, A Story and Study of :\!Iasonry," by Joseph
Fort Newton; "The Philosophy of :\!Iasonry," by Roscoe Pound, Dean
of the Law School of Harvard L'niversity.
A most helpful plan by which these volumes might be studied is
this: Let the Master of the Lodge, or, if he see fit, let some brother
whom he may appoint, read these books aloud to as many as may be
gathered together. Perhaps this exercise could be incorporated as part
of the business of the stated meeting. Perhaps in some Lodges a half
hour each week could be devoted to this work, preceding the opening
of the Lodge .. If the matter was properly advertised in time, a goodly
company of the craft would come and great advantage would accrue in
developing the understanding of the fraternity in matters which are
fundamental to our Institution. We heartily concur in the sentiment
expressed by our Most \.Vorshipful Grand Master, in his address, when
he said: "I am impressed with the importance of Masonic educational
instruction and the general desire for it. It is an important work that

497

should be undertaken by, this Grand Lodge without delay." We, therefore, sum up this report by submitting the following points for consideration :
First: 1'hat a Committee on Masonic Education, consisting of
three members, be appointed by the Most Worshipful Grand Master to
serve for the ensuing year. That it shall be the duty of this Com·
mittee to exercise a helpful influence toward all Lodges who desire
their counsel and advice. That this Committee shall foster and encourage throughout this jurisdiction the study and research of Masonic
tradition, history, literature, law, philosophy, and dominant purposes of
this Institution.
Second: That a series of lectures to be read in our Lodges at
stated intervals shall be prepared under the direction of such Committee.
Such lectures to be submitted to the Most \Vorshipful Grand Master
for his approval and afterward printed. One lecture to be mailed each
month to every Lodge in this jurisdiction.
Third : That a further series of three lectures be prepared under
the direction of the Committee on Masonic Education, along exoteric
lines, appropriate respectively to the Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft,
and Master Mason degrees. Such lectures to be first approved by the
Most Worshipful Grand Master and afterwards µrinted. These lectures to be placed in the candidate's hands after he has received each
degree.
Fourth: That the formation of study clubs be encouraged, and
that this feature of the work follow a systematic and carefully-conceived
plan.
Fifth: In view of the expense which the printing and distributing
of the lectmcs noted will entail, vve ask that the sum of one thousand
dollars be appropriated for such purpose.
Respectfully submitted,
IRvrNG J. MrtCHEI:L,
WILLIAM MACCORMACK,

ALFRED W. BusH.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF C0:\11\fITTEE ON CHARTERS.

"OMNIBUS" REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
GRIEVANCES.

Brother Herbert R. Kells, chairman of the Committee
on Charters, presented the following· report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Charters, to whom was referred the petitions
for charters of the several Lodges to whom dispensations have been
issued during the past Masonic year, now reports:
Your Committee followed with precision the examination of records
of such Lodges prescribed by Sections 74 and 75 of the Constitution.
\Ve examined the records, including the returns of said Lodges to
this Grand Lodge, their dispensations and by-laws and books of records
of meetings; also their certificates as to proficiency of their respective
Masters and Wardens. These records, in all cases considered, were
accompanied by proper petitions for charters.
We found that the new Lodges were clear of all debts and that
their records were generally kept in an orderly and commendable
manner.
Your Committee recommends that charters be granted to the following Lodges, and numbered as noted:

499

Brother Joseph P. Bernhard, chairman, reported as
follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the following trial records, to-wit:
Record No. 212-Turloek No. 395;
Record No. 213---Moneta No. 405;
Record No. 214-California No. 1;
Record No. 215-Burlingame No. 400;
Record No. 216-Exeter No. 424;
Record No. 217-Balder No. 393;
Record No. 218-Dorie No. 216;
Record No. 219-0rland No. 265;
Record No. 221-San Bernardino No. 348 ;
Record No. 222-Liberty No. 299;
Record No. 223-0ceanside No. 381;
Record No. 224-Palos Verdes No. 389;
Record No. 227-Ione No. SO;
Record No. 228-Dunsmuir No. 297;

Libertas Lodge No. 466, at Bakersfield, Kern County;
Culver City Lodge No. 467, at Culver City, Los Angeles County;
Rockridge Lodge No. 468, at Oakland, Alameda County.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH A. CHAS!\,
JOHN FRANKLIN WEST,
LEW E.

wALLACI\,

J. CLAUDE PERRY,
HERBERT R. KELLS.

The report was adopted, and charters orderell to he
issued accordingly.

respectfully reports that it finds the records in each of the above mentioned cases complete. Jn some there are slight irregularities, but as
these in no way prejudice the rights of the accused or affect the merits
of the case, they have been disregarded. In none of the cases was there
any appeal and in every instance substantial justice has been done.
The Committee therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the decision in each of the cases herein referred
to, and the action of the Lodge thereon, be and the same are her_eby
approved.
Respectfully submitted,
J. P. BERNHARD,
WALTER V. HAAS,

G. L. JONES,

E. B. POWER,
Report adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother \Valter F. Haas, for the same Committee, presented the following report:

the specifications is a charge that the accused appropriated to his own
use moneys, the property of his Lodge, which was collected and turned
over to him while he was Master of the Lodge, and the accused admits
that while he was a Master of the Masonic Lodge he collected r:noneys
for the Lodge, retained the moneys for some months, and then still. had
said moneys in his possession at the time of the trial, and could give
no legal or satisfactory reason for his action, and it is not shown that
any of the alleged errors complained of resulted in any prejudice to the
accused.

500

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
N.o. 190, respectfully shows: This record first came to your Committee at the communication last year, but had to be sent back to Fairmount Lodge No. 435, in which the case was tried, for correction, and
such correction has since been made. The record is very voluminous
and discloses that all of the issues involved were thoroughly tried and
every opportunity given to both accuser and accused to present any
testimony bearing upon the case. There is a sharp conflict in the
evidence throughout and, while the same might sustain a. different
verdict than that arrived at, there is nevertheless ample testimony to
justify the verdict of not guilty as found by the Commissioners, and,
bearing in mind that the Commissioners had the witnesses before them
and were better able than your Committee to judge of their credibility
and the weight to be given the evidence, your Committee is not disposed to set aside the finding of the trial Commissioners.
The Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
recommends its adoption :
Resolved. That the verdict and action of the Lodge in the matter
of trial record No. 190 be, and the same hereby are, affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,

w ALTER F. HAAS,
E. B. POWER,
GEORGE L. JONES,

J. P. BERNHARD.
Report adopted.
Brother E. B. Power, for the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following report:
To the Most Worshi/'ful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 220 (from Ramona Lodge No. 457), from which it appears that
the accused was found guilty as charged and expelled, beg leave to
report that while the accused appeals from the judgment and sets forth
a number of grounds of appeal, the record discloses the fact that the
evidence of the accused alone is sufficient to establish his guilt. Among

r.01

We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the verdict and sentence in said case and the action
of the Lodge thereon be, and is, hereby approved and confirmed.

Re~pectfully submitted,

E. B. Powl\R,

wALTER F. HAAS,
J. P. BERNHARD,
GEORGli L. JONES.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF COM:VfITTEE ON FINA~CE.
Brother George F. Rodden, chairman of the Committee on Finance, reported as follows :
. To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to report as follows :
\Ve have received and considered the reports of the Boards of
Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Jose, San Diego and Honolulu. These reports, are comprehensive and · reflect credit on those of
the craft who have these important matters in charge. We therefore
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $8,862.65 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as
follows:
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco ..........................................$5,101.39
. To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles .............................................. 2,500.00
To the Board of Relief of San Jose .............:...................................... 758.39
To the Board of Relief of San Diego............. ~................................... 502.87

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Board of Relief of Honolulu has not asked for any reimbursement, as all moneys advanced have been refunded by the Lodges for
whom expended.

Your Committee on Finance has also considered the claim of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, Berkeley, for reimbursement for overpaid
Grand Lodge dues amounting to $24.10. It appears that this amount
has been overpaid by Charter Rock Lodge ; the claim has been checked
with the records of the Grand Secretary and is correct. 'Ne therefore
offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

In connection with the relief work is especially noticeable the
progress made by the various Employment Bureaus which are maintained in connection with the Boards. Upward of five thousand Masons
or those of Masonic affiliations have been placed in positions during
the year. This has relieved the Boards very materially, and it is hoped
that the Employment Bureaus will steadily increase their activities.
The best relief is to help worthy Masons help themselves.

Adopted.
We have also had under consideration the matter of salaries for
the Grand Officers, and beg leave to report thereon as follows, and
make the following recommendations:
'
The salary of the Grand Treasurer.. ....................................................$ 200.00
The salary of the Grand Secretary ...................................................... 3,600.00
The salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary.................................... 2,100.00
The salary of the Grand Organist........................................................
60.00
. The salary of the Grand Tiler................................................................ 125.00
For the services of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence ............................................................................................ 200.00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used in
defraying actual expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties ................................................................................ 1.200.00
The salary of the Grand Lecturer........................................................ 3,000.00

It is impossible to appropriate a definite sum for the contingent
expenses of the Grand Lectmer. The Committee therefore recommends
that an itemized account of the actual expenses incurred by him in the
discharge of his duties be filed by the Grand Lecturer with the Grand
Secretary, and that when these accounts have been audited by the Committee on Accounts, they be paid in the usual manner.

Adopted.
Resolved, That our M.'.\V.'.Grand Master, Francis V. Keesling,
be requested to sit for his portrait done in oil, and that, when finished,
the V. W. Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed and placed
with the portraits of other Past Grand Masters in the Masonic Temple
of this city.

Adopted.

503

Resolved, That Charter Rock Lodge N' o. 410 be reimbursed in the
sum of $24.10, being, the amount of Grand Lodge dues overpaid.

Adopted.
Your Committee has also had under consideration the claim of
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, Ventura, for reimbursement for
expenses amounting to $431.00 incurred for the relief of Brother. R. H.
Smith, a member of Milan Lodge No. 126, Milan, Mo.
It appears that Milan Lodge authorized San Buenaventura Lodge
to advance the necessary assistance in this case, but subsequently wired
the hospital at Ventura, where the distressed brother was being cared
for, that they would not be responsible for the bill. There has been
considerable correspondence in this case, in fact letters are still being
exchanged. Inasmuch as San Buenaventura Lodge can ill afford to
advance this money until the case can be definitely settled, it is the
sense of this Committee that the entire correspondence be turned over
to the Grand Secretary, that he may take the matter up both with the
Lodge in Milan and also with the Grand Lodge of Missouri if necessary, and that the incoming Grand Master be authorized to reimburse
San Buenaventura Lodge for the amount of the claim, or any necessary
part thereof.

Adopted.
Your Committee to whom was referred the annual report of the
Masonic Temple Association of California has carefully considered the
same, and is pleased to advise that the annual deficit is. gradually growing smaller, and it is hoped that with the rental of one of the stores,
lease for which has just been executed, that in the near future this
commendable enterprise will be operating without loss. As the Grand
Lodge is pledged to the support of this Association, also in accordance
with the· recommendation of our Most \Vorshipful Grand Master in
his report that as much assistance as possible be given, we offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge purchase 2,500 shares of the capital stock in the Masonic Temple Association of California, par value
$10 per share, in addition to the stock already owned.

Adopted.

50!1

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee has had under consideration the communication
from Past Master J. W. Anderson to the V. W. Grand Secretary in
reference to this Grand Lodge adopting a resolution requiring subordinate Lodges to present a copy of the Constitution of the Grand
Lodge to candidates who are raised to the third degree, and begs to
offer the following resolution:

In regard to the resolution referred to your Finance Committee to
the effect that each petitioner for initiation shall pay to the Lodge, in
addition to the fee r.equired by the by-laws of the Lodge, the sum of
$20 for the maintenance .and preservation and perpetuity of the Masonic
Homes of California, your Committee, after considerable discussion, is
of the unanimous opinion that if said resolution were to be adopted, it
will not only result in the decrease of the number of applicants at our
doors, thus causing a weakening of the financial conditions of the
Lodges and the numerical strength of the Institution, but wilt, we
believe, produce an unfavorable impression upon the minds of those
aspiring to obtain Masonic .light, inasmuch as they may well assume it
to he strange that the great Institution of Masonry should require
applicants at its doors to contribute directly to a building fund for
homes, rather than defray the cost of such buildings from its own
resources.

504

Resolved, That inasmuch as no appropriation of the fonds of this
Grand Lodge is asked for in said communication, your Committee is
of the opinion that it has nothing to act upon, for which reason it
refers said communication back to the. Grand Lodge for snch further
action as it may deem proper.

Adopted.
(Hereupon Brother Anderson arose and stated that on
Thursday he would present a resolution to appropriate
funds for the purpose.)
Your Committee has taken up the resolution referred to it, wherein
it is asked that the indebtedness of the El Centro Masonic Temple
Association to the Grand Lodge in the sum of $5,000 be cancelled and
the note returned to the said Association.
In this connection one of the several indorsers of said promissory
note appeared before your Committee and protested against the can-cellation of said note or the release of the indorsers thereof, and stated
that said El Centro Masonic Temple Association and the indorsers of
said note did not wish ·that the same should be cancelled.
In view of this y0ur Committee is of the opinion that said promissory note should not be cancelled. Further than this, the Committee
opines that if such cancellation should be made it would in fact amount
to an appropriation of $5,000 to El Centro Masonic Temple Association
for the reconstruction of its building. Inasmuch as there are a large
number of Masonic Building A.ssociations in our jurisdiction which
are more or less in a precarious financial condition, your Committee
feels that a precedent shall have been established which may bring said
other Masonic Building Associations here asking for appropriations, to
pay off their various indebtednesses. Your Committee therefore .recornmends that said resolution be not adopted.

Not adopted. The original resolution was then put
upon its passage and adopted.

We therefore recommend against the adoption of said resolution.

Report adopted.
Your Committee bas had trn<ler consideration a bill for $217.50
presented by Temple Hotel, Redding, California, to Readi-ng Lodge
No. 254, claiming said sum for board and lodging given to Brother
\Villiam Meyers during 1911. now in the Decoto Home and a member
of Mountain View Lodge No. 194, and the rather large amount of
correspondence between Reading I,o<lgc and Mountain View Lodge.
No resolution of any kind appears in the papers to have been presented to this Grand Lodge in reference to this matter. In reading the
correspondence referred to, it appears that Brother Meyers was in need
of assistance in the town of Redding, and that Reading Lodge assisted
him with various and varying amounts which were promptly reimbursed
hy Mountain View Lodge until said Brother was admitted to the
Decoto Home on August 31st, 1912.
In May, 1915, Reading Lodge sent a letter to Mountain View Lodge
stating that the Temple Hotel claimed the amount referred to. Some
correspondence resulted over this, but this Committee has not ascertained whether or not the claim is a just one, and it does not appear
that Mountain View Lodge has refused or repudiated said bill. In
addition to this, we believe that H the claim is a just one and Mountain View Lodge is financially able, that it should liquidate the claim.
For the reasons set forth your Committee recommends that no action
he taken in this matter.

Adopted.

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We have considered the report of the Grand Lodge Library Committee, and particularly that portion which recommends "an appropriation by the Grand Lodge of the sum of $500 for the immediate purpose
of preparing and printing a catalogue, providing extension bookcases,
and binding as far as possible any single copies of reports of Grand
bodies necessary to the completion of any series up to date."
For the reasons set forth above your Committee begs leave to offer
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Be it, and it is hereby, resolved, That a sum not to exceed $500 be
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of
printing a catalogue of the books in the Masonic Lihrary, providing
extension bookcases and the binding of books, and that said amount be
paid to the Grand Lodge Library Committee for the purposes quoted.

Adopted.
The Grand Secretary referred to this Committee a communication
from Brother S. A. Moulton, addressed to Past Grand Master Filmer,
wherein he suggests that the dues of all Masons who have been continuous members for fifty years be thereafter remitted. As this calls
for new legislation we recommend that the communication be referred
to the Jurisprudence Committee.
GEO. F. RODDEN,
WM. A. SHERMAN,
RALPH LowE,
0. M. GoLDARACENA,
J. H. BEAN.

Adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Thursday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

507

3Jn "ran~ 14o~gt
Morning Session.
Thursday, October 11, 1917.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
.Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
The following special committee was announced by
the Grand .Master to recommend and report at the next
Annual Communication with reference to permitting portions of initiatory ceremonies to be conferred on more than
one candidate at a time: Dana R. Well er, Charles H. Victor, Edgar V. Van Norman.
CANDIDATES TO BE PRESENTED WITH
CONSTITUTION.
Brother James W. Anderson introduced the following:
Whereas, In the ritual of Freemasonry in this jurisdiction, candidates for its benefits and its privileges are forcefully charged, and
solemnly bound in both duty and honor, to be faithful to every trust
and to conform to and abide by the Constitution, Regulations and
Edicts of the Grand Lodge, and the By-Laws of the Lodges of which
they may respectively become members, and also to the General Regulations of Freemasonry; and
'
Whereas, This Grand Lodge now has a Constitution carefully
evolved and comprised in a small, neat and convenient' volume, entitled
"The Constitution of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California,"
in which the foregoing obligatory items and many other matters of
Masonic information are succinctly, clearly and interestingly collated
and arranged; and
Whereas, In the following manner all these matters can be most
readily and effectually brought to the attention of our novices in Freemasonry; therefore, be it
Resolved, That hereafter, in this jurisdiction, it shall be obligatory
on the part of each and every Lodge, on completing the conferring of
the degrees upon a candidate, formally to present to him a volume of

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Constitution and Ceremonies, properly inscribed by the Worshipful
Master and the Secretary of the Lodge, that it may go with him as a
souvenir of brotherly regard from the members of the Lodge, and a
talisman of fidelity to his trusts in all the years that may come to him.
A,nd be it further
Resolved, That the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge be, and is, hereby authorized and directed, to furnish at cost to
the respective Lodges such numbers' of said volume as may be required
to meet the need of the Lodge.
Respectfully and fraternally submitted,

J. W. ANDERSON.
Adopted by unanimous vote.
Brother John H. Bean introduced the following:
Resolved, That the sum of five hundred dollars be appropriated
from the funds of the Grand Lodge to provide a duplicate card system
of the membership of this Grand Lodge, the same to be placed in the
charge· of the Board of Relief of Los Angeles.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

Brother Walter F. Haas, for the same Committee, presented the following report:
To the Most ·worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the matter
of the suspension of Brother William R. Meese, as Master of Alamo
Lodge No. 122, by the Most Worshipful Grand Master, begs leave to
report: The record in this matter shows that the suspended Master
was entirely lacking in those essentials which are required in this dignified position; that he <lid not have that respect for his superiors
which is enjoined by our rules; nor did he pay that attention to the
duties of his office required for tht welfare of his Lodge. No Mason
should aspire to, or hold, the office of Master of a Lodge who is himself
unwilling to set an example of proper Masonic conduct or to perform
the duties of such office.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the act of the Most Worshipful Grand Master in
suspending Brother Meese as Master of Alamo Lodge No. 122 be, and
the same is hereby approved and said office is hereby declared vacant.

Brother E. B. Power, for the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following report:

Respectfully submitted,

w ALTER F. H,AAS,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

J. P. BERNHARD,

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 226, vVest Lake Lodge No. 392, begs leave to report as follows:
The report on this record was inadvertently omitted from the omnibus
report of this Committee. In this case the accused was found guilty
of unmasonic conduct and the sentence of expulsion imposed. The
record is in sufficient form, substantial justice has been done and there
is no appeal.

GEORGE L. JONES,

The Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution:
Resolved, That the verdict and sentence in said case and the action
of the Lodge thereon be, and the same is hereby approved and confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,

E. B. POWER,

w ALTER F. HAAS,
J. P. BERNHARD,
GEORGE L. JoN~S.

·-;

Report adopted.

l

·L.

509

E. B. POWER.
Report adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 229 from Reading Lodge No. 254, begs leave to report: That the
record in this case is neither certified by the Secretary of said Lodge
nor approved by 'the Master thereof, the only evidence of its authentication being a letter directed to the Grand Secretary stating that
certain documents accompanying the same constitute the transcript of
the trial and the application for a new trial. Your Committee has
endeavored to avoid being technical in these matters, where substantial
compliance with the requirements of our Constitution and laws has
been observed, but in this particular case feels that there has been an
entire absence of compliance and that your Committee has nothing of
an authentic character upon which to act. _

511

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

filO

As far as the documents that have been filed are concerned, if they
constitute the record in the case and are properly authenticated, it is the
opinion of your Committee that the action of the trial commissioners
should be sustained.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That trial record No. 229 from Reading Lodge No. 254
be referred back to said Lodge for proper certification and authentication as required by the Constitution and laws of the Order, and that
upon the same being so certified and authenticated and filed with the
Grand Secretary, the verdict of the trial commissioners be sustained
and the action of the Lodge thereon be approved.
Respectfully submitted,

\Ve therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict of the commissioners in trial record
No. 225 be sustained, but that the punishment be fixed at expulsion,
and that the accused be and is hereby expelled from all the rights and
privileges of Masonry.
Respectfully submitted,

J. P. BERNHARD,

w ALTER F. HAAS,
GEORGE

L. }ONES,

E. B. POWER.

The report was adopted, and Edward \V. Lewis was
ordered expelled from all the rights and privileges of
l\Iasonry.

W AVrER F. HAAS,

J. P. BERNHARD,
GEORGE

L. }ONES,

E. B. POWER.

Report adopted.

REPORT ON DECISIONS OF GRAND :YIASTER.
Past Grand Master Angellotti, chairman of the Committee ·on Jurisprudence, read the following report:
To the 21Jost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Brother Bernhard. chairman of the Committee on
Grievances, presented the following report:
To the M:.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred trial record No. 225, \Vest
Lake Lodge No. 392, respectfully reports as follows:
This is the case referred to by the Grand Master in his address,
in which a notice of appeal was duly filed with the Master of Vv est
Lake Lodge, but when said record came before this Committee last
year, no notice of appeal was found among the papers. That defect
has now been remedied.
The accused was found guilty * * * not of a single act, but a
continued and persistent course of misconduct and immorality. Yottr
Committee feels that the sentence of reprimand was much too light to
constitute a proper punishment.

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered the decisions of
the Grand Master as reported in his Address, and report thereon as
follows;
VVe find the decisions generally in accord with our views as to the
law of this jurisdiction.
As to many no comment is necess.iry. These are Decisions 1, 2,
4, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15 and 17. All of these are obviously correct.
Vie recommend that they be approved.

Adopted.
Decision No. 8, relative to the use of the funds of a Lodge, evidently refers to the ordinary funds : those described in Section 88 of the
Constitution, as being derived from "fees, dues, rental, profit or otherwise," and to such funds is clearly correct. Section 88 recognizes that
funds may be donated to and accepted by a Lodge in trust for a proper
specific purpose, and that funds so donated and accepted may be limited
to the specific purpose for which they were given. We recommend that
the decision be approved.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

512

Decision No. 11, relative to the remission of dues of those who
have entered the military or naval service, is in strict accord with our
law as it now is. We recommend that it be approved.

Adopted.
Decision No. 14, regarding dispensations for Lodges, relative to a
matter peculiarly within the discretion of the particular Grand Master
to whom the application is made: Subject to the limitations prescribed
by Sections 73 and 74, the Constitution authorizes him to grant such
a dispensation whenever he concludes that it is proper and necessary.
We are of the opinion that in the determination of the question whether
the granting of a dispensation is proper and necessary, he cannot .be
limited by any decision of the Grand Lodge. The Constitution leaves
that question to him. The dispensation terminates on the first day of
the following October (Section 74), when the question whether a charter shall issue or the dispensation be continued is determined by the
Grand Lodge (Section 75). In the· case giving rise to the decision, the
Grand Master concluded that the circumstances were not such as to
make it proper and :necessary to grant a dispensation. We are not to
be understood as intimating that we have any doubt as to the. correctness of his action. We simply hold that such a ruling cannot Operate
to bind any succeeding Grand Master. We, therefore, think that the
decision should not he construed as a dPclaratinn of the law of this
Grand Lodge, limiting the discretion of future Grand Masters.

Adopted.
As to Decision No. 16: We regard it as entirely immaterial that
the corporation in addition to operating a saloon, was also engaged in
a mercantile business. Our law inhibits the saloon business, except
where carried on "in connection with and as a part of. the operation of
a bona fide hotel or restaurant" (Section 129A), and if a saloon is
operated otherwise, either by a person or corporation, it cannot make
any difference that such person or corporation also carries on such
other business. The mere fact that one is a stockholder in a corporation engaged in operating a saloon would not necessarily render him
guilty of a Masonic offense under Section 129A of our Constitution.
But we think that if the circumstances are such that he may fairly be
held responsible for the course of the corporation in this regard, he
falls withi~ the spirit, at least, of the provision. If, for instance, he is
practically the sole stockholder, with full and absolute control of the
operations of the corporation, with only a sufficient number of shares
held by others to qualify them as directors, there could hardly be any
question that the mere adoption of the corporate form in the carrying
on of the saloon business should not render him immune from the law.
We think that ordinarily a majority stockholder in such a corporation

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

513

would be regarded as controlling its operations, and fairly within the
term "owner" used in Section 129A. The decision to our minds may
be construed as implying that the adoption of the corporate form in
the doing of the prohibitive business would be a complete answer to
any claim of violation of the provisions of Section 129A, insofar as any
stockholder is concerned. In this report we believe that the decision
is too broad. We recommend the adoption of this report.

Adopted.
As to Decision No. 18, we find from the papers submitted that the
question presented was whether a member of the National Guard of
California, who had not as yet been mustered into the service of the
United States, came within the exception referred to. Prior to being
so mustered in, he did not belong "to the army or navy of the United
States" (Section 96, Constitution), and the Grand Master very properly held that he did not come within the exception. As our Constitutional provision now reads, we think the exception does include all
persons belonging to the army or navy of the United States. We
recommend that the action of the Grand Master be approved.

Adopted.
As to Decision 3a, 3b, and the matter entitled "The Case of a
Masters' and Past Masters' Association": We regard Past Masters'
Associations as now constituted and existing in this jurisdiction, as
being mere voluntary associations of Masons for the cultivation and
promotion of social, friendly and fraternal relations, in no way amenable to the supervision of this Grand Lodge in their operations, except
insofar as their operations may be subversive of the best interests of
Masonry. They are not recognized by any provision of our law as
parts of our Masonic system, and we have no rules or regulations
concerning them. We find nothing in our law requiring any approval
by either Grand Master or Grand Lodge of the by-laws 0£ such an
association, nor do we think that the Grand Lodge is warranted by
anything in our law in declaring that such an association may not hold
a meeting on a Sunday, except for funeral services. At the same time,
the members of such associations are Masons, and publicly associated
in that character. If they should act in a manner detrimental to the
principles, laws and regulations of the Fraternity, or calculated to reflect
on the good name· of Masonry, they would, of course, be amenable to
our law. To this extent only do such associations come within our
supervisory powers. It is entirely proper, therefore, for the Grand
Master to investigate as to the real purpose and object of any such
associat10n, and to that end, if he deems it advisable, to require its

GRAND LODGE OF CAT~IFORNIA

515

PUOCEEDINGS 01<' '.l'HFJ

514

by-laws and rules of government to be submitted to him for examination. If he finds the avowed purposes of such an association to
be "subversive of the Constitution and Regulations of the Grand Lodge,"
as he probably did in the case of the particular association referred to
in his decision, we cannot doubt the propriety of his directing the
members to dissolve the same, or at least to abandon those particular
purposes. We recommend that Decisions 3a and 3b be disapproved,
and that the action of the Grand Master in "The Case of a Masters'
and Past Masters' Association" be approved.

Adopted.
As to Decision No. 5: It is well settled by our decisions that the
Master may permit any qualified brother to confer a degree, he, of
course, remaining present. There is nothing in our law that, to our
minds, requires any approval of the qualification of such a brother by
the Grand Lecturer. The matter appears to be committed entirely to
the Master, whose duty it is to see that the degree is conferred in strict
accordance with the ritual. The same thing is apparently true as to
brethren appointed by the Master to assist in conferring a degree.
The official approval by the Grand Lecturer appears to be confined to
certain officers of a Lodge, who may not be installed without obtaining
a certificate as to their qualifications. We recommend that the Decision
he not approved.

Adopted.
The proposed amendment to Section 17, to fix the annual election
of officers of the Grand Lodge on the second day of the session, has
been given consideration by your Committee, and as at present advised
we can see no good reason for making a change in our law in this
matter. vVe recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Adopted.
\Vith relation to the proposition to amend Section 30 of the Constitution, to require Committees to meet in advance of the time for
holding the annual communications of Grand Lodge we deem the proposed amendment inadvisable and recommend that it be not adopted.

Adopted.
It is proposed to substantially anrnnd Sections 216, 217, 218, 219
and 220 of the Constitution, relative to the matter of amending the
Constitution.

Briefly stated, the idea is to make it impossible for the Grand
Lodge, declared by our Constitution to be "the supreme Masonic power
and authority in this State, possessing all the attributes of sovereignty
and government, legislative, executive and judicial" (Section 7), to
adopt any amendment. Any proposed amendment may be introduced,
and, after report thereon by the Committee on Jurisprudence, a vote
is to be taken in the Grand Lodge. If less than one-third of the votes
are given in its favor, it is rejected. If one-third or more of the votes
are in favor thereof, it is simply passed to print. This is true even if
the vote be unanimous in favor of the amendment. The subordinate
Lodges are then to be furnished with a copy of the proposed amendment, and each Lodge is to vote on the same at a stated meeting. The
fate of the amendment is to be determined by this vote, cast by Lodges
as such, and participated in by persons not members oi this Grand
Lodge. If two-thirds of the Lodges approve the proposed amendment it is adopted, otherwise it is rejected.
We deem it unnecessary to do more than to thus state the substantia'! feature of the proposed change. \Ve recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Report adopted.
We have considered the proposed amendments to Sections 33 and
35 of our Constitution, relative to the appointment and powers of
Trustees of our Masonic Homes, their organization and duties.
These amendments are proposed by the present Trustees and have
the approval of the Grand Master. We find nothing objectionable
therein. Those best qualified as to the advisability of the proposed
amendments having concluded that these changes should be made, we
recommend their adoption.

The report was adopted, and Sections 33 and 35 of the
Constitution were amended by unanimous vote to read as
proposed by the Trustees, and as appears in the annual
report of the Board.
Past Grand Master Well er, from the same Committee,
reported the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
proposed resolution with reference to remission of dues of soldiers and
sailors, and we are in full accord with the spirit which actuates those

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

516

who desire to recognize and reward, in some measure, the men who
are offering the supreme sacrifice upon the altar of duty in the time of
their country's need.
We believe that this is a matter which should be left to each Lodge
to decide, and that the Grand Lodge should encourage such action by
bearing a share of the burden.
The resolution proposed is contrary to the Constitutional provisions
of Section 128, and we therefore recommend the adoption of the following amendment to Section 128, as a substitute therefor:
Resolved, That Section 128 of the Constitution be and the same is
hereby amended, by adding thereto the following provision:
"Provided, that during such time as the United States may be
engaged in the present war, any Lodge is hereby authorized to remit
in advance, for the period of his service in the war, the dues of any
of its members who may be in the military or naval service of the
United States or its allies, and no per capita tax shall be payable to the
Grand Lodge for such member during the period fur which his dues
are so remitted."

Report adopted, and Section 128 was amended as above
by unanimous vote.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year, and
also his approval of resolutions relative to life memberships.
We find that all of the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of our Constitution.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master
therein be approved.

Adopted.
Past Grand Master Burnett, for the same Committee,
present.eel the following:
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:

By Lassen Lodge No. 149, located at Susanville, Lassen county, an
application in regular form has been made to have all the territory
located in said county and now subject to the jurisdiction of Sincerity
Lodge No. 132, located in Greenville, Plumas county, withdrawn from

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

n17

the jurisdiction of the latter Lodge and attached tb and made subject
to the jurisdiction of the said Lassen Lodge. The application is under
and as provided by the provisions 0£ Section 92A of the Constitution.
It is claimed that Lassen Lodge is more accessible to the residents of
said territory than is Sincerity Lodge, and that the convenience of said
residents would be promoted by the contemplated change. Evidence
was taken by your Committee in favor of and in opposition to the
petition. After carefully considering the showing made, we are satisfied the proposed action would work an injustice to Sincerity Lodge
and would be opposed to the best interests of the craft. The Constitution contemplates that such change should be made only in urgent
cases and we do not believe that such case has been made out here.
We, therefore, recommend that the petition be denied.

Report adopted.
Past Grand Master Bledsoe, from the same Committee,
presented the following:
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:

Brother Jesse M. Whited has presented a number of amendments
to the Constitution providing for the creation of a "Grand Chancellor"
and "Deputy Grand. Chancellors" in furtherance of a scheme of Masonic
investigation, education, etc. With tl;c general spirit and purpose of
the idea entertained by Brother vVhitcd, we are in hearty accord,
believing that anything· tending toward the development of an interest
in the study of Masonic literature and philosophy would he measurably
helpful. But we think the plan actually proposed by Brother Whited
is somewhat too complicated, unsuited to our actual needs at the present time, and possibly wonk! entail too great an expenditure of the
funds of this body. W c, therefore, recommend that the proposed
amcnclments be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Past Grand :'.\Taster :\f nrphey, from the Committee 011
Jurisprudence, presented the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Enterprise Lodge No. 70 requests a refund of Grand Lodge dues,
under the provisions of Section 41 of the Constitution, for account of
five members whose dues were remitted at the stated meeting in June.
Under the law as announced by the Grand Master at this session
of the Grand Lodge in Decision No. 12, approved by this Committee

518

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and the Grand Lodge, the claimant is not entitled to a return of the
per capita taxes claimed, and we recommend that the rebate be not
granted.

F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
WM.

s. WELLS,

CHARLES L. PATTON,
DANA R. WELLER,
JOHN

D. MURPHEY,
F. BLEDSOE,

BENJAMIN
ALBERT

G. BURNETT,

519

PAST GRAND MASTERS.

William T. Lucas, Santa Maria ............................................................$
Thomas Flint, Hollister............................................................................
Orrin S. Henderson, Stockton............................................................ .
George W. Hunter, Eureka ................................................................... .
Motley H. Flint, Los
Dana R. Weller, Los Angeles.............................................................. ..
Alonzo J. l'vionroe, Eureka ................................................................... .
John D. :\furphey, Berkeley ................................................................... .
Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Los Angeles ..................................................... .
Albert G. Burnett, Sacramento............................................................. .

Committee.

21.70

s.ro

5.20
26.40
35.70
35.70
26.40
.20

35.70
5.50
198.40

CHAJRMEN OF STANDING COMMITTEES.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS.
Brother Gustav A. Hutaff, for the Committee on Pay
of Members, presented the following report:
To the 1v!. W. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers
or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing Committees, an<l
Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for transportation to and
from the Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged that
duty, and submit the following statement:
GRAND OFFJCJlRS.

Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Deputy Grand Master, Los Angeles ........$ 35.70
James F, Fenwick, Grand Marshal, Honolulu ............................... . 150.00
29.70
David J. Reese, Grand Standard Bearer, Ventura ......................... .
8.05
Arthur W. Gluckman, Grand Sword Bearer, Marysville ............. .
2.50
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible Bearer, San Jose ............................. .
1.80
Frank K. Towne, Junior Grand Deacon, Redwood City ............. .
18.30
James C. Ensign, Junior Grand Steward, Dinuba ......................... .
5.50
Theo. J. Milliken, Grand Pursuivant, Sacramento ......................... .
Total......................................................................., ........,....................... ~

251.SS

Joseph P. Bernhard, Fresno, Grievances ............................................$
Jimmie N. Hall, Alhambra, Credentials ..............................................
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield. Returns ............................................... .
Joseph H. Stephens, Sacramento, Pay of Members ..................... .
Irving J. Mitchell, Los Angeles, Masonic gdncation ....................

12.60
35.70
23.40
5.50
35.70

112.ro
JNSPECTORS.

Frank E. Morrell, First District.
Gustav i\... ,1 Hutaff, Fourth Dist~ict, Dunsmuir .............................. ..
Cephus 1;. Gregg, Fifth District, Kennett... ................................... ..
Charles S. Baldwin, Sixth District, Alturas ..................................... .
Willard Clark, Seventh District, Orland ........................................... .
J. Augustus Pardee. Eighth District, Susanville............................. .
Thomas Ingram, Eleventh District, Grass Valley ......................... .
Charles 0. Hamilton, Thirteenth District Oroville
Herman Jacobson, Fifteenth District, C;lusa .......... ::::::::::::::::::::::::
Shafter Mathews, Sixteenth District, Lakeport... ............................ .
Robert L. Robertson, Eighteenth District, Vallejo ...................... ..
H. Hayes Gable, Twentieth District, Esparto ................................. .
Frederick W. Clough, Twenty-third District, Angel's Camp ....... .
William J. Thomayer, Twenty-fourth District, Lodi... .................
Leonard L. Martin. Twenty-fifth District, Concord ....................... .
Jacoh E. Hughes, Twenty-sixth District, Crockett... .................... .
Charles B. Greeley, Twenty-ninth District, Alameda .................. ..
Granville D. Warren, Thirtieth District, Oakland ..........................
George F. Rodden, Thirty-sixth District, San Rafael... .................
<;'.harles G. Landscheit, Thirty-seventh Distri<;t. Reqwood City.. .

24.70
22.80
19.70
40.90
14.00
31.80
12.10
9.90
9.40
11.50
2.10
5.80
14.00
5.50
2.80
2.10
.20
.20

.70
1.80

520

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

Charles K. Tuttle, Fortieth District, Pacific Grove ............... .
L. A C. H. Kylberg, Forty-first District, Merced ..........................
Joseph E. Place, Forty-second District, Los Banos ........................
Ardie L. Smith, Forty-fourth District, Fresno ................................
John L. Mitchell, Forty-fifth District, Selma ................................. .
Francis W. Mixter, Forty-sixth District, Exeter ............................
Richard E. Shore, Forty-seventh District, Lemoore ..................... .
Wm. W. Kaye, Forty-eighth District, F.ast Bakersfield ............... .
Walter D. Adriance, Forty-ninth District, San Luis Obispo ....... .
John H. Bean, Fifty-first District, Los Angeles ............................. .
Smnuel E. Burke, Fifty-second District, Los Angeles ................... .
Edward B. Spencer, Fifty-third District. Los Angeles ...........:..... .
Robie E. Dill, Fifty-fourth District, Los Angeles ........................... .
Winfred J. Sanborn, Fifty-fifth District, Los Angeles ................... .
Will H. Fischer, Fifty-sixth District, Los Angeles ......................... .
Lemuel L. Test, Fifty-seventh District, Pasadena......................... .
William A. Vandegrift, Fifty-eighth District, Pomona ................
John V. Eliot, Fifty-ninth District, Covina ....................................... .
Lee C. Sawin, Sixtieth District, Whittier.. ....................................... .
Clark H. Shaw, Sixty-first District, Long Beach ............................
Eli B. Trago, Sixty-second District, Santa Ana ............................ ..
Walter B. Howes, Sixty-third District, San Bernardino ............. .
Henry D. French, Sixty-fourth District, Riverside ....................... .
Arthur A. Mathewson, Sixty-fifth District, Coronado ................. .
J. Stewart Ross, Sixty-sixth District, El Centro ........................... .
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles ....................................... .

7.00
9.00
8.30
15.60
16.70
18.90
17.70
23.40
19.10
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.70
35.90
36.50
35.70
35.70
35.70
44.15
53.20
35.70

Total ........................................................................................................$1,001.55
RECAPITULATION.

*For Representatives of Lodges ............................................................$6,273.20

~~~ ~~:~1~~:~c;:;a~~-~-;~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~:~~
For Chairmen of Standing Committees.............................................. 112:90
For Inspectors ............................................................................................ 1,001.55
Grand total ............................................................................................ $7,837.60

521

'vVe offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of the
State of California for the current fiscal year, in addition to the dues
prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of 15 cents for each me~ber
borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said
levy shall be for the payment of Representatives, Grand Officers, Past
Grand Masters, and Inspectors, and shall be paid at the same time and
in the manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
Respectfully submitted,

Jos. H. STJtv:ENs,
G. A. H UTAFF,
J NO. H. McGtHEE,
WALTER D. ADRIANCE,
Committee,

Adopted as presented.

PETITIONS FOR RESTORATION.
Brother George L. Jones, fo~ the Committee on Grievances, reported as follows:
To the 11ost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom were referred certain
petitions for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, report
as follows:
Case No. 154: This is a petition by Ashlar Lodge No. 306 for the
restoration of George B. Caster, who had been expelled from that Lodge
upon the charge of unmasonic conduct in that he had engaged in the
occupation of bartender. The petition shows a compliance on the part
of Ashlar Lodge with the requirements oil the Constitution, relative to
the presentation of such a petition, and, after hearing the statements of
the Master and a Past Master of the Lodge, from which it appears that
the accused has long since abandoned his former occupation and has
followed unobjectionable pursuits, in addition to leading an exemplary
·life, your Committee believe that the petition should be granted.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the following resolution:

*For items, see Report of Committee on Returns.

Resolved, That the petition of Ashlar Lodge No. 306 be granted
and that George B. Caster be, and he is hereby restored to all the rights
and privileges of Masonry.

Adopted.

522

PROCEEDINGS OF 'I'HE
GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

Case No. 48: In 1908, the petitioner, Joseph Manoah Smith, then
a member of Fresno Lodge No. 247, was charged with unmasonic conduct, was found guilty and the penalty of expulsion inflicted. The
accused now presents his petition fior restoration, which petition has
been approved by Fresno Lodge No. 247 by the unanimous vote of the
members there present. Accompanying the petition are strong letters
recommending the reinstatement of the petitioner, and his conduct and
standing in the community in which he resides are highly praised.
In view of these commendations, it being evident that his behavior and
actions for at least the last seven years have been above reproach, we
are of the opinion that his petition should be now favorably acted upon.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That the petition of Joseph Manoah Smith be granted,
and that he be, and he is hereby, restored to all the rights and privileges
of Masonry.

Adopted.
Case No. 114: The petitioner, who now lives in Honolulu, was
expelled by Golden Gate Lodge No. 30 in 1912, having been in effect
charged with the embezzlement of certain small sums of money received
by him-in one instance, from the Lodge for the benefit of a Mason's
widow; in another instance, from another source for the benefit of the
Lodge. Notice of the intention to petition :£or restoration was given to
Golden Gate Lodge and the petition was approved. As proof of his
character, several letters arc presented urging favorable action upon
the application. There have, however, appeared before the Committee,
certain Masons who vigorously oppose the petition, and, owing to the
fact that they had not obtained knowledge of the petition in time to
present evidence in support of their opposition, we are of the opinion
that definite action should not be taken at this time. The character of
the statements made to the Committee is such that the Committee
believe that further investigation should he made as to the fitness of
the petitioner to be restored.
We, therefore, recommend that action upon this petition be deferred
until the next Annual Communication.
Respectfully submitted,
GllORGll L. ]ONllS,

wALTllR F. HAAS,
E. B. PowllR,

J. P. BllRNHARD.
Report adopted.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

623

3Ju ~rttuh iJohgr
Afternoon Session:
Thursdaf; Octobe r 11. 1017.
1

LoJf~¢,~·~as called on at 2 ;ci:clock, the Grand

(;rand
:\Taster prcsidiH{:('

::~:

c~knd M~~ter

Deputy
Hervey moved that the Grand
Secretary cause to have printed or lithographed in English,
French and L;litiri; a pocket diploma similar to that now
provided by Gr~nd Lodge, the same matter as now appears
thereon in English, and that some legend be! added thereto
to th.e effect th'at the hoider is In the service: of the United
States or its allfe.s; th~ same to be soid. td LOd:ges or Masons
for the use and benefit of members who are in the military
or naval service at the same price that is now charged for
the ordinary pocket diploma. Motion adopted.

Brother Angus MacKillop introduced the following:
Resolved, That a special committee to consist of three members
he appointed bv the Grand Master to formulate and present amendments to the existing law that will provide some method by which each
member 0£ the fraternity shall be required to contribute $1.00 per year'
to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, and by which such cont.ributions shall be made through their respective Lodges and returned
in the same manner as other contributions now levied upon the Lodges.

The Grand Master appointed as such Committee,
Charles L. Patton, Dana R. Well er and Benjamin F. Bledsoe.

J:'ROC!i:EDINGS OF 'fHE

JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

525

Past Grand Master Bledsoe in a most gracious and
felicitous speech, every word of which was enthusiastically
greeted by the large assemblage attending, presented to
Brother Mayer, with the love and affection of his brethren,
an ebony cane with black ivory handle, heavily and tastily
mounted with gold. The veteran organist responded with
more grace than was expected under the circumstances,
reciting how he had been first appointed Grand Organist
in 1868, and that he had attended every annual commumcation during the entire time of his appointments. Altogether it was a great event - a real love-feast, and the
fervent prayer of all was that Brother Mayer would maintain his health so long as the Almighty Father would permit him to remain with us.
The thanks of Grand Lodge were extended to all the
brethren who had so freely given of their time and talents
to make this unique celebration a complete success.

SAMUEL D. MAYER
"AS HE IS"

The Jubilee Celebration of the fiftieth annual installation of Worshipful Samuel David Mayer as Grand Organist was then held, with the following programme:
Felicitations by Grand Master-···--······-·-···························Francis V. Keesling
Orchestra.
Vocal Solo-"Who Treads the Path of Duty'.' ....................................... .
Walter C. Campbell, of the Old Guard
Address .... _.. _................................ Benjamin F. Bledsoe, ~:~l <;:;i~ ~:t:~

~~~~~-~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.·:::::::::.~~--Edwin H. Lem~re
of Royal Brunswick l.,odge No. 296, Sheffield.

Orchestra.
· G d Ch 1 ·
ap am
Prayer_ ...........................................William A. Chapman, as ran
Brother Leo Bruck presided at the piano, who, ~ith the following
brethren, all artists, composed the orchestra: ~ernat Jaulus, H. ~­
Hoffman, H. Wallace, H. J. Benson, Clarence Baier, Walter N. Hormg,
and Paul Roth.

Brother Victor E. Perry introduced the following:
Resolved, That Brother Samuel D. Mayer be requested to sit for
his portrait done in oil, and that when finished it be suitably framed
and hung in the Masonic Temple, in order that future generations of
Masons may view with pleasure the likeness of one who has presided
at the organ of the Grand Lodge for fifty years.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS.
Brother Arthur S. Crites, Chairman of the Committee
on Returns of Lodges, reported as follows:
To the M. W. Grand L.odge of California:
Your Committee on Returns has examined the returns of the three
hundred seventy-nine Lodges (including three Lodges under dispensation) of this jurisdiction Dor the year ending July 31, 1917.

526

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

The Grand Secretary in his report has called your attention to the
lack of promptness by a number of Lodges in making their returns.
The excuses made for this dereliction by a number of the Lodges are ,
acceptable and they should be excepted from this criticism, but a number of them have been inexcusably slow and derelict.
Your Committee wishes to call the attention of the representatives
of such Lodges to the fact, that itis as much the duty of the Master of
a Lodge as of the Secretary to see that returns are made promptly and
correctly. We wish this reported to the Lodges you represent and a~l
Lodges urged to have returns in on time hereafter. These dereliction.s
add materially and unnecessarily to the already arduous duties of the
Grand Secretary.
All returns are now on file and as now filed are correct in every
particular and have been properly entered m the books· of the Grand
Secretary.
The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of the jurisdiction were indebted for the year ending July 31, 1917, and which
have all been paid, are as follows :
Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

California ................ 1
'Western Star ........ 2
Tehama .................. 3
Benicia .................... 5
Tuolumne .............. 8
Corinthian .............. 9
San Jose ................ 10
Yount ...................... 12
Nevada .................... 13
Temple ................... 14
Eureka ............... .... 16
La Parfaite Union 17
Mountain Shade .... 18
San Joaquin .......... 19
'Washington ............ 20
Hawaiian
........... 21
Occidental .............. 22
Madison .................. 2.1
Mariposa ................ 24
Georgetown ............ ·25
Palmyra .................. 26
Trinity .................. 27

Total.

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

$553.00 $570.00 $285.00 $1,408.00 $..........
24.00
V..7.60
44.50
89.00
94.10
5.50'
609.40
120.50
241.00
247.90
1.90
277.tfJ
54.00
108.00
115.20
12.20
293.20
59.00
118.00
116.20
8.05
527.80
106.00
212.00
209.80
2.50
1,052.80
211.00
422.00
419.80
2.80
436.60
87.00
174.00
175.60
13.10
366.20
74.00
148.00
144.20
228.20
44.00
88.00
96.20
8.00
311.80
61.00
122.00
128.80
429.40
85.50
171.00
172.90
28.10
70.60
14.50
29.00
27.10
5.20
891.80
173.50
347.00
371.30
5.50
466.00
90.00
180.00
196.00
787.25
164.50
329.CO
293.75
1,749.20
321.50
643.00
784.70
12.10
31060
62.00
124.00
124.60
30.20
101.40
20.50
41.00
39.90
123.60
24.50
49.00
50.10
10.40
462.00
95.00
190.00
177.00
34.50
143.80
28.50
57.00
58.30

.

Golden Gate .......... 30
Gold Hm ............... 32
Ophir ...................... 33
San Diego .............. 35
St. John's .............. 37
Santa Cruz ............ 38
Sacramento ............ 40
Ma·rtinez ................ 41
Los Angeles .......... 42
Hiram ...................... 43
Mount Moriah ...... 44
Crescent ....:............. 45
Texas ...................... 46
Forbestown ............ 50
Hlinoistown ............ 51
Suisun ...................... 55
Volcano .................. 56
Santa Rosa ............ 57 ·
Union .................... 58
Gravel Range ........ 59
Plumas .................... 60
Live Oak ................ 61
Geo. Washington .... 62
Natoma .................. 64
Amador ................... 65
Forest
........... 66
Morning Star ........ 68
Enterprise .............. 70
Bear Mountain ...... 76
Calaveras ................ 78
Humboldt .............. 79
-Ione .......: ................. .- 80
Yolo ....................... 81
Rising Star ............ 83
Vesper .:.................. 84
Kava! ...................... 87
Rose's Bar ............... 89
N' orth Star ............ 91
St, Helena ..:........... 93
Henry Clay ............ 95
Howard .................. 96
Jefferson .................. 97

578.40
55.90
44.10
435.80
119.00
217.40
253.60
105.40
573.50
30.30
372.90
85.00
29.20
25.20
89.40
93.30
28.50
243.40
303.30
27.00
62.40
754.00
31.50
117.30
76.50
53.10
312.80
146.10
78.70
79.50
342.70
49.10
44.40
36.10
147.10
500.00
45.00
49.10
81.90
60.20
77.70
33.30

556.00
51.00
49.00
412.00
120.00
216.00
224.00
96.00
525.00
27.00
361.00
80.00
28.00
28.00
76.00
97.00
25.00
246.00
277.00
30.00
66.00
730.00
35.00
87.00
75.00
49'.00
272.00
139.00
83.00
75.00
323.00
49.00
46.00

39.00
159.00
440.00
50.00
49.00
91.00
58.00
83.00
37.00

278.00
25.50
24.50
206.00
60.00
1-08.00
112.00
48.00
262.50
13.50
180.50
40.00
14.00
14.00
38.00
48.50
12.50
123.00
138.50
15.00
33.00
365.00
17.50
43.50
37.50
24.50
136.00
69.50
41.50
37.50
161.50
24.50
23.00
19.50
79.50
220.00
25.00
24.50
45.50
29.00
41.50
18.50

527

Total.

Allowed
Representatives.

1,412:.40
132.40
117.60
1,053.80
299.00
541.40
589.60
249.40
' 1,361.00
70.80
914.40
205.00
71.20
67.20
203.40
238.80
66.00
612.40
718.80
72.00
161.40
1,849.00
84.00
247.80
189.00
126.60
720.80
354.60
203.20
192.00
827.20
122.60
113.40
94.60
385.60
1,160.00
120.00
122.60
218.40
147.20
202.20
88.80

7.50
16.00
44.15
28.90
5.90
5.50
35.70

48.00
6.20
14.90
9.60
3.30
14.20
2.80
5.50
19.10

.20
7.10
11.20
5.20
8.20
14.00
11.00
24.00
8.00
6.10
13.60
16.00
2.10

11.20
28.00
25.50

528

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Hornitos .................. 98
Yosemite ................ 99
Clay .......................... 101
Oroville .................. 103
Lexington ................104
Arcata ......................106
Pajaro ...................... 110
Chico ........................ 111
Summit ....................112
Eden ........................ 113
Concord ................. .117
Clinton ....................119
Fidelity .................... 120
Alamo ...................... 122
Sotoyome ................ 123
Table Mountain ... .124
La Fayette ............126
Hermann ................ 127
Visalia ...................... 128
Nicolaus .................. 129
Woodbridge ......... .131
Sincerity .................. 132
Vacaville ................ 134
Valley ...................... 135
Pacific ...................... 136
Cr-0ckett .................. 139
Curtis ...................... 140
Grafton .................... 141
Franklin .................. 143
Oriental .................. 144
Vitruvius ................ 145
Abell ........................ 146
Eel River ................ 147
Lassen ...................... 149
Molino .................... 150
Woodland .............. 156
Keystone ................ 161
Harmony ................ 164
Excelsior ................ 166
Alameda .................. 167
Redwood City ....... .168
Mission .................... 169
Elk Grove ............. .173

55.80
129.10
54.00
197.30
97.20
119.60
138.30
210.90
36.80
140.60
135.10
50.80
556.20
69.10
190.90
61.00
124.90
200.90
141.30
89.30
91.90
79.40
116.50
51.40
647.00
531.70
46.80
37.70
86.00
376.70
69.00
141.10
132.70
137.60
101.00
164.00
28.20
15.70
507.50
109.30
152.80
845.60
73.60

32.00
129.00
60.00
187.00
88.00
124.00
137.00
211.00
32.00
134.00
129.00
52.00
568.00
69.00
191.00
60.00
121.00
201.00
147.00
77.00
91.00
46.00
125.00
46.00
660.00
473.00
52.00
33.00
70.00
373.00
60.00
129.00
123.00
114.00
80.00
170.00
28.00
13.00
415.00
107.00
152.00
884.00
74.00

16.00
64.50
30.00
93.50
44.00
62.00
68.50
105.50
16.00
67.00
64.50
26.00
284.00
34.50
95.50
30.00
60.50
100.50
73.50
38.50
45.50
23.00
62.50
23.00
330.00
236.50
26.00
16.50
35.00
186.50
30.00
64.50
61.50
57.00
40.00
85.00
14.00
6.50
207.50
53.50
76.00
442.00
37.00

529

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING:'.\ OF 'fHE

Total.

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

103.80
322.60
144.00
477.80
229.20
305.60
343.80
527.40
84.80
341.60
328.60
128.80
1,4rn.20
172.60
477.40
151.00
306.40
502.40
361.80
204.80
228.40
148.40

9.00
10.70
9.90
35.70
24.70
6.20
11.20
9.40
.80
5.50
20.50
3.30
11.00
3.00
18.30
8.20
5.80
22.20

304.00
120.40
1,637.00
1,241.20
124.80
87.20
191.00
936.20
159.00
334.60
317.20
Jrn.60
221.00
419.00
70.20
35.20
1,130:00
269.80
380.80
2,171.60
184.60

5.90

4.95
6.40
6.00
7.00
22.70
31.80
12.50
5.80
7.20
1.60
1.80
5.50

.

26.40
Drytown .............·..... 174
106.20
Antioch .................... 175
295.70
Phoenix .................. 178
143.80
Mendocino .............. 179
Petaluma ................ 180
205.60
Russian River ....... .181
91.80
48.10
Meridian ................ 182
31.10
Clear Lake ............ 183
46.60
Sierra Valley ........ 184
Claiborne ................ 185
53.80
30.60
Evening Star ........ 186
Keith ........................ 187
106.60
640.90
Oakland .................. 188
75.30
Northern Light ..... .190
Marin ...................... 191 .. 266.10
181.30
Santa Barbara ..... .192
79.50
Ferndale .................. 193
117.80
Mountain View ...... 194
Buckeye ..................195
72.00
San Simeon ........... .196
42.90
Wilmington ........... .198
69.80
Hartley .................... 199
100.30
117.10
Truckee ..................200
Silveyville ..............201
84.10
Pentalpha ................ 202
533.00
Confidence ..............203
25.50
Salinas ................... .204
144.20
Newville .................. 205
31.50
Stanislaus ..............206
134.20
Anaheim ..................207
131.80
Rio Vista ............... .200
70.30
King David's ........209
232.20
Friendship ............. .210
244.30
San Benito ............. .211
111.50
So. San Francisco..212
211.90
San Buenaventura .. 214
131.70
Oak Grove ............215
455.10
Doric ....................... .216
513.60
Monterey ................ 217
117.70
Mosaic ................... .218
93.20
Speranza Italiana ..219
222.80
Downey ................... .220
125.50
Inyo ......................... .221
58.50

26.00
lffi.00
273.00
142.00
214.00
82.00
49.00
29.00
34.00
52.00
34.00
114.00
591.00
77.00
239.00
167.00
85.00.
112.00
80.00
41.00
62.00
107.00
109.00
79.00
500.00
25.00
148.00
35.00
128.00
122.00
67.00
200.00
247.00
95.00
201.00
133.00
449.00
504.00
113.00
88.00
212.00
105.00
55.00

13.00
54.00
136.50
71.00
107.00
41.00
24.50
14.50
17.00
26.00
17.00
57.00
295.50
38.50
119.50
83.50
42.50
56.00
40.00
20.50
31.00
53.50
54.50
39.50
250.00
12.50
74.00
17.50
64.00
61.00
33.50
104.00
123.50
47.50
100.50
66.50
224.50
252.00
56.50
44.00
106.00
52.50
27.50

Total.

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

65.40
268.20.
705.20
356.80
526.60
214.80
121.60
74.60
97:60
131.80
81.60
277.(J)
1,527.40
190.80
624.60
431.80
207.00
285.80
192.00
104.40
162.80
260.80
280.60
202.60
1,283.00
63.00
366.20
84.00
326.20
314.80
170.80
544.20
614.80
254.00
513.40
331.20
1,128.60
1.269.60
287.20
225.20
540.80
283.00
141.00

10.70
3.20
35.70
15.50
2.00
3.30
12.50
21.30
12.00
4.90
.20
21.00
.70
29.70
22.90
5.50
22.10
36.50
11.50
35.70
6.20
7.20
6.50
35.70
6.00
2.50

29.70
.20
6.60
2.80
35.70
42.90

530

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Home
Building
Fund.

General
Fund.

Granite ....................222
Bakersfield ..............224
Brooklyn -·--·---· ..... .225
San Mateo ............. .226
Athens ................... .228
Solano ...................... 229
North Butte ..........230
.Cove lo .; ....................231
Janesville ................232
Calistoga ................233
Hope ....................... .234
Surprise Valley......235
Hill's Ferry ......... .236
Guadalupe .............. 237
Colusa ......................240
.Santa Ana .......... .241
Magnolia · .. :.:.......... .242
Eucalyptus ..............243
Alcatraz .................. 244
Laurel ..................... .245
Pomona .... :.............. 246
Fresno ...... :.............. .247
Alturas .................... 248
Adin ........ c................ .250
Bodie ......... :.............. 252
Landmark ······ ....... 253
Reading .................. 254
Welcome ................. .255
Lodi ......................... .256
Penrhyn .................. 258
Evergreen· ............. .259
King Solomon' s..... .260
Tuscan .................... 261
Lompoc .:.................. 262
Hesperian ............. .264
Orland ... :................. .265
North East ............ 266
Galt .......................... 267
Durant .................... 268
.Olive Branch ........ 269
Snow Mountain ...... 271
Pasadena . .. :............ .272
Anchor ................... .273

52.20
331.10
478.00
153.30
72.40
301.80
85.90
47.70
47.80
98.30
55.70
45.60
81.40
57.60
100.00
320.30
114.30
109.90
410.40
107.80
278.60
416.50
63.30
47.50
23.40
61.70
133.20
93.20
202.80
94.20
298.20
692.20
55.30
111.00
203.70
84.90
42.70
53.20
416.90
159.20
34.60
418.50
67.20

58.00
309.00
410.00
147.00
76.00
282.00
91.00
43.00
52.00
87.00
53.00
44.00
76.00
64.00
90.00
327.00
107.00
101.00
386.00
112.00
264.00
375.00
67.00
45.00
26.00
53.00
138.00
88.00
202.00
88.00
298.00
568.00
57.00
110.00
193.00
81.00
43.00
48.00
431.00
148.00
34.00
415.00.
68.00

29.00
154.50
205.00
73.50
38.00
141.00
45.50
21.50
26.00
43.50
26.50
22.00
38.00
32.00
45.00
163.50
53.50
50.50
193.00
56.00
132.00
187.50
33.50
22.50
13.00
26.50
69.00
44.00
101.00
44.00
149.00
284.00

28.50
55.00
96.50
40.50
21.50
24.00
215.50
74.00
17.00
207.50
34.00

581

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total.

Allowed
Representatives.

139.20
794.60
1,093.00
373.80
186.40
724.80
222.40
112.20
125.80
228.80
135.20
111.60
195.40
153.60
235.00
810.80
274.80
261.40
989.40
275.80
674.60
979.00
163.80
115.00
62.40
141.20
340.20
225.20
505.80
226.20
745.20
1,544.20.
140.80
276.00
493.20
206.40
107.20
125.20
1.06.140
381.20
85.60
1,041.00
169.20

23.40
.20
1.20
5.10
2.10
9.50
34.80
2.50
23.70
45.90
7.00
21.00
9.40
35.70
29.60
1.10
.20
10.00
35.70
15.60
48.90
6.40
18.50
17.70
5.50
7.40
35.70
8.40
24.30
21.70
50.90

5.50
.20
18.30
15.60
35.70
36.10

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Arroyo ................... .274
Oakdale ..................275
Selma ......................277
Southern CaliL.....278
Hanford .................. 279
Madera ....................280
Mount Shasta ....... .281
Callayomi ................282
South West ............283
San Miguel ............285
Paso Robles ..........286
Winnedumah ..........'JJ!,7
Maxwell .................. 288
Elsinore ..................289
East Gate ................290
Santa Paula ..........291
Los Gatos ..............292
Orange Grove ........;293
Traver ......................294
Mt. Jackson ..........295
Silver Gate ....... ,. ...296
Dunsmuir ................297
Mokelumne Hill ... .298
Liberty ....................299
Redlands ..................300
Ontario .................... 301
Santa LuCia .......... 302
Porterville .............. 303
Reedley .................... 304
Azusa ...................... 305
Ashlar ......................306
Santa Monica ........307
Monrovia ................ 308
Delano ....................309
Sisson ...................... 310
Los Banos .............. 312
Tehachapi ................313
Temescal ................ 314
Norwalk ..................315
Sanger ....................316
Fallbrook ................317
Emmanuel ..............318
Hollenbeck ............319

52.80
78.60
169.20
645.70
181.20
137.40
62.30
53.10
135.10
73.40
67.90
96.70
49.10
75.80
773.50
144.00
132.00
131.30
74.80
82.80
475.00
114.30
42.40
185.40
258.80
149.40
72.00
176.70
78.40
92.40
129.10
185.70
140.00
146.20
91.40
69.00
127.10
108.80
87.80
86.40
48.50
48.10
1,019.30

52.00
74.00
158.00
663.00
178.00
116.00
57.00
39.00
119.00
76.00
61.00
103.00
39.00
62.00
725.00
140.00
130.00
127.00
72.00
82.00
440.00
107.00
46.00
186.00
252.00
136.00
70.00
173.00
66.00
86.00
129.00
153.00
130.00
108.00
86.00
60.00
129.00
92.00
72.00
86.00
45.00
49.00
867.00

26.00
37.00
79.00
331.50
89.00
58.00
28.50
19.50
59.50
38.00
30.50

'!a.so

19.50
31.00
362.50
70.00
65.00
63.50
36.00
41.00
220.00
53.50
23.00
93.00
126.00
68.00
35.00
86.50
33.00
43.00
64.50
76.50
65.00
54.00
43.00
30.00
64.50
46.00
36.00
43.00
22.50
24.50
433.50

Allowed
Represent•
Total.

130.80
189.60
406.20
1,640.20
448.20
311.40
147.80
111.60
313.60
187.40
159.40
251.20
107.60
168.80
1,861.00
354.00
327.00
321.80
182.80
205.80
1,135.00
274.80
111.40
464.40
636.80
353.40
177.00
436.20
177.40
221.40
322.60
415.20
335.00
308.20
220.40
159.00
320.60
246.80
195.80
215.40
116.00
121.60
2,319.80

ative~

16.70
35.70
17.70
17.80
9.50
44.15
16.10
16.70
55.10
8.90
38.10
35.70
31.70
3.30
35.70
17.00
3.50
44.15
14.00
2.50
36.40
35.70
10.30
20.00
17.10
36.20
35.70
36.40
35.70
20.30
23.80
25.60
35.70
35.70
18.50
41.70
9.70
35.70

532

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

South Gate ............320
Alisa! ........................321
Alhambra ................ 322
Whittier ..................323
Corona ................... .324
Consuelo ................ 325
Needles .................... 326
Long Beach ............ 327
Redondo ..................328
Vallee de France....329
Kilauea .................... 330
Pacific Grove ........ 331
San Pedro ..............332
Alta ..........................333
Covina ...................... 334
West Gate ..............335
Fruitvale ..................336
Carquinez ................337
San Jacinto ............338
Fullerton ................ 339
Oxnard ....................341
San Fernando ........343
Starr King ..............344
Brentwood .............. 345
Palo Alto ................346
McKinley ................347
San Bemardino ...... 348
Sequoia ....................349
Palestine ................351
Sunset ......................352
Pinole ...................... 353
Presidio .................. 354
Hollywood ............355
Mill Valley ...........356
Buena Park ............357
Golden State .......... 358
Loyalton ..................359
San Francisco ........360
Fort Bragg ........... 361
Charity .................... 362
Berkeley ..................363
Olivet ......................364
Willits ...................... 365

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

707.10
85.60
283.80
204.90
364.10
66.90
147.90
363.00
179.20
99.00
160.25
59.40
246.90
26.10
153.40
451.10
451.10
106.70
102.50
216.90
189.50
111.00
326.00
105.10
232.40
218.60
291.40
648.00
395.10
511.50
126.30
370.30
475.00
232.80
111.00
582.50
42.30
308.10
84.30
85.50
412.60
59.90
102.30

719.00
359.50
74.00
37.00
272.00
136.00
171.00
85.50
369.00
184.50
71.00
35.50
141.00
70.50
360.00
180.00
158.00
79.00
100.00
50.00
175.00
87.50
66.00
33.00
211.00
105.50
29.00
14.50
156.00
78.00
429.00
214.50
339.00
169.50
103.00
51.50
105.00
52.50
211.00
105.50
175.00
87.50
90.00
45.00
310.00
155.00
89.00
44.50
216.00
108.00
194.00
97.00
276.00
138.00
580.00
290.00
349.00 . 174.50
445.00
222.50
97.00
48.50
327.00
163.50
400.00
200.00
202.00
101.00
80.00
40.00
515.00
257.50
37.00
18.50
269.00
134.50
77.00
38.50
85.00
42.50
364.00
182.00
61.00
30.50
97.00
48.50

Allowed
RepresentTotal.
atives.

1,785.00
196.60
691.80
461.40
917.60
173.40
359.40
903.00
416.20
249.00
422.75
158.40
563.40
69.60
387.40
1,094.60
959.60
261.20
260.00
533.40
452.00
246.00
791.00
238.00
556.40
509.00
705:40
1,518.00
918.60
1,179.00
271.80
860.80
1.075.00
535.80
231.00
1,355.00
97.80
711.60
199.80
213.00
958.60
151.40
247.80

35.70
2.50
35.70
35.90
35.70
41.90
48.50
36.50
36.50
35.70
7.00
36.50
35.70
35.70
.20
2.10
38.70
35.70
30.30
34.70
3.80
2.10
1.10
35.70
.20
35.70
35.70
1.00
35.70
1.00
35.70
35.70
22.40
13.90
3.10
.20
14.90
8.00

Las Palmas ............ 366
South Pasadena......367
Unity ........................368
Ocean Park ............369
Amity ...................... 370
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..............371
Gardena ..................372
Veteran ....................373
Jewel ........................ 374
Richmond ................375
Francis Drake ........376
Artesia .................... 377
Mizpah ....................378
Fillmore ..................379
Huntington Beach..380
Oceanside ................ 381
Highland Park ........382
Orosi ........................383
El Centro ................384
Dinuba ....................385
Coalinga ..................387
Parnassus ................388
Palos Verdes ........389
Imperial ..................390
East Belt ................391
West Lake ............392
Balder ...................... 393
University ..............394
Turlock ....................395
Apollo ......................396
Rising Light ..........397
Fraternity ..............399
Burlingame ............400
Bay View ................401
Brawley ..................402
Yerba Buena ..........403
Glendora ................404
Moneta ....................405
Burbank ................. .406
La Mesa ................. .407
Sierra Madre ........408
Honolulu ............... .409

533

Home
Home
General Maintenance Buildit1g
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Total.

Allowed
Represent·

411.60
177.30
261.10
215.20
356.80

354.00
167.00
209.00
198.00
332.00

177.00
83.50
104.50
99.00
166.00

942.00
427.80
574.60
512.20
854.80

196.50
89.10
199.50
102.20
418.40
80.40
89.30
463.70
94.60
61.60
49.10
339.50
82.30
144.20
120.10
150.10
374.30
182.90
73.90
65.00
707.40
291.30
341.50
95.40
175.40
161.50
217.40
210.60
294.20
82.10
272.10
56.70
336.50
78.30
51.50
60.50
183.25

174.00
89.00
165.00
98.00
336.00
76.00
87.00
423.00
94.00
64.00
49.00
315.00
67.00
128.00
119.00
149.00
317.00
171.00
71.00
50.00
616.00
217.00
255.00
86.00
156.00
135.00
186.00
174.00
238.00
79.00
219.00
53.00
295.00
77.00
55.00
65.00
195.00

87.00
44.50
82.50
49.00
168.00
38.00
43.50
211.50
47.00
32.00
24.50
157.50
33.50
64.00
59.50
74.50
158.50
85.50
35.50
25.00
308.00
108.50
127.50
43.00
78.00
67.50
93.00
87.00
119.00
39.50
109.50
26.50
147.50
38.50
27.50
32.50
97.50

457.50
222.60
447.00
249.20
922.40
194.40
219.80
1,098.20
235.00
157.60
122.60
$12.00
182.80
336.20
298.60
373.60
849.80
439.40
180.40
140.00
1,631.40
616.80
724.00
224.40
409.40
364.00
496.40
471.60
651.20
200.60
600.60
136.20
779.00
193.80
134.00
158.00
475.75

atives.

15.60
35.70
37.90
36.40

35.70
36.40

.70
36.40
35.70
32.40
37.20
39.90
35.70
19.10
53.20
18.30
19.80
36.5d'
52.90
35.70
35.70
7.40
.20
35.70
1.10
.20
51.70
.20
35.70
35.70
35.00
44.50
36.40

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Charter Rock ...... ..410
Perris .................... ..411
Calexico ................ ..412
Waucoba ............... .413
Arlington ............... .414
Silver Trowel ....... .415
Lindsay ................... .416
Clovis ..................... .417
Elysian ................... .418
Upland ................... .419
Kerman ................... .420
Inglewood ............. .421
Eagle Rock ........... .422
York ....................... .423
Exeter .............. :...... .424
Holtville ................. .425
Midway ................ ..426
Chino Valley ........ ..427
San Dimas ............. .428
Pittsburg ............... .429
McCloud ................. .430
Alpha ..................... .431
Roseville ................. .432
Hammonton ......... .433
Maricopa ............... .434
Fairmount ............. .435
Claremont ............ ..436
Lancaster ............... .437
Germania ............... .438
Tyrian .................... ..439
Standard ................ 440
Coronado ................ 441
Blackmer ................ 442
Schofield ................ ..443
Carpinteria ............ 444
Wilshire .................. 445
La Puente .............. 446
Torrance .............. ..447
Mt. Diablo ............. .448
Park ..... :....................449
Van Nuys .............. ..450
Montebello ............. .451
San Pasqual ......... .452

443.40
70.80
103.90
32.90
149.90
189.00
65.00
69.10
297.90
71.10
56.40
121.60
43.50
64.90
55.30
76.90
168.20
45.60
65.90
80.20
37.80
254.60
118.50
62.80
7U50
548.70
63.20
61.20
98.40
52.00
165.80
106.70
129.80
178.50
36.40
303.10
40.00
53.20
61.40
305.80
77.10
48.00
100.70

376.00
52.00
91.00
31.00
141.00
160.00
60.00
49.00
231.00
69.00
46.00
84.00
45.00
61.00
57.00
61.00
128.00
44.00
61.00
58.00
42.00
204.00
95.00
52.00
54.00
393.00
58.00
48.00
76.00
40.00
122.00
83.00
112.00
106.00
36.00
259.00
40.00
38.00
46.00
202.00
59.00
40.00
83.00

188.00
26.00
45.50
15.50
70.50
80.00
30.00
24.50
115.50
34.50
23.00
42.00
22.50
30.50
28.50
30.50
64.00
22.00
30.50
29.00
21.00
102.00
47.50
26.00
27.00
196.50
29.00
24.00
38.00
20.00
61.00
41.50
56.00
53.00
18.00
129.50
20.00
19.00
23.00
101.00
29.50
20.00
41.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

535

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Represent-

Allowed
Hepresent-

Total.

1,007.40
148.80
240.40
79.40
361.40
429.00
155.00
142.60
644.40
174.60
125.40
247.60
111.00
156.40
140.80
168.40
360.20
111.60
157.40
167.20
100.80
560.60
261.00
140.80
152.60
1,138.20
150.20
133.20
212.40
112.00
348.80
231.20
297.80
337.50
90.40
691.60
100.00
110.20
130.40
608.80
165.60
108.00
225.20

atives.

.20
37.10
54.00
52.90
35.70
35.70
19.30
16.40
35.70
35.70
36.20
36.20
36.70
18.90
54.00
27.60
35.70
35.70
3.00
27.00
1.10
6.80
10.05
27.10
35.70
30.60
35.70
5.50
.20
44.15
44.15

35.70
35.70
35.70
2.80
35.70
35.70
35.70

Bethlehem ............. .453
Crocker ................... .454
Golden West ......... .455
Kennett ................. .456
Ramona ................. .457
Henry S. Orme ..... .458
Riverbank ............. .459
Mount Oso ........... .460
Argonaut ............... .461
Paul Revere ........ ..462
Morgan Hill ......... .463
Alta Vista ............. .464
Center ..................... .465
Libertas .............. U. D.
Culver City ........ U. D.
Rockridge .......... U. D.

118.50
88.00
zy2.80
64.20
94.80
234.70
58.80
75.30
123.40
319.70
24.70
77.50
79.30·
53.20
20.40
22.50

95.00
50.00
152.00
48.00
62.00
123.00
42.00
47.00
66.00
133.00
23.00
35.00
47.00
28.00
16.00
15.00

47.50
25.00
76.00
24.00
31.00
61.50
21.00
23.50
33.00
66.50
11.50
17.50
23.50
14.00
8.00
7.50

Allowed
Total.

atives.

261.00
163.00
520.80
136.20
187.80
419.20
121.80
145.80
222.40
519.20
59.20
130.00
149.80
95.20
44.40
45.00

35.70
35.70
6.90
4.40

4.20
12.60
23.40
35.70
.20

--- ----------

Totals ........................$65,628.45 $59,987.00 $29,993.50 $155,608.95 $6,273.20
The following statistical information is disclosed by the returns:

3869 members raised as compared with ................................ 3513 last year
933 members affiliated as compared with ............................ 1063 "
"
191 members restored as compared with............................ 126 "
4993 members gained as compared with ................................ 4702 "
764 members withdrawn as compared with ....................... . 753 last year
717 members suspended for N.P.D. as compared with ... . 638 "
14 members expelled as compared with ........................... . 23 "
864 members died as compared with ................................... . 814 "

2359 members lost as compared with ...................................... 2228 "
There has been a net gain in membership for the year of 2634,
making the total membership at the close of the year 60,384.
Your Committee last year called attention to the necessity of encouraging members of outside jurisdictions, who are now residents of
this jurisdiction, to affiliate with us, but the returns do not disclose
that any such effort has been made. We find that in many localities in
the State there are nearly as many non-affiliated as affiliated members,
that such non-affiliated members enjoy all the benefits of the Order
without assuming any of the burdens or responsibilities. This necessarily adds additional burdens to our own members.

536

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Too often, when approached to become members, the excuse offered
is, that the dues they pay are only one-half to one-eighth of what we
pay. It, also, too frequently, happens that when one of these brethren
requires assistance, or we are compelled to advance funeral expenses
and the return of the same is requested from his home Lodge, the reply
is, that the Lodge is not in a position to reimburse us. It is improbable
that any legislation could be enacted to correct this condition which
would not be discourteous to other jurisdictions, but we do think a
concerted effort should be made to have all non-affiliated members who
are permanent residents here to become members of the Lodges in
their vicinity.
Your Committee last year also called attention to the large number
of suspensions for non-payment of dues. This same matter was also
called to your attention in the Grand Secretary's report for that an<l
the preceding year, and yet the returns this year disclose an even greater
number of such suspensions.
This condition can be and should be corrected. The fault seems
to result from the neglect or failure of Masters and Secretanes to take
the delinquencies up promptly, or by other means than a mailed notice.
We recommend that each Lodge have a Committee on Delinquent Members, whose duty will be to personally or otherwise interview each
member delinquent and ascertain the cause for such delinquen~y and
endeavor to have the same paid, or remitted if unable to pay and
deserving, and thus have a concerted effort made throughout the State
to materially reduce the number of suspensions from this cause.
Respect:£ully submitted,
H. D. MEYERS,
JOSEPH ABRAMS,
GEo. W. LEMorn,
ARTHUR
CRITES,
Committee.

s.

537

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS.
Brother Jesse W. Wheatley, Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws, reported as follows:
To the Most vVorshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on By-Laws herewith submit the followmg report:
Having carefully examined all of the applications for increasing and
decreasing of dues, increasing and decreasing of initiation fees, increasing and decreasing of affiliation fees, changing times of stated meetings, etc., we find them all to be in accordance with the Uniform Code
of By-Laws of this Grand Lodge, and recommend that the same and
each of them be approved.
Respect:£ully submitted,
J. W. WHEATLEY,
H. C. NELSON,
J. E. HOSMER,
VrcTOR AARON,
HARRY ANDREWS.

Report adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS.
Brother Jimmie N. Hall, Chairman of the Committee
· on Credentials, reported the following officers and representatives of 355 ohartered Lodges, delegates from three
Lodges under dispensation, and Past Masters by service
within this jurisdiction, as being present, namely:
California .............. No.

The report and recommendation were adopted.

Western Star ........ No.

!.. .. Thomas Rolph, Senior Warden;
H. A. Cline, Past Master;
'vV. Crocker, Past Master;
W. C. Hassler, Past Master;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master;
H. A. Marvin, Past Master;
H. M. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Grand Master;
E. Peabody, Past Master ;
J. M. Whited, Past Master.
2.... August Tillman, Master and Past Master.

639

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF.ORNIA

3....John A. Brown, Jr., Senior Warden;
A. Greilich, Past :.raster ;
J. ).1clndeor, Past Master;
T. J. Milliken, Past Master;
F. L. Thirkield, Past Master.
Benicia .................... No. S....Henry P. Ward, Master.
Tuolumne .............. No. 8.... Lewis H. Bach, Master ;
G; T. Black, Past Master.
Corinthian .............. No. 9.... Albert K. Andross, Master;
A. ,V. Gluckman, Past Master.
San Jose ................ No. 10.... Albert E. Sandbo, Master;
George B. Stevens, Senior \Varden;
F. Doerr, Past Master;
J. P. Jarman, Inspector and Past Master;
R. Lowe, Past Master;
J. H. McGehee, Past Master;
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master.
Yount ....................... No. 12.... Arthur N. Munk, Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Grand Master;
C. E. Trower, Past Master.
Nevada .................... No. 13....Lloyd W. Jennings, Master.
Temple .................... No. 14....Frederick D. Bose, Representative.
Eureka ..................•. No. 16.... C. F. Richter, Representative and Past
Master.
I,aParfaite Union .. No. 17... .Joseph H. Plante, Master;
Albert J. Fabre, Senior Warden ;
Joseph J. Goetz, Junior Warden;
B. F. Ames, Past }faster;
A. L. Auradou, Past Master;
M. E. Diebold, Past Master;
A. Gehret, Past Master;
0. M. Goldaracena, Inspector and Past
Master;
A. Huguenin, Past Master;
H. !lfottet, Past Master.
:.\fountain 'Shade.... No. 18.... E. L. Case, Inspector, Master and Past
Master.
San Joaquin ............No. 19.... B. F. Goode, Past Master;
F. L. Kincaid, Representative.
Washington .......... No. 20.... Milton J. Ferguson, Senior Warden.
Hawaiian ................ No. 2L ..James F. Fenwick, Representative.

Occidental .............. No. 22.... Frederick W. Nish, Senior Warden;
David P. Vail, Junior Warden;
C. P. Fonda, Past Master;
F. W. G. !l!Ioebus, Past Master;
M. A. Schmidlin, Past Master;
H. F. Wilson, Past Master.
Madison .................. No. 23.... James J. Rowe, Senior Warden;
G. L. Jones, Past Master ;
T. Ingraham, Inspector and Past Master.
Mariposa ................ Ko. 24.... Lorenza A. Offield, Senior Warden;
James W. Pratt, Junior Warden;
L. A. C. H. Kylberg, Inspector and Past
Master;
E. P. Wason, Past Master.
Palmyra .................. No. 26.... George C. Rolleri, Master;
'S. Inch, Past Master.
Trinity .................... No. 27 ....Jesse F. Tourtelotte, Master.
Golden Gate .......... No. 30....Robert W. Dewar, Master;
Oscar R. W. Krenz, Senior Warden;
Edward C. C. Wellesley, Junior Warden;
P. R. Bjick, Past Master;
E. L. ).feyer, Past Master;
J. Patterson, Past :Vfaster.
Gold Hill ................ No. 32.... Hans P. Jansen, Master and Past Master;
J. Gerber, Past :'.\faster.
· Ophir ...................... No. 33 .... D. B. Driver, Representative and Past
Master.
San Diego .... :......... No. 35 ....John F. West, Senior Warden;
. 'Frederick W. Reif, Junior Warden.
St. J ohn's.._.....:.: ..... N o. 37... .J oseph Barnett, Master;
Frank B. Ackerman, Senior Warden.
Santa Cruz ... :........ No. 38.... C. D. Folsom, Representative and Past
Master.
Sacramento ............ No. 40....Ralph L. Skinner, Master;
R. P. Burr, Past Master;
W. D. Knights, Past Master;
J. H. Stephens, Past )faster.
Marti~ez ...... :.: ....... No. 41....Thomas B. Swift, Master;
W. S. Wells, Past Grand Master.
Los Angeles .......... No. 42....James H. Sellers, Master;
C. E. Mitchell, Past Master ;
A. A. Wells, Past Master.

538

Tehama .................. No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mount Moriah ...... No. 44.... Roy A. Pratt, Master;
Karl F. Holzmuller, Senior Warden;
H. H. Christian Hjul, Junior Warden;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
J. C. Jens, Past Master;
D. B. Richards, Past Master.
Crescent .................. No. 45.... 0. Dudley, Past Master;
J. M. Hamilton, Representative and Past
Master.
Texas ..................... No. 46.... \Vm. R Flint, Master and Past Master;
T. Flint, Past Grand Master.
Forbestown ............ No. 50....Fred 0. Alm, Senior Warden;
M. G. Hill, Past Master.
lllinoistown ............ No. 51.. ..John J. Huxtable, Junior Warden;
A. Stevens, Past Master.
Suisun .................... No. 55.... Eugene L. Dearborn, Master.
Volcano .................. No. 56....Jo!m B. Gills, Representative.
Santa Rosa ............ No. 57.... Ross C. Moodey, Master;
Harry P. Fish, Senior Warden;
A. G. Burnett, Past Grand Master.
Union ...................... No. 58. ...John W. Tyer, Master;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
J. F. Morgan, Past Master;
J. P. Bascom, Past Master.
Gravel Range ........ No. 59 .... Walter W. Chapman, Master.
Live Oak ................ No. 61....Charles H. Victor, Master;
Chas. A. Anderson, Senior \Varden;
Herbert Beckwith, Junior Warden;
L. S. Griswold, Past Master.
Natoma .................. No. 64....Wm. J. Waites, Senior Warden.
Amador .................. No. 65 .. William K. McFarland, Master;
G. W. Matson, Past Master.
Morning Star ........ No. 68....Jesse W. Wheatley, Master;
Arthur L. Treadway, Senior Warden;
0. S. Henderson, Past Grand Master;
G. A. McKenzie, Past Master.
Enterprise .............. No. 70.... Edward T. Hughes, Master and Past Master.
Bear Mountain ......No. 76.... Bert Gazzolo, Senior Warden;
F. W. Clough, Inspector and Past Master.
Calaveras ................ No. 78....James A. Smith, Master and Past Master.

Humboldt .............. No. 79....Hans C. Nelson, Master;
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master;
G. W. Hunter, Grand Past Master;
A. J. Monroe, Past Grand Master.
Ione .......................... No. 80.... Elbert W. Perkins, Senior Warden.
Yolo ........................ No. 81..-C. R. Hoppin, Representative and Past
Master.
Rising Star ............ No. 83....Henry Jones, Representative.
Vesper .................... No. 84.... 0tto C. Combs, Junior Warden.
Naval ...................... No. 87....Thomas Brown, Master;
Frederick Gaff, Senior Warden;
Bert C. Whiteley, Junior Warden;
W. Brownlie, Past Master;
C. W. Caushrook, Past Master;
J. E. Wilson, Past Master.
Henry Clay ............ No. 95 ....John L. Redpath, Master and Past Master;
L. Katz, Past Master.
Howard ..................No. 96....Madro H. Madden, Master.
Jefferson ......... ~ ..... No. 97.... Arthur T. Gould, Master and Past Master.
Yosemite ................ No. 99.... Scott Hughes, Master.
Clay .......................... No. 101....Charles Kempster, Master and Past Master.
Oroville .................. No.103.... Chas. 0. Hamilton, Junior Warden;
A. E. Boynton, Past Master;
C. 0. Hamilton, Inspector and Past Master;
H. Jacoby, Past Master.
Lexington ..............No. 104....John H. Satow, Master.
Arcata .................... No. 106....Ralph L. Oak, Senior Warden ;
G. H. Burchard, Past Master;
F. E. Morrell, Inspector and Past Master.
Pajaro ....................No. 110....Roy H. Davis, Master.
Chico ...................... No. UL.Hale H. Lothrop, Master;
Roy G. Estes, Senior Warden.
Summit .................. No. 112.... Herbert Collins, Representative.
Eden .... :................... No. 113....John B. Peppin, Master;
S. B. Force, Past Master.
Concord ..................No.117 .... William K. Lindsay, Junior Warden;
J. M. Chapman, Past Master;
C. A. Schocke, Past Master.
Clinton .................... No. 1J9....Thaddeus A. Jones, Master.
Fidelity .................... No. 120.... Victor Aaron, Master;
Herman M. Wallenstein, Senior Warden;
Herbert S. Bibbero, Junior Warden;
J. D. Abrams, Past Master;
P. · Jacobovics, Past Master.

540

541

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alamo .................... No. 122.... Herbert H. Daley, Senior Warden.
Sotoyome .............. No. 123.... 0scar A. Frellson, Master and Past Master;
W. W. Ferguson, Past Master.
Table Mountain .... No. 124.... Edgar C. Wilson, Master.
La Fayette ............ No. 126.... Archie R. Hull, Junior Warden.
Hermann ................No. 127.... Emil A. N eumaerkel Master·
George Von Staden, 'Senior Warden;
Hans H. Schmalfeld, Junior Warden;
0. Lemcke, Past Master;
L. Muller, Inspector and Past Master.
Visalia .................... No. 128.... Clarence L. Fraser, Senior Warden.
Nicolaus ................ No. 129.... Wm. M. Crilley, Master.
Woodbridge .......... No. 131.. .. T. R. Burkett, Representative and Past
Master.
Sincerity ................ No. 132.... Arlie J. Drury, Master.
Vacaville ................ No. 134.... F. H. Clark, Past .Master.
Valley .................... No. 135 .... Frank A. Creary, Master.
Pacific .................... No. 136.... Frank Mueller, Master;
T. Anderson, Past Master;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
W. H. Edwards, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Grand Master·
A. \V. Turpin, Past Master.
'
Crockett .................. No. 139.... James W. Davies,· Master;
Arthur H. Canaris, Senior Warden;
Wm. R. Gibson, Junior Warden;
H. J. Lli:>yd, Past Master;
H. McBirney, Past Master.
Curtis ...................... No. 140.... Wm. B. Caldwell, Master.
Grafton ................. ,No. 141...Alexander L. K~nnedy, Senior Wardc1i.
Franklin ................ No. 143 ... .J. H. Hyde, Past Master;
H. D. Kercheval, Representative and Past
Master;
A. Runyon, Past Master.
Oriental .................. No. 144... .Thomas Harris, Master·;
Alfred J. Snow, Senior· Warden;
J. F. Clute, Past Master;
W. $. Hamilton, Past Master;
C. W. \Vhitney, Past Ma'ster.
A hell ...................... No. 146.... Neil M. Anker, Master;
J. ·M. Mannon, Sr., Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

54.:l

Eel River .............. No. 147.... G. W. Long, Senior Warden and Past
Master.
Lassen .................... No. 149.... Leon R. Cady, Senior Warden;
J. A. Pardee, Inspector and Past Master.
Molino .................... No. 150.... J ohn T. Youles, Master and Past Master.
W99dland .............. No. 156.... Frank W. Weaver, Master;
H. H. Gable, Inspector and Past Master.
Keystone ....... ,........ No. 161.. .. Horace B. Allen, Senior Warden and Past
Master.
Excelsior ................ No. 166.... C. A. Adams, Past Master;
G. R. Armstrong, Past Master.;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
H. C. Collins, Past Master;
D. A. Hare, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Inspector and Past Master.
Alameda .................. No. 167 .... F. B. Hartman, Past Master;
A. Norris, Past Master.
Redwood City ...... No. 168.... 0tis M. Carrington, Master;
Ben C. Zimmerman, Senior Warden ;
Otto Offerman, Junior Warden;
T. 0. Heydenfeldt, Past Master;
C. G. Landscheit, Inspector and Past Master;
F. K. Towne, Past Master.
Mission .................. No. 169.... Lew E. W al\ace, Master ;
Wm. H. Worden, Senior Warden;
R'. E. Allan, Past Master;
R. S. Allen, Inspector and Past Master;
H. Hall. Past Master ;
W. W. Moore, Past Master;
M. R. Renwick, Past Master;
0. L. Sues, Past Master;
E. W. Tucker, Past Master.
Elk Grove .............. No. 173... Thomas L. Conrad, Senior Warden;
G. M. Taverner, Past Master.
Drytown ................ No. 174....Henry Oshorne, Senior Warden and Past
Master.
Antioch .................. No. 175 .... George T. Vivian, J~nior Warden and Representative.
Phoenix .................. No. 178... John Culvertson, Master;
.
W. B. Howes, Inspector and Past Master;
M. J. Neuburg, Past Master.
Mendocino ....,........ No.179 .... Egbert C. Williams, Senior Warderr;
H. A. Atwood, Past Master.

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Petaluma ................ No. 180.... Sandy 'McFadden, Master;
Charles F. Fury, Senior Warden;
S. C. Plow, Past Master.
Russian River ...... No. 181.... William H. Young, Senior Warden;
G. T. Trowbridge, Past Master.
Clear Lake ............ No. 183....L. Jago, Representative and Past Master.
Sierra Valley ........ No. 184.... H. F. E. Ohland, Senior Warden.
Claiborne ................ No. 185.... William I. Thomas, Master;
H. Howe, Past Master.
Keith ...................... No. 187... Chas. Hornbeck, Master and Past Master;
G. E. Skillicorn, Past Master.
Oakland .................. No. 188....John R. Sutton, Master;
Don F. Harris, Senior Warden;
R. B. Gaylord, Past Master;
J. H. MacLafferty.
Northern Light.. .... No. 190....Henry H. Butzbach, Master and Past Mas-.
ter.
Marin ...................... No. 191...John Clute, Master;
Alber B. Dewing, Senior Warden;
A. L. Borkheim, Junior Warden;
A. L. Adams, Past Master ;
F. M. Angellotti, Past Grand Master;
G. F. Rodden, Inspector and Past Master.
Santa Barbara ...... No. 192.... Samuel J. Heyl, Master;
1George W. Tomlinson, Junior Warden;
0. Farnum, Past Master.
Ferndale ................ No.193....'E.
,Herbert
N. Briggs, Master and Past Master.
Buckeye .................. No.195 ....F. W. Wilson, Past Master.
San Simeon .......... No.196.... Louis J. Renshaw, Master.
Wilmington .......... No. 198.... Charles F. Harold, Master.
Hartley .................... No. 199....J. M. Church, Representative and Past
Master.
S. Mathews, Inspector and Past Master;
C. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Pentalpha .............. No. ~ .... Charles R. Miller, Master;
I 'James D. Taggart, Senior Warden;
Charles W. Gist, Junior Warden;
J. B. Gist, Past Master;
1 ~ 'W. R. Hervey, Past Master.
Confidence .............. No. 203....Walter C. Buttle, Master and Past Master,
Salinas .................... No. 204....R. D. Logan. Past Master;
F. W. Schmeckel, Past Master.
Stanislaus ..............No. 206... James E. Hosmer, Master;
W. H. Kirk, Past Master.

Anaheim ................ No. 207.... Morris W. Martenet, Master and Past
Master.
Rio Vista ................ No. 208....William A. Stewart, Master;
J. M. Talbert, Past Master.
King David's ........ No. '200....W. D. Adriance, Inspector, Master and
Past Master;
J. Whicher, Past Master.
Friendship .............. No. 210. ... William W. Paull, Master;
Albert G. Ramstad, Senior Warden;
Jose E. Witherspoon, Junior Warden.
S. San Francisco.. N o. 212....Thomas Skelly, Junior Warden ;
W. J. B. Warner, Past Master.
San Buenaventura .. No. 214.... Scott M. Wilson, Master;
Earl E. Mose, Senior Warden;
D. J. Reese, Inspector and Past Master.
Oak Grove .............. No. 215 ....0tto H. Fischer, Master;
Henry G. Ilderton, Senior Warden.
Doric ...................... No. 216...•Leonard T. Pockman, Master;
William C. Blank, Junior Warden;
B. Levi, Past Master;
A. A. Rosenshine, Past Master;
F. L. Wight, Past Master.
Monterey ................ No. 217....Robert J. McCabe, Master and Past Master.
Mosaic .................... No. 218....T. F. Brady, Representative.
Speranza Italiana.. No. 219.... Sisto Rasori, Master and Past .Master;
Joseph Perazzo, Junior Warden;
A. Cogliandro, Past Master;
E. V. Lonigo, Past Master ;
C. C. Peini, Past Master;
G. Scalmanini, Inspector and Past Master.
Downey .................. No. 220....John A. Bryson, Senior Warden.
Inyo ........................ No. 221.. ..Jesse W. Hession, Master.
Bakersfield ............ No. 224.... Henry Eissler, Master;
Dallas Hayes, Senior Warden;
Milton T. Farmer, Junior Warden;
A. S. Crites, Past Master ;
W. W. Kaye, Inspector and Past Master ;
E. P. Munsey, Past Master.
Brooklyn ................ No. 225 .... Chester V. Newell, Master;
AllS1n M. Wickland, Senior Warden ;
William F. Woods, Junior Warden;
H. P. Biggs, Past Master;
F. J. Rennie, Past Master;
G. D. Warren, Inspector and Past Master;
E. J. Wold, Past Master.

1

545

546

;•1wcEEDI:Ncs OF THE

San Mateo ............ No. 226 .... Francis J. Cochran Master·
Edward C. Aldwell'. Senior Warden·
Joseph B. Gordon, Junior Warden·'
F. E. Beer, Past Master;
' .
J. W. Divelbiss, Past Master;
H. M. Taylor, Past Master·
C. A. M. Vandebos, Past Master·
C. A. Wainwright, Past Master· '
Athens ........... :........ No. 228 ....Thomas J. Bowcock, Master;
'
B. B. Tuttle, Past Master.
Solano .................... No. 229.... Samuel Lyttle, Master;
Henry A. Frahm,. Senior Warden·
Edward F. De La Meter, Junior Warden;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master ;
0. H. Hilton, Past Master·
R. L. Robertson, Inspector' and Past Master;
J. E. Sanderson, Past Master;
J. F. \tValter, Past Master.
North Butte ..........No. 230.... Albert F. Hansen, Senior Warden.
Janesville ................ No. 232 .... Loren A. Fisher, Master.
Calistoga ................ No. 233 .... Peter Hopkins, Jr., Master;
Archibald H. McArthur, Senior Warden.·
!'."ope ......................... No. 234.... Martin Loosley, Senior Ward en.
Surprise Valley .... No. 235 .... W. E. Van Doren, Representative.
Hill's Ferry .......... No. 236 .... George H. Bartmann, Master;
G. B. Stovell, Past Master.
Guadalupe .............. No. 237... S. Campodonico, Past Master;
W. T. Lucas, Past Grand Master.
Colusa .................... No. 240....William L. Merril), Master·
G. P. Ahl£, Past Master; '
H. Jacobson, Inspector and Past Ma,((·r.
Santa Ana ............ No. 24L .. Frederic C. Rowland, Master;
Frank L. Worden, Junior Warden;
P. L. Tople, Past Master·
M
.
E. -~· Trago, Inspector a;d Past Master.
agnoha ................ No. 242... Ph1hp Crother, Representative.
Eucalyptus .............. No. 243.... George W. Madeley, Master;
Harrison W. Holmes, Senior Warden;
LeRoy Pratt, Junior Warden;
R. A. G. Kolze, Past Master·
M. J. Madison, Past Master'.
E. F. Musson, Past Master. '

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

54i

Alcatraz .................. No. 244.... Elbert W. Garrity, Master;
L. T. Corwin, Past Master;
J. L. Vandenbos, Past Master.
Laurel ...................... No. 245 ....William Watson, Master;
L. M. Benoit, Past Master.
Pomona .................. No. 246.... Louis E. Sheets, Master;
\V. A. Vandergrift, Inspector and Fast
Master.
Fresno .................... No. 247.... Harry S. Foster, Master;
W. J. Harris, Past Master;
C. A. Lisenby, Past Master;
A. L. Smith, Inspector and Past Master.
Alturas .................... No. 248.... Chas. S. Baldwin, Inspector, Master and
Past Master;
E. C. Bonner, Past Master.
Adin ........................ No. 250....James A. Clark, Master.
Landmark .............. No. 253 .... E. C. Baur, Representative.
Reading .................. No. 254.... McCoy Fitzgerald, Master.
\Velcome ................ No. 255 .... M. C. Carter, Representative and Past
Master;
R. E. Shore, Inspector and Past Master.
Lodi ........................ No. 256....G. W. LeMoin, Representative and Past
Master;
W. J. Thomayer, Inspector and Past Master.
Penrhyn .................. No. 258 .... Herbert N. Leak, Master.
Evergreen .............. No. 259.... Charles 0. Reid, Master;
C. B. Bayley, Past Master;
H. D. French, Inspector and Past Master;
A. H. Winder, Past Master.
King Solomon's .... No. 260.... Henry L. Green, Master;
E. E. Conn, Past Master;
G. M. Davis, Past Master;
F. W. Hosmer, Past Master;
F. B. Wood, Past Master.
Tuscan .................... No. 261.. .. P. H. Northey, Representative and Past
Master.
Lompoc .................. No. 262.... Delbert R. Daniels, Master.
Hesperian .............. No. 264.... Francis E. Hebard, Master.
Orland .................... No. 265 .... W. Clark, Representative, Inspector and
Past Master.
North East ............ No. 266.... Raymond R. Baker, Master.
Galt .......................... No. 267.... James T. Christian, Master;
Joseph L. Orvis, Junior Warden.

549

PROCE.E:DlNGS 01'' THE

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

Durant --------------------No. 268.... Elmer E. Myers, Master;
Edward L. Soule, Senior Warden;
Walter W. Bradley, Junior Warden;
A. Fouch, Past Master;
R. Greig, Past Master ;
W. A. Sloan, Past Master;
W. H. Waste, Past Master.
Olive Branch ________ No. 269 .... Harry H. Beckwith, Master.
Snow Mountain .... No. 27L .. George L. Mason, Master and Past Master.
Pasadena ________________ No. 272.... Guy E. Haldeman, Master.
Anchor ------------·-------No. 273 .... Frank B. Hyatt, Master.
Selma --------------------··No. 277.... P. Allen, Past Master;
C. Dusy, Past Master;
J. L. Mitchell, Inspector and Past Master;
T. E. Rule, Representative.
Southern CaliL .... No. 278.... Herbert R. Kells, Master;
F. J. Cooper, Past Master;
W. P. Jefferies, Past Master;
E. B. Spencer, Inspector and Past Master;
D_ R. \Veller, Past Grand Master.
Hanford ----··-·-·-·----No. 279... D. Bunn Rea, Master;
J. C. Ensign, Past Master.
Madera -·-·--·----.. ·--··--No. 280....J. E. Newman, Past Master.
Mount Shasta ______ No. 281.. ..Ernest F. Long, Senior Warden;
Ross Flintzer, Junior Warden.
Callayomi ·--·-·-·----·-No. 282....Thomas A. Read, Master and Past Master.
South West .......... No. 283 .... A. B. Kimball, Representative and Past
Master.
San Miguel ____________ No. 285 .... George Parker, Master.
Paso Robles .......... No. 286.... Herbert C. Sutton, Senior Warden;
W. S. Eddy, Past Master.
Winnedumah ........ No. 287.... Clarenee H. Rhudy, Master and Past Master.
G. A. Bigelow, Past Master.
Maxwell ---·---------·--No. 288.... Samuel E. Crutcher, Master and Past Master.
Elsinore ------·-----·-----No. 289_, __ Delbert R. Crane, Master;
M. N. Herbelin, Past Master.
East Gate -------·-·-----·No. 290.... Burrows C. Arnold, Master;
M. H. Flint, Past Grand Master;
F. C. Mulkey, Past Master.
Santa Paula .......... No. 291.. ..'M. H. Butcher, Representative.
Los Gatos ... .,.......... No. 292.... Robert B. Chandler, Master.
Orange Grove ...... No. 293 .... William A. Knuth, Master.
Traver .................... No. 294....John F. Stone, Representative.

Mt_ Jackson __________ No. 295 .... Walter G. Fonda, Representative.
Silver Gate ·-----·---·-No. 296.... Marius H_ Quitsow, Master.
Dunsmuir ········--·---No. 297.... G. A. H utaff, Representative, Inspector and
Past Master;
A. Levy, Past Master.
Mokelumne Hi!L.No. 298 ____ Clarence A. Berry, Master and Past Master.
Liberty ··-----------······•No. 299....Thornton D. Webster, Master;
Wallace P. Isham, Senior Warden;
Irvan A. Ball, Junior Warden ;
H. A. Myers, Past Master;
\V. C. Raymond, Past Master.
Redlands -----·-·-------·No. 300.... William A. Hartman, Master.
Ontario ·-·-··--·---------No. 301.. .. William H. Garbett, Master and Past Master.
Santa Lucia __________ No. 302.... William J. Hamilton, Master and Past
Master.
Porterville -----··---·---No. 303 .... Edward G. Shore, Senior Warden.
· Reedley ··--···--··----···No. 304.... F. E. Studley, Representative.
Azusa ··--········--···--···No. 305 ....Don H. Petty, Master.
Ashlar ·-·-···---·-·--·-·--No. 306____ Robert M. McHargue, Master;
J. B. Hanna, Past Master.
Santa Monica _______ .No. 307 .... Louis H. Doescher, Master.
Monrovia ·--···--·-----·-No. 308 .. William J. Cornes, Master.
Delano ·---·······---·--··-No. 30') ____ Homer A. Bower, Master.
Sisson ...................... No. 310. ... William M. Gracey, Junior Warden.
Los Banos ______________ No. 312....J. E. Place, Inspector and Past Master.
Tehachapi .............. No. 313..... Louis B. Kessing, Master;
P. Marx, Past Master.
Temescal ________________ No. 314 ... Fred E. Snidecor, Master.
Norwalk ________________ No. 315 ____ John B. Reeve, Master and Past Master.
Sanger -·-··--·-·--------··No. 316.... William Radley, Junior Warden.
Fallbrook -·-----·-·------No. 317 ____ M. McD. Moulton, Representative and Past
Master.
Emmanuel ______________ No. 318 .... Millard F. Neff, Master and Past Master.
Hollenbeck ____________ No. 319 ___ _] ohn Swanfeldt, Master;
Frank E. Burger, Senior Warden;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
H. W. Reynolds, Past Master;
Vv. J. Sanborn, Inspector and Past Master;
L. V. Y oungworth, Past Master.
South Gate ____________ No. 320____ Willis F. Oliver, Master;
R. E. Dill, Inspector and Past Master.
Alisa! --·------·------------No. 321.. .. William H. Graham, Master;
James H. Cope, Senior Warden and Past
Master.

348

550

· PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alhambra ................ No. 322.... Harry W. Slotterbeck, Master;
E. E. Ford, Past Master;
J. N. Hall, Past Master.
Whittier .................. No. 323.... Charles MiUiken, Master;
L. C. Sawin, Inspector and Past Master.
Corona .................... No. 324.... Leonard 0. Bigham, :Master;
J. V. Eliot, Inspector and Past Master.
Consuelo ................ No. 325 .... W. L. Ramey, Representative and Past
Master.
Needles .................. No. 326.... Henry H. Nygren, Master and Past Master;
F. B. Krallman, Past Master.
Long Beach .......... No. 327.... Arthur H. Adams, Junior Warden;
C. H. Shaw, Inspector and Past Master.
Redondo .................. No. 328 .... Fred F. M. Hoffman, Master.
Vallee de France .. No. 329.... 0reste Fracchia, Master.
Kilauea .................. No. 330 ....J. F. Fenwick, Representative;
Chas. H. Fairer, Past Master.
Pacific Grove ........ No. 331.. .. William T. Moore, Master;
C. K. Johnston, Past Master;
E. S. Johnston, Past Master;
C. K. Tuttle, Inspector and Past Master.
San Pedro .............. No. 332.... Robert Irwin, Master.
Alta .......................... No. 333 ....J. D. Murphey, Representative and Past
Grand Master.
Covina .................... No. 334.... Charles D. Griffiths, Master.
West Gate .............. No. 335 .... Milton J. Lesser, Master;
D. J. Brownstein, Past Master;
D. Cave, Inspector and Past Master;
L. S. Nordlinger, Past Master;
D. A. Schweitzer, Past Master.
Fruitvale ................ No. 336....Roddy C. Black, Master;
LeRoy Bishop, Senior Warden;
Harry M. Thornally, Junior Warden;
J. C. McEwen, Past Master;
F. 0. Schullerts, Past :\faster;
H. C. Schwinn, Past Master.
Carquinez .............. No. 337 ....Joseph J. Burdon, Junior Warden;
J. E. Hughes, Inspector and Past Master;
G. Jones, Past Master.
San Jacinto .......... No. 338.... G. Matthews, Representative and Past Master.
Fullerton ................ No. 339.... Augustus G. Miller, Master.
Oxnard .................. No. 341.. .. Jonathan F. Fulkerson, Master and Past
Master.
San Fernan<io ... .,.No. 343.... Herbert M, Foster1 Senior Warqe11,

Starr King ............ No. 344.... Gustave M. Carroll, Master;
Chas. 0. Clausen, Junior Warden ;
J. W. Gale, Past Master;
J. Goodman, Past Master;
C. 0. Munson, Past Master;
C. M. Wollenberg, Past Master.
Brentwood ............ No. 345 .... Alexander Burness, Junior Warden;
R. Wallace, Jr., Past Master.
Palo Alto .............. No. 346.... Harry N. Vandervoort, Master.
McKinley ................ No. 347.... Michael H. Carey, Master;
Roy C. Fernald, Junior Warden;
W. B. Richmond, Past Master;
\V. E. Rose, Past Master;
J. H. Rumrill, Past Master.
San Bernardino .... No. 348.... Adam 0. Miller, Senior Warden;
B. F. Bledsoe, Past Grand Master;
J. Flagg, Past Master.
Sequoia .................. No. 349.... Charles C. Young, Master;
G. W. Bacon, Past Master;
F. D. Dolbier, Past Master;
J. W. Gwilt, Past Master;
E. F. Hughes, Past Master;
C. Husband, Past Master.
Palestine ................ No. 35L.Paul Hyney, Master;
W. F. Haas, Past Master.
Sunset .................... No. 352.... Charles A. Blair, Master;
S. E. Burke, Inspector and Past Master;
R. A. Chase, Past Master;
D. M. Sutherland, Past Master.
Pinole ...................... No. 353 .... Abraham Greenfield, Master and Past Master.
Presidio .................. No. 354....Johnson H. B. Smith, Master;
!1l ti Robert A. Ritchie, Senior Warden;
Calvin S. Grandi, Junior Warden;
W. A. Sherman, Inspector and Past Mas·
ter;
J. B. Wuersching, Past Master.
Hollywood ............ No. 355 ....Robert R,. Rankin, Master.
Mill Valley ............ No. 356....Thomas A. Watters, Master;
P,?
'f' Edwin S. Merriman, Senior Warden;
Frederick A. Burden, Junior Warden.
Buena Park .......... No. 357.... George I. Thomas, Master;
A. S. Feagan, Past Master,

551

5J2

PROOEEDING:S OF THE

Golden State ........ No. 358 .... Clarence L. Robinson, I\faster;
Frank S. Hotton, Senior \Varden;
H. E. Betz, Past Master ;
J. H. Bean, Inspector and Past Master.
Loyalton .. _.......... .,_No. 359 .... Walter H. Duncan, Master and Past Ma:;
ter.
San Francisco ...... No. 360.... Charles H. Roddan, Senior Warden;
H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
H. D. Loveland, Past Master;
J. C. Perry, Past Master;
V. E. Perry, Past I\faster.
Fort Bragg ____________ No. 36L.William A. Chapman, Master.
Charity ..... ---------·--·--No. 362.... Charles E. DeSelle, Master;
Roy G. Archibald, Senior Warden.
Berkeley ................ No. 363.. --Edgar R. Nash, Master;
Edward C. Forbes, Senior Warden;
George L.
Junior Warden;
R. P. Arnold, Past Master;
F. J. R. Dawson, Past Master.
Olivet ..... _.. ,_ ........... No. 205 .... 0tto H. Liersch, Senior Warden;
George W. Lyon, Junior Warden.
Willits ___ .. _______________ No. 365 ... J. J. Wilson, Representative and Past Master.
Las Palmas _........... No. 366 .... Frederick L. Swartz, Master;
J. P. Bernhard, Past Master.
South Pasadena .... No. 367.. _.Charles D. McCluer, Master.
Unity .... ________ .......... No. 368. ___ William F. Nash, Jr., Master.
Ocean Park ________ .. No. 369 .... James T. Peasgood, Jr., Master.
Amity ___________ .. _________ No. 370...William B. Curtis, Master;
Walter G. Campbell, Senior Warden;
Russell I. \Visler, Junior \Varden;
H. C. Klevesnhl. Past Master;
\V. P. Stanton, Past Master;
\V. E. Wood, Inspector and Past Master.
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie -····-······No. 371...James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Gardena -·---·----·-·---··No. 372. ... Edward 0. Weed, Master.
Veteran ...... -........... No. 373 .. - Charles D. Ballard, Master;
James E. Bond, Senior ·warden.
Jewel ... :__ ....... ---···-····No. 374.... Curtis Benton, Master;
Clarence J. Shipaugh, Senior Warden;
L. Bruck, Past Master ;
J. A. Snell, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

553

Richmond --------...... No. 375 ____ Charles F. \Verner, Master;
John A. Johnson, Senior \Varden;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master;
A. MacKillop, Past I\faster.
Francis Drake ...... No. 376....George A. D. Kneese, Master;
Harry J,. Holston, Junior Warden;
G. F. McDonald, Past Master.
Artesia ........ _,, ____ ,, __ .No. 377.... William L. Jencks, Master.
Mizpah .......... ___ ... _... No. 378_ ... Benson F. Tallman, Master;
F. E. Burt, Past Master.
Fillmore _................. No. 379.... Walter W. Newcomer, Junior Warden;
I. L. Hinkley, Past Master.
Huntington Beach .. No. 380....Charles E. Kutzner, Seuior Warden.
Oceanside .............. No. 38L..Thomas H. Draper, Representative.
Highland Park ...... No. 382....Gavin Witherspoon, Master;
H. G. Knox, Past Master;
F. E. Vincent, Past Master.
Orosi .......... -............. No. 383.... Charles S. Beinhom, Senior \Varden.
El Centro .............. No. 384.. _.Harry L.
Master;
D. H. Chaplin, Past Master;
J. S. Ross, Inspector and Past Master.
Dinuba ............... _.... No. 385._ ..Clarence A. Tillotson, Master;
J. D. Pillsbury, Past Master.
Coalinga .... _,,, ___ ... _... No. 387 .... John A. Fluetsch, Senior Warden;
H. E. Robinson, Past Master.
Parnassus -··-----------No. 388.... Clifford T. Dorman, Senior Warden;
Horace R. Spaulding, Junior Warden;
E. F. Louideck, Past :'.\faster.
Palos Verdes ........ No. 389 .... Ernest A. Stevens, Master.
Imperial ________ .......... No.390 .... 0laf W. Lawson, Senior Warden.
West Lake ···------·-·No. 392.... Lewis E. Forsblom, Master;
W. T. Osterholt, Past Master.
Balder --··----·-------·--·No. 393 .... C. G. Johnson, Past Master;
F. 0. Sjogren, Past Master.
University ..... -........ No. 394_ ... Ralph L. Garnier, Master;
I. J. Mitchell, Past Master.
Turlock .................. No. 395 .. __ Fred C. Englesby, Representative.
Apollo ....... __________ ..... No. 396.... George H. Hagy, Master;
James T. Rattray, Senior Warden;
Elmer P. Butterfield, Junior Warden;
E. N. Clintsman, Past I\faster;
W. S. Condon, Past Ma~ter;
C. B.
Inspector and Past Master.
Rising Light ...... _... No. 397 __ .. Allen M. Whitsett, Master.

PROCEEDINGS 01<' •fli.E
Fraternity .............. No. 399....Robert J. Butler, Senior Warden;
William J. Close, Junior Warden.
Burlingame ............ No. 400.... Arthur J. Belton, Senior Warden;
William Wilkin, Junior Warden;
W. J. Kidd, Past Master;
C. Jellinek, Past Master.
Bay View .............. No. 401.... Percy D. Rankin, Master ;
Harry F. Long, Senior Warden;·
Robert B. Gird wood, Junior Warden;
C. Kimble, Past Master;
T. R. Tilley, Past Master.
Brawley .................. No. 402.... Edward B. Stilgebouer, Master and Past
Master;
Herbert L. Fulton, Senior Warden.
Yerba Buena ........No. 403....John M. Hencken, Master;
Russell L. Countryman, Senior Warden;
'Albert B. Cosa, Junior Warden;
,
·:; ·
F. W. LeBallister, Past Master.
Glendora ...'............. No. 404....George B. Gordon, Master and Past Master;
H. Gordon, Past Master.
Moneta .................... No. 405 ....Mark W. White, Master;
C. H. Campbell, Past Master.
Burbank .................. No. 406.... Henry A. Story, Master.
La Mesa .................. No. 407 ....John H. Mallery, Master.
Sierra Madre ........ No. 408....John D. Mackerras, Master.
Honolulu ................ No. 409....James F. Fenwick, Inspector, Past Master
and Representative.
Charter Rock ........ No. 410....William A. Louis, Master;
Henry R. Braden, Senior Warden;
Charles H. Walsworth, Junior Warden;
,R. W. Myers, Past Master;
, P. Nicklas, Past Master;
M. A. Plumb, Past Master;
S. W. Smith, Past Master;
S. Valentine, Past Master.
Perris ...................... No. 411....Fred J. Bonner, Senior Warden.
Calexico •................. No. 412.... Charles F. Turner, Master.
Waucoba ................ No. 413....Raymond E. Burdick, Junior Warden.
Arlington ................ No. 414 .... Leslie D. Smith, Master;
C. P. Lyndall, Past Master.
Silver Trowel ...... No. 415....John D. Tobias, Master.
Lindsay .................. No. 416.... Samuel T. Miller, Master;
Albert C. Tienken, Senior Warden.

JE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALllrORNlA

555

Clovis ...................... No. 417 ....L. W. Gibson, Representative and Past Master.
Elysian .................... No.418....Rae G. Van Cleve, Master.
Upland .................... No. 419...,c. L. Vidder, Representative.
Inglewood ............. No. 421.... Horace Hannington, Master.
Eagle Rock ............ No. 422.... Aaron E. Kilpatrick, Master ;
H. E. McConnell, Past Master.
York ....................... :No. 423 .... Elon N. Lee, Jr., Master.
Exeter .................... No. 424....Len E. Hayes, Master;
F. W. Mixter, Inspector and Past Master.
Holtville .................. No. 425 .... Max D. Rookledge, Se11ior Warden.
Midway .................. No. 426....Edward H. Williams, Master;
Albinos B. Echols, Senior Warden ..
Chino Valley ........ No. 427.... E. C. Daniels, Representative and Past
Master.
San Dimas ............ No. 428....W.alter B. Tangerman, Master.
Pittsburg ................ No. 429.... 0. A. Kresse, Master.
McCloud ................ No. 430....Elliott M. Smith, Master.
Alpha ...................... No. 43L..Franklin ]. Gardner, Master;
James N. Long, Senior Warden;
Henry J. Hill, Junior Warden;
L. ]. Glavinovich, Past Master;
R. E. Slattery, Past Master;
H. A. Stiver, Past Master;
T. Thayer, Past Master.
Roseville ................ No. 432 ... Jeremiah E. Stine, Master.
Hammonton .......... No. 433:... Archer W. Hopfield, Master ;
]. H. McGill, Past Master.
Maricopa ................ No. 434....J ack E. Wells, Master ;
Simon J. McKinnon, Senior Warden.
Fairmount .............. No. 435....George E. Ralph, Master;
Henry F. Harwood, Senior Warden;
Robert D. McFarland, Junior Warden;
W. 0. Purdy, Past Master;
]. D. Ralph, Past Master;
D. S. Wagstaff, Past Master.
Claremont .............. Nn. 436....Harrison B. Harwood, :\faster.
Lancaster ................ No. 437....William W. Wurzlmrger, Master;
Bertram C. McMurray, Jun:or Warden.
Germania ................ No. 438....Ferdinand H. Sickel, Master.
Tyrian ....... :............ No. 439 .... Earle G. Cross, Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Standard ................ No. 440....Edwin L. Hiteman, Master;
Lewis P. vVay, Senior Warden;
William F. Wool, Junior Warden;
E. M. Jones, Past Master;
G. H. Wellington, Past Master.
Coronado ................ No. 441.. ..Max ]. Toews, Master;
A. A. Mathewson, Inspector and Past Mas·
ter.
Blackmer ................ No. 442.... Ernest L. McKie, Master.
Schofield ................ No. 443 ... James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Wilshire .................. No. 445 .... James L. Van Norman, Master;
W. H. Fischer, Inspector and Past Master.
La Puente .............. No. 446....J. W. Hudson, Representative and Past
Master.
Torrance ·................ No. 447....Herman Bunnaster, Senior Warden.
Mt. Diab lo .............. No. 448....Charles W. Thissen, Master;
L. L. Martin, Inspector and Past Master.
Park ........................ No. 449.... Frank R. Jackson, Master;
Arthur H. Wilde, Senior Warden;
Leslie B. Fox, Junior Warden;
E. B. Power, Past Master.
Van Nuys .............. No. 450....]. A. Bailey, Representative and Past Master.
Montebello ............ No. 451....George 0. Dowker, Master.
San Pasqual .......... No. 452.... John B. Dodge, Master;
E. 0. Nay, Representative.
Bethlehem .............. No. 453 ....Charles K. Harper, Master;
C. F. Bovee, Past Master ;
C. Hardock, Past Master.
Crocker .................. No. 454....Thomas Madgwick, Master;
John Robertson, Senior Warden ;
A. McN. McKeown, Past Master.
Golden West .......... No. 455 ... Adolph L. W. Zillmer, Master;
Elner M. Hundley, Senior Warden;
George E. Chapin, Junior Warden;
G. R. Brockmann, Past Master;
J. D. McAlpine, Past Master.
Kennett .................... No. 456.... C. L. Gregg, Inspector and Past Master.
Ramona .................. No. 457... Adolphus N. Bodinus, Master ;
W. J. Johnson, Past Master.
Henry S. Orme...... No. 458.... John H. Sheridan, Master;
]. Harry Andrews, Past Master.
Riverbank ............. So. 459....Charles C. Beals, Master.
Mt. Oso .................. No. 460.... Victor Mayer, Master;
Fred C. Mills, Junior Warden.

Argonaut ................ No. 461....Rex E. Gilbert, Master;
Walter R. Bowden, Junior Warden.
Paul Revere .......... No. 462.... George W. Kennedy, Master;
William A. Gerder, Senior Warden;
Arthur Heinz, Junior vVarden;
L. T. Cranz, Past Master.
Morgan Hill .......... No. 463 .... Andrew S. G. Rasmussen, Master and Past
Master.
Alta Vista .............. No. 464.... Harry G. Hansell, Senior \Varden.
Center ....................... No. 465 .... Walter E. Bonnett, Master.
Libertas ...................... U. D ..... Frank W. Robinson, Master and Past Master;
Ira H. Glenn, Senior Warden and Past
Master;
Wm.. A. Eardley, Junior Warden.
Culver City .............. U. D.....Charles E. Shillito, Master and Past Master.
Rockridge ..................U. D .... .] ohn A. Smith, Master and Past Master;
Roy R. Beggs, Senior Warden;
Willard W. Shea, Junior Warden.

556

55i

The report was adopted.

The report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes was
then called up, and on motion of Brother Spencer, it was
adopted as presented.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 7 :45 o'clock
this evening.

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ju "rauh ljuhgt
Evening Session.
Thursday, October 11, 1917.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 7 :45 o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
This most delightful evening was devoted to Mason~y
other than ritualism or business, the programme consisting
of music by Brother Bernat J aulus on the violin, with
Brother Leo Bruck at the piano; an address by Brother
Bradford Leavitt on the life and activities of Thomas Starr
King, including in the address portions of Brother King's
Oration before Grand Lodge in 1863; an address by Brother
John Vv. Linscott, and moving pictures of the Masonic
Ambulance Corps.
Brother Linscott's address was as follows:
INFLUENCE OF EARLY DAY MASONS ON THE SOCIAL AND
POLITICAL LIFE OF CALIFORNIA.
Delivered Before the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Thursday Evening,
October 11, 1917.
By J. w. LINSCOTT.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

559

their comfort and hospitality. Vallejo, Pico, Alvarado, Castro, Rodriguez and Carillo were types of these Spanish "dons" who figured largely
in those early days. Many of them afterwards became loyal citizens of
the United States and gave their aid in the upbuilding of a new commonwealth.
At this time California was truly a pastoral land. But few of the
excitements and ambitions of our modern civilization had entered
therein. There was no struggling for wealth, no herding into cities,
no effort or desire for the development of natural resources. The
people spent much of their time out of doors, and in the balmy air,
and under the soft skies enjoyed their rough sports. They were contented and happy, indifferent to the accumulation of money, and hospitable to an extreme rarely equalled. Surely this was the land of the
"siesta" and the "mafiana."
Here at their feet were the great valleys which at a future day
were to yield abundant harvests of grain and fruit, but they were yet
untilled. They were carpeted with Nature's luxuriant growth, and
over them roamed countless herds of cattle and horses, of little value
except to provide for the simple wants of the people.
The mountains, God's great storehouses of treasure, ·which were to
enrich the world in after days, but not yet unlocked, towered around
and above the~ in all their grandeur.
Here was the land-locked bay, unsurpassed in beauty, whose waters
washed the bare hills and sand dunes of the future queen city of the
Pacific as far west as what is now Montgomery street. Through the
Golden Gate, now the gateway of the commerce of the world, fhere
ventured a few hardy mariners for their cargoes of hides and tallow.
At this time San Francisco had but a dozen houses, and contained not
more than fifty souls.

Three score and ten years ago, within the lifetime of some of us
here present, California was a Mexican province. For many years
under the dominion of Spain and Mexico, misgoverned and neglected,
there had been no advance in the arts of civilization and progress.
The inhabitants, composed largely of Mexicans and Indians, were
densely ignorant. True, missions had been established in various parts
of the territory by self-sacrificing men who, by wonderful patience and
devotion, had been enabled to make some inroads into the primitive
life of the people and bring some gleams o~ the dawning of a brighter
day.

During the few years prior to 1847, enterprising adventurers who
were to take an active part in the future development of the country,
had found their way to this comparatively unknown land. Sutter,
Stearns, Larkin and Marshall were types of these men.

Here and there in this great domain were to be found the representatives of old Spanish families who had received grants of vast
tracts of land and who had established homes which were noted for

The United States was at this time at war with Mexico. The
struggle was a momentous one in history, for it involved the possession
of a vast domain on this western coast. Here in California the army

Our sunny southland, now so rich in its golden fruitage, with its
marvelous growth and unsurpassed energy, was then sparsely settled
and wholly undeveloped. Los Angeles, world-famed for its growth
and progress, was a small Spanish settlement with but a handful of
people.

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and navy were represented by Fremont, Kearney, Stockton, Sloat and
Sherman, who were prominent factors in the acquisition to the nation
of this golden land.
By the treaty of February 2, 1848, which ended the war, California
became a part of our great republic.
Nine days before the signing of this treaty, January 24, 1848, an
event occurred which was to electrify the world and create an empire
by the western sea. On the American river, a few miles from Sacramento, John Marshall, an employe of Captain John Sutter, unlocked
one of the Creator's storehouses by the discovery of gold. The news
oii the discovery spread like wildfire. All lines of business throughout
the territory were deserted, and the people rushed to secure their
portion of the golden treasure.
Soon the wonderful news was heralded to the world. Marvelous
tales were told of the unlimited wealth which was to be easily obtained
by any seeker. Very soon thousands of people were on their way to
the land of gold. By sea, around Cape Horn and by way of Panama;
by land, across the deserts and over the almost inaccessible mountains.
suffering untold hardships, facing sickness, starvation, even death, the
lure of gold drew them on and on to the goal of their amhitio.n and
desire.
By the middle of November, 1849, more than six hundred vessels
came through the Golden Gate, and the largest part of these were left
swinging at their anchors while their crews rushed to the gold fields,
It is estimated that during the year 1849 forty-two thousand emigrants
came overland to California, and at least double that number by sea.
Each succeeding year brought thousands more to this new El
Dorado in search of fortune. The larger part of the early emigrants
were men. In 1850, in the mining counties to which most of the people
rushed, but two per cent were women.
I think we may say that there was no high and lofty motive which
brought thes.e men to this western land. They came to seek a fortune
and then return to their Eastern homes. They remained to build an
empire on the shores of the Pacific.
They were for the most part sturdy, courageous, undaunted spirits.
types of men who, though not remarkable, are the ones who throughout
the world's history have done things worth while. It was the part which
these Argonauts played in laying strong and abiding the foundations of
a matchless commonwealth which makes them prominent figures in our
history.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

561

At least three great problems confronted these pioneers of the early
·
days.
First, law and order: As has always been the case, a great influx
of emigration caused by great excitement has included in the mass a
large number of undesirable citizens-men whose sole purpose in life
is to prey upon society. From all quarters of the globe gamblers,
libertines, outlaws and murderers came swarming to this new field,
which, on account of conditions, gave a free hand for their nefarious
practices.
To meet this situation required men of character, strong, true,
brave men who were ready to sacrifice time, money, even life itself, in
the cause of justice and good government.
Second, the political situation: When Congress ratified the treaty
with Mexico, it left the people of California in a peculiar condition-a
territory with thousands of people, ,thousands more coming, but with
no legally-appointed rulers.
The struggle between slavery and anti-slavery, which was to culminate a little later in the civil war, was fierce and hot. Whether
California was to enter the Union a free State or a slave State, or
whether it was to be divided, half free and half slave, was a vital
question. For two years the giants. of Congress battled, until at last
freedom conquered, and on September 9, 1850, California was admitted
a free State.
An important factor in the decision of Congress was the action
'taken by the Constitutional Convention held at Monterey in September,
1849. This convention was composed of delegates chosen by the people,
a large majority of whom were undoubtedly opposed to slavery. A
constitution was adopted which provided for a free State, with boundaries as they are today. It was taken to Washington by Fremont and
Gwin, who had been elected the first Senators by the territorial legislature. This prompt action on the part of the strong men of that day
had, without question, a mighty influence with Congress, and resulted
in adding one more star to the galaxy which stands for Liberty and
Freedom.
Third: The third problem was one of Humanity-the caring for
stranded, needy, suffering fellow-man.
Among the thousands who flocked to California in those early days
were many who, for various reasons, failed to secure that which they
so eagerly sought. The hardships ofi the journey hither were a heavy
·drain upon physical endurance, and resulted in many wrecks; the

562

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

563

unpreparedness for . the severe toil and exposure at the mines caused
the weaker to succumb; the disappointments caused by the failure to
achieve fortune in a day left many de;pondent and dependent upon
others; epidemics caused by unsanitary conditions were frequent; and
the cost of the necessities of life was enormous.

The delegates thus assembled unanimously adopted the following:
\"Resolved, That the representatives of the several duly warranted
Lodges now in operation in California, and present at this assemblage,
proceed to the organization of a Convention for the formation of a
Grand Lodge for the State of California."

There were no organizations for relief then as there are now.
Many were selfishly seeking for success, unheeding the cry of the
weary and wayworn brother. But there were other men,-men with
liearts of sympathy,-men, who in their Eastern homes had imbibed
the principle of "the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of. Man."
These heard the cry of the helpless and gave relief.

A constitution was adopted and Grand Officers were elected as
follows:

During the past half century, the growth of fraternal organizations has been marvelous. They have met a world-need, brought
men closer together in all the relations of life and done much to
decrease selfishness and promote a spirit of sympathy and love.
In the early fifties these organizations were few. There was one,
however, of ancient lineage, whose precepts, based upon the eternal and
divine, had done much to advance the cause of human .brotherhood
and ameliorate the ills of suffering humanity.
Free and Accepted Masonry, with its sublime and noble teachings
and its beneficent deeds, has accomplished much to uplift man and
advance the cause of righteousness on earth.

M. W. Jonathan .D. Stevenson of California Lodge, Grand Master;
R. W. John A. Tutt oii Connecticut Lodge, Deputy Grand Master;
R. W. Caleb Fenner of New Jersey Lodge, Senior Grand Deacon;
R. W. Saschel Woods of Western Star Lodge, Junior Grand Deacon;
R. W. Levi Stowell of California Lodge, Grand Treasurer; R. W. John
H. Gihon of California Lodge, Grand Secretary.
The first Grand Master, Jonathan Drake Stevenson, came to California in March, 1847, as Colonel of the First New York Volunteers.
He was one of the first members of C;,ilifornia Lodge, and was chairman of the committee which drafted the constitution for the organization of the first Grand Lodge. Active in all good works, he was a
familiar figure in San Francisco, loved and respected until his death
in 1894, aged 94 years.
The first Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge convened
at Sacramento, May 7, 1850. The Lodges represented were:

Many members of our .ancient craft came to this Western land in
those early days, brothers who had caught the spirit of true Masonry
in their Eastern Lodges and had heard the injunction to aid and assist
a needy brother "whithcrsoever dispersed."

California Lodge No. 1, San Francisco; Western Star No. 2,
Benton City; Tehama No. 3 (Connecticut), Sacramento ; Jennings
No. 4 (New Jersey), Sacramento (charter surrendered 1853); Benicia
No. 5, Benicia; and Sutter No. 6, Sacramento (charter surrendered

These men, seeing the need for organization in order to effectively
assjst in solving the great problems of which I have spoken, made
application. to the Grand Lodges of Eastern jurisdictions for charters
to enable them to co-operate more fully in the tasks which confronted
them.

1853).

' Early in 1850 we find the following Lodges working under charters
or dispensations issued by various Grand Lodges: California No. 13,
San Francisco, under charter from the District of Columbia; Western
Star No. 98, Benton City (Shasta), under charter from Missouri;
Connecticut No. 75, Sacramento, under charter from Connecticut;
New Jersey, Sacramento. under dispensation from New Jersey; Benicia,
Benicia, under dispensation from Louisiana.
April 17, 1850, delegates firom these five Lodges met at Sacramento
to consider the propriety of establishing a Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons for the State of California.

I quote :lirom the Grand Master's address at this first session:

"A:s a member of this Order, no one can be a stranger among his
brethren, no one can be in sickness or affliction without some one
ministering to his wants and contributing to his comforts,-and nowhere is this holy fellowship and brotherly love more frequently called
into requisition than in this land of gold and promise; for nowhere is
man more dependent upon his fellow man for all the necessary comforts of life than in California; and so often has the benign influence
of the Masonic Order been witnessed and felt in various parts of this
country, as well as in the dreary hours of sickness and death, that all
who have witnessed these influences have learned properly to appreciate
the benefits of the Ins~itution in a country like ours."
Again I quote from Grand Master Stevenson's address at the sei:;ond
Annual Communication, May 7, 1851 :

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

"The great benefit of the Order to the human family has been!
fully proven in California, as it has been demonstrated that nowhere/
have so many sick and distressed brethren, within the same length of
time, received so much fraternal relief and brotherly affection as in
California."
As an illustration of the work done for relief, Deputy Grand
Master Radcliff, in his address before the Grand Lodge in May, 1853,
reports that Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, at Sonora, had expended four
thousand five hundred dollars since its organization, November, 1850,
for the relief of non-affiliated Masons. This Lodge had a membership
of fifty-four.
In 1849 the Masons of Sacramento united with the Odd Fellows
in providing a hospita.1 for the sick. During the first year there was
expended in this work over $31,000, the greater part of which was
raised by voluntary contributions.
In the meantime the number of Masonic Lodges was increasing
rapidly. At the first communication of the Grand Lodge, six Lodges
were represented; at the second, 1851, 15 Lodges reported; in 1852, 25;
in 1853, 35 ; in 1854, 56; in 1855, 83.
The numher of members at the organization of the Grand Lodge
was less than two hundred. In 1855, the number had increased to 3,100.
The records of those early years show conclusively that the pioneer
Masons did their part nobly in helping to solve one of the problems
heretofore alluded to: that of caring for the sick and needy and of
bringing comfort to the distressed and bereaved.
What of the other vital questions of the hour, Law and Order and
the Upbuilding of a New Commonwealth?
The scum of the earth had gathered here in large numbers.
Neither property nor life was safe from the depredations of the criminal class. In the beginning there was no organized law, and it became
necessary for the citizens to take the matter m their own hands and
bring order out of chaos.
In all this work of purging society, in earnest effort in the cause
of righteousness, in active participation in the political affairs of the
State, in loyalty to the Nation during the trying days which followed
California's Statehood, we find the names of many Masons who were
true to the principles of our ancient craft and who did their part nobly
in the laying of the foundations of a commonwealth second to none in
the galaxy of States.

It is impossible to enumerate the names of those who did valiant
service for humanity in those early days. In the mining camps as well
as in the towns, Masons were true to the teachings of the Order.

I

\
\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\

~
.

56f1

.

Among the many brothers who figured largely in the pioneer days,
ot alone as Masons but as true and loyal citizens as well, we find
t e names of Past Grand Masters William H. Howard, N. Greene
C11rtis, William C. Belcher and Leonidas Pratt, and Brothers James
I<:'ing of William, Thomas Starr King, Frank M. Pixley, John G.
Downey, Alex. G. Abell and Milton S. Latham.

It is with pride and respect that we scan the early records of the
Grand Lodge of California. We find them full of sentiments which
appeal to the highest and best in man's nature. Every address has its
high moral tone and and its exhortations for right living and conduct
worthy of the true Mason.
At a time when temptations assailed man on every side to a degree
which we can hardly realize, the stand of the prominent Masons against
all forms of vice-gambling, intemperance, profanity and licentiousness-exerted a power for good the value of which cannot be estimated.
The Masons o~ those days were not perfect men, no more than we
of today, but they set for us a high standard in acts of charity, loyalty
and righteousness, which we will do well to follow and emulate. We
bring our tribute of lo~e and respect in memory of what they accomplished, of their high ideals, and their exemplification of the true principles and teachings of the Order which has done so much to alleviate
suffering and uplift manhood.
Those pioneer days were days which "tried men's souls." Men
were found true and we enjoy the inheritance. Today we are in the
midst of a struggle more terrible in its exhibition of hate and barbarity,
more fearful in its possible consequences to the race, than any in ,vhich
mankind has ever been engaged.
Humanity, love of liberty, righteousness, yea, even the Great
Master, calls upon each and every one of us to be faithful and true in
this hour of peril.
Be not despondent, for out of this awful travail shall be reborn a
redeemed and better world. God lives and the teachings of the ~;fan
of Galilee shall yet prevail.
"God of our fathers, known of old,Lord of our far-flung battle line,
Beneath whose guiding hand we hold
Dominion over palm and pine ;
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forget-lest we forget."

Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock Friday
morning.

566

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

567

THANKS FOR SURVEY OF HOME AT COVINA.
Morning Session.
Friday, October 12, 1917.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
Brother Leo Bruck was called up and formally and
heartily thanked for his untiring services in making the
musical features of the week so interesting and inspiring.
Brother Charles Albert Adams introduced the follmving:
Whereas, It is pre-eminently desirable that the "Universality of
Masonry" no less than the "Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood
of Man" shall be something more than an empty phrase; and
Whereas, The readjustment of the world's affairs that will result
from the conflict now raging will justify, if it shall not require, a
reconsideration of the judgments rendered in the past concerning what
were believed to be fundamental differences between Anglo-Saxon and
Latin Masonry; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That a Special Committee of five members of this Grand
Lodge be appointed by the Grand Master to report at the next annual
communication some plan whereby, if possible, the breach between
French and Anglo-Saxon Masonry may be healed without the sacrifice
on either side of any essential principle or matter of conscience; and
be it further
Resolved, That any inhib.ition upon the right of visitation heretofore imposed by this Grand Lodge be, and the same hereby is, modified
insofar as it may be necessary to allow and permit our brethren to
hold Masonic intercourse with the Masons in France, Belgium and
Italy, and to visit any of their Lodges.

This was adopted, and the Grand Master appointed as
such Committee, William Rhodes Hervey, Bradford Webster, Charles Albert Adams, George F. Rodden and George
vV. Hunter.

Bradford vVebster, for the Special Committee appointed
to formulate the thanks of Grand Lodge to Prof. Ritter and
Dr. Faber presented the following:
To the Most Worshipfu.Z Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee appointed to convey to Dr. Harold K Faber and
Prof. A. J. Ritter the sense of appreciation which the Grand Lodge
feels for their gratuitous and distinguished services in behalf of the
children at the Covina Home, beg leave to report, that in compliance
with that duty and appointment they have drafted and sent to the
gentlemen a letter of which the following is a copy:
"The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California, in annual communication assembled, have learned with great
interest and pleasure through the annual address of its Most Worshipful Grand Master, Francis V. Keesling, of the ·able and signal service you
and your distinguished colleague Dr. Harold K. Faber have rendered
the Order and the cause of, humanity in behalf of the wards of the
Order located at the Covina Home.
"By unanimous resolution that body has deputed the undersigned
to convey to you and your associate the deep and grateful sense of
appreciation which its members feel on account of your very able,
comprehensive and scientific investigation and report upon the mental
and physical condition of the children, as well as upon the environments
and surroundings of the Home.
.
"The Grand Lodge can not express in words the value of your
services to its wards. You have helped us to perform most fully the
greatest duty which man can perform, that of uplifting and developing
character.. Through your aid and work we will the more surely be
enabled to promote their welfare, both here and hereafter.
"\Ve, therefore, take great pleasure in assuring you that those
inestimable services will always be held in grateful remembrance by
the Grand Lodge, as well as by the entire .fraternity throughout the
State of California.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,

A. J. MONROE,
BRADFORD WtBS'l'ER.

Adopted.

569

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Master Patton, for the Special Committee
to devise means to provide for a per capita tax for the endowment fund (the :.'.VIacKillop resolution), reported verbally, requesting that the committee be given until the
next annual communication in which to report. The request was granted.

of the history, the ground work and the purposes of our great Fraternity. As the Institution has always stood for increased educational
advantages in the State, so must we foster learning in our own art as
far as practical and we are of the opinion that the Committee should
be given five hundred dollars to pursue the work for the coming year.

568

FINAL REPOR.T OF FINANCE COMMITTEE.
Brother George H. Rodden, chairman of the Finance
Committee, submitted the final report of his Committee,
as follows :
·
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee has considered the reports of the Boards of Relief
of Sacramento and Oakland. Relative to the report of the Oakland
Board of Relief, it appears that operating expenses were not levied
during the past year in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution governing Boards of Relief, but were paid out of previous
accumulations. Although there may be a technical violation of the
law governing Boards of Relief, nevertheless Oakland Board has
expended certain sums of money both for California and foreign jurisdictions for which they have not received reimbursement. We therefore are of the opinion that they should be reimbursed the amounts
paid, which they have not been refunded. We therefore offer the following resolution and rernmmend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $1,204.03 be and the same is herebv
appropriated from the funds of the Grand Lodge to be paid as follows.:
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento ................................................$340.00
To the Board of Relief oti Oakland ...................................................... 864.03

Adopted.
Your Committee has received the report of the Committee on
Masonic Education and is much impressed with the comprehensive
survey made by it. \Vhile in hearty symp.athy and accord with the
ideas contained in the report, it is the sense of the Committee that the
lectures on the first three degrees be printed and sent to the various
Lodges at the earliest possible moment, and that as many other recommendations of the Committee be carried out as possible during the year.
While it may not be possible to accomplish everything outlined in
the report, at least a start will be made toward a better understanding

Your Committee is also pleased to note that the lectures concerning
the degrees have been written by enthusiastic Masons who have given
their labor gratuitously. It is also understood that the lectures which
are proposed to be prepared are to be written without cost to the Grand
Lodge. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That a sum, not to exceed five hundred dollars, be and
the same is hereby appropriated from the funds of the Grand Lodge for
the purpose of Masonic education, to be. used in printing and distribut·
ing lectures as outlined in the report of the committee on Masonic
education

Adopted.
Your Committee to whom was referred the annual report of the
Masonic Homes of Califor~ia find that the accounts are correct, having
been. certified by a public accountant.
We have also considered the question of maintenance, and believe
that the usual per capita tax of one dollar for this purpose should be
continued. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption :
Resolved, That a per capita tax of one dollar be levied on all members for l:he maintenance of the Masonic Homes at Decoto and Covina.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Finance has considered the resolution presented by Brother John H. Bean with reference to providing a card
·index roster oli members, to be placed with the Board of Relief of Los
Angeles. The Committee is in hearty accord with the spirit of the
resolution, but believes that inasmuch as a complete roster of members
has not been presented by Lodges to the Grand Secretary since the year
1913, a full and corrected list of all members in good standing as of
July 31, 1917, should be presented, and we therefore offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That each Lodge in the jurisdiction shall prepare and
transmit to the Grand Secretary, on or before December l, 1917, a full
and correct list of members in good standing as of July 31, 1917; that

570

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

upon the coming in of such lists the Grand Secretary shall cause the
names to be typewritten on cards, each card to contain the name and
Lodge of a member; that these. cards so typed shall be transmitted to
the B-Oard of Relief of Los Angeles, there be filed in alphabetical order
in a steel filing cabinet, for the use and benefit of any Lodges and
brethren interested.
Resolved, fmther, That the sum of five hundred dollars or so much
thereof as may be necessary, is hereby appropriated for the purposes
above stated.

Adopted.·
Pursuant to request from the Most Worshipful Grand Master a
great many reports on the financial condition of Lodges and of Masonic
Hall Association·s have come in. The examination of these reports will
consume so much time and entail so much labor it is obviously impossible for us to give you any report concerning them at this session.
We therefore recommend that they be referred to the incoming Finance
Committee with instructions to report at our next annual communication.

Adopted.
A resolution was referred to your Committee which provided, first,
that all of the unexpended balance in the hands of the Endowment
Committee be invested in second issue Liberty loan bonds, and second,
that $25,000 of the funds of this Grand Lodge be appropriated for the
same purpose. Believing that this Grand body would deem it a privilege
to assist our government to the uttermost of its resources, we heartily
endorse the intent 0£ the resolution; but regret that our balance in the
General Fund will not in our judgment permit the investment of so
large· a sum. vVe therefore offer the following resolutions and recommend their adoption :
Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that the V. W.
Grand Treasurer be requested to invest from the Endowment Fund· the
sum of $14,000 in four per cent Liberty loan bonds; and be it
Resolved, That the V. W. Grand Treasurer be requested to invest
from the General Fund the sum of $11,000 in Liberty bonds of the
same issue; and further be it
Resolved, That if in the judgment of the V. W. Grand Treasurer
more moneys may be similarly invested, he is hereby requested so to do.

Unanimously adopted,

571

Since receiving the resolution providing that our Worshipful Grand
. G>rganist be requested to sit for his portrait, we learn that Brother
'. Mayer's mother Lodge has proffered to the Committee the beautiful
picture which now hangs on our walls, in the words of the old. song.
Your Committee recommends that the offer be accepted and that the
thanks of this Grand Lodge be extended to California Lodge No. 1 ;
and we further recommend that the Committee be instructed to have a
suitable plate inscribed, to be attached to the frame.

Adopted.
Relatilve to the resolution providing that copies of the Grand Master's Address and the Grand Oration be printed in pamphlet form and
distributed to the Lodges throughout the ju_risdiction, your Committee
heartily concurs and recommends its adoption.

Adopted.
A communication from Rio Vista Lodge No. 208, F. & A. M.,
stating that on July 3, 1917, its hall, paraphernalia, charter and records
were destroyed by fire, and asking for the refund of their Grand Lodge
dues, has met the approval of your Committee.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $170.50, the amount of Grand Lodge
dues paid, be returned to Rio Vista Lodge No. 208.

Adopted.
GEo. F. RoDDEN,
RALPH Low:!\,

J. H. BEAN,
A. $HERMAN,
0. M. GOLIJARACENA.

WM.

"MOON" DATES FOR STATED MEETINGS.
Past Grand Master Bledsoe, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:
A suggestion has come from Lafayette I~odge No. 126 that the
"Moon schedule," as issued by the Grand Secretary, gives in some
instances more than one meeting in a "lunar month," and requesting
that Regulation 78d · of the Constitution be eliminated, and that the
times of meeting be determined by Section 78 of the Constitution. The

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF C'.ALlFORNlA

so-called Regulation is really a ruling, a construction of the law, made
by the Grand Master and approved by the Committee on Jurisprudente
and the Grand Lodge in 1912. \Ve ·understand that the Grand Lodge
may by appropriate action amend the law, but we do not understand
that it can change it by the elimination of an approved construction
thereof. As was said by this Committee in 1912, the subjecf matter is
"somewhat complicated," and we suggest that if a change is desired an
amendment to the Constitution which will properly respect the practices
of Lodges relating to times of· meeting be presented.

The vV:. George F. Rodden, of Marin Lodge No. 191,
was elected Junior Grand \Varden.

572

Report adopted.
Past Grand Master Patton, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported verbally that the recommendation of
the Grand Master to change the Finance Committee to
the vVays and Means Committee, required more careful
consideration than could be given to it at this time, and at
his request the matter was referred to the incoming Committee on Jurisprudence, with directions to report at the
next annual Communication.

573

The V. ·. W. ·. William P. Filmer, of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The v:. W.'. John Whicher, of King David's. Lodge
No. 209, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.'. \V.'. Thomas J. Baker, of Union Lodge No.
58, was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :30 o'clock this
afternoon.

Afternoon Session.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
The Grand Master announced that the annual election
of officers for the ensuing year was now in order, and
appointed Joseph D. Abrams as Assistant Grand Secretary and the following Tellers: Ben Levi, 'William W.
Kaye, Edward E. Conn, William A. ·Sherman, \Vatter F.
Haas, Robert E. Allen, R. G. Guyett, L. C. Sawin and
Herbert R. Kells. The election resulted as follows:
The R.'. W .'. William Rhodes Hervey, of Pentalpha
Lodge No. 202, was elected Grand :\faster.
The R.'. \V:, Bradford \V ebster, of Live pak Lodge
No. 61, was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. ·. Charles Albert Adams, of Excelsior
Lodge No. 166, was elected Senior Grand \Varden.

Friday, October 12th.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS.
The Grand Master-elect then caused to be read the
list of appointed officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, the Very Rev. William MacCormack,
of West Lake Lodge No. 392.
.
Grand Orator, George L. Jones, of Grass Valley Lodge
No. 23.
'Assistant Grand Secretary, Harry S. Johnson, of San
Francisco Lodge No. 360.

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANIJ ·LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

575

Grand Marshal, James F. Fenwick, of Honolulu Lodge
No. 409.
Grand Standard Bearer, Herbert L. Fulton, of Brawley
Lodge No. 402.
Grand Sword Bearer; Mervin J. Neuberg, of San Bernardino Lodge No. 178.
Grand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman, of San Jose Lodge
No. 10.
Senior Grand Deacon, Albert A. Rosenshine of Doric
Lodge No. 216.
Junior Grand Deacon, Charles G. Johnson, of Balder
Lodge No. 393.
Senior Grand Steward, Porter Munsey, of Bakersfield
Lodge No. 224.
Junior Grand Steward, Alfred Seale of Palo Alto Lodge
No. 346.
Grand Pursuivant, Theodore J. Milliken, of Tehama
Lodge No. 3.

ST ANDING COMMITTEES.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of
Standing Committees for the ensuing year, as follows:
Jurisprudence: Frank M. Angellotti, Wells Fargo building, San
Francisco; Charles L. Patton, Benj. F. Bledsoe, Dana R. Weller, Albert
G. Burnett, Francis V. Keesling, John D. Murphey.
Grievances: Joseph P. Bernhard, Fresno; Leo V. -Youngworth,
Walter F. Haas, E. B. Power, Fred L. Arbogast.
Finance: Wm. A. Sherman, Merchants Ice and Cold Storage Co.,
San Francisco; 0. M. Goldaracena, W. P. Jeffries, Arthur S. Crites,
Ralph Lowe.
Credentials : Frank C. Mulkey, Federal Building, Los Angeles;
Fred Vv·. LeBallister, Clark H. Shaw, Hans Nelson, Francis W. Mixter.
Accounts: Edward E. Conn, 347 Clay street, San Francisco; D. E.
F. Easton, Fred B. Wood, Leo Bruck, John B. Wuersching.
Returns: James B. Gist, Los Angeles; Chas. D. Barnett, Arthur
W. Gluckman, Montgomery M. Moulton, George W. LeMoin.
Ritual:

Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Dana

R. Weller, William P. Filmer.

Grand Organist, Samuel D. Mayer, of California Lodge
No. 1.
Grand Tiler, George P. Adams, of California Lodge
No. 1.
The Grand Officers, excepting the Grand Treasurer
and Grand Chaplain, were then duly installed in their several stations and places by Grand Master Francis V. Keesling, assisted by Past Grand Master Albert G. Burnett as
Master of Ceremonies.

Correspondence: John D. Murphey, 1911 Parker street, Oakland;
George A. DeWitt, Alonzo J. Monroe, Jos. D. Abrams, Ralph A.
Chase.
Pay of Members: Joseph H. Stephens, Fort Sutter Bank, Sacramento; Gustav A. H utaff, Hugh K. McKevitt, John H. McGehee, Walter D. Adriance.
Library: Henry M. Owens, Mechanics Bank building, San Francisco; Martin A. Schmidlin, Sidney B. Force, Wm. J. Burdick, Lew
E. Wallace.
Masonic Education: Irving J. Mitchell, 1127 West Twentieth
street, Los Angeles; Jesse· M. Whited, Harvey D. Loveland.
Trustees Masonic Homes: Wm. S. Wells, 4 years, Courthouse,
Oakland; Edward B. Spencer, 3 years; Oscar Lawler, 2 years; C. M.
Wollenberg, 1 year, and the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens.

576

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE Oli' CALIFORNIA

Endowment Committee Masonic Homes: Motley H. Flint, Chairman; A. J. Monroe, F. V. Keesling, W. A. Sherman, Arthur S. Crites,
John W. Gwilt, George F. Rodden and Fred W. Clough.

The retiring Grand Master was presented w:ith a set of
silver by the Grand Lodge, the presentation being made
by Past Grand Master' Burnett in the charming and eloquent manner for which he is noted.

"MOON" DATES.
Lodges whose by-laws provide for stated ll'.eetings on or preceding the full moon, will meet as noted below durmg the year 1918:
Saturday

At 3 :45 o'clock, all business being now completed, the
Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.

WM. RHODES HERVEY,
JOHN WHICHER,

577

Grand Master.

Grand Secretary.

Sept.
Oct.

19

Nov.

18
17

Dec.

18
16

13
17

11

Stated Meetings "on or succeeding the Full moon."

28

April
May
June
July

26
25
24
23

29

4

27

30

27

25
22

............
.........
··············

........

Town.

I

County.

··········
············
··············
.............
. ............

Places of Location .

26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62

.........
........

...... .....
........

.. ··········

············
.....

............

............

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

8,

••

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

1856.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

May

.............

........

...........
.............
. ....
··············
···········

........

........

........

"
"
"5,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1853.
1854.

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
1853.
"

"

"
"
1852.
"
"

"
"
"
"
.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
············· "
"
"
.......... ""
July

7,
3;

"

"
"
"

6,

"

"

May
May

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

5,

5,

"
""
"
"
20,

May

"

"7,

"
"6,

27,

"
"
Nov.

May

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1851,

1850.

"
"
"
"
3,
"
" "
" "
"
3,
"
"
"2, 1855.
" "
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
"3, "
"
2,
"
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
4,
"
1, 1855.

San Diego . . . • . . . 35 San Diego ....••••• San Diego ••••••..•
St. John's ....... 37 Yreka .•••.••••••••• Siskiyou ...........
Santa Cruz . . • • . • 38 Santa Cruz •....•••. Santa Cruz •••••••.•
Sacramento ..•.. 40 Sacramento
Sacramento
Martinez . . . . . . . . 41 Martinez •..•..•.•.. Contra Costa .....•.
Los Angeles ..... 42 Los Angeles ......•. Los Angeles •...•...
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado •.•.•..•.. El Dorado ..........
Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco •..••• San Francisco ...••.
Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City .•...•• Del Norte ..........
Texas •••••••••• r 46 San Juan .......... San Benito .•..•....
Butte ..••..•...•.•.
Forbestown . . . . . . 50 Forbestown
Illinois town ..... 51 Colfax •............ Placer
........ 55 Suisun •............ Solano •...........•
Suisun
Volcano ......... 56 Volcano ............ :Amador •....•.....•
Santa Rosa . . . . . . 57 Santa Rosa •••...... Sonoma ••.........•
Sacramento .......
Union ........... 58 Sacramento
Gravel Range . . . . 59 Camptonville ....... Yuba •.•...••.••..•
Plumas ......... 60 Quincy •.••..•..... Plumas •.•...•....•
Live Oak ........ 61 Oakla:{ld ............ Alameda •.......•.•
Geo. Washington .. 62 Chinese Camp ...... Tuolumne •.......•.
Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ............. Sacramento •.......
Amador ......... 65 Jackson
Amador •...•.••....
Forest .......... 66 Alleghany .......... Sierra
Morning Star. . . . . 68 Stockton •.......... San Joaquin ........
Enterprise ....... 70 Yuba City ......... Sutter ............•
Bear Mountain. . . 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras ..........
Calaveras ....... 78 San Andreas ....... Calaveras
Humboldt ....... 79 Eureka ............ Humboldt .........•
Ione ............ 80 Ione •.............. Amador
Yolo ............ 81 Yolo •.............. Yolo ...............
Rising Star. . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill •........ Placer
Vesper .......... 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama ............
Solano
Naval ........... 87 Vallejo
········
Rose's Bar ...... 89 Smartsville ......... Yuba
North Star ....... 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou
St. Helena ...... 93 St. Helena •........ Napa ...•..........
Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek •••••••• Amador .............

......

"
"

"
"

19,

April

Date when Charter
was Issued.

········ "
.............
"
Nov.

1 California
1 San Francisco •.•••• San Francisco •....•
2 W estem Star •.••• 2 Shasta •.. : •.•.••••• Shasta •.•..........
3 Tehama
3 Sacramento
Sacramento
4 Benicia .......... 5 Benicia
Solano
5 Tuolumne ....... 8 Sonora •....•....•.. Tuolumne
9 Marysville
6 Corinthian
Yuba ..
7 San Jose ........ 10 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........
8 Yount •.....•.... 12 Napa
Napa
9 Nevada •..••.... 13 Nevada City ....... Nevada •....••.••••
10 Temple ..•....•.. 14 Sonoma ........••.• Sonoma •..•..•••.••
Placer
11 Eureka ..••...... 16 Auburn
12 Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •...••
13 Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville
Sierra
14 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ...•....•.. San Joaquin ........
1.5 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ........
16 Hawaiian ....... 21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter .......
17 Occidental ....... 22 San Francisco ......• San Francisco ......
18 Madison ......... 23 Grass Valley ....... Nevada
19 Mariposa ........ 24 Mariposa ..........• Mariposa
······
20 Georgetown ..... 25 Ueorgetown ........ El Dorado ..........
21 Palmyra ......... 26 Placerville
El Dorado .•........
Trinity
22 Trinity .......... 27 Weaverville
23 Golden Gate ..... 30 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
24 Gold Hill ........ 321Lineoln ............ Placer .............
25 Ophir ........... 33 Murphy's ........... Calaveras ..........

.......
.........

Names of Lodges.

.,...
.0
s::I
z

.,;

-<

r><!Ei

I

,..;
.$
.,o

=

-<=

ggl .....~

!)

9
6
9
6
9
6

'i

.9
6
6
6
9
9
6
12
6
6
6
6
12
6
9
6

18
9
6
6
6
6
6
6
75 10
6
50
5 .6
35
6
5
30
1
9
40 ......
6

50
5
50 ......
50
1
75 10
50 ......
50 10
30
1
75 10
50
6
30
1
30 ......
50 ......
50 ······
30
5
75
5
75 10
30 ......
50
5
75 25
2
50
50
5
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50
5
50
3
50
5
50 ......
50 ......
30 ......

419
120
219
227
96
533
27
361
80
28
29
76
97
25
246
277
30
66
748
35
87
75
49
272
139
85
75
323
51
4tl
39
159
443
50
4fJ
95
58

•"'!5tm11nnrr

49
200
61
560
51
49

4;~

581
89
241
108
119
212
431
175
148
88
122
1/6
29
348
180
330
643
125

)l"'
)l.

." "'"'=

gi

.;

A

20 '12
50
6
6
75 10
6
30 ...... 12
50
2
9
50 ......
6
50 ......
ti
40 ......
9
50 ......
9
30
2 12
50 ······
9
75
5 12
30 ......
6
50 ......
6
75 10
6
50 10 12
75 10 12
53 ...... JO
:'16
5
6
30 ......
6
50
6
5
50
9
5
75 10 12
50
1
6
50
4
6

J {j()

f><A

.
""

... .; ,.i:i
.....OOl...,, .s~
., ~~

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 591 7 •

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

"'

'>;I

-D

"

(./1

>

z~

0

:;;

t"

>

(j

'>;I

trJ
0

Q

t:l
t"'
0
t:l

>
z

*I'"'·"·,. ~-...

Q
~

trJ

~

...,

0

rn

trJ

Q

t"
0
t:l

\;cJ

>
...,

z

t:l

~

~

c:

rr.

0

t"

...,00

"00

(./1

'

127

122
123
121
12!)
126

121

120

118
1 J9

116
117

115

114

113

110
111
112

108
109

106
107

105

95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104

93

92

91

79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90

78

76"
77

75

74

"'·
73

~"

66
67
68
69
70
71

65

63
64

"' E

z"'

.0

Town.

Places of I..ooation.

County.

.

Curtis •.. ." ...... 140ICloverdale •..•.•••• Sonoma ..•.....•••.
Grafton ......... 141 Grafton ............ Yolo .............. .
Franklin ........ 143 1Courtland •••...•..• Sacramento ...•....
......... 1441San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
........ 145,Bloomfield .......... Sonoma ........... ..
Abell ........... 146.Ukiah •••••...•..•.• Mendocino ......•••
Eel River ....... 147jFortuna •.•..•..... Humboldt ......... .
Lassen .......... 149 1Susanvllle .......... Lassen .......•••.••
Molino .......... 150 T('hama •••......... Tehama ....•....•..
Wo-0dldnd ....... 156 Woodland .......... Yolo ............. ..
Keystone ........ 161 Milton .•....•.•.... Calaveras .....••. , •
Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City .......•. Sierra ............•
Excelsior ........ 166 San Francisco •..•.. San Francisco •.....
Alameda ........ 167 Centerville ........ Alameda ........••.
Redwood City ... 168 Redwood City •..•.. San Mateo ........ .
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco •.•..•
Elk Grove ....... 173 Elk Grove ...••••••• Sacramento ....•.••
Drytown ........ 17 4 Plymouth . . . . . . . . .. Amador .......... ..
Antioch ......... 175 Antioch ............ Contra Costa ..... ..
Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino ••••. San Bernardino ... ..
Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino •••••••••• Mendocino ....••.••
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma ••.•.••••• Sonoma •..•...•••••
Russian River ... 181 Windsor ........... Sonoma ........... .
Meridian ........ 182 Arbucjde . . . . . . . . • . Colusa •........••.•
Clear Lalrn ...... 183 Lower Lake •.••..•• Lake .............•
Sierra Vallev ... 184 Sierraville ......... Sierra .........••.•
Claiborne . : ..... 185 Point Arena ...••••• Mendocino ........•
Evening Star . . .186 Etna Mills ••••..••• Siskiyou .......... .
Keith ........... 187 Gilroy ... : ......... Santa Clara ....... .
Oakland ......... 188 Oakland ...•....... Alameda .......... .
Northern Light .. 190 Millville ........... Shasta ............ .
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael •..••.•.• Marin ............ .
Santa BMbara .... 192 Santa Barbara •.... Santa Barbara .... .
l<'erndale ........ 193 Ferndale ........... Humboldt ......... .
Mountain View .. 194 Mountain View •.••• Santa Clara ....... .
Buckeye ......... 195 Winters ........... Yolo ............. ..
San Simeon ..... l961Cambria ......••••• !3an Luis Obispo ... .

...........

.................

May
8,

1856

Date when Charter
was Issued.

"
"
"
"
"
1858.

"

"
"
''

"

1869.

"
"u
''

"
"

1868.
14,

"

"

15,
OP.t.

"

''
"
"
"
1862.
"
1863.

"
"
"
10, 1867.
" "
" "
"
"
" "
15, 1868.

"
"

..

11,

"
"
"
"

"

1860.
1861.

"

"
" "
13, 1864.
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
13, 1865.
" "
12, 1865.
14,

17,
15,

Oct.

..."

Oct.

"

"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"

Oct.

"

May

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.

May

"

"

''

"

"
"'

16,

"
May

May

"

"

1860.

20
5

30 ......

ao ......

5

100
75

ao

60 ······
50
5
40
1
:{
50
50 JS
50 20
5
50
50 27!!
75 10
5
30
100 50
50 ······
501 5
]
35•
40 ······
75 10
8
50
5
50
80 ......

10,

"

"

~

1
6

5
50 .. ...

36

50
30

May

"
"
"

13,

..
"

"
15,

"
"

"

o·~

.

-:;: t, ~
i..i:i
"'"' ~i:l~

gi

6

6

6
9
6
6
6
6
6
9
6
6
12
6
9
12
6
12
6
9
6
6
6

12

12

12

6
12
6
6
6
6
12
9
12
6
12

9
6
12
9
6
12
9
6
6
6
12
9
6
6
6
6
6
9
12

6
6
9
15
6
12
6
6,

i'l1:1
..:

-;

.;

.. g "'
o"' _..., .5

,,...;

"
"
"
" "
"
"
'"
May 14, 1859.
13,
"
,,"
"
"
" "
u''
" "
May
11, 1860.

"
"

"
"
May
"

"
"

"

" "
"
"
" "
.
" "
"
.............. "" "" ""
15,
"
"
14, 1857.
May

Howa.i·d ......... 96 Yreka ................. Siskiyou . ...............
Jefferson ........ 97 La Porte ........... Plumas ...............
Rornitos ......... 98 Hornitos •••........ Mariposa ...........
Yosemite ........ 9.9 Merced
Merced ............
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer ...............
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte
J,exington ....... 104 El Monte •.....•... Los Angeles ........
Arcata .......... 106 Arcata ......•...•.. Humboldt ..........
Pajaro .......... 110 Watsonville .••..... Santa Cruz •........
Chico ........... 111 Chico .....•........ Butte .......••...•.
Summit ......... 112 Knight's Ferry •.•.• Stanislaus ....... , ..
Eden ........... 113 San Leandro .••••.• Alameda ..........•
Concord ......... 117 Sacramento
Sacramento .........
Clinton ......... 119 Igo .......••••.•.•• Shasta .............
Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco •..•.. San Francisco •..•••
Alamo .......... 122 Walnut Creek ••.... Contra Costa •.•••••
Sotoyome ....... 123 Healdsburg •••.•...• Sonoma ...•••...••.
Table Mountain ... 124 Cherokee .••........ Butte ..............
La Fayette ..... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma .....•..•..•
Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco ••••.• San Francisco •....•
Visalia .......... 128 Visalia .......•..... Tulare ............•
Nicolaus ........ 129 Wheatland ......... Yuba ..............
Woodbridge ..... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ........
Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville ........• Plu.mas ...........•
Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville •........• Solano ..........•.•
Valley ........... 135 Linden ............. San .Joaquin .......
Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco ......
Cr.ockett ........ 139 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco ......

Ne.mes of Lodges

...

.,;

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.
co

(n

t"

t;;

'(µ

71
193
60
124
201
147
77

273
146
220
82
49
29
34
52
34
114
594
77
239
167
85
113
82
41

128
114
81
171
28
13
426
113
152
892
75

52
33
72

46
125
46
670
473

91

e
568

00

(.n

>

z

0
tll

~

0
'xi

~

g

0

t<

~z
t!

...

ti:J

~

8

0

l:tj

Q

t"
0

t:J

8

>

z

0
::0
t!
.....

tll

Ul

c:::

0
'xi

&5
37
32
130
60
192
88
124
137
215
32
134
12!)
52

8

u;

.0

County.

146
147

145

143
144

130
131
132
13:>
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142

12~

128

········ ....

···········

············
············
············
··············
··············
...........
···········

··········

14,

"

Oct.

"
"
"

"
"
"

1876.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1875.
1874.

1873.

"

"
"

1873.

"
""

12,

"
"
11,
"
"
16,
"

"
"
........ Oct.
··········· "
"
Oct.
"

"
"
1883.
"
"
1884.
"

1882.

"
"
"11, 1877.
"
"
"
"
"
10, 1878.
"
"
" "
"16, 1879.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1880.
"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1881.
Oct.

"
"
"
·············· Oct.
"
············· ""
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

"

"
"
Oct.
"

Oct.

14,
12,

"

"
16,
"
"
"
"
"

18,

Oct.

18,

"
1871.
"
"
''
"
"
"
1872.
"
14,
"
"
"
'~
"
"
11,
"
"
,,,"

"
......... Oct.
············· "
·············· "
............. ""
"
"
Oct.

"
''

,,"

"

"

"

"
"
'.
"
"
''
1870.

1869.

"
"
,,
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
''
''
Oct.
"
"
''"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"

14,

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Oct.

Solano .......... 2291 \I '\llejo ••...•....... Solano •.••......•••
North Butte ..... 230 Gridley ••••.......• Butte ••......••.•••
Covelo .......... 231 Covelo •.••......... Mendocino
Janesville ....... 232 Lassen .·............ Lassen
Calistoga ........ 233 Calistoga
Napa
Hope ............ 234 Beckwith ....•..... Plumas .............
Surprise Valley .. 235 Cedarville ..••..' .... Modoc
Hill's Ferry ..... 236 Newman ........... Stanislaus .........•
Guadalupe ....... 237 Guadalupe •.•... .' .. Santa Barbara •....
Colusa ........... 240 Colusa ....•........ Colusa ••......•....
Santa Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana •.. ~~· ... Orange ••.•...••...•
Magnolia ........ 242 Santa Barbara~ .... Santa Barbara •....•
Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards .... ~c';'.••• Alameda .•.........
Alcatraz ......... 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda .•••......•
Laurel ........... 245 Willows
Glenn •.....•......•
Pomona . . . . . . . . . 246 Pomona
Los Angeles ....••.•
Fresno .......... 247 Fresno ••...••...... 1'resno •..•.•..•...•
Alturas .......... 248 Altura&
Modoc •..•..•......
Adin ............ 250 A din
Modoc ..••.•.......
Bodie ........... 252 Bodie
Mono ••............
Landmark ....... 253 Esparto
Yolo
Reading ......... 254 Redding
Shasta .....•......•
Welcome ........ 255 Lemoore
Kings
Lodi ............ 256 Lodi •...•••••..... San Joaquin ...•....
Penrhyn ........ 258 Penryn ..........•. Placer ....•......•.
Evergreen ....... 259 Riverside .........• Riverside ...•.....•
King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco •.... San Francisco .•....
Tuscan .......... 261 Williams •.......... Colusa .•...........
Lompoc ......... 262 Lompoc ............ Santa Barbara .....
Hesperian ....... 264 Santa Maria •....... Santa Barbara .....
Orland .......... 265 Orland
. Glenn ..•....•...•••
North East ...... 266 Fort Bidwell ....... Modoc ......•.....•
Galt ............ 267 Galt .....•......... Sacramento
Durant .......... 268 Berkeley ••..•.....• Alameda
Olive Branch .... 269 Tulare .••...•....•• Tulare
··-··········
Snow Mountain .. 271 Stony Ford .....•.. Colusa ••...••......
Pasadena ....... 272 Pasadena •.......... Los Angeles ..••...•

\

156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192

Town.

148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155

~

8

Places of LocatiOn.

Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ...•..•. Los Angeles ....... .
Hartley ......... 199 Lakeport .......... Lake ..•..........•
Truckee ......... 200 Truckee •.......••.. Nevada •...........
Silveyville ...... 201 Dixon ....•••....•• Solano ............ .
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Confidence ....... 203 Castroville ......... Monterey .•.......•
Salinas .......... 204 Salinas ............ Monterey ......... .
Olivet ........... 205 Corning ............ Tehama ............ .
Stanislaus ....... 206 Modesto .•......... Stanislaus ......... .
Anaheim ........ 207 Anaheim ........... Orange ....•.....•..
Rio Vista ....... 208 Rio Vista ........•.. Solano ............•
King David's ..... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo ....•
J<riendship ....... 210 San Jose .........•. Santa Clara .....••.
San Benito ...... 211 Hollister ........... San Benito ........ .
So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..••• ·•
San Buenaventura.214 Ventura •.......... Ventura .......•...•
Oak Grove ....... 215 Alameda . . . . . . . . . . Alameda ........••.
Doric ........... 216 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...•.•
Monterey ........ 217 Monterey .......... Monterey ......... .
Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore .......... Alameda .•....•....
Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
Downey ......... 220 Downey ............ Los Angeles ....•...
Inyo ............ 221 Independence ....... 1Inyo .........••...•
Granite ......... 222 Rocklin •........... Placer ..........•.•
Bake·rsfield ...... 224 Bakersfield .......... Kern ............. .
Bro... klyn ........ 225 East Oakland ....... Alameda ..........•
San Mateo ...... 226 San Mateo ......... San Mateo •........
Athens .......... 228 DaYis ............. Yolo ..............•

Names of Lodges.

.;

.,....

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.
~

75 10
50 ......
30 ......
50
1
30
4
50 10
30
1
50 ......
50 10
50 ......
50
1
50
3
50 ......
50 ......
50
5
50
3
3
5o
40
1
30 ......
60 ......
1
30
8
50
50 ......
50 ......
30
3
50 ......
50 15
50 ......
1
35
1
35
2
50
5
30
30 ......
100 10
50 ......
30
1
50 ......

6
12
9
6
6
8
6
6
9
6
6
6
6
9
18
8
6
6
6
12
6
12
6
6
6
6
12
12
6
12
12
6
6
6
10
6
6

18
9

!l

24
9
l2
12
6
9
12
9
12
12
6
6
6
12

9

9

9
6
6
6
6
12
6

5

9
H

1

A

60
5
50 20
40 ..... .
40 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50
1
35
1
50 ......
30
1
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
75
1
100 10
50
5
50 ..... .
7fi 10
30 ······
50
1
50 2Yz
75 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .

60

50
5
30 ..... .

.

,..=i

.....; cC
Ca>
_.,
., .... --.o
a:i.$
i..A
"'" ~s..;

.;

285
91
43
52
87
53
44
76
64
93
333
107
102
392
112
265
377
67
45
26
53
143
90
202
88
308
568
57
110
193
82
43
48
435
149
37
418

62
107
114
79
506
25
150
96
128
122
69'
208
256
9o
201
133
455
504
113
88
218
108
57
58
30!}
413
147
76

""'
:::=:~

"'c

.,.;

.E <==

>-3

rn

c:..

>

z

0
:ti

t:"'
....
"I

>

("l

l:ij

0

L?=J

t1
Cl

t:"'
0

t1

>
z

Cl
:ti

talTJ

"I

0

t"
0
0
0
lTJ
rn

:i>-3
lTJ

z

0

~

Ill
0

c

0
"I

crn

CJ1
00

N

00

c.n

"'s
z::>
Town.

County.

221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257

.........
...........

··········
.............
·············
..........

.............
...........
........ ....
..........

"
"
"
"

"

Oct.

"
Oct.

"
"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"

Oct.

...........

Oct.

1892.

"
"

"
"

1890.
1891.

"
"

"
ll, 1900.
10, 1901.

"
"
"

14, 1899.

" "
"
"
" "
1893.
ll,
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
11, 1894.
" "
" "
" "
ll, 1895.
" "
"
"13, 1896.
"
"
15, 1897.
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"
14, 1898.

12,

"
"

"
"

14,

"
"

Oct.

"
""
"

" 1886.
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"11, 1888.
" "
" "
" "
"
"IO, 1889.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"16, 1890.
"
" "
"". "
"
" "

"
"
"

16,
14,

"
"
Oct .
"
"

1884.

" "
"
"16, 1885.

Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
.......... ""
........... Oct.

Porterville ....... 303 Porterville
Tulare .............
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley
Fresno •............
Azusa . . . . . . . . . . . 305 Azusa ............. Los Angeles ........
Ashlar ...... : ... 306 Colton ............. San Bernardino .....
Santa Monica .... 307 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ........
:M:onrovia ........ 308 Monrovia
Los Angeles ........
Delano . . . . . . . . . . 309 Delano
Kern .
Sisson ........... 310 Sisson
Siskiyou
Los Banos ....... 312 Los Banos ........• Me reed
Tehachapi ....... 313 Tehaehapi
Kern ...............
Teme.scal ........ 314 Corona ...•.. cw. •••• Riverside
Norwalk ......... :n5 Norwalk •..... --::.... Los Angeles ........
Sanger .......... 316 Sanger •........... Fresno .............
Fallbrook ....... 317 Fallbrook •......... San Diego ..........
Emmanuel ....... 318 Biggs .............. Butte ..............
Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
South Gate ...... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Alisal ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ...........
Alhambra ....... 322 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ........
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier .......... Los Angeles •.......
Corona .......... 324 Pasadena . , ........ Los Angeles ........
Consuelo ......... 325 Escondido .......... San Diego ._ .........
Needles ......... 3215 Needles ............ San Bernardino .....
Long Beach ...... 327 Long Beaeh ........ Los Angeles ........
Redondo ........ 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ........
Vallee de France .. 329 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter. . .....
Pacific Grove ..... 331 Paci:fie Grove ....... Monterey ..........
San Pedro ....... 332 S~n Pedro .......... Los Angeles ........
Alta ............ 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono ..............
Covina .......... 334 Covina ............. Los Angeles ........
\Yest Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Fruitvale ....... 336 Oakland ........... Alameda ...........
Carquinez ....... 337 Crockett ........... Contra Costa .......
San Jacinto ...... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside
Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton ········ .. Orange .
Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura

"

"
Oct.

16,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

ILos Angeles ........ Oct.

Places of Location.

193 Anchor .......... 273 Compton ..........•
194 Arroyo . . . . . . . . . . 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo .....
195 Oakdale . . . . . . . . . 275 Oakdale .........•.. Stanislaus . , ..... , ..
196 Selma ........... 277 Selma ············· Fresno ········ .....
197 Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
198 Hanford ......... 279 Hanford ........... King11 ..............
199 Madera . . . . . . . . . 280 Madera .........•.. Madera •..........•
200 Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson ·········· Shasta ... , .....•...
201 Callayomi ....... 282 Middletown ········ Lake ··············
202 South We.st . . .. . 283 National City ...... San Diego ..........
203 San Miguel ...... 285 San Miguel •....... San Luis Obispo .....
204 Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo .....
205 Winrn~dumah .... 287 Bishop ............• Inyo ••.•...........
206 Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell ........... Colusa .............
207 Elsinore . . . . . . . . . 289 Elsinore ...........• Riverside ··········
208 East Gate ........ 290 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
209 Santa Paula .... 291 Santa Paula. .. ~"' ... Ventura ...........
210 Los Gatos . . . . . . . 292 Los Gatos .....-_;'; ... Santa Clara ........
211 Orange Grove ... 293 Orange ············ Orange ············
212 Traver .......... 294 Kingsburg ......... Fresno .............
213 Mt. Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma ............
214 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego .........• San Diego ..........
215 Dunsmuir ........ 297 Dunsmuir ........•. Siskiyou ...........
216 Mokelumne Hill .. 298 Mokelumne Hill ...• Calaveras ··········
217 Liberty .......... 299 Santa Clara .......• Santa Clara ........
218 Redlands ........ 300 Redlands ........... San Bernardino ......
219 Ontario ......... 301 Ontario ..........•• San Bernardino .....
220 Santa Lucia ..... 302 Kings' C_itY ......•.. Monterey ··········

Names of Lod&"es.

...

.;
,Q

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.~Continued.

-<

50 15
30 ......
30 ......
50 ······
50 ......
50 ······
50 ......
2
50
50 ......
1
50
2
50
30 ......
50 ......
5
30
5
35
10
50
50 15
35 ......
50 ......
30
3
8
50
30 ......
1
50
50 ......
50 ......
50 12
50 ......
50 ......
50 ······
53 ......
30 ......
50 20
50 ......
50 ......
40 ·····50 ......
50
1

. . ~~I

ti

6
6
6
6

9
8
6
6
6
6
12
12
6
6
9
6
9
12
6
6
6
9

6

6
9
6
12
9
9
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

\J

29
158
429
339
104
107
214
177

211

175
67
86
130
153
130
10\I
86
60
129
92
72
86
45
49
882
7Hl
74
272.
171
373
73
141
3ti8
158
100
175
66

72
52
74
158
668
178
116
57
39
119
76
61
103
39
62
725
140
131
127
72
86
443
107
46
186
252
136
70

""'
::-1~

-<

::>

~::>

,..,,;
,,,o

_s::>

"

::>
A

6
50
6
30
6
30
6
30
9
75
6
50
3
40
30 ······
6
30 .....
6
30
6
1
30 10 12
6
50
3
6
30 ......
6
30 ......
6
30 ......
6
50 ......
9
50 ......
6
50 ......
6
30
1
30 ...... 10
6
30 ······
6
50 ······
6
50 ......
6
50_ 3
6
30 ......
6
50 .....,.
6
50
6
40 ......

~~

<D.~

,..r:i

""' ~ij§

,..,,;

_,,
0"
... .8~

,,;

---

"~;..

0

':cJ

t"1
.....

>

()

0
':cJ

tcJ

0
ti
0

t"1

ti

~

"z

0

(/1

00

(/1

tcJ

::i:

8

':cJ

"0

tcJ

0

ti

0

t"1

8
tcJ

~

"~-z

td
0

d

Ul

0
':cJ

8

Ul

t"1
.....

~

00

(/1

285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316

284

282
283

279
280
281

278

277

276

273
274
275

272

270
271

268
269

260
261
262
263
264
26')
266
267

258
259

z

8
:::s
Town.

I
County.

Places of Location.

de

I

.........

.

.

..........

~

I 'Oceanie ...... 371 Honolulu •......•..• Hawaiian Ter.•...

~

"
"
"
"
"

''
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

..

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
10, 1907.
"
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"
"
" 1908
15,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"14, 1909.
"
"
"" "
"
"
"

1905.
11106.

12,
10,

''16, 1903
"
'' "
'' "
"
"
'' "
'' "
"
"
13, 1904,
'' "
'' "
" "
'' ''
'' "
12, 1905.
" ''
'' "
'' "
'' ''
'' ''

.. ""

1902.

15,

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Oct.
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ........... Los Angeles ..•..... Oc.t.
Veteran ......... 373 Sawtelle ........... iLos Angeles ........
"
;J~wel ........... 37~ San Franc~sco ...... !San Franc!sco ......
"
Richmond ....... 37.i San Franmsco ...... San Francisco ......
"
Francis Drake ... 3761South San Francisco. San Mateo ••..•....
"
Artesia .......... 377 Artesia ...•.. , ..•.. Los Angeles ........
"
Mizpah ......... 378 Los Angeles •..•.... Los Angeles .......•
-"
Fillmore ......... 379 Fillmore ..........• Ventura ............
"
Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach .. Orange
...........
"
Oceanside ....... 381 Oceanside •.....••.• San Diego ..........
"
Highland Park ... 382 Los Angeles .....•••• Los Angeles ......... Oct.
Orosi ............ 383 Orosi .................. Tulare .............
"
El Centro ........ 384 El Centro ........... Imperial
"
Dinuba ......... 385 Dinuba ............• Tulare .........••.•
"
Coalinga ........ 387 Coalinga. ...........
Fresno ............. / "
Parnassus ....... 388 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .....•.
"
Palos Verdes .... 389 Long Beach •........ Los Angeles ........•
"
Imperial ........ 390 Imperial .........•. Imperial ...• ., .•... , Oct.
East Belt ....... 391 Tuolumne .,.
Tuolumne ...........
"
West Lake ...... 392 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles. . . . ...
"
Balder .......... 393 San Francisco ..•. , •• San Francisco .......
University ...... 3941Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
"
Tur]o,ck ......... 395 Turlock ............ Stanislaus ..........
Apollo .......... 396 Alameda ........... Alameda ...........
"
Rising J,ight ..... 397 Huntington Park .... Los Angeles .........
"
Fra t~rnity ....... 399 San . Jose ........... ~anta Clara ........
"
Burlingame ...... 400 Burhngame ........ :San Mateo .........
"
Bay View ....... 401 Oakland .........•. 1,Alameda ........... Oct.
Brawley ........ .4021Brawley ........... !Imperial ...........
"
Y crba Buena ... .403 IOakland. . .......... ,Alameda .......... · 1
"
Glendora ........ 404 Glendora .......... , Los Angeles ......•
"
Moncta ........ .405 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...... ,

le

San Fernando .... 343 'Fernando ...•....•. Los Angeles ..•.....
Starr King ....•. 344 San Francisco • . • . . . San Francisco •••...
Brentwood ...... 345 Brentwood ......••. Contra Costa ....••.
Palo Alto ....... 346 Palo Alto .......... Santa Clara ....... .
McKinley ......• 347 Richmond ..... , ...• Contra Costa ...... .
San Bernardino .. 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino , ... .
Sequoia ......... 349 Oakland ........... Alameda ......... ..
Palestine
. . .. 351 Los Angeles •..•.... Los Angeles ....••. ,
Sunset ..... , .... 352 Los Angeles . , ...... Los Angeles •......•
Pinole ........... 353 Pinole ............. Contra Costa ...... .
Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •••••.
Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood •.......• Los Angeles •...••••
Mi11 Valley .....• 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin ............ .
Buena Park ...... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange •..•• , . , ... .
Golden State .. , .358 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles •.......
Loyalton ........ 359 Loyalton ........... Sierra ............ ..
San Francisco .... 360 San Francisco •••.•. San Francisco .....•
Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg ......... Mendocino ........•
Charity .......... 362 Campbell •.......•.. Santa Clara ... , , .. .
Berkeley ......•. 363 Berkeley •••.....•.• Alameda •.........•
Willits .......... 365 Willits •........... Mendocino ......••.
Las Palmas ....•• 366 Fresno ............. Fresno ............•
South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena ••.• Los Angeles , ....•..
Unity ........... 368 Glendale ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Ocean Park ...... 369 Ocean Park ........ Los Angeles ....••..
Amity ........... 370 San Francisco •..... 1San Francisco .•...• ,

Names of Lodges.

~

Jl

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

j

50

50

50 .... ..
50 ..... .
75 15
50
5
50 ..... .
30 .... ..
50

50 ......
50
3
50
1
50 .... ..

fi(l

... .;

"'Sl

$~

349
447

216
194
276
581

89

90
310

198

332

12

,~[

:::~:~I fil

gl

~1

lgl

121

l(j9

296

219
56

238
79

135
187
174

15()

322
67
121'1
ll9
150
317
173
72
50
616
217
255
86

64
49

427
94

336
76
88

98

11;5

174
89

214

354

61

97

85
368

269
77

12
9
6

12
6
6
9
9

12
6
6
6

400
202
80
515
38

l~l 327flt
12
6

6
9
6

6

. . 1g[

~~ ~~1 1219
50, Hi

501······1

61
50 JOI
3
30
3
75 JOI
I
50 101 121
50
5
91
301 ...... l 6!
50 15
91
50
1
50 ......
50 ......
6
50 . .....
61
30
61
50 10
61
40 ...... ~~
75 ......
75 10
gg1 .. -i'o1 12fi
91
50
51
50 ...... , 11!
50
1
50
40
H
11
75
9
50 ...... 1 6
50
6
12,
50 . ....
50
1
91
50
5
61
50 25 121
:30 ······
f'

I

~

'iii

.. <§ ~~

~A ~il

"' bG

~.~

... i::
~~
-ll .£~

a;

00

~

Q

""'

(Jl
()0

~

~

0

l%j

~....

a

l:j

0

t'.l

Q

t;j

0

t"'

t:I

>
2:

~

tr.I-

..,

l:j

o·

'(fl.

t'J.

Q

t;j

t"'

o·

t'.l

..,>

~.2:'

td
0'

er

'(/l

l:j'

0

~;

t:•

°'

U1'

"E

...ui
~

.0

'l'own.

I

Places of Location.

County.

1·

343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
:!64
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376

.......

.........

~

Roseville •...•.. .432 Roseville ........... Placer ..... · · · · · · ··• 1
Hammonton .... .433 Hammonton ..••...• Yuba •.....•...••..
Maricopa ....... .434 Maricopa ...•....•. Kern ......•.....•.
Fairmount ...... .435 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
Claremont ....... 436 Claremont .......... Los Angeles •......
Lancaster ...... .437 Lancaster
Los Angeles .......
Germania ....... .438 Los Angeles ....... Los Angeles .......
Tyrian .......... 439\Manteca ........... San Joaquin .......
Standard ....... .440 Oakland ........... Alameda ..........•
Coronado ....... .441 Coronado .........• San Diego .........
Blackmer ....... 4421San Diego ......... San Diego .....•...
Schofield ........ 443 Schofield Barracks ... Hawaiian Ter .......
Carpinteria ...... 444 Carpinteria •......• Santa Barbara ....
Wilshire ....... .445 Los Angeles
I~os Angeles ........
J,a Puente . . . . . . 4.46 Puente .............. Los Angeles .........
Torrance ........ 447 Torrance ..........• Los Angeles ........
Mt. Diablo ...... 448 Concord .........•• Contra Costa .......
Park ........... .449 San Praneisco ..•... San Francisco ......
Van Nuys ....... 450 Van Nuys •......•• Los Angeles ........
Montebello . . . . . .451 Montebello ........• Los Angeles •.......
San Pasqual. .... .452 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ........
Bethlehem ...... .453 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
Crocker ........ .454 Daly City ........... San Mateo ..........
Golden West ... .455 1San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
Kennett ......... 4561Kennett ........... Shasta .............
Ramona ......... 457 .Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ........
Henry S. Orme ... 458,I,os Argeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Riverbank ....... 459 1Riverbank ......... Stanislaus ..........
Mount Oso ...... .460 1Tracy ............. San .Joaquin ........
Argonaut ....... 461 1San Pranci;;co ...... San Franciseo .......
Paul Revere ..... 462.San Pranci~co ...... San Fra.nciseo .......
Morgan Hill .... .463 Morgan Hill ........ Santa Clara .......•
Alta Vista ...... .464 Ssn :F'rancisco ...... San Francisco .......
Center .......... 4.65 Fresno ............. Fresno ............

12,
(lt't.

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"?9.
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
1914.
"
"
"
"
"
"

1912.
1913.

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
"
1912.

mm
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
1()1.)

"
" "
14, 1915.

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
1!'),

"

"
"
"
"
"
O·t.

"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

12,
16,

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

12,

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
''
''
"
"
"
"
11, 1911.
"
"

Date when Charter
was Issued.

3i7Burbank .~:....
...........
. . ~-~-:-:~!
318 La Mesa ........ 407 La Mesa ............ San Diego .......... ,
319 Sierra Madre ... .408 Sierra Madre .......• Los Angeles........
"
320 Honolulu ........ 409 Honolulu .......... Hawaii . . . . . . . . .. . .
"
321 Charter Roek .... 410 Berkeley ........... Alameda .......... .'
"
322 Perris .......... .411 Perris , ............ Riverside . . . . . . . . ..
"
323 Calexico ........ .412 1Calexico ........... Imperial . . • .. . . . • . .
"
324 Waucoba ....... .413 Big Pine ........... Inyo . . • .. . .. . .. . . . .
"
325 Arlington ...... .414 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles........
"
326 Silver Trowel. .. .415 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles........
"
327 Lind.say ......... 416 Lindsay ••......... Tulare . . . • . . . . . . . .
''
328 Clovis .......... .417 Clovis ............. Fresno . . . . . • . . . . ..
"
329 Elysian ........ .418 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles... . .. . .
"
330 Upland ......... .419 Upland ............ San Bernardino..... Oct.
331 Kerman ........ .420 Kerman •••.......•• Fresno.......... . • ..
"
332 Inglewood •..... .421 Inglewood ........... Los Angeles ....... .
"
333 Eagle Rock ..... .422 Eagle Rock .•..•.... Los Angeles •...•....
"
334 York ........... .423 Watts •........•••.. Los Angeles .•.....• I Oct.
335 Exeter ••....... .424 Exeter .•.......... Tulare ... · · · · · • • · • ·
"
336 H~ltville •...... .425 Holtville ............ Imperial : ......... .
"
337 Midway ......... 426 Taft ....••.•....... Kern ............. .
"
338 Chino Valley .... 427 Chino •............. San Bernardino .... .
"
339 San Dimas ..... .428 San Dimas ......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
340 Pittsburg ••..... .429 Pittsburg .••••.•... Contra Costa ...... .
"
341 McCloud ......• .430 McCloud ••..•.•..... Siskiyou ..........•
"
342 Alpha .....•.... .431 Richmond ..•....... Contra Costa .••....
"

Names of Lodaes.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, ete.-Continued.

$;:::

61
81
8.
12!

-<

s:::

1

~

12
6

9

9
6
6

()

6
6

6

9

()

12
6
9
6

6
6

6

6

6

10
10
5
10

!)

12
12
12
12

9;~

1······

u
40_ ......

6
6
6
.
6
501
6
12
12
6
5 12
75
50 ......
"O'

501
50
501-·····
50 .......

751
100

~

...... \ ..... ......

~

50i
4
50 ······
100 10
50 . ....
50 ......
50
3
50 10
50 ······
50
5
50 ......
50 ......
50
5
fiO ......
751 25
30
l
501······
501
5
50. JO
3
501

501......
50 ......

6
6
6
9
6
10
6
6
501'. ..... · 6
6
35 ......
50
1 12

50
3
35 ......
50
3
50 10
50 ......
!50 ...•..
50 ......
100 ......

ggl .. ···51 ~I

50
91
30
10
50
5
6
30 ............ \
50 ......
6
50 ......
6
50
5
6'

501 ...... ,
50
3
50 .....
50 10

-<

""~ ""!!:!

~w

"'i:i

47

133
23
35

66

58
49
76
40
122
84
112
106
36
259
40
38
46
202
59
40
84
95
50
152
48
62
123
42
47

3113

95
5:!
54

204

42

128
44
62
58

61

78
55
65
196
318
54
91
31
141
160
60
49
2'J1
70
46
87
45
63
57

~)1

.;
$«
.,o

. . !.; I.E~ ~ .,.,...

'9

•
'°

UI

z....
>

0
:ll

':>:J

>
....t"'

Q

0
"'l

t.:11

Q

ti

0

ti
t"'

z

>

Q

:ll

~

~

~

w

~

t"'
0
ti

l?<J

~

~

ti

g

txl

~

0
"'l

I:"'

~

CJt
00
00

1£.

Name.

I

Location.

County.

County.

EXTINCT

Chartered.

"I· .............

Became Extinct

I

LODGES.

11,
"
"

ill ~

~ rn

"""O<l>
i:;

~

"
"

rn

rn

60,384

~\"!

~

?h

0
ti
Ci

t"

t'j

"3

~

z

ti

~

0

tl:I

c::

':rj

0

"3

t"
....

16
15

Remarks.

50 . . . .. .
50 10

~hanged

I
6
9

~~

'3"'

~ I ... .;

Al
~g
_

~A
I ~I
1917:~ 751.-:-::::-1
121-28

DatB when Charter
was Issued.

. ............. l Oct.
"
"
. ......... .

- ---'-----------··

Town.

Libertas ....... .466\Bakersfield . . . . . . . . .
Culver City .... .467 Culver City ........•
Rockridge ....... 468 Oakland . . . . . . . . . . .

____ ,

~

Places of Location.

§

Berr;rman ........ Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... A-p-n-.l-19-,-18_5_0_\ ..•..•........ !Name
to Jennings.
Jennmgs ......... Sacramento ..•... Sacramento ......•••••••.•••••. '}fay
6, 1856iCharter surrendered.
Sutter ........... Sacramento ...... Sacramento .....• May 7, 1850 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Davy Crockett ..•. San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Franeiseo
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
Willamette ....... Portland ........ :Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
15 La Fayette ....... JLa Fayette, Ore .. I................. JMay 9, 1851 INov.,
Oregon.
Nashvi.lle ......•. !Nashville ....... )El Dorado ..•.•.. ,Dee. 24, 1851
Charter never issued.
Pacific .......... Valparaiso ...... Chili ............ May 5, 1853* ....•......... Charter never issued.
28 Columbia ........ Columbia ....... Tuolumne ....... May 5, 1853 Oct.
15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
18, 1873!Surrendered.
29 Diamond ......... !Diamond Springs. ,El Dorado ..•.... ,May 5, 1853 1oet.
31 Mokelumne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ....... May 5, 1853 ;Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
15, 1887 Revoked.
34 Santa Clara ....... Santa Clara ...... ,Santa Clara ...•• · 1May 5, 1853 IOct.
36 Butte ............ Bidwell .....•... Butte .....•..... May 3, 1854 Sept.
3, 18641Surrendered.
39 Yuba ........... Marysville ...... Yuba ........... May 3, 1854 .June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
15, 1897 1Surrendered.
47 Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer .......... May 3, 1854 ;oct.
6, 1856 Surrendered.
48 Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 tMay
49 Lebanon ........ ~an Francisco .... San Francisco .... May 3, 1854 1June 29, 1857\Revoked.
1864 1Surrendered.
52 Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 INov.
53 Franklin ......... Sacramento ..... Sacramento ...... May 3, 1854 May 10, 1856jSurrendered.
54 Saint James ...... Jamestown ...... Tuolumne ....... May 2, 1855 !Pe.b.
20, 18i'i7 Surrendered.
63' Iowa Hill ........ Iowa Hill . . . . . . . . Placer . . . . . . . . • . May 3, 1855 Oct.
29, 18571Surrendered.
67 :Minnesota ....... :Minnesota ....... Sierra ........... May 2, 1855 May 14, 1859 Surrendered.
69 Ind. Royal Arch .. Marysville ...... Yuba ........... May 2, 1855 !May
2, 1855IName changed to Corinthian No.
69.

4
4
6
7
7
11

No.

379

377
378

Names of Lodges.

...

.;

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

'°.....

'-"

"1

g
~

t

Q

'.tJ

0

8tel

t'
0

8

>

~

Q

Location.

\

Uounty.

I
Became Extinct

I

.

J:temarks.

San Luis Obispo .. ·jSan Luis Obispo. ·jSan Luis Obispo .. ·1May
Palmyra ..•...••• Placerville ...... El Dorado ....... May

148
151

1

·I

152 Josephus .....••• , Brush Creek ...... Butte ........... May
153 Rising Sun ..•.••• Brandy City ..... Sierra ...... ~ ... May
154 Carson ........••• Carson City ...... Nevada Ter ...... May
155 Mount Carmel. ..•• Red Dog ......... Nevada ......... May
157 Washoe .....•..•• Washoe City ..•.• Nevada Ter ...... May
158 Gibsonville .....• Gibsonville ...... Sierra ........... May
159 Gilroy ..•...... , • Gilroy .......... Santa Clara ...... May
160 Pilot Hill .......• , Pilot "Hill ........ El Dorado ....... May
162 Virginia City ...•• Virgii.ia City .... Nevada Te......... May
163 Silver City ....••• Silver City ....... Nevada Ter ...... May
165 Silver Star .....•• Gold Hill ........ Nevada Ter ..... Oct.
170 Esmeralda ..•..•• Aurora .......... Nevada Ter ..... ·jOct.
171 Escurial ..•...••• Virg~nia City .... Nevada Ter ...... oct.
172 Lander ........•• Austrn .......... Nevada Ter ...... 10ct.
Alpine .....•..••• MarkleeYille .... Alpine .......... May
175 Claiborne ..•..••• Antioch ......... Contra Costa ..... 1Oct.

Oro Fino ..•.•. ···10ro Fino ......... !Siskiyou ....... ·1May
Violet ........•• , Spanish Flat ..... El Dorado ....... May
Colusa ........••• Colusa .......... Colusa .......... May

137
138
142

N

~

c..

(./\
\C)

>

z

~

0

i;:J

~

(i

0
"'.J

t;:J

0

ti

t"
0

ti

>
z

0

~

..,

~

0

U1

t<J

i:;:i

I:"'
0
ti

~

t<J

..,....
z
a..,

(Jl

'°

15, 1908 Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
14, 1857 Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. l.6.
14, 1857 June 26, 1894 Revoked.
14, 1857 May
18, 1861 Surrendered.
14, 1857* Jan.
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
13, 1858 Jan.
5, 1859 Surrendered.
13, 1858 Oct.
8, 1905 Surrendered.
1858 Oct.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1859 May
13, 1863 Revoked.
13, 1859 Oct.
16, 1913 Consolidated with La Grange No. 99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 IJune,
10, 1860 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
10, 1860 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
2, 1865 Surrendered.
16, 1861 !Dec.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
16, 1862 Oct.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
15, 1862 Oct.
ll, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 ,July
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1872 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Aug.
14. 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14; 1863 Oct.
15, 1908 Jonsolidated with Jefferson No. 97.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863 .Jan.
] 6, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
25, 1864* Oct.
12, 1865 .............. Name changed to Antioch.

Owen ..•..••• , •• , 'Scott's Bar .....•• 'Siskiyou ......... May 14, 1857 iOct.

Dibble ...•.••.••• ')mega ........•. Nevada ......... May
Mt. Zion ..••••• , I }rizzly Flat ..•.• El Dorado ...•... May
Saint Mark's ..••• Fiddletown ...... Amador ......... May
Windsor ....••.•• Windsor ........ Sierra ........... May
Folsom .......•• , Folsom .......... Sacramento ...... Feb.
118 Vallecito ....•••• Vallecito ........ Calaveras ....... May
121 Ionic .....•..•••• Iowa Hill ........ Placer .......... May
125 Progress .......•• San Francisco .... San Francisco ...•
130 Unity .....•..••• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May
133 Yosemite ..•...•• Coulterville ...... 1Mariposa ........ May

109
114
115
116

108

69

2, 1855 Dec.,

Chartered.

Corinthian ....... Marysville ...... Yuba ........... May

\

1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
Nebraska ........ Michigan Bar .... Sacramento ...... May
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
71
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
72 E. K. Kane ....... Nevada ......... Nevada ......... May
73 Tyro ............ Drytown ........ Amador ......... May 15, 1857* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charter never issued.
Franklin ......... Meadow Valley ... Plumas ......... May
3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
74 Wisconsin Hill .... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer .......... May
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North .... Sierra ........... May
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
77 Petaluma ........ Petaluma ........ Sonoma ......... May
18, 1861 Surrendered.
8, 1856 May
82 Mountain ....... ·\Don Pedro's Bar. ,Tuolumne ....... ,May
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
85 Indian Diggings ... Indian Diggings .. El Dorado ....... May
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
\Nov.,
8,
1856
No. 158.
86 Saint Louis ....... Howland 's Flat ... Sierra .......... May
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
8, 1856 May
88 Unity ........... Orleans Flat ..... Nevada ......... May
13,
1910
Consolidated
with Nevada, No. 13.
8, 1856 Oct.
88 Quitman ......... North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May
8, 1858 Surrendered.
May
8,
1856
90 Polar Star ........ Poorman 's Creek. Plumas ......... May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No.
92 Acacia . . . . . . . . . . Coloma ......... El Dorado ....... l\1ay
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
8, 1856 [Oct.
Caymus
..........
Yountville
......
Napa
........•..
May
St. Helena.
93
Dec.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
8,
1856
94 Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ... Plumas .......... May
8, 1856 .............. Name changed to Hornitas.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
98 Quartz burg ....... Quartzburg ...... Mariposa ........ May
9, 1856 Oct.
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
99 La Grange ....... Merced •........ Merced ......... May 8, 1856 Oct.,
No. 78.
100 Campo Seco ....... Campo Seco ...... Calaveras ....... May
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
102 Manzanita ...... ·\North San Juan .. ,Nevada ........ ·\May
8, 1856 \Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
105 Siskiyou ......... Henley ......... Siskiyou ........ May 15, 1856 Oct.
No. 37.
ll, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
107 Mount Jefferson ... [Garrotte ......... ITuolumne ....... [May 14, 1857 [Oct.
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8.

No.

Name.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

Fowler ........... Fowler .......... l!'resno ...•...... Oct.

398

*Date of Dispensation.

Corregidor ....... Manila ... : ..... Philippine Islands Oct.

.......• Oct.

386

.....••. Tehama

Olivet : . ......... Corning

364

19, 1912 Transi.irred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
15, 1903 Dec.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
13, 1904 .............. Consolidated with Newville No.
205, as Olivet No. 205.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
10, 1907 Dec.
Philippine Islands.
15, 1908 Oct. 14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.

10, 1901 Dec.

Cavite ........... Cavite .......••• Philippine lslands!Oct.

Remarks

350

I

I

Became Extinct!

12, 1865 Oct.
11, 1866 Mch.

Chartered

Manila .......... Manila ....•.•.•• Philippine lslandsJOct.

263

249
251
257

213
218
223
227
238
239
240

185
189
197

180

1

!

342

County

270
276
284
311
340

~ocation

Merced .......... Snelling ......... Me.reed ......... jOct.
Aztlan ........•.. Prescott ......... Arizona Ter ...... 0ct.

Name
16, 1879 ,Surrendered.
. . . .
25, 1882 Transferred to Jurisdiction of
I
•
Arizona.
Arcturas ........• Petaluma ....... Sonoma .......... Oct. 11, 1866 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated 1 ith Petaluma No.
77 as No. 180.
Arenas ........... Punta Arenas .... Mendocino ...... Oct. 10, 1867 .............. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe .......... Latrobe ......... El Dorado ....... Oct. 15, 1868 Dec.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
Paradise ...... : .. Haywards ....... Alameda ........ Oct. 14, 1869 July
20, 1872 Surrendered.
Rocklin .......... Rocklin ......... Placer ........... July 30, 1870*,. ............. Charter never issued.
Bodega .... ; ... ; . Bodega ......... Sonoma ......... Oct. 14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
Pleasanton ....... Livermore ....... Alameda .....•.. Oct. 11, 1872 Oct.
18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.
Maui ............ Wailuku ......... Hawaii ........• (\ct. 18, 1873 Nov. 17, 1877 Surrendered.
Contra Costa .....• Somersville ...... Contra Costa ..... uct. 18, 1873 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
Tyre ............ Gold Run ........ Placer .......... Oct. 14, 1875 Oct.
16, 18841Surrendered.
Pescadero ........ Pescadero ....... San Mateo ....... Oct. 14, 1875 Sep~. 26, 1890jSurren.dered. .
Equality ......... Colusa .......... Colusa .......... 0ct. 14, 1875 April
1, 1882Consohdated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
Greenville .......• Greenville ....... Plumas .......... 1Oct. 10, 1878 Oct..
16, 1896 Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132
Brotherhood ..... Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ......... Oct. 10, 1878 April 19, 1888 Surrendered.
Arizona ........•• Phoenix ........ Arizona Ter ...... Oct. 16, 1879 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Solomon ........• Tomb;;tone ...... Arizona Ter ...... June 4, 1881 * Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Tucson .....•..•. Tucson ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct. 15, 1881 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
Fall River ..•...• Burgettville ..... Shasta .......... Oct. 11, 1883 Oct.
10, 1895 Revoked.
Westport .. : ...•. Westport ........ Mendo.cino ....... Oct. 16, 1884 May 26, 1888 Surrendered.
Tyrian .........•• Dunnigan . . . . . . . Yolo ............ Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
11, 1911 Con~olidated with Woodland No.156
Hueneme .......• Hueneme ........ Ventura ......... Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.
16, 1902 Consol5dated with Oxnard No. 341.
Santa Maria .....• Santa Maria ...... Santa Barbara .... Oct. 11. 1900 Oct.
13. 1910\consolidated with Hesperian No. 264.

176
177

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

z~

(11

"°

(11

>

~

ti)

"'.1
0

~
t:

'%j

0

Q
~

ti

0

ti
t"'

0

trj

D1

0
"I
>-3

trj
!JI

Q

81:::1

~

z

....

><
>-3

trj

Vt

..c;
-+>-

1

I
596

\
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFJCEltS

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF. THE

M. '.. \iV. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

SINCE ITS ORGANIZA'fION ON THE
Year
Elected.
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854

1855
1856
1857

1858
1859
18w0
1861
1862

1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870

1871
1872

1873
1874
1875

1876
1877

1878
1879
1880

1881
1882

1883
1884
18!!5

188.6
1887

1888
1889
1890
l.891
1892

1893
1894
1&95

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson .. . •John A. Tutt........ *Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt ............ . *Benjamin D. Hyam .. •E. F. W. Ellis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam ..... . *Charles M. Radcllf'I'.. *Adolphus Hollub.
*Charles M. Radcllt'f ..••.. •Townsend A. Thomas •John R. Crandall.
*William H. Howard .••.. •Nathaniel G. Curtis.. •Rector E. Cole.
•wmtam H. Howard •.... *Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond.
*William H. Howard ..••• •John A Raymond, ••.• •Lemuel Lyon.
*Nathaniel G. Curtis •..•.. •Charles Marsh . • . . • • • •Aaron D. Park.
*Nathaniel G. Curtis •..•.• •Philip W. Shepheard. *William McCormick.
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... . *Philip w. Shepheard. *Ebenezer Lane.
*Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... . *Philip W. Shepheard. *William C. Belcher.
*James L. Jilngllsh ......•. *William c. Belcher .• •John W. Harville.
*William C. Belcher ..•... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •John W. Harville.
*William C. Belcher •....• *Gilbert B. Claiborne.. *Louis Cohn.
*William c. Belcher ••...• *Gilbert B. Claiborne.. *William A. Davies.
*Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... *William A. Davies ... *Isaac S. Titus.
*Gilbert B. Claiborne ..•.. •Henry H. Hartley. • . . *Wm. H. Peterson.
*William A. Davies ...... . •Henry H. Hartley, . . . *Thomas Beck.
*Charles Marsh ........•.. •Leonidas E. Pratt. . .. *Theodore G. Cockrill
*Leonidas E. Pratt ...•.... *Isaac S. Titus ........ *John S. Ward.
*Leonidas E. Pratt ••.•.... *Isaac S. Titus ........ *Charles L. Wiggin.
*Leonidas E. Pratt .•.•.••. *Charles L. Wiggin... *Benj. H. Freeman.
*Leonidas E. Pratt ...... .. •Benj. H. Freeman... George C. Perkins.
*Isaac s. Titus .......... . George C. Perkins... •Joan M. Browne.
George C. Perkins .....••. •John M. Browne..... *Wtlllam B. Parl<:er.
•John M. Browne ......••• •Charles L. Wiggin... *Wiley J. Tinnin.
*John M. Browne ........ . *Charles L. Wiggin... •William S. Wells.
*John M. Browne ...•..••. *Charles L. Wiggin ••. · *William W. Traylor.
*John M. Browne ....... .. •Wiiiiam W. Traylor.. *William H. Crane.
*William W. Traylor ..... . •Samuel C. Denson. . . . *Clay W. Taylor.
*Samuel C. Denson ...... . *Clay W. Taylor ••...• •John Q. Adams.
*Clay W. Taylor .•.••.•..• •John Q. Adams...... •Jonathan D. Hines.
*Clay W. Taylor ...•.•..•. •.Jonathan D. Hines ... *Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Jonathan D. Hines ..... . •Wiley J. Tinnin ..•••• *Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines ...•.. *Wiley J. Tinnin ...... *Edmund C. Atkinson.
*Wiley J. Tinnin ......... . *Edmund C. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
*Edmund C. Atkinson .... . •Hiram N. Rucker .... •Morris M. Estee.
*Hiram N. Rucker .....•.• •MoTTls M. Estee ..... *Alvah R. Conklin.
*Morris M. Estee ........ . *Alvah R. Conklin.... •William Johnston
*Morris M. Estee •..•..... *William .Johnston.... *Charles R. Gritman.
*Alvah R. Conklin ........ . *Wiiiiam Johnston .... •Charles R. Gritman.
*William Johnston .•••.... •Charles Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
*Charles R. Gritman •...• •Henry S. Orme....... James B. Stevens.
*Henry S. Orme .......... . James B. Stevens .... *Edward M. Preston.
James B. Stevens .....•.. *Edward M. Preston.. William T.° Lucas.
*Edward M. Preston ..... . William T. Lucas.... Thomas Flint.

*Deceased

597

Jun lo~
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

*Sashel Woods .•..•.•. *Levi Stowell........
•J(~hn H. Olhon; ..... .
•Benj. S. Olds •..•...•• •Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell ...•..•....
•John R. McConnell .•• *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ........••
*Richard F. Knott .... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
*Robert· N, Wood ..... *Addl~on Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Samuel A. Merritt ... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Peter W. Randle ..... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex O. Abe!I ...... ..
•John B. Bope ........ •Addison Martin ...... *Alex. G. Abell ...... .,
•James W. Bicknell .•• *Addison Martin •..... *Alex o. Abe!I.: ..... .
*Thomas P. Hawley .. *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Alvlnza. Hayward .... *Addison Martin ... : .. *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Caleb E. Wilcoxon ... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell...... ..
•John B. Hewson ..... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
*William A. Davies ... *James Laldley: ....... *Alex .o. Abell ...... ..
*Ieaac S. Titus •••.••.. •James Lald!ey •....... •Alex G. Abell .....••.
•Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. AbeU ........
*Thomas Beck ....... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...•....
•Leonidas E. Pratt .... •James Lald!ey ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Frederick F. Barss ... •James Laid!ey ........ •Alex 0. Abell ....... .
•Richard Dale ........ •James Laldley ........ *Alex O. Abell ...... ..
•Benj. H. Freeman .•• •James LaldleY ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
~o. C, P~rklns ...... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•John M. Browne ..... •James Lald!ey ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Chas, :m. Mitchell. ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Aben ...... ..
*W!ley J. Tinnin ..... •.James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Jacob H. Nef'I' ........ •James Laldley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Solon W. Craigue .... •James Laldley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•wm. H. Crane ........ •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
*Robert C. Broder .... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•John Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ... : .. ..
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ... ; ..... *Alex. 0. Abell ....... .
*Thomas J. Bowers •.. •Moses Heller ...•••••• •Alex. G. Abell ••.•• ·••
•George Hinds ........ *Moses Heller ......... *Alex. 0. Abell ...... ..
•Hiram N. Rucker .... *Moses Heller ......... •Alex. 0. Abell ...... ..
•Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses He11er ......... *Alex. O. Abell ....... .
*Henry H. Knapp ..... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. 0. Abell ...... ..
*Alvah R. Conklin .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. 0. Abell ...... ..
•Wm. Johnston ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell •..... •.
•Marcus D. Boruck ... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... •
*Henry S. Orme ...... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Henry S. Orme ...... *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ...•..
James B. Stevens .... *Nathan W. Spa.uldlng. *George Johnson ..... .
*Edward M. Preston .. *Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
Wm. T. Lucas., ..•.• ~Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .
Thomas Flint ......•. *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .
Frank M. Angellotti .• *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

598

Vear.
1896

rnn
1898
1899
1900
l901

h02
1903
1904
1906
1906

U07
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

Deputy

Grand Master.

Grand Maater.

W1111am T. Lucas ....... . Thomas Flint .......•
Thomas Flint....•..•...••. Frank ltd:. Angellotti ..
Charles L. Patton .. ..
Frank M. Angellotti •••.•.
Charles L. Patton ....... . ,•James A. Foshay ... ..
*James A. Foshay ........ . Wllllam s. Wells .•.••
Orrin S. Henderson .•
William S. Wells ....... ..
Orrin S. Henderson •...•. *Charles W. Nutting ..
*Charles 'N. Nutting ..... . George W. Hunter ..•
George W. Hunter ...•... Motley H. Flint ..... .
Motley H. Flint ••.•..•.•• *Edward H. Hart. ... .
*Edward H. Hart. ....... . Geo. M. Perine ...... .
George M. Perine........ *Reuben H. Lloyd, ...
Oscar Lawler .••.....••••
Frank Pierce .•..•
•w. Frank Pierce......... Dana R. Weller.•••••
Dana R. Weller. • . • . . . • . • Alonzo J. Monroe ...•
Alonzo J. Monroe........ Wm. P. Filmer ..... .
Wm. P. Filmer.......... John D. Murphey ... .
John D. Murphey........ Benj. F. Bledsoe .... .
Benj. F. Bledsoe......... Albert G. Burnett ...•
Albert G. Burnett.. . . . . . Francis V. Keesling ..
Francis V. Keesling ...... Wm. Rhodes Hervey ..
Wm. Rhodes Hervey ..... Bradford Webster ....

•w.

Senior

Grand Warden.
Frank H. Angellotti.
Charles L. Patton.
•James A. Foshay.
W1111am S. Well11.
Orrin S. Henderson.
*Charles W. Nutting.
George W. Hunter.
Motley H. Flint.
*Edward H. Hart.
George M. Perine.
*Reuben H. Lloyd.
Oscar Lawler.
Dana R. Weller.
Alonzo ;J, Monroe.
Wm. P. Fllmer.
John D. Murphey.
Benj. F. Bledsoe.
Albert G. Burnett.
Francis V. Keesling.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Bradford 'Webster.
Charles A. Adams.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treaaurer.

Charles L. Patton ... •mdward Coleman .....
•James A. Foshay ... •Edward Coleman .....
William S. Wells .... •Edward Coleman .....
Orrin S. Henderson., •Edward Coleman .....
*Charles W. N'uttlng ..•Edward Coleman .....
George W. Hunter ... *Edward Coleman .....
Motley H. Flint. .... 'Edward Coleman .....
•Edward H. Hart. ... '.•Edward Coleman .....
George M. Perine .... *Edward C'oleman .....
*Reuben H. Lloyd .... *Edward Coleman .....
Oscar Lawler ....... •Edward Coleman .....
•w. Frank Pierce .... •Edward Coleman .....
Alonzo J. Monroe .... "Edward Coleman.....
William P. Filmer ... Edward Coleman.....
John D. Murphey .... Edward Coleman.....
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... *Edward Coleman.....
Albert G. Burnett ... •Edward Coleman.....
Francis V. Keesling .. Wm. P. Filmer......
w. Rhodes Hervey .. Wm. P. Filmer.......
Bradford Webster ... Wm. P. Filmer......
Chas. Albert Adams Wm. P. Filmer ......
George F. Rodden ... Wm. P. Filmer .......
•Deceased.

Grand
Secretary

599

Grand
Lecturer.

•George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson .... ..
•George Johnson ..... .
•George Johnson ..... .
*George Johnson...... vVm. H. Edwards.
*George Johnson...... vVm. H. Edwards.
*George Johnson...... Wm. H. Edwards.
•George Johnson...... 'Nm. H. Edwards.
*George Johnson...... vVm. H. Edwards.
•George Johnson...... Wm. H. Edwards.
*George Johnson...... Wm. H. Edwards.
•George Johnson......
Thomas ;J, Baker.
John Whlcher.. .. .. ..
Thomas J. Baker.
John Whlcher........ Thomas J. Baker.
John Whlcher. .• . . . . .
Thomas J. Baker.
John Whlcher........ Thomas J. Baker.
John Whicher .. .. .. Thomas J. Baker.
John Whlcher........ Thomas J. Baker.
John Whicher........ Thomas J. Baker.
John Whlcher....... Thomas J. Baker.
John 'Whlcher........ Thomas J. Baker
John Whicher ........ , Thomas J. Baker.

600

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES AND BRITISH AMERICA.

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodges.

Grand Secretaries.

Residences.

Organized

Alabama ••••.•.••• George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery •..•.. June 15, 1821
Alberta ........... s. Y. Taylor ...........CaJgar:v ........... Oct. 12, 1905
Arizona ........... George J. Roskruge ... Tucson ............ Mar. 25, 1882
Arkansas ..........Fay Hempstead ...... Little Rock •.. , .••• Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia •••W. A. DeWolf Smith .. New Westminster. .Feb. 22, 1832
Canada , .• , ........R. L. Gunn ............Hamilton • , .....•.• Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado ...........Charles H. Jacobson ...Denver .•.•..•.•••. Aug. 2, 1861
Connecticut •••••.• George A. Kies .........Hartford •......... July
8, 1789
Delaware ..........H. J. Guthrie ........ Wilmington .....•.•June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbla .. Arvlne W. Johnston ...Washington ....... Feb. 19, 1811
Florida ............ W!lber P. Webster .... Jacksonv111e ....... July 5, 1830
Georgia •••••••.•. ,!<'rank I<'. BaJrnr ..... Macon •...•.•...... Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho ..............Geo. E. Knepper ..... .Boise •.•. , .. , •• , • , .Dec. 17, 1867
llllne!s .............Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point ....... Apr!l 6, 1840
Indiana ••••••••••••Calvin W. Prather •.•. Indianapolls •.•••• Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa •. , •.••••••••• Newton R. Parvin .....Cedar Rapids , , ••.• Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas ............ Albert K. Wilson .•••.• Topeka ............ Mar. 17, 1856
Kentucky ..........Dave Jackson ......... Louisvllle .......... Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana ••••••••• John A. Davilla ....... New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine •.••••••.•••• Chas. B. Davis ....... .Portland ...•...... June 1, 1820
Manitoba ..........James A. Ovas •......• Winnepeg .........May 12, 1875
Maryland ......... George Cook ..........Baltimore ......... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts. • .. Fred'k W. Hamilton .. Boston ............ Mar. 8, 1777
Michigan .......... Lou B. Winsor ........ Reed City ......... Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota .........John Fishel ........... Saint Paul ........Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi ••...••• Frederick G. Speed ....Vicksburg •.••••••• July 27, 1818
Mlssour ...........John R. Parson ....... St. Louis .......... May 4, 1821
Montana ........... Cornelius Hedges, ;Jr, ,Helena •.....•••••. Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska ..........Francis E. White ..... Omaha •..•.••.•••. Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada .............Edward D. Vanderlelth.Carson •.•..•.•.•.. ;Jan. 16, 1865
New Brunswick ••• J. Twining Hartt. .... Saint John ......•.. Oct. 10, 1867
New Hampshire •..• Harry M. Cheney ..... Concord •.•.....•.. July 8, 1789
New Jersey ••••••• Isaac Cherry ..........Trenton •....•..•.• Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico •.•.•.• Alpheus A. Keen ...•.• A}buquerque ..•... Aug. 7, 1877
New York ......... Robert J. Kenworthy.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina ....w. W. Wi11son ...... .Raleigh .•.•••••••••Dec. 12, 1T77
North Dakota .....Walter L. Stockwell ... Fargo ..............June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ....... Thomas Mowbray ..... Halifax ........... Jan. 21, 1866
7, 1808
Ohio .............. Jacob H. Bromwell., ,Cincinnati .••••••. Jan.
Oklahoma •.•••...• Wm. M. Anderson ...• Oklahoma City .... Nov. 10, 1909
Oregon ............ James F. Robinson .... Portland .......... Sept. Hi, 1851
Pennsylvania ......John A. Perry ......... Philadelphia ...... Sept. 26, 1786
Prince Ed. Island. •Walter P. Doull ....... Charlottetown .......June 24, 1875
Quebec ............Walter c. Hagar ..... .Montreal .......... Oct. 20, 1869
Rhode Island ..... s. Penrose Williams •• Provldence ........June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ..... W.. B. Tate ...........Regina ............Aug. 9, 1906
South Carol!na ••.• o. Frank Bart ......•.Columbia ••••••••.• Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota .... Geo. A. Pettigrew ...... Sioux Falls ........ July 21, 1775
Tennessee ......... Stith M. Cain ......... Nashv!lle .......... Dec. 27, 1813
Texas ..•..•••....• vv. B.·Plerson ........ Waco ......•••.... Dec. 20, 1837
Utah ...•..•••..•.• Freeman A. McCarty .Salt Lake City •.... Jan. 17, 1872
Vermont ...........Frank A. Ross ........ Burlington ........ Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia ...•.••.••• Charles A. Nesbitt .... Richmond .........Oct. 13, 1778
8, 1858
Washington ....... Horace w. Tyler ...... Tacoma ............ Dec.
West Virginia ..... John M. Coll!ns ....... Charleston ......... May 11, 1865
Wisconsin ...•.••.. William W. Perry •.... Milwaukee •.••••.. Dec. 18, 1843
Wyoming ..........Jos. M. Londes ..•.... ,Casper .............Dec. 15, 1874

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Adin ••••.•...•••.. 250 Adin •••••••••••.•••• Modoc.
Alamo ••..•..•..••. 122 Walnut Creek •..•..• Contra Costa.
Alameda ••••.....•. 167 Centerville •.••••.••• Alameda.
Alcatraz •..•••...•. 244 · Oakland ...•••••••••• Alameda.
Alhambra ..••.•••.• 322 Alhambra •••••••••.• Los Angeles.
Aliaal •.••..•••••••• 321 Pleasanton ...........Alameda.
Alpha .............. 431 Richmond ........••• Contra Costa.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono.
Alta Vista ........ 464 San Francisc'O ........San Francisco.
Alturas ••.•.•..•.•• 248 Alturas ..............Modoc.
Amity ••••.•.•.•••• 370 San Francisco ••••...• San Francisco.
Amador ••••••••..•• 65 Jackson ••.•••••••.•• Amador.
Anaheim ••••.•••••• 207 Anaheim •..•.••••.•• Orange.
Anchor ••••..•.•••. 273 Compton .............Loa Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Apollo ••••.•......• 396 Alameda .............Alameda.
Arcata ••...•...•••• 106 Arcata •.•••••..•.••• Humboldt.
Argonaut ......... .4.61 San Francisco ........San Francisco.
Arroyo , ..•••••.•.. 274 Arroyo Grande .......San Luis Obispo.
Arlington .....•.... 414 Los Angeles ......•.•• Los Angeles.
Artesia ••....•.•••• 377 Artesia •..••.•••••••• Los Angeles.
Ashlar ••.....••.••• 306 Colton ...............San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davis ............... Yolo.
Azusa .••.••..••••• 305 Azusa ............... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ••••••.•• 224 Bakersfield ...........Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco •...•••. San Francisco.
Bay View •.•.••••• 401 Oakland •.•..••••.••• Alameda.
Bear Mountain • • • • • 76 Angels Camp •.••••.• Calaveras.
Benicia • . . • • • .. • • • • 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley •.•.••••••• 363 Berkeley •••...•....• Alameda.
Bethlehem ......... 453 San Francisco .....•... San Francisco
Blackmer .......... 442 San Diego ......••... San Diego.
Bodie •.••.••..••.• 252 Bodie ............... Mono.
Brawley ....••...• .402 Brawley •.••..••••••• Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ...........Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ...•.••.•• 225 East Oakland •.•••••• Alameda.

601

!

(
I

I

602
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

County.

Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park ..•..•.• 857 Buena Park ....•.•... Orange.
Burbank •....•.•••• 406 Burbank •....••.•••• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ••...• , ,fOO Burlingame .......••. San Mateo.
Calexieo ........... 412 Calexico ............. Imperial.
California . • . . • • . . • 1 San Francisco •..••..• San Francisco.
Cafaveras ...•.••.• 78 San Andreal! ••.....•. Calaveras,
Callayomi •....•.•. 282 Middletown ......•• , .Lake.
Calistoga ••••.•..•• 233 Calistoga ....•••.•.•• Napa.
Carpinteria ......•. 444 Carpinteria .......... Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............. Contra Costa.
Center ............. 465 Fresno .............. Fresno.
Charity •....••.... 362 Campbell ...•.••..••• Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ....... 410 Berkeley ............. Alameda,
Chico .............. 111 Chico ............... Butte.
Chino Valley .•.... 427 Chino ..........•.... San Bernardino.
Claiborne •....•..•• 185 Point Arena ••.•....• :Mendocino.
Claremont .....•... 436 Claremont ......•.... Los Angeles.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat ........... Placer.
Clear Lake ••••••.. 183 Lower Lake ••.•••..• Lake.
Clinton •.....•••... 119 Igo ...•.•.•••...••••. Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis · ............... Fresno.
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga .......... , •• Tulare.
Concord •.••....•.. 117 Sacramento •.•.•••••. Sacramento.
Confidence ••••...•. 203 Castroville •.••..•••• Monterey.
Consuelo •.•.••.... 325 Escondido ....•••.•.. San Diego.
Colusa .....•••••.. 240 Colusa ......•....•.•• Colusa.
Corinthian . • . • • . • . • 9 Marysville ••.... , • , •• Yuba.
Corona ••••••••..•. 324 Pasadena •.•..••••.•• Los Angeles.
Coronado .......... 441 Coronado ............ San Diego.
Covelo ...•••..••.. 231 Covelo ...............Mendocino.
Covina ..•••..••... 334 Covina •..•..•.•••..• Los Angeles.
Crescent ••.••••.... 4:5 Crescent City ••• , •••• Del Norte.
Crocker ........... .454 Daly City ............ San Mateo.
Crockett .••........ 139 San Francisco ....••• •San Francisco.
Culver City ......... 467 Culver City ...........Los Angeles.
Curtis •.•...•...... 140 Cloverdale •..•••..••• Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano •...•.••••..•. Kern.
Dinuba ......•...•. 38.') Dinuba .•.•.....•••.. Tulare.
Doric •..••••...... 216 San Francisco •.•••••. San Francisco.
Downey ......•.... 220 Downey ...•..•.••••• Los Angeles.
Drytown •......... 174 Plymouth ...........• Amador.
Dunsmuir •.....•.. 297 Dunsmuir •••.••....•. Siskiyou,

!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR•'{!A
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Durant ••••••.•.••. 268 Berkeley •....•••.... Alameda.
Eagle Rock ••....•. .422 Eagle Rock .••...•••• Los Angeles.
East Belt .....•.... 391 Tuolumne ..•.••••••• Tuolumne.
East Gate •••.••••• 290 Los Angeles •.•.••.•• Los Angeles.
Eden .•••....•...•. 113 San Leandro .•••.•••• Alameda.
Eel River ••••.••..• 147 Fortuna ••..••..•..•• Humboldt.
El Centro .••....• , •. 884 El Centro .••••..••.•. Imperial.
Elk Grove ..•.•..•. 173 Elk Grove •.•••••••.. Sacramento.
Elsinore •....••.... 289 Elsinore •••..••••••.• Riverside.
Elysian ............ 418 Los Angeles ........•• Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ....•.... 318 Biggs ...••••..•••••• Butte.
Enterprise ...•.•••. 70 Yuba City •••.••••.•• Sutter.
Euealyptus •..•.... 243 Haywards .......••.• Alameda.
Eureka • • • • . • . . • . • . 16 Auburn •..••.•••..•• Placer.
Evening Star •..••• 186 Etna Mills ..••••.•••• Siskiyou.
Evergreen •.•.•..•. 259 Riverside •.•••.••..•. Riverside.
Excelsior ...•••.•.. 166 San Francisco ...••.•. San Francisco.
Exeter •......•.... 424 Exeter •.•....•..•••• Tulare.
Fairmount ......•. .435 San Francisco ..•..•. San Francisco.
Fallbrook •..•.•.•. 317 Fall brook •.•.•••...• San Diego.
Ferndale •••......• 193 Oakland ....•........ Humboldt.
Fidelity .•.••...... 120 San Francisco .••••••. San Francisco.
Fillmore ..•......•. 379 Fillmore •..•..•••.••• Ventura.
Forbestown •••••..• 50 Forbestown •.•••••••• Butte.
Forest • . . • • • • • . . . • . 66 Allegheny .....•••••• Sierra.
Fort Bragg ..••.... 361 Fort Bragg .•...•..•••Mendocino.
Franklin .•...•.•.• 143 Courtland •..••.••••• .Sacramento.
Francis Drake • , •.. 376 South San Francisco •.• San Mateo.
Fraternity .......•. 399 San Jose .•.•.• : ....• Santa Clara.
Fresno .•..•...•... 247 Fresno ..•...•••••••••Fresno.
Friendship ...•••... 210 San Jose ••.•••••••.• Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .••••••.•. 336 Oakland •..••.•••••• Alameda.
Fullerton ........... 339 Fullerton •.•••..••••• Orange.
Gali •..•••.....•.•. 267 Galt •...••.••••••••• Sacramento.
Gardena ......•••. 372 Gardena •.....•••••.• Los Angeles.
Georgetown • • • . • • • • 25 Georgetown •••••...•• El Dorado.
George Washington • 62 Chinese Camp ••••.•.• Tuolumne.
Germania •........ 438 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Glendora ..••.•..•• 404 Glendora •....•••.•.• Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ..••••. 30 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden \Vest ...•.... 455 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Golden State ••.... 3.)8 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill .. .. . • .. .. 32 Lincoln .............. Placel'.

603

.·

.i

604

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge,
No. Post Office.
County.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton , , ..... , . , ... Yolo.
Granite ........ , .. 222 Rocklin ..........•.. Placer.
Gravel Range .....• 59 Camptonvil!e ........ Yuba.
Guadalupe ......... 237 Guadalupe . . . . . . . , . . . s an t a B arb ara.
Hammonton ........ 433 Hammonton ......... Yuba.
Hanford .......... 279 Hanford · · · •......... K'1ngs.
Harmony · · .. · ..... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake,
Hawaiian · · · · · · · · ·. 21 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Hermann · · · · · · .... 127 San Francisco ..... , , .San Francisco.
Hesperian · ·. · ..... 264 Santa Maria , ........ Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..... 382 Los Angeles .... , ..... Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman .......... , .• Stanislaus.·
Hiram .. .. . .. .. .. .. 43 El Dorado . . • . . . . . . . . El Dorad o.
Henry S. Orme ..... 458 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ...•...... Los Angeles.
Holl~ood ........ 355 Hollywood ........•.. Los Angeles.
Holtville .......... .425 Holtville .....•••.•.• Imperial.
Honolulu .. · ....... 409 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Hope • .. · .. · ....... 234 Beckwith ...... , ..... Plumas
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ........ , .... Maripo~a.
H oward · .. · .. · .... 96 Yreka .....•......... Siskiyou
H
.
umboldt ......... 79 Eureka .. , ......•... Humboldt
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange. .
Illinoistown . . . . . . . . 51 Colfax .. , ........... Placer.
Imperial ........... 390 Imperial , ............Imperial.
Inglewood .......... 421 Inglewood ........... Los Angeles.
Inyo · .. · .......... 221 Independence .. , , , ... Inyo.
Ione · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 80 Ione ................ Amador.
Jefferson • . . . . . . . . . 97 Laporte ........ , •... Plumas
Janesville .......... 232 Lassen . ·...........•La ssen, .
Jewel • · · · · · · · · · · .. 374 San Francisco ........ San Francisco,
Keith ...... · .. " .. 187 Gilroy ............... Santa Clara.
Kennett · ......... .456 Kennett . , ... , ..... , ,Shasta.
Kerman ........... .420 Kerman ............. Fresno.
Keystone ...•.. , ... 161 Milton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . c a 1averas.
Kilauea ........... 330. H'l
I o ................ Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ... , , San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco ...... , .San Francisco.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol
So
· ······ .... noma,
La Mesa ........... 407 La . Mesa · · · ·. · ....... s an n·iego.
Lancaster ..... .' .... 437 Lancaster ........... Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
..... 253 Espart-0 .............Yolo.
Lan<lmark
La Puente ........ ,446 Puente .............. Los Angeles.
Las Pal mas ........ 366 Fresno , ..............Fresno.
Lassen , ...... , .... 149 Susanville ........... Lassen.
Laurel ........ , ... 245 Willows . , ............Glenn.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu ............Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington • , , ...... 104 El Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Libertas .......... .466 Bakersfield ..........Kern.
Liberty , ........... 299 Santa Clara .......... Santa Clara.
Lindsay . , ......... 416 Lindsay ............. Tulare.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ............... .'San Joaquin.
Lompoc • , , ........ 262 Lompoc .............. Santa Barbara.
Long Beach , ....... 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Los Angeles , . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ......... Lo~ Angeles.
Los Banos .. , ...... 312 Los Banos ........... Merced.
Los Gatos •.. , ..... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara,
Loyalton , , ........ 359 Loyalton ... , ........ Sierra.
Madera •. , ......... 280 Madera .............. Madera.
Madison • , , .......• 23 Grass Valley ......... Nevada.
Magnolia , ......... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa .. , ....... 434 Maricopa ........... Kern.
Marin •..... , .. , , .. 191 San Rafael .........• Marin.
Mariposa .......... 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez .. , ......... Contra Costa.
Maxwell . , ....... , . 288 Maxwell ............. Colusa.
Mc Cloud ... , ..... .430 McCloud ............. Siskiyou.
McKinley .. , , . , .... 347 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Me~ocino ......... 179 Mendocino •......... Mendocino.
Meridian .......... 182 Arbuckle ............ Colusa.
Midway ........... .426 Taft .. , ............. Kern .
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission , ........ , .. 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah .......... , . 378 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill ...... Calaveras.
Molino •. , ......... 150 Tehama •............ Tehama .
Moneta , ........... 405 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Montebello ........ 451 Montebello .......... Los Angeles.
Monrovia , ........ 308 Monrovia ............ Los Angeles,
Monterey , ......... 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morgan Hill. ...... .463 Morgan Hill. ......... Ranta Clara.
Morning Star .. , ... 68 Stockton ............ San Joaquin.
Mosaic , ........... 218 Livermore ........... Alameda,

605

608

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge,
No. Post Office.
County.
San Joaquin .•.•••• 19 Stockton ••...••••• , , .San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose ......... , , .Santa Clara.
San Mateo •..•••.•• 226 San Mateo .•• , • , ••••• San Mateo.
San Miguel ..••.•. 285 San Miguel ...•.••••. San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual .......• 452 Pasadena ........•... Los Angeles.
San Pedro •.•....•. 332 San Pedro .•• , , ...•.. Los Angeles.
Santa Ana ...•••••. 241 Santa Anl\ ..•.•.•••.. Orange.
Santa Barbara ..•.. 192 Santa Barbara •.•.... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ..•..... 38 Santa Cruz •..••.••• Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ..••••. 302 Kings City , .• , •••.. Monterey.
Santa Monica ••••.. 307 Santa Monica .••••••• Los Angeles.
Santa Paula •.• .".•• 291 Santa Paula , ••••• , , .Ventura.
Santa Rosa •..•...• 57 Santa Rosa • , .•...••• Sonoma.
San Simeon •...•.. 196 Cambria •.....••••••. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield .......... 443 Schofield Barracks .... Hawaiian Ter.
Selma ••••••••..•.• 277 Selma ...•..•.••...•• Fresno.
Sequoia ••••..•..•.. 349 Oakland •..••.•. , •••• Alameda.
Sierra Madre ...... .408 Sierra Madre ..•..•... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley •..... 184 Sierra ville •.•••...••. Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon •••.. , , ........ Solano.
Silver Gate •.•••... 296 San Diego ...•••.••.. San Diego.
Silver Trowel. ...... 415 Los Angeles ....••.•.• Los Angeles.
Sincerity •••......• 132 Greenville ..••....•• Plumas.
Sisson ••••.•...•... 310 Sisson •.•............ Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain ••.. 271 Stony Ford ....• , •••. Colusa.
Solano ............ 229 Vallejo ...•.•••...•.. Solano.
Sotoyome ••.•..•... 123 Healdsburg . • • . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
South Gate .....•.. 320 Los Angeles ......•. .,Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .••• 367 South Pasadena ...•.. Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ...•.... San Francisco.
South West ..•..•.. 283 National City .•••.••• San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco ..•..••. San Francisco.
Standard ......•... 440 Oakland ...........• Alameda.
Stanislaus •........ 206 Modesto •.......••••. Stanislaus.
Starr King •....••• 344 San Francisco ..•..... San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . • . . . • • • 55 Suisun .....•.....•• , Solano.
Summit .....•.••.. 112 Knights Ferry ••••... Stanislaus.
Sunset •............ 352 Los Angeles .. , ••.... Los Angeles.
SurpriSe Valley •... 235 Cedarville ..•......•. Modoc.
Table Mountain •••• 124 Cherokee ..•...•.•. , .Butte.
Tehachapi ••..••.•. 313 Tehachapi ......•••.. Kern.
Tehama • . • • • . . . . • . . 3 Sacramento •....•..•. Sacramento.

GRAND LODGE QF CALIFOfl.NIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Temeecal •.•..•.••• 314 Corona ••.•..•.••• , •• Riverside.
Temple • • • . • . . • . • • • 14: Sonoma ..•••..•...•• Sonoma.
Texas ••.. , ..•••••• 46 San Juan •.•••.•••.. San Benito.
Torrance .......... 447 Torrance ............. Los Angeles.
Traver ..•.••..•••• 294 Kingsburg •.•....•••• Fresno.
Trinity ..••••.•.•.• 27 Weaverville •.....••.•Trinity.
Truckee , ..••••••.. 200 Truckee •............ Nevada.
Tuolumne • • • . • • • • • • 8 Sonora •..•..•..••••• Tuolumne.
Turlock ...••...•••• 395 Turlock ••.•.•.....•. Stanislaus.
Tuscan •.•.•••••.•. 261 Williams ......••••.• Colusa.
Tyrian ..•..•.. , •.. 439 Manteca •.....•.•... San Joaquin.
Union ••••••..•..•• 58 Sacramento •••...•••. Sacramento.
Unity ••.•••. , .•... 368 Glendale ...••...•.••.. Los Angeles.
University ..••••.•. 394 Los Angeles ..•••.... Los Angeles.
Upland •.•..•••...•• 419 Upland ..•........... San Bernardino.
Vacaville ..••••.••. 134 Vacaville •.•......••. Solano.
Vallee de France •..• 329 Los Angeles .•...•...•Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden ...... , ......• San Joaquin.
Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys ........... Los Angeles.
Vesper ........... , 84 Red Bluff ...•.......• Tehama.
Veteran •.•••• , .... 373 Sawtelle ...•..•....•• Los Angeles.
Visalia ...•.•••...• 128 Visalia •..•.•..•..•• .'rulare.
Vitruvius ..••.••••. 145 Bloomfield .•.....•••. Sonoma.
Volcano •.•••...... 56 Volcano •......•..••. Amador.
Washington ••••. , •. 20 Sacramento ••.•...•.. Sacramento.
Waucoba ......••.• 413 Big Pine ............. Inyo.
Welcome • , •••..•.. 255 Lemoore •.....••..•• Kings.
Western Star • • • . • • 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate ••.•••••• 335 Los Angeles •••..•••• Los Angeles.
West Lake , , ..••... 392 Los Angeles ....••••. Los Angeles.
Whittier •.• , •.•.... 323 Whittie• ............. Los Angeles.
Willits ........... ; .365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
Wilmington .••..... 198 Wilmington .......•.• Los Angeles.
Wilshire •........ , .445 Los Angeles .......•.. Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ••..••. 287 Bishop .....••......• Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ••....••. San Joaquin.
Woodland •••.••..•. 156 Woodland •.....••••• Yolo.
Yerba Buena •.....• 403 Oakland ...•....•..•• Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
York .••........•.. 423 Watts .•.••.•..•..... Los Angeles.
Yosemite . . . • . . . . . . 99 Merced ............. Merced.
Yount ..••..•••.•.• 12 Napa •..•.•••.••..... Napa.

609

LOCATlON OF LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES.

Campbell •.•.•••••••••••• Charity •........••••....••. 362
Camptonville •.••••••..•• Gravel Range •...•.••.•••••• 59
Carpinteria .............. Carpinteria ................. 444
Castroville ••••••••••••••• Confi.denee .................. 203
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley •.•..•••.••.. 235
Centerville ••.••••••••••••Alameda ..........•........ 167
Cherokee •••..••••••••••• Table Mountain •.•...•....• 124
Chinese Ca.mp ............ George Washington ......... 62
Chico ....................Chico ...••...••..•..•••.••• 111
Chino .................... Chino Valley .•..........••. .427
Claremont ....•.•.•.....• Claremont ................. .436
Cloverdale ••••••••••••••• Curtis •.•..........••...•..• 140
Clovis ........•.....•••• ,Clovis .......••............ .417
Coalinga •..•.•••••••••••• Coalinga •.•••••••••..•••..• 387
Colfax •••••••••••••••••• .Illinoistown • • • • • . • . . • . . . . . • 51
Corona •••••••••••••••••• Temescal ••••••.•••..•..•... 314
Courtland ................Franklin ••....•.•.•....•••• 143
Covelo .•••••••••••••••••• Covelo ••••••.....•••• • ......231
Colusa. ••.•••••••••••••••• Colusa ••••••••.••.•••••.••.• 240
Colton •••••••••••••••••• .Ashlar ......................306
Covina ...................Ccrvina •.••••.••••... · ..... · 334
Compton .•.•.••••••••••• .Anchor •.•..•••••••..•..•... 273
Concord ..................Mt. Diablo ................. 448
Corning ..••.•••••••••••• Olivet ••..••.•••......•..•.• 364
Coronado ...•.•.......... Coronado ................... 441
Crescent City •••••••••••• Crescent .................. • 45
Crockett .................Carquinez ................... 337
Culver City .............. Culver City ................ 467
Daly City ............••• Crocker ................... .454
Davis .............•..••• Athens ••.•.•••••.•.......•. 228
Delano •••••••••••••••••• Delano ••••.••.•.•.......•.. 309
Dinuba •.•.•••.•••••••••• Dinuba. ..••••••......•..•.•. 385
Dixon .•.•.•••••••••••••• Silveyville •.••.......•..••.• 201
Downey ••••.•••••••• , ••• Downey , •.••..••......•••.. 220
Downieville .............• Mountain Sha.de ............ 18
Dutch Flat •••••••••••••• Clay ........................ 101
Dunsmuir ••••.••.••••••••Dunsmuir .....•............. 297
Eagle Rock .....•..•••••••Eagle Rock .•.•••••••..•..• .422
Elk Grove ......... ; ••••• Elk Grove .................. 173
Elsinore •..•••••••••••••• Elsinore ••.•.•...•..•.•••••. 289
El Centro •..••••••••••••• El Centro •· ...•.•....•..••. • .384
El Dorado ••••.••••••• , •• Hiram • . . . . • • • • • • . . . . . . • • • • 43
El Monte ..•••••••••••••• Lexington •..•.••••......•.. 104
Escondid• ................Consuelo •.•••••••••........ 325

610

Post Office.

Alphabetically Arranged.
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Adin •••.•••••••••......• Adin •..•••..........•..•... 250
Alhambra ••••..••••••••• Alhambra. .........•••...... 322
Alhambra ............... Ramona ................... .457
Alameda. ••...•..•••••••• Oak Grove ....•..•.......... 215
''
................ . Apollo ....... ~ ................. 396
Alleghany •••...••••••••• Forest . . . . . . . . • • . • . . . . . . . • . 66
Alturas •....••.••••••••• Alturas •.•........• , •••.••• 248
Anaheim ••...••..••••••• Anaheim •••.•.....•..•.•••. 207
Anderson •...••...•..•••• Mount Shasta .....•..•••.••. 281
Angels Ca.mp •.••••••••.• Bear Mountain • . . . . . • . • • • . . 16
Antioch •••••••••••• , • , •• Antioch •..•••••.......•••.. 175
Arroyo Grande ••••• , ••••• Arroyo •.......••....•...... 274
Anburn •.•......•• , •••••• Eureka • • • . . . . . . • . • . . • . . . . • . 16
Arbuckle •.•..•••.••...•. Meridian ................... 182
Arca.ta. ..••..••.•..•••••• Arca.ta. ••••••..•...••.•.•••• 106
Artesia. .....••••••••••••• Artesia. •••••.••....•.•.•••.• 377
Azusa. ................... Azusa. ...................... 305
Ba.kersfi.eld •.•••••.•••••••Bakersfield •.••........••.•• 224
Bakersfield ........ , , ••• ,Libertas .................. .466
Beckwith .•••.•••.••••••• Hope •.••.••••••••..•....... 234
Benicia ••.••.••.•••••.•••Benicia. • • • . . . • • • . • • . . . • . . . . 5
Berkeley •..•..•••••....• Durant •..•.....••.•.•.•••.• 268
Berkeley .•••.•••••.••••• Berkeley •.........••..•.••. 363
Berkeley ........•....... Charter Rock ............... 410
Big Pine •..............• W aucoba ................... 413
Biggs •.••..•.•••...• , •.• Emmanuel •..•.••.••..•..•.• 318
Bishop •..•••......•..••• Winnedumah •••.••.•....... 287
Bloomfi.eld ..••.•..•••.••• Yitruvius •....•••.••....•.. 145
Bodie ••••...•••••••••••• .Bodie .........•..•......•.. 252
Brawley ..•..••••••••••.• Brawley ••.•............•••• 402
Brentwood .•••••••••••••• Brentwood •...•.......•.•.• 345
Bridgeport ...............Alta ..••••..•.•..••..•..... 333
Buena Park ••.•....•••••• Buena Park ••••..••••...... 357
Burbank •....•....•..•••• Burbank .................... 406
Burlingame •..•.•.•..•••• Burlingame .......•..•.. , ... 400
Calexico ...............•• Calexico .................... 412
Calistoga ...••••••••••••• Calistoga. ••••••........•.••• 233
Cambria ..•.••••••••••••• San Simeon ••........•...•.• 196

Lodge.

611
No.

LOCATION OF LODGES

612
Post O:lftce.

Lodge.

613

GRAND LODGE ()F CALIFORNIA'
No.

Esparto ................. L!lindmark ................. 253
Etna Mills .............• Evening Star ••.......•••••. 188
Eureka •.•.•••••••••••••• Humboldt •.••...•....•.•..• 79
Exeter •••.••••.•••••••••• E,xeter ..•.....•......•.... .424
Fallbrook ............... .Fallbrook •••••.•..•.....•••. 317
Fernando •••.• , .......... San Fernando ............... 343
Ferndale •••••••••••••••• .Ferndale ....................193
Fillmore ••.•.•••••••••••• Fillmore .••.•• , ............. 379
Forbestown •••••••••• , ••• Forbestown . . • • . . • • . • • • . . • • . 50
Folsom •••••••••••••••••• Natoma ••••••••.••.••••.•.. 64
Fort Bidwell .... , ........ North East ................. 266
Fort Bragg .............. Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones ••••••••••••••• North Star ....•..•..••...•. 91
Forest Hill •.•••••••••••• Rising Star . . . • . . • . • . • • . . • • • 83
Fortuna ................. Eel River .................. 147
Fresno ................ ; •.Fresno ..................... 247
''
....• ~ . . . . • • . . .. • . . Las Pal mas ................... 366
''
..... ~ .......... ~.Center ..................... 465
Fullerton •••.••..•••••••• Fullerton ••.•••••••••.••••.. 339
Galt .....................Galt ........................267
Gardena •.••.••.•••••••• ,Gardena ••••••••••••..••..•. 372
Georgetown •.•••••••• , •••Georgetown • • • . . • • . • . . . • • • • • 25
Gilroy .....•..••••••••••• Keith •••••••. '. •.••.••.•.•.. 187
Glendale .......••••• • •••• Unity •.•••••••..•.....••.•. 368
Glendora •...•••••••••••• Glendora ••••••••.•........ .404
Grafton •••.••••••••••••• Grafton •.•••••••........... 141
Grass Valley ••••..••••••• Madison •.••.••••••••••.•..• 23
Gr.eenville •..••.•..•••••• Sincerity •........•.•••..•.. 132
Gridley •..•..•••••.•••••• North Butte ................ 230
Guadalupe •..•...•.•.•••• Guadalupe •.....••.••••••..• 237
Guerneville •.•••••••••••• Mount Jackson ...•••••..•.. 295
Hammonton •...••..••.•• Hammonton •............... 433
Hanford •....•••••••••••• Hanford •••••••••....•...•.. 279
Haywards •..• , .••••••••• Eucalyptus •••••.....•..••.• 243
Healdsburg .....••.••.••• Sotoyome •••••••.....•..•...123
Hilo, T. H ................Kilauea .....................330
Hornitos •••••.•..•.•••••• Hornitos •...•••••••.•..•... 98
Hollister .................San Benito •.• ; ••••••.....•. 211
Hollywood •••••••.•••..•• Hollywood ...•••••.......... 355
Holtville •.•...••.••.•••.• Holtville •................. .425
Honolulu, T. H ........... Hawaiian ••••••.........•.. 21
Honolulu, T. H ........... .le Progres de l'Oceirnie ...... 371
Honolulu, T. H ............Honolulu ...••.............. 409
Huntington Beach •••••••• Huntington Beach ••••..•.•.. 380

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Runtington Park ..••••••.• Rising Light •.••••..•..•..•. 397
Igo ••••••.••••••••••••••• Clinton ••.•••••••.••........ 119
Imperial •.......••.•..••• Imperial ..••..•••••..••..... 390
Independence ••••••••••••byo •••••.••••••••••••..•••. 221
Inglewood ................ Inglewood .................. 421
Ione ..•••.•.•..••...•••••Ione • . • . . . . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . 80
Jackson •••••.•.••••••••. Amador • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • 65
Kennett .....•.........•.Kennett ...•.....•••..•.... .456
Kerman .•••..•.•.•.••..•• Kerman ••...•.............• 420
Kingsburg .. : • ........... Traver ..................... 294
Kings City .•••••••••••••• Santa Lucia ................ 30B
Knights Ferry ••••••••••• Summit ••••••••••.•••••••••• 112
Lakeport •..•.••••••••••• Hartley •••.••••••••••.••••• 199
La Mesa. ••.•..•.•..••.•• La Mesa •.•.•..••.....•..... 407
Lan easter ................Laneaster •••..•... .' .....••. 437
Laporte ••••••••••••••••• J e:trerson ••••••.•••••••••.• , 97
Lassen ••.•........•....• Janesville •..........•..•••• 232
Lemoore .•.•..••••.•••••• Welcome •••..........•••••• 255
Lincoln ••.••...•••••••••• Gold Hill • • • . . • . • • • • • . • • . • • • 32
Linden .................. Valley ......................135
L,indsay ................. Lindsay •.•••••.••.......... 416
Livermore •.•..••.••••••• l!osaie •••••...•••••.•...... 218
Lodi ••••..•••••.•••• , •••• Lodi ••••••••..•••••••...••. 256
Lompoc •••••••••••••••••• Lompoc ••••••.•••..•..•...•.262
Lower Lake .•...•..•.••• Clear Lake •...•••..••••.. ! •• 183
Long Beach ••••.•••.••••• Long Beach •..•••••••••••••. 327
"
•••••.••••.•• ,Palos Verdes •..•.•••.•••.... 389
Los Angeles .............. Los Angeles ................ 42
''
..••••••.•..••Wilmington .•••............. 198
"
.............. Pentalpha .................. 202
.............. Southern California. ......... 278
"
"
•.••.•.•.••••• East Gate ••••.••.•......... 290
"
......••••••••Hollenbeck •..•.•••..•..•..• 319
''
...•..•.•••••• South Gate •.••••••.•••••.•. 320
.............. Vallee de France ............ 329
"
••
•••••.•.•••••• West Gate •.•••.•.•.••..•... 335
•'
•.••.••..•..•• Palestine ••••..•..•••.•..••• 351
••
•••...•.••..•• Sunset •••••••••...•.•.. ; ••• 352
"
••••.••.••.••• Golden State •••..•.•..•••••. 358
••
..•........••. Mizpah •••••••........••••••378
"
............. Highland Park .............. 382
••
•......••..••• West Lake •.•••••.....•..... 392
••...•..•••••• University •••••••••......... 394
.....•....••••Moneta ••.•••••••••••••.••.• 405

LOCATION OF LODGES

614
Post Office.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Los Angeles ......•••....•Arlington ......•..•........ 414
''
............. . Silver Trowel ............... 415
''
............. . Elysian ................ '• ... . 418
''
............•. Germania ................... 438
''
"

.............. Wilshire ................... 445
.............. Henry .S. Orme ............ . 458

Los Banos •••.••••••••••• Los Banos .......••....•..•. 312
Los Gatos •..•.••••••••••• Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton ..•..••••••••••••Loyalton •.....•..•.......•. 359
Manteca ..........•....• Tyrian ........... , ......... 439
Maricopa .........•..... Maricopa .................. 434
Marysville •.•...••••••••• Corinthian . . . . . . • . ... . . . . . . . 9
Maxwell ....•. , •• , ••••••• Maxwell •................•.. 288
Madera ••...••••••••••••• Madera ..................... 280
Mariposa •• ; ••.•••••••••• Mariposa •.....•.......•.•.• 24
Martinez •.•••••••••••••• ,Martinez . • • . • . . • • . . . . • . . . . •• 41
McCloud .....•...••••... Mccloud ................... 430
Merced •..••..••••••••••• Yosemite ................... 99
Mendocino ••.•••• , •••••• ,Mendocino ................. 179
Middletown •.•.••••••••• ,Callayomi .....•............ 282
Mil ton ..•••••••••••••••• ,Keystone ................... 161
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley ................. 356
Millville .•.••.•••••••••• ,Northern Light ............. 190
Mokelumne Hill •.••.• , ••• Mokelumne Hill ............ 298
Monrovia •.•...•••••••••• Monrovia ...•............... 308
Montebello .............. Montebello ................ .451
Monterey •....••••••••••• Monterey ...•............... 217
Morgan Hill ............. Morgan Hill ................ 463
Mountain View ••••.••••••Mountain View ............. 194
Modesto •.•••••.•••• , ••.• Stanislaus .................. 206
Murphy's .•.•.•••••.••••• Ophir ...................... 38
National City ••.••••••••• South West ................. 283
Napa ....................Yount ...................... 12
Newman •.• , .............Hill's Ferry ••.............. 236
Needles .••......••••••••• Needles .........•.......... 326
Nevada City •....•..••••• Nevada ...............•.... 13
Norwalk ••.....•••••.•••• Norwalk •.................• 315
Oakland ••..•....•.•••.•• Live Oak •................. 61
"
...•........••.•. Oakland .....•...•......••. 188
''
................. Brooklyn ..................... 225
''
................ . Sequoia ................... . 349
''
................ ,Alcatraz ................... . 244
'•
.......•.•..••••• Fruitvale ................... 336
''
..... , .......... . Bay View ................. . 401

Post Office.

Lodge.

615
No.

Oakland .................Yerba Buena ................ 403
''
''

.................. Standard ................... 440
................. Rock ridge .................. 468

Oakdale •.............••• Oakdale ••.•................ 275
Oceanpark ................ Ocean Park ................ 369
Oceanside •............•••Oceanside •................. 381
Ontario •.••............•• Ontario .................... 301
Orange ..•............ , •• Orange Grove ............... 293
Orland •..•.....•..•.•••• Orland ..................... ·265
Orosi ..................•• Orosi .•.•••............ ·..... 383
Oroville ..••............• Oroville ••.•................ 103
Oxnard •.•..............•• Oxnard . . . . . . . . . . . ......•. 341
Pacific Grove ........... ,Pacific Grove .............. 331
Palo Alto ••............•• Palo Alto •................. 346
Pasadena ..•........•..•• Pasadena •................. 272
Pasadena ..............• ,Corona .•................... 324
Pasadena ................ San Pasqual ............... .452
Paskenta'. ................ Newville •............ , ..... 205
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ................ 286
Penryn •.....•........••• Penrhyn ....................258
Perris .................... Perris ..................... .411
Petaluma ..•..••••••••••• Petaluma .•................ 180
Pinole ......•..••••.••••• Pinole ..••................. 353
Pittsburg ................ Pittsburg .•................. 429
Placerville ..•.••••••••.•• Palmyra .................... 26
Pleasanton •••.••...•••••• Alisal •..................... 321
Plymouth ................ Drytown ................... 174
Point Arena •.....•..•••• Claiborne .....•............ 185
Pomona ..•..•........••••Pomona ..•................. 246
Porterville •...........••• Porterville •................ 303
Puente .................• La Puente ................. .446
Quincy •••...........•.•• Plumas •................... 60
Redondo ................• Redondo •.................. 328
Redding ................. Reading •................... 254
Redlands ................. Redlands ................... 300
Reedley ................. Reedley •............ , ...... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
Red Blulf ....•..........• Vesper ..•.................. 84
Richmpnd ................ Alpha ...................... 431
Richmond ............... McKinley .................. 347
J!,io Vista ........••••..•• Rio Vista •................. 208
Riverbank ...............Riverbank .................. 459
Riverside .........•..•••• ETergreen .................. 259
RQel,din ..•.....•....•••. Granite ..................... 222

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCA TlON OF LODGES

616
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Roseville ................ Roseville .................. .432
Sacramento ......•.....•• Tehama . . • . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . 3
....•••....•.• Washington • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 20
"
.............. Sacramento , ................ 40
"
..•••.•...•.•• Union ..•......•.....•...... 58
"
.•••....•...•• Concord .................... 117
"
Saint Helena ......... , .. Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas ........•.... Calaveras . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . 78
San Bernardino •..•.•...• Phoenix .....•.....•........ 178
''
............ San Bernar,dino ............... 348
San Diego ...•........... San Diego • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
''
................ . Silver Gate ................. . 296
............. ~ .. Blackmer

''

.................. 442

San Dimas ..•........... San Dimas ..........•...... .428
San Francisco •.......•..• California • . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . J
''
................ . Parfaite Union .............. 17
''

............... . Oeeidental

"

............ Golden Gate ................ 30
............ Mount Moriah .............. 44
•.••..•.•••• Fidelity ••..•....•.........• 120
•.••...••••• Hermann •.•..•••....•...... 127
•• ~ •••••••• ,Pacific .........••.......... 136
..........•• Crockett •.•••...•••........ 139
..•••••••••• Oriental ..•.••.•.•.........• 144
•••••••.•••• Excelsior ..•.••••........... 166
•••••••••••• Mission ..•.••........•..... 169
............ South San Franeisco ........ 212
•••••••••••• Doric •..•.•••...••......... 216
............ Speranza I talia.na ••......... 219
• ; .......... King solomo:a 's ............. 260
•.•••••••••• Starr King ••••.......••.... 344
, ••.•••••••• Presidio ...•.•.............. 354
•.••••••••• ~San Franeisco ..•.•.•....... 360
••••••••• , •• Amity .........•..••....... 370
••••••••••• ,Jewel •.•••.....•.••• , ...... 374
•••••••••••• Richmond- •.•.••••.......... 375
............ P~rnassus ....••••••.•...••.. 388
.......•..•.Balder ..................... 393
...•.•..•••• Fairmount ............•.... 435
.••.....••••Park ....................... 449
............Bethlehem ................. .453
............Golden West ............... 455
.......... , .Argonaut ................. .461
.. ."......... Paul Revere ................ 462

"
"

.

"

"
"

"

...."
"
"
"
..
"
"..
"

"

"

"
"
"

...... ,. ............. 22

Post Office.

Lodge.

617
No.

San Francisco ............ Alta Vista ................. 464
San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ................ 338
San Jose .....••.•...••.•• San Jose .•............•.... 10

''

................ . :b,riendship ............_......... 210

''

................. . Fraternity ................... 3.99

San Juan ................ Texas ...................... 46
San Leandro ..........•.• Eden ...•................... 113
San Luis Obispo .......... King David's .•......•...... 209
San Mateo •..•••...•. ·...• San Mateo ................. 226
San Miguel ...............San Miguel ................. 285
San Pedro ............... ,San Pedro .................. 332
San Rafael •.........••..• Marin .•....•............... 191
Santa Ana .....•••.•....• Santa Ana .................. 241
Santa Barbara ........... Santa Barbara .............. 192
''

............ . l\Iagnolia ....................... . 242

Santa Clara ..•.••.....••• Liberty •.••••.....•.•....•. 299
Santa Cruz •••.••......••• Santa Cruz ......•••......•. 38
Santa Maria ••.•.....•.•• Hesperian ••••....•......•.. 264
Santa Monica •••...•..••• Santa Moniea ••........•..•.307
Santa Paula ..•.•••.•••••• Santa Paula ••.••.......•.•.291
Santa Rosa •••••....•••.• Santa Rosa ...•••....•.•••.• 57
Salinas .................. Salinas •.••.•...•.......•..• 204
Sanger ...................Sanger ......................316
Sawtelle ..•....•••..•.••• Veteran .••••..••••••....... 373
Schofield Barracks ......• Schofield ................... 44;{
Sebastopol ..••••••....••• La Fayette •....•..•.••.....126
Selma .....•..••.••••.•.• Selma •...................•. 277
Shasta •..•.•••••••••.•••• Western Star • • • • . . . . . . . . . .. 2
Sierra City ••.•••.•...••.• Harmony ...••••....••...... 164
Sierra Madre ..•.......... Sierra Madre .............. .408
Sierraville ............... Sierra Valley •• , ............ 184
Sisson •....••••••••.•.••••Sisson ...••...•••..••.....•. 310
Smartsville ••••.•.••••...;Bose's Bar ......•. : •••...... 89
South Pasadena .......... :&uth Pasadena ............. 367
South San Fra.neisco ...••.• Francis Drake •.••...... " ... 376
Sonoma •••••••..•••.••••• Temple , •...•••••..•.•....•. 14
Sonora •••••••.••... , •••.• Tuolumne . • • • • . • • • . • • . . . . • . 8
Stockton .•••.•••.•••••••• San Joaquin ............... 19
''
................. Morning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Stony Ford •••..••.•••••• Snow Mountain ••••••......• 271
Susanville ••.••••..•.•••• Lassen ••••••...•••••••.•... 149
Sutter Creek ••••••••.•••• Henry Clay •••••.••••••.•••• 95
Suisun •....••••••••••••••Suisun • . • • • • • . . • • • . . . • • • . • • 55
Taft •....•..•..•••••••••• Midway ••..•..•••......... .426

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNlA

618
Post Office,

Lodge.

No.

Tehama •............•••••Molino ..........•.......•.. 150
Tehachapi ..........•••• , Tehachapi ...•...........•.. 313
Torrance ................•Torrance .................. .447
Tracy ................... Mt. Oso ..................... 460
Truckee ...•.......•••••• Truckee .•.......•.......... 200
Tulare ..•........•..••.•• Olive Branch ............... 269
Tuolumne .............••• East Belt .................. 391
Turlock ................••Turlock .................... 395
Ukiah ...•......•...••.•• A.liell •..................... 146
Upland .................• Upland .................... .419
Vallejo .........•...••••• Naval .•...•................ 87
''
................. . Solano ..................... 229
Vacaville .....•......•••• Vacaville .................•. 134
Van Nuys ............... Van Nuys .................. 450
Ve11.tura •......••...••• , .San Buenaventµra ........... 214
Visalia ••.......•..••..•• Visalia ..••................. 128
Volcano ........•..•.•••• Volcano • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Walnut Creek .•..••••..• ,Alamo •.•..................• 122
Watsonville •..•.....••••• Pajaro •...................• 110
Watts ..•...........•.•••• York ....................... 42ll
Weaverville •.•..•••••••• Trinity ••................... 27
Wheatland .••.....•••.••• Nicolaus .................•• 129
Whittier •...•...•.••.•••• Whittier •................... 323
Winters .•.•.•...•.•••••• Buclteye •.••...•...••.....•.195
Willits ..•.•••••..•.••••• Willits •..•..•..••.......•.. 365
Willows •.• , .••..•••••••• .Laurel •.•...••.••••........ 245
Windsor ••• , • , •..•••••••• Russian River ••.••.••••..... 181
Williams •••.••••••.•. , , ••Tuscan .••..•..•..•......... 261
Wilmington •••.•••• , .••••Willllington •••••••..•....•.• 1911
Woodbridge ••.•••.•• , ••• W qodbridge •.•...•..••..... 131
W01>dl11-nd ••••..•.•••• , •• Woodland ••••••.••.•••..••• 156
Yolo .....................Yolo ••..•••••...•••••...•.• 81
Yreka .................. ,St. John's ••••.•.•..•....•.• 37
''
........... , .. , ... . Howard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Yub- City .••......•••••• Enterprile . . . • • . . . • • • • . . • • • . 76

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1917

Bv EDWARD H. HART, P. G. M.
To THE GRAND LoDGE, F.

& A. M., oF CAL1FORN1A,

AND BRETHREN OF THlS JURlSDJCTlON:

INTRODUCTION.
submit herewith my ninth annual report on Fraternal Correspondence, which includes a review of sixty-two jurisdictions, being those
whose proceedings are printed in the English language, which have
reached our table within the past year. A few volumes not yet received, five or six in number, may be considered in the next report.
The proceedings reviewed are as follows :
LODGE-

YJiAR.

Alabama ........................................ 1916
Alberta ....................... .1916 and 1917
Arkansas ...................................... 1916
Arizona ........................................ 1916
Canada, in the Province of
Ontario .................................... 1916
Colorado ........................................ 1916
Connecticut .................................. 1917
Delaware ...................................... 1916
District of Columbia ................ 1916
Florida .......................................... 1917
Georgia .......................................... 1916
Idaho .............................................. 1916
Illinois ............................................ 1916
Indiana .......................................... 1917
Ireland .......................................... 1916
Kansas .......................................... 1917

LODGE-

YJiAR.

Kentucky ...................................... 1916
Louisiana ...................................... 1917
Maine ............................................ 1916
Maryland ...................................... 1916
Mexico .......................................... 1917
Michigan ...................................... 1917
Minnesota .................................... 1917
Mississippi .................................... 1917
Missouri ........................................ 1916
Montana ........................................ 1916
Nebraska ...................................... 1916
Nevada .......................................... 1916
New Brunswick .......................... 1916
New Hampshire ......................... .1917
New Jersey .................................. 1917
New Mexico ................................ 1916
New South Wales ...................... 1916

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

2
LODGE-

YEAR.

New York .................................... 1917
New Zealand ............................... .1916
North Carolina ............................ 1917
North Dakota .............................. 1916
Nova Scotia ................................ 1916
Ohio ................................................ 1916
Oklahoma ...................................... 1917
Oregon .......................................... 1917
Pennsylvania ................................ 1916
Philippine Islands ...................... 1917
Quebec .......................................... 1917
Queensland .................................. 1916
Rhode Island ................................ 1916
Saskatchewan .............................. 1916

LODGE-

YEAR.

Scotland ........................................ 1916
South Australia .......................... 1917
South Carolina ............................ 1916
South Dakota .............................. 1917
Tennessee .................................... 1917
Texas ........................................ ~ ... 1916
Utah ....•........................................... 1917
Vermont ........................................ 1917
Victoria .......................................... 1916
Virginia ........................................ 1917
Washington ..................................1916
Western Australia ................... .1916
West Virginia ............................1916
Wyoming ...................................... 1916

Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. HART,

Chairman.

3

ALABAMA.
1916.
96th Annual, Montgomery, Dec. 6-7.
Lodges, 557; Membership, 28,596; Gain, 680.

Largest Lodge, Birmingham Temple Lodge No. 636, 532 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free & Accepted
Masons of Alabama held its 96th Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple in the City of Montgomery, Dec. 5th and 6th, 1916,
Most Worshipful Walter Smith, Grand Master, presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
In the opening paragraphs of his address, Grand Master Smith
congratulates the Craft upon its progress within the jurisdiction, stating
that not only is the Craft growing stronger numerically, but is growing every year in the knowledge of what true Masonry is, and striving
each year to live in closer accordance with the knowledge attained.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GRAND MASTER
Dispensations were isstted for the formation of five new Lodges.
Corner-stone ceremonies, seven in number, took place under the auspices
of the Grand Lodge. Lodges which received charters at the preceding
Annual Communication were duly constituted.
The Grand Master attended the annual meeting on Feb. 21st and
22nd at Alexandria, Va., of the George Washington ·Masonic National
Association. The work of that organization is commended by the
Grand Master and he recommends that the support of the Grand
Lodge of Alabama be continued to that organization.
MASONIC HOME.
The Masonic Home of this jurisdiction, which has now been in
existence, perhaps a half a dozen years, is calling for the best efforts
of the jurisdiction to maintain it upon a proper and efficient basis.
Great and useful undertakings of all kinds call for effort and sacrifice, and the responsibility assumed by this jurisdiction in connection
with the Home is proving the truly Masonic character of the Brethren,
and is developing those high Masonic qualities which distinguish genuine Mason.ry, and while it is true that the Home is a burden and
responsibility, it is through responsibility of this kind that real character is developed. Alabama will meet this, and all other responsibilities, in the lofty Masonic spirit which characterizes the jurisdiction,
and the Home will in future years prove, as it has proven elsewhere,
a monumel)t to· Masonry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

CONSTITUTION AL AMENDMENTS.
We· have, we believe, in commenting upon this jurisdiction in previous reports, referred to the method pursued therein of amending the
Constitution, which, in brief, requires, in the first place, that the proposed amendment be submitted in Grand Lodge and supported by a
vote of one-third present, asking for the consiueration of the proposed
amendment. After this affirmative vote of the Grand Lodge that the
amendment be considered, the proposed amendment is then submitted
to each and every Lodge of the jurisdiction, and each and every Lodge
is required, some time within the next ensuing Masonic year, to con.sider the proposed amendment and vote either "yes" or "no" for its
adoption, and no amendment of the Constitution can be adopted except
after being thus submitted, and approved by at least two-thirds of the
Lodges of the jurisdiction, and any Lodge failing to give consideration
to and take action upon any proposed amendment is subject to the
severest kind of Masonic discipline, such, for instance, as the arrest
of its charter. The result of this method of procedure in the adoption
of a constitutional amendment is that every Lodge must have an intimate knowledge of any changes in the Constitution; not only this, but
hasty action is prevented in connection w"ith changes of the organic
law.

dence of a great deal of conscientious work. The topical form, however, is not generally considered the best form in which to present
reports of this character, and has been adopted by comparatively few
reviewers.

4

At this Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge an amendment
to the Constitution concerning physical qualifications was adopted, as
follows:
"If the petitioner be physically defective by reason of deformity
or being maimed, his eligibility shall be determined by the Lodge to
which he has applied, and if determined favorably to the petitioner he
shall be eligible to receive the degrees of Masonry when the action of
the Lodge has been approved by the Grand Master in writing."

COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, recognition of an alleged Grand Lodge of the
Argentine Republic was denied.
Recognition also was refused to the alleged newly created so-called
Grand Lodge of France.
The new Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence is Worshipful Brother Oliver D. Street, who presents an extremely interesting
and comprehensive report on Foreign Correspondence.
For the past two years, under the chairmanship of Brother Mewhinney, the report had been arranged in the "topical" form. Brother
M ewhinney's reports were interesting and instructive, and bore evi-

Brother Street, the ~ew Chairman, has combined the ordinary
method of individual review of each jurisdiction with a comprehensive
index of the Report, which gives the Report the advantages of the
ordinary form of review and also the topical form, for the reason that,
by reference to the extremely carefully prepared index, any subject
treated in the various reports under review may be readily located .
In the report before us, California, 1915, is reviewed in a courteous
and painstaking manner with favorable comment upon many of our
Masonic activities.

M.". w:. WALTER SMITH, Grand Master, Tuscaloosa.
M.". w:. GEORGE A. BEACHAMP, Grand Secretary, Montgomery.

ALBERTA.
1916.
11th Annual, Banff, May 31.
Lodges, 77; Membership, 7166; Gain, 494.

Largest Lodge, Perfection Lodge No. 9, 414 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Eleventh Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Alberta, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons, was
opened in the Masonic Temple in the City of Banff, Province of
Alberta, on May 31st, 1916, the Most Worshipful Brother S. Y. Taylor,
Grand Master, presiding.
EXPRESSION OF LOYALTY TO THE CAUSE OF THE ALLIES
IN THE PRESENT WORLD WAR'.
Preliminary to the Address of the Grand Master, the following
resolution, expressive of the loyalty of Canada and Canadian Masons
to the cause of the British Empire, was introduced and unanimously
adopted:
"Resolved, That the terms of the following resolution be cabled
through the proper channel to His Majesty the King:
"The Grand Lodge of Freemasons of Alberta, now in session,
humbly desires at this time to assure His Majesty the King of its
loyal fealty to His August Person and to the Empire.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPO~DENCE.

"As the duration of the present war lengthens from months into
years, \'lie realize more fully the justice of the cause for which Our
Empire and Our Allies are contending, and the necessity for a successful issue of the conflict, if the principles of liberty and justice
are to be preserved for civilization and the world.
"Numbers of our Brethren under this Grand Jurisdiction are now
serving His Majesty at the front, and many more are preparing so
to serve. Several of our brave Brethren have given their lives while
fighting in the trenches for the honor of Canada and the cause of the
Empire.
"\Ve hereby renew our assurance to His Majesty that the Freemasons of Alberta remain ready and willing to perform their <lnty to
their King and Empire."

tions t~at apparently covered every nook and corner of the jurisdiction,
he havrng traveled 5868 miles in the performance of the function of
visitation to subordinates.

6

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
Expressive of the exalted character of the Grand Master's ideals
concerning Freemasonry and its functions, we quote the following
paragraphs from the opening portion of his Annual Address:
"The centuries of the existence of Freemasonry sweeping onward
like a stately river toward the ocean of eternity make the course of
one year seem like a little tributary on whose waters we have briefly
glided to the outlet, where they mingle with the majestic flood. Yet
on a journey so short and eventful, the determination of our course
from time to time may have created influences which will extend beyond our lives and help to mould for weal or woe the hearts and
lives of our fellow-men.
"'No man liveth to himself.' May we all endeavor to perform our
allotted task with the utmost fidelity, remembering that
"'Life counts not by hours, or joys, or pangs,
But just by duties done.'
"The year has been an eventful one, particularly on account of the
mighty conflict which is now waging on the continent of Europe.
Many unusual conditions existed which called for judicious solution
without violating the Constitution and the Landmarks of our Order.
"During the year peace and harmony have prevailed within our
Subordinate Lodges. Not a single appeal has been made to me in this
regard. Our annual records show a net increase in membership of 494,
which is highly satisfactory, when we consider the faet that so many
of our brethren have enlisted for service at the front. that in some
instances it has been difficult to properly officer the Lodge; 10 per
cent of the total membership in this province have joined the ranks
of the Canadian Expeditionary Forces."
MASONIC ACTIVITIES.
The year 1916 appears to have been an unusual year in the large
number of visitations paid by various Grand' Masters to subordinate
Lodges. One Grand Master reports visitations to over four hundred
subordinate Lodges; another Grand Master visitations exceeding three
hundred in number; another Grand Master two hundred fifteen; and
here we have the Grand Master of Alberta making a series of visita-

7

He duly constituted the four Lodges that received charters at the
pre.ceding Annual Comn:unication, and within the year issued dispensat10ns to form five or six new Lodges. He officiated at several "joint
installation" meetings; he placed the corner-stones of a number of
public ?uildings; he dedicated at least one new Lodge room, and was
· otherwise extremely active throughout the year.
DECISIONS.
Texas, ?outh Carolina and Pennsylvania may represent the extreme of stnct constructionists in America concerning the question of
"physical qualifications"; and that Alberta is among the jurisdictions
at t.he other end of the line, representing loose constructionists may
be Judged from the following two decisions rendered by the Grand
Master upon this subject within the year:

"Ques.:--}? <; person eligible to become a member of a Ma~onic
Lodge. by .11~1tiat1on. who has lost the four fingers of his left ha~d at
the tlurd JOmt, leaving the hand and thumb intact?
"Ans.-Yes.
"Ques.-Is. a returned soldier eligihlc for initiation into the Order
w h o has lost his left arm at the shoulder'
"Ans.;--If Y01:1 have a worthy pctitio~er who has lost his left arm
but who _is supplied with an artificial one so that he can co~ply with
1
ir~s~~~;;ements of the work, I would favor his acceptance into
The:c is no report on Foreign Correspondence printed with the
Procccdmgs, although apparently a brief report was rendered.

w:.

M.".
E. T. B1sHoP, Grand Master, Edmonton.
M. ·. \V. ·. GEoRG:E; MACDONALD, Grand Secretary, Calgary.

ALBERTA.
1917,
12th Annual, Banff, May 30.
Lodges, 93; Membership, 7513; Gain, 347.
Largest Lodge, Perfection Lodge No. 9, 377 Members.
ANNUAI, COMMUNICATION.
, The Twelfth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Alberta, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons, was

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

opened in the Masonic Temple, in the City of Banff, Province of
Alberta, Wednesday, May 30th, 1917, Grand Master E. T. Bishop
presiding.

by subscriptions suitable to our convenience or given with consideration as to what others give. Not until the giving hurts us do we
really begin to give. If the money and effort that are expended in
less laudable ways in the name of Masonry were directed to the help
of the relatives of our Brethren who need it, then would Masonry
indeed be a great benefit to the community and not merely a hope
but partially realized.

8

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master states that he dedicated during the year the
Masonic Hall of Patricia Lodge, constituted the Lodge and installed
the officers. He constituted in all five new Lodges. He made a number of official visits to subordinate Lodges; he rendered only one
decision.
FRATERNAL DEAD.
This jurisdiction suffered the loss of many of its Brethren, many
of whom perished on the battlefields of the world. The Grand Lodge
mourns the loss of Grand Tyler R.". w:. Bro. R. C. Bruce, who efficiently filled his office.
We quote the Grand Master in his Conclusion, referring to the
awful calamity of the war in Europe, as follows:
"The outstanding events of the war during the last twelve months
have been the Russian revolution and the entry of the United States
as a combatant. From the one will eventually come greater strength
and a purer purpose; from the other has come a conviction beyond all
doubt of the ultimate triumph of those ideals for which we are fighting. Now, as truly as in the dark days of the Civil War, is the great
American republic fighting for that government 'of the people, by the
people, and for the people' for which their immortal President prayed.
Never before in the world's history has there been such an inspiring
spectacle of mighty nations united in the great contest for the freedom
of free peoples; never has there been anything so nearly approaching
that actual brotherhood of man for which we feared to hope. But
now through the clash of armed nations the dream of the poet may
yet become the business of the statesman.
"It is not for us, however, at this time, to discuss the war in its
greater phases. Our purposes must be to consider those matters that
have become our especial business as the result of this conflict. The
ever-increasing burdens that are being imposed on the peoples of the
world by this struggle are being felt in a constantly increasing degree
by the people of this province and members of our Order. Many
funds unconnected with Free Masonry have been established to help
to relieve the situation, and I am glad to say that in my visits throughout the province I found that these funds are receiving substantial
assistance from our Lodges. That, Brethren, is good Free Masonry.
"As I went from place to place I saw in our Lodges the names of
our men who have gone, the records of the men who have fallen.
Very many of our Brethren are now at the front; many of them will
never return. All this is throwing upon us a responsibility which we
cannot ignore, and which it will be our greatest honor and our highest
privilege to meet. The welfare of the widows and children of our
departed Brethren must be for years to come the principal concern of
this Fraternity. Our obligation in this regard will not be answered

9

"If it were a question of the price to be exacted from us that we
be allowed to remain in our own country that we might be with and
care for our loved ones, what would we not give, what would we not
do? This I take it is the nature of our obligation. This great privilege is being purchased for us by the sacrifices of our brothers overseas, by the anguish of their wives, by the sorrows of their children.
To pay this debt we may easily do too little; we cannot do too much."

FRATERNALCORRESPONDENC&
There is a comprehensive report on Correspondence by S. Y.
Taylor, Past Grand Master, Chairman of the Committee, this being
their fifth review.
California is courteously considered, with quotations from the
address of Grand Orator Brother Burke.
M.". w:. W. M. CoNNACHER, Grand Master, Calgary.
M.". w:. S. Y. TAYLOR, Grand Secretary, Alberta.

ARIZONA.
1916.
34th Annual, Tucson, Mar. 14.
Lodges, 24; Membership, 2668; Gain, 103.
Largest Lodge, Arizona Lodge No. 2, 407 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of Arizona commenced its Thirty-fourth Annual Communication at
Tucson on Tuesday, the fourth day of March, 1916, the Most Worshipful George M. Bridge, Grand Master, presiding.
INTRODUCTION OF VERY WORSHIPFUL JOHN WHICHER,
GRAND SECRET ARY OF CALIFORNIA.
After the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, and preliminary
to the Address of the Grand Master, a pleasing incident occurred in
the introduction to the Grand Lodge of Very Worshipful John
Whicher, our genial Grand Secretary of California.

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The event took place with full ceremony, Past Grand ~faster
Brother Morris Goldwater, Grand Representative of the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge of California, accompanied by all the Past Grand
Masters, then present, of the Jurisdiction of Arizona, repaired to the
ante-room and, on being announced, entered the Grand Lodge, and
introduced the Very Worshipful Brother, who was most cordially
welcomed by the Grand :\faster, and conducted to a seat in the Grand
East, where Brother Whicher thanked the Most Worshipful Grand
Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge for the welcome extended
to him in the gracious language for which our Grand Secretary is
so famous.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
Masonry in our sister jurisdiction of Arizona is progressing in a
satisfactory manner, there being a substantial increase in membership,
and the Grand Master reports the constitution of three new Lodges
within the year.
The Grand Master was able to make only a limited number of
visitations to subordinates, but his official activities were manifested
in other directions, such, for instance, as the placing of not less than
three corner-stones of public buildings tmder Masonic auspices; and
the conducting of correspondence concerning mooted Masonic questions with Lodges of the jurisdiction, and with other Grand Jurisdictions.
DECISIONS.
Under the above caption, he makes some pertinent remarks which
may be of general interest upon the subject of "physical qualifications," and we quote him upon the subject of "decisions" as follows:
"Many questions have been submitted to me for my decision,
interpretation or advice. Several of these matters have been disposed
of by reference to the Constitution or Anderson's Manual. Others
have either appeared ambiguous in their meaning, or are entirely new
so far as the Constitution and decisions of this Grand Lodge reveal.
"First. I have received several communications concerning the
question of the physical qualifications of the candidate. To all of these
I have replied by reference to Regulation 10 of our General Regulations. Each Grand Master is the recipient of many similar inquiries
and this Grand Lodge has most emphatically called the attention of
the Subordinate Lodges to the plain nature of this regulation and the
ease with which each Worshipful Master can decide these cases without
applications to the Grand ~faster. In spite of Regulation No. 10 and
its undoubted import, many members of the. Craft in this State do not
sancticn the application of physical tests for candidates, who are to
practice progressive moral science.. which we claim our Organization
teaches. I
that an expression of opinion on this matter be
obtained from
Grand Lodge session."

REPORT ON CORRESPON.DENCE.

11

Concerning one of the decisions of the Grand Master, declining
to lay a certain corner-stone, the Jurisprudence Committee remarks
as follows:
"Your committee does not agree with the answer given by the
Grand Master. The Grand Lodge shouJd lay the corner-stone of a
public building only by invitation from the proper authorities. As they
and not the Grand Lodge furnish the stone, the decision as to what
if .anything should be put upon it (or in the box) rests with them.
A sense of propriety usually leads them to confer with the Grand Lodge
or the local Lodge, and if any disagreement should ensue the Grand
Lodge should deeline to perform its ceremonies. There is nothing
wrong or inappropriate in placing a Masonic inscription or emblem upon
a corner-stone when the same is laid by the Grand Lodge."
There is no report on Foreign Correspondence.
FREDERICK WELLINGTON PERKINS, Grand Master, Flagstaff.
GEORGE J. RosKRliGE, Grand Secretary, Tucson.

ARKANSAS.
1916.

75th Annual, Little Rock, Nov. 21-22.
Lodges, 565; Members, 21,436; Gain, 389.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Seventy-fifth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Arkansas,
met at its Grand Lodge Hall in ~fasonic Temple, in the City of Little
Roek, on the 21st of November, 1916, Most Worshipful L. P. Kemper,
Grand Master, presiding.
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER.
·when the Grand Lodge of Arkansas convened in Annual Communication in November, this country had n·ot at that time become
directly involved in the European war, and the Grand Master, in the
opening paragraph of his Address, gives expression to a sense of
gratitude that we had not become involved, and he indicates the position of Masonry upon this and the all-important liquor question. We
quote from his Address as follows :
"We should not cease to thank our Heavenly Father that this
glorious land of ours is still at peace with itself and the rest of the
world and that we have not become entangled in the great strife and
bloody conflict that is now
carried on throughout the Old World,
and we should continually
Him that such disaster should not
come to our own fair land. \Vith the Masonic Fraternity, to a great

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

measure, it seems to me, rests the responsibility of sustaining the
head of our government, by our prayers and encouraging words, to
keep our country at peace as far as practical, to be instrumental in
bringing peace to the disturbed elements of Europe, because Masonry
stands, and has always stood. for right, that which is true and just,
not only to individuals, but to nations, and we should show to the
world at large that we stand for the benefit of mankind and upholding
the dignity and glory 0£ the land in which we live, and I am especially
pleased with the fraternity of this Grand Jurisdiction, in the action
it has taken again this year in regard to the liquor question, as to our
Fraternity, I believe, is very largely due to the overwhelming defeat
of that most notorious Act No. 2, and it will be said to the credit of
Arkansas Masonry that they took not only the first stand against the
liquor business, but have continued along the same lines in every
instance where there has been a chance to show where we stand."

supplementary report, provided they asked for such time before the
ballot was spread; if farther time was asked bv the committee and
was not granted to them, you would thereby deprive the committee
?f part of their rights in the matter, although at the next stated meet11:ig the committee may confirm the report previously made, having a
right, however, to make an entirely new report.

12

OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
The Grand Master issued dispensations to form four new Lodges ;
corner-stone ceremonies, four in number, took place within the year.
Visitations by the Grand Master to Subordinate Lodges were. probably
more numerous than ever performed by any preceding Grand Master.
The Committee on Grand Master's Address has this to say concer11ing
the activities of the Grand Master in this respect:
"Most \Vorshipful Grand Master L. P. Kemper has done what
no other Grand Master of this Grand Lodge has ever done. He visited
420 lodges, and went into all the counties of Arkansas, except four,
and would have visited these counties but the threatened railroad
strike sent him home. In this work a great impetus was given to
Masonrv in Arkansas, and our Grand Master should be commended
heartily- for his untiring efforts to build up our Craft."
Constant attention was addressed by the Grand Master to the
duties of his exalted station.
The following paragraph, taken from the Conclusion of his excellent Address, is quoted as an evidence of his especial activity. He
says:
"The year's work has been greatly increased over that done by
my predecessors, on account of having made my visits to the Subordinate Lodges, but as I expected to devote this year purely to the labor
of love, I consider that it was a privilege rather than a hardship to be
allowed to visit the Subordinate Lodges and have really enjoyed myself
at every visit."
DECISIONS.
"Question-After a committee of investigation had made a report
to the Lodge on a petition for affiliation and the ballot had not been
spread on said petition, can the Worshipful Master, upon request of
said committee, postpone the ballot and give the committee further time
to pursue their investigation and make new report?
"Answer-That the request of the committee should properly be
granted, although they had reported, they should be given time for

13

"Question-\Vill it be a violation of the law of our Grand Lodge
for a Mason in this State to sign a petition asking for the repeal of
the State-wide Prohibition law and for local option so that saloons
may be brought in again?
, "Answer-The Edict passed by the Grand Lodge of Arkansas at
its. sessio"! of 1914 sa.ys it is a Masonic offense to sign a petition for
a liquor license, and it is at least the spirit of the said edict that it is
a Masonic offense to sign a petition to repeal the State-wide Prohibition
l~w,_ so that saloons may be brought into the State again, therefore
stgnmg such a petition will subject any Mason living in this jurisdiction to expulsion or indefinite suspension, and lodges are hereby
directed to proceed accordingly on every case of such violation."
The last decisions quoted above, and which was approved by the
Jurisprudence Committee and the Grand Lodge, seems to go to the
point of making the holding of an opinion a Masonic offense. It certainly does so, if the opinion takes the form of a written expression
of one's views against the policy of a State-wide Prohibition law. In
other words, in Arkansas, if one disbelieves in the policy of Statewide prohibition, it is advisable for him to keep his mouth shut on the
subject.
MASONIC ORPHANS' HOME.
There is in this jurisdiction one of the best Orphans' Home in
America. One hundred and seventeen children are enrolled at the
Home, which institution is under the efficient management of very
competent superintendent and matron; and the report of the. Board
of Trustees of this beneficient institution states in its concluding paragraph that all that is necessary to make a'!ly Mason an enthusiastic
supporter of the Home and School is a visit of a day or so to the
institution. Everyone, so they state in their report, after making such
a visit, has gone away singing the praises of the Home, an~ if not
loyal friends of the Home before such a visit, are certain to become
such after going through the institution.
In addition to the Home and School for Orphans, preliminary
steps have been taken looking to the establishment of a Home for
Widows and Aged Masons of Arkansas, as is evidenced in the following resolution adopted at this Communication:
"Resolved, 'That the recommendation, of the Grand Master be
approved; and that a committee of five be appointed by the incoming
Grand Master to consider the feasibility of establishing a Horne for
Widows and Aged l'vlasons of Arkansas, and to report at the next

15

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

session of this Grand Lodge, as to ways and means, maintenance,
operation, and all other matters pertaining to the subject; with such
recommendations as in their wisdom may seem appropriate."

He observes the tendency of American Jurisdictions to use the
American flag in connection with Lodge furniture, and in this connection the following resolution was adopted by the Grand Lodge of
Arkansas at this Annual Communication:
"That the American flag be displayed in the Grand Lodge Hall
at each session, and that all Subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction be
directed to procure and display an American flag in the Lodge Hall at
all meetings."
M.". w:. J. S. REAMIW, Grand Master, Hot Springs.
R.". w:. FAY HEMPSTEAD, GraIJd Secretary, Little Rock.

14

ADDRESS OF GRAND ORATOR'.
An open session of the Grand Lodge took place on the evening
of the first day of the Annual Communication, at which the members
of the Grand Chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star and others
were invited, and at which there was rendered a literary and musical
program, concluding with the Annual Address of the Grand Orator,
Right Worshipful R. D. Macon.
The Address, whieh treated of the principles and purposes of
Freemasonry, was listened to with rapt attention, and was greeted
with generous applause, and by vote of the Grand Lodge was ordered
printed in the Volume of Proceedings.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence, Worshipful Brother
Louis Bauerlein, Chairman, presented a brief report which consisted
of a short statement of some matters of interest that had come to the
attention of the Chairman of the Committee, there being, however,
no Review of the individual jurisdictions.
He makes this comment concerning California:
"The M.". W.". Grand Master of California rendered one decision
which in my humble judgment appears to contradict itself. It appears
in his decision No. IV, after giving the definition of the word 'Saloon'
as found in the Century Dictionary, says: 'Evidently the Grand Lodge
in enacting Section 129 merely intended to exclude from membership
those who handled liquor in small quantities, usually fo1md in connection with and consumed at a bar. In my judgment, you have the
right to receive and accept the candidate, if in your judgment he is
fit for the degrees of Masonry.' The man referred to is a grocer who
sells whisky and brandy, but riot to be consumed upon the premises.
I can see no distinction between this grocer and any other person who
sells intoxicating drink. The blind tiger is often run in connection
with a .cigar stand, a drug store, a livery stable, a barber shop, and
some years ago I knew of one out in Kansas in connection with a
blacksmith shop. The boot-legger sells whiskey to be consumed elsewhere. In my humble judgment our worthy brother makes a distinction without a difference and overlooks the spirit of the law because
of a mere technicality."
As an evidence of the growing liberality in the construction of
"visible physical defects," he quotes the following from Orego_n:
"The Grand Lodge of Oregon decided that a 'One-legged man with
an artificial limb, who could use same with ease and who in other
respects was well fitted, was not disqualified from receiving the
degrees.'"

CANADA IN THE PROVINCE OF ONTARIO.
1916.

61st Annual, London, July 19-20.
Lodges, 444; Membership, 60,850; Gain, 1867.
Largest Lodge, Zetland No. 326, 586 Members.
THE SIXTY-FIRST ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Sixty-first Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, A. F.
& A. M., of Canada, in the Province of Ontario, was held in the City
of London, Ontario, July 19th and 20th, 1916, the Grand Master, Most
Worshipful Sidney A. Luke, on the Throne.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, an official
welcome was extended to the Grand Body by the eight Lodges of the
City of London, through the Worshipful Masters of these Lodges, with
a suitable response to the greeting by the Grand Master.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
A large portion of the Grand Master's address is devoted to the
great war, in which Canada is fighting side by side with another ·country, and the Grand Master calls attention to the significant fact that
every dependency of the British Crown is fighting as loyally for the
· preservation of the Empire as is England herself, and that Canada
and other dependencies of Great Britain realize that the preservation
of their liberties is inseparably linked with the success and integrity
of the Empire.
The Grand Master calls attention to another lesson which this
war has emphasized, perhaps the greatest lesson of all, which, however,
both individuals and nations in their ambitions are apt to forget, and
in the case of Germany to scoff at. This lesson is summed up in the
motto of one of the degrees of Knight Templarism, "Magna est ·veritas
ct prevalebit"-"Great is Truth, and it will prevail."

16

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The realization of this fact, the Grand Master affirms: is slowly,
but none the less surely, being emphasized in the case of Germanv.
''She began the war," said he, "with a lie; has continued her fals~­
hoods until at present no nation will believe her spoken word or
written bond."

and morally developed as to understand his relations with his fellows,
and have clear conceptions of his obligations to the Supreme Architect of the Universe. It is now a general rule, applied over all the
jurisdiction respecting applicants for membership, that no man is fit
to become a member of this order in whom the mental powers have
not reached that degree of development which will assure that he
possesses the capacity to understand the system of which he desires
and is to become a part. The same is true of his moral status, moral
excellence has become essential, indispensable, and it is now esteemed
that if an applicant lack that virtue, though he possess all other things,
he is utterly unfit for the degrees of Masonry. There is also a better
understanding in the craft that union and harmony constitute the very
essence of Masonry-the only quality under which a lodge becomes
really successful. Members now rarely bring their troubles and dis-·
putes to the lodge floor. Is it not a fact that men, particularly Masons,
are recognizing more and more the futility of quarrels? And in proportion as that feeling grows, and animosities give place to peace and
good-fellowship, there will be attracted to the halls of Masonry those
who desire to extend their influence of whatever makes for the welfare
and betterment of the human race."
·

The Grand Master refers to the untimely death, through the sinking of the ship on which he was embarked, of Lord Kitchener, who,
in addition to his eminence as a military chieftain, was known throughout the Masonic world as one of ·its most distinguished members. He
had been a District Grand Master of Egypt, having been installed in
this exalted position by His Royal Highness, the Duke of Connaught,
in 1903, and he was also a Past District Grand Warden of the Grand
Lodge of England.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
This jurisdiction is about the size of the Grand Jurisdiction of
California and it is a matter of some surprise that within the year
the Grand Master issued not less than 480 dispensations, probably more
than half of which were special dispensations to lodges to attend
"divine service" in regalia.
Twelve Lodge rooms were dedicated within the year, and the
corner-stone of one public building was placed by the Grand Lodge
with the usual Masonic ceremonies.
DECISIONS.
From the rulings of the Grand Master. the following quotations
are made:
"A member of a lodge under a foreign jurisdiction moved to this
jurisdiction, and became a charter member of one of oilr lodges. Sub~eql!ently .l:e w.as suspended. for N. P. D. by a foreign lodge. What
is his pos1t10n m our Canadian lodge? In good standing!"
"In the case of an applicant of defective articulation, so marked as to
require familiarity with him to understand intelligently, Recollecting
the fate of the Ephraimites I decided he was not eligible."
CONCLUSION.
From Grand Master Luke's excellent address, the following paragraphs are quoted as a part of his Conclusion:
"The old law provided that the applicant conformed to the ideal
of physical perfection a~ then understood. We do not esteem physical
perfection a necessity, nor a possibility, as in one particular or another
nature will have tired in her labors, and there will remain a lack of
dev~lopment . in some part or organ, which prevents any mortal becoming physically perfect, and we are content in this connection to
~dmit those who can C?mpl,v with our form and ceremony. The most
important change consists m the general demand of the membership
th.at the applicant of today be a well-balanced man, mentally endowed,

17

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, by the Most
Worshipful A. T. Freed, Past Grand Master.
He reviews California, 1913, and quotes extensively from the
excellent address of Grand Master Bledsoe.

In Brother Freed's Conclusion, he discusses several subjects of
general interest, and we quote from his "Conclusion" his remarks upon
the subject of "Landmarks," as follows:
"In 1914 a suggestion was made by this correspondent-hesitatingly and tentatively put forth-that the landmarks of Masonry had
been misunderstood, especially on this continent; and that, in fact,
there never had been any Masonic landmarks except those safeguarding the reserved rights of the four old lodges which formed the first
Grand Lodge of England. The suggestion was made with a view of
getting opinions and comments from brother correspondents and
possibly from others. But the attempt was a failure; except for a few
brief passing notices the overture met with no response.
"It has been pointed out that when Anderson used the word landmarks in Article XXXIX of the first Book of Constitutions, he meant
figuratively the posts or signs which marked the bounds of lodges,
and that the proviso made in Article XXXIX was a stipulation that
in any future amendments to the Constitution the reserved rights of
the old lodges must not be impaired. It is also possible that the
peculiar customs of the operative lodges were to be secured to them.
It is in evidence that for some time the old lodges exercised their
reserved rights, notably in the particular of attending the communications of Grand Lodge and scrutinizing the elections of Grand
Masters. In a few years the old lodges fell into decay with the exception of St. Paul's. the reserved rights ceased to have much value, and
the meaning of the word landmarks was forgotten. The term continued to be employed, but in a vague and indefinite way, as a name
for the general principles of the fraternity.

19

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"And so the matter stood for a century and a quarter. In 1858
Dr. A. G. Mackey came to the conclusion that 'a comprehensible form'
should be given to the landmarks, and he elaborated a list of twentyfive, which list has been generally, but not wholly, accepted by Grand
Lodges in the United States. Dr. Mackey said the first requisite of
a custom or rule of action to constitute it a landmark was that it must
have existed from 'time whereof the memory of man runneth not to
the contrary.' The second was that it must be absolutely unchangeable. To use his own language, 'The landmarks of the Order, like the
laws of the Medes and Persians, can suffer no change. What they
were centuries ago they still remain, and must continue in force until
Masonry itself shall cease to exist.'
"Now a very superficial glance at Dr. Mackey's landmarks ·will
satisfy the observer that they do not meet his own requirements. For
example, his second landmark is 'the division of symbolic Masonry into
three degrees,' while it is well known that three degrees in craft
Masonry did not exist till after the formation of the Grand Lotlge of
England. Another of his landmarks is 'the government of a fraternity
by a presiding officer called a Grand Master, who is elected from the
body of the craft.' Again it is quite certain that, previous to the
formation of the Grand Lodge of England, there was no Grand Master
elected from the body of the craft. Indeed, there was no Grand
Master at all in the modern sense of the term.
"In the year 1911 Brother Axel ]. A. Poignant read a paper before
the lodge Quatuor Coronati, in which he asserted that not one of
Mackey's twenty-five landmarks was a landmark at all; that no two
writers could be found to agree as to the character of the landmarks
and that in fact the landmarks were neither more nor less than th~
moral teachings of the fraternity. In the discussion wbich followed
the reading of the paper, and in the written criticisms afterwards sent
in by leading students of Masonry in England, not one ventured to
say what the landmarks really were. And the more a man knows
about Masonry the less disposed is he to be dogmatic on this subject.
If we have ventured to express an opinion that possibly the term had
no meaning except the safeguarding of the reserved rights of the old
lodges, and possibly the customs of operative Masonry, it has not
been put forth as a settled conviction, but at the best as a plausible
conjecture. In support of that conjecture much may be said. At
present we shall content ourselves with saying that such was ·the
assertion of members of the old lodge of St. Paul. In 1778 there was
an unfortunate disagreement in that lodge, resulting in a division.
The C?ne P'.lrty applied to the so-called Grand Lodge of All England,
then m existence at York, for a warrant. In the statement made in
support of their application the brethren of St. Paul's Lodge said:
"'And whereas in the year 1717 the Fraternity in London agreed
to cement under a new Grand Master, and with that view the old
lodge of St. Paul, jointly with three other lodges, assembled in form.
constituted themselves a nominal Grand Lodge pro tempore, and
elected a Grand Master to preside over their future general meetings,
whom they afterwards invested with a power to constitute subordinate
lodges and to convene the fraternity at stated periods in Grand Lodge,
in order to make laws, with their consent and approbation, for the
good government of the society at large. But subject to certain conditions and restrictions then expressly stipulated, and which are more
fully set forth in the thirty-ninth article of the General Regulations in

the first Book of Constitutions. This article, with thirty-eight others,
was afterwards, at a meeting of the brethren in and about the cities
of London and Westminster, in the year 1721, solemnly approved of,
ratified and confirmed by them, and signed in their presence by the
Masters and Wardens of the four old lodges on the one part, and
Philip Duke of Wharton then Grand Master; Dr. Desaguliers, Deputy
Grand Master; Joshua Timson and William Hawkins, Grand Wardens, and the Masters and Wardens of sixteen lodges which had been
constituted by the fraternity betwixt 1717 and 1721, on the other part.
And these articles the Grand Master engaged for himself and his
successors, when duly installed, in all time coming, . to observe '.Ind
keep sacred and inviolable. By these prudent precaut10ns the Ancient
Landmarks (as they are properly styled) of the four old lodges were
intended to be secure against any encroachments on their Masonic
rights and privileges.' "

18

M.". w:. BRo. SYnm:Y A. LUKE, Grand Master, Ottawa.
R.". w:. BRO. R. L. GUNN, Grand Secretary, Hamilton.

COLORADO.
1916.

56th Annual, Denver, Sept. 19-20.
Lodges, 129; Membership, 18,175; Gain, 753.
Largest Lodge, Denver Lodge No. 5, 850 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Fifty-sixth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Colorado was
held at Masonic Temple in the City of Denver, September 19th and
20th, 1916, Most Worshipful Robert M. Simons, Grand Master, presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master's address possesses the decided merit of brevity,
his report being condensed into ten pages of the printed Proceedings.
The address does not lose anything from brevity, as his official
actions are fully set forth, together with necessary recommendations,
etc.
That he gave active attention to the discharge of the duties incident to his exalted station within the year is evidenced, among other
things, by the large nurr;iber of visitations made by him to Subordinates.
He duly constituted a lodge which received its charter at the pre ..
ceding Annual Communication ; he convened the Grand Lodge in
Special Communic.ation and dedicated the Temple of Freemont Lodge
at Florence. Corner-stone ceremonies, five in number, were conducted
within the year; dispensations were issued to form three new lodges,

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

and after due investigation he declined to issue dispensations requested for two other new lodges, from all of which, as stated, it
may be judged that Grand Master Simons experienced a very busy
Masonic year.

ANOTHER UNUSUAL EVENT.
Another unusual event occurred at one of the sess10ns of this
Annual Communication in the introduction to the brethren by the
Grand Master of Most Worshipful Brother Lawrence N. Greenleaf,
who sat in the South fifty years ago when Brother Chase Withrow
was Grand Master.
Brother Greenlcaf's response to his introduction was as follows:
"Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand
Lodge: I am always glad to be among you. While I was sitting
here with Brother Chase Withrow, it occurred to me that fifty years
ago he was sitting in the East and I sat in the South as Junior Grand
Warden. The flight of the years seems hardly possible; how swiftly
they have passed away, leaving behind half a century in the service of
Masonry. I believe I have served in the Masonic bodies for fifty-three
or fifty-four years, having been made a Master Mason in 1863. I have
served in nearly all the capacities in Blue Lodge Masonry, and have
been your Correspondent since 1870---thirty-two years, I believe, consecutively-which makes me, I believe, the oldest Foreign Correspondent
in the United States. I have hardly realized the passing of these years.
It has always been a pleasant duty to serve in any capacity in the
various Bodies with which I have been conn~cted, and I assure you
I fully appreciate the kind words which I have received from the
Brethren. I only feel, Brethren, that I have been unworthy of the great
confidence that has been reposed in me. I thank you.''

20

Under the caption, "Condition of Craft," he makes the following
observations concerning Masonry in Colorado, and his remarks on
electioneering for office may be read with profit by Masons generally:
"The Craft in Colorado, Brethren, is in good, healthy condition.
Our Lodges are active along all proper Masonic lines, they are blessed
with a reasonable amount of prosperity and in most instances have
increased in strength and influence.
"I wish to call your attention to the fourth paragraph of Section
163 of our Constitutions: 'Electioneering for Office is Strictly Prohibited.'
,
"Reports have reached me of the ill effects of this most pernicious practice in one of our Lodges. Brethren, I caution you in the
most solemn manner to vote only as your conscience shall dictate to
you to be right; seeking neither to influence others nor permitting
yourself to be influenced by them. The good of Masonry must be
our sole guide."
·A HAPPY MASONIC EVENT.
A happy Masonic event is referred to by the Grand Master, in the
celebration of the Fiftieth Anniversary of Black Hawk Lodge No. 11,
which celebration it was the good fortune of the Grand Master to be
able to attend.
This lodge received its charter from the Grand Lodge at its Sixth
Annual Communication on October 1, 1866, and in its charter Worshipful Brother Chase Withrow was named as Master of the Lodge,
and on the following day at the election of Grand Officers at the Sixth
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, Worshipful Brother
Chase Withrow was elected Grand Master, and Brother Henry M.
Teller was appointed Grand Orator; and at the Fiftieth Anniversary
of Black Hawk Lodge No. 11, Brother Withrow, still in vigorous
health, and the Dean of Colorado Masons, was re-elected Master of
the Lodge, and he graciously consented to preside over the Lodge for
another year as Worshipful Master.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Correspondence being the twenty-eighth from the
present Chairman, is by Most Worshipful Lawrence M. Greenleaf. His
review, as usual, is characterized by intelligence and wise discrimination in quotations from Grand Lodge Proceedings. He gives generous
consideration to. California, 1915, with complimentary references to
the Address and some of the decisions of Grand Master Bledsoe, and
refers to the fine oration of Brother Matt S. Hughes.
GuY V. STERNBERG, Grand Master, Grand Junction.
CHARLES H. JACOBSON, Grand Secretary, Denver.

CONNECTICUT.
1917.

This was indeed, we believe, a unique event, in which a span of
fifty years took place since one's first election as Worshipful Master
of a Lodge and his subsequent election to the same exalted honor, and
the span of fifty years being filled meanwhile' with constant Masonic
activity, and crowned with the highest honors possible in Masonry.

LARGEST LODGES.
Hiram Lodge No. j___ ______ ,, _____________________________ ,, ____________________________ 1034 Members

We read of a great many Fiftieth Anniversary celebrations of
Lodges, but, as stated, this partici1!ar celebration stands out as unique
and different from all others,

Hartford Lodge No. 88. ________ ......................................................... 1022
St. John's Lodge No. 4........ --.. ·---------------.... ------............................ 943
\Vooster Lodge No. 79 ___________ ., .............................. ., ..................... 889

129th Annual, Hartford, Feb. 7-8.
Lodges, 110; Membership, 26,954; Gain, 977.

"

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

129TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATIO~.
The One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Annual Communication of
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Connecticut, A. F. & A. M., was held
in the Masonic Temple in the City of Hartford, Feb. 27, 1917, the
Most Worshipful Thomas McKenzie, Grand Master, presiding.

thirteen. Therefore, it seems to me, that, by their vote of instructions
to the Board of Managers and their by-law specifying the ages between which the orphan son or daughter of a Master Mason may become beneficiaries, the Craft fairly implied that the relief of an adult
son or daughter of a Master Mason does not come within the scope
of their Masonic obligations. It is my opinio"n that, as a Masonic body,
the Lodge is absolved of all obligation."

22

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
In the opening portion of his address, the Grand Master states
that the year preceding has been for the Craft of Connecticut, a
most prosperous and happy one, and that the jurisdiction's relations with other grand jurisdictions are both cordial and fraternal.
Attention is called to the death within the year of Past Grand
Master Asa P. Fitch, Grand Master of the jurisdiction in 1905;
also to the death of the Grand Treasurer, Right Worshipful
Stanley B. Bosworth. Both these brethren were distinguished
for their services to Masonry, and particularly to the Grand
Lodge of Connecticut, and the Grand Master expresses the feeling
of personal loss experienced by the Fraternity of Connecticut in
the death of these able and distinguished men.
DECISIONS.
The following decisions were rendered by the Grand Master
within the year, and the one concerning the obligation of the
Fraternity touching relief to an adult daughter of
Master
Mason, may be of interest as differing from the law of this
jurisdiction, which holds that the daughter of a Master Mason
does not outgrow her title to relief simply because she has passed
the invisible line of demarcation between youth and maturity.

a

"Question-ls it proper and Masonic to assess the members, also
veteran members of the Lodge, for the support of a needy brother of
same, when there is a small balance in the treasury?
"Answer-If the Brethren of a Lodge in the exercise of their right
'to regulate their owi;i private affairs,' decide, notwithstanding there
may be a small sum 111. the treasury, that an assessment is necessary
for the s~pport and mamtenance of the Lodge, included in which may
be the relief of a needy Brother, then it is certainly proper and Masonic
for them to make snch assessments upon all of their members.
"Question-If the Masonic Charity Foundation will not consider
the case of a daughter. of a Mason, who is not a member of the
Eastern Star, are Subordmate Lodges absolved of all obligations in such
cases?
·
"An~wer-At the Annual Meeting in 1915, the Masonic Charity
Foui;idat10n passed a vote instructing the Board of Managers not to
admit any adult daughter or sister of a Master Mason unless she is a
member m good ~tanding of _the Ord.er of the Eastern Star. The bylaws of the Charity Foundat10n specify the ages at which the orphan
of a Master Mason may be admitted, as between the ages of three and

23

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report upon Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand
Master George A. Kies, who is also the Grand Secretary, this
being his third report.
Bro. Kies reviews California, 1916. He refers particularly
to our Masonic Homes at Decato and Covina, and is evidently of
the opinion that California, in her charitable w~rk, is entitled to a
high place among the Grand Lodges of America.
He comments upon the law of California, whereby the word
"orphan" has always been construed to include a daughter, whatever her age, and regardless of whether she has been married; our
law being, that, if in distress, such a person is entitled to Masonic
aid, and he rises to ask if this also includes adult sons of Masons?
and expresses his opinion t"o the effect that donations to any
adult children of Masons is purely a matter of favor, rather than
of duty. We, however, can see a distinction between adult daughters in distress and adult sons. Adult sons may, of their own
volition, become Masons, and thereby gain all of the privileges,
and assume all of the duties incumbent upon Masons; adult
daughters cannot attain this position, which is at least one excellent reason why they should be considered upon a basis different from adult sons.
M.". W.". L. J. NrcKJ\RSON, Grand Jlifaster, West Cornwall.
M.". W.". GJ\oRGJ\ A. KJJ\s, Grand Secretary, Hartford.

DELAWARE.
1916.
11 lth Annual, Wilmington, Oct. 4-5.
Lodges, 22; Membership 3,698; Gain 158.
Largest Lodge, Lafayette No. 14, 387 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The lllth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Delaware, convened in the
Masonic Temple In the City of Wilmington, the 4th day of

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

October, 1916, the Most Worshipful Walter W. Bacon, Grand
Master, presiding.
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER.
The Grand Master gives the position of honor in his Address to
THE MASONIC HOME.
concerning which, he says, in part, as follows:
"The high sentiment and noble purpose, which finally resulted in the
establishment of a Masonic Home in our State, can now find just cause
for congratulation. I take much pleasure in commending the able and
satisfactory manner in which its affairs have been conducted by the
committee having same in charge. Their work has been an unselfish
one, from the unfolding of the proposition up to its glorious consummation and establishment. It is an honor to the Masonic Bodies of the
State. It is the hope and prayer of every member of the Craft that
as the years roll by the project may receive stronger support, so that
it shall rest on a firm foundation to enable us to furnish brotherly
care for those who may become our guests."
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
The Grand Master was active in the discharge of his duties
within the year. He reports having visited personally all but
three of the Lodges of the jurisdiction.
Two Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held
for the purpose of placing corner stones of public buildings, one
being the Federal Building of Smyrna, Delaware, and the other
one of the buildings of Dela ware College at Newark.
DECISIONS.
Two decisions on Masonic law were rendered by the Grand
Master within the year as follows:
"Franklin Lodge No. 12 asked: 'After a Brother has been suspended for non-payment of dues, for a period of two months or more,
cah the Lodge make a motion to then remit his dues and reinstate
him?' Answer-No.
"Washington Lodge No. 1 asked: 'If a Brother has made a request for Masonic burial, and intends to have his body cremated, can his
Lodge perform the ceremonies over his remains or ashes?' AnswerYes."
COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY.
"The Grim Scytheman," says the Committee on Necrology,
"took a large harvest from the Grand Lodge of Delaware within
the preceding year, and the Grand Lodge was called within the
period to mourn the loss of such high and distinguished Masons
of the jurisdiction as:

REPORT ON CORRESPOl\DEl\CE.

25

"R. Henry Young, Past Grand Master, who died November 15, 1915.
"Virginius V. Harrison, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary,
who died December 28, 1915.
"Winfield S. Quigley, Past Deputy Grand Master, who died May
31, 1916.
"Alfred D. Warner, Past Grand Treasurer, who died December 6,
1915.
"Lewis B. Morrow, Past Grand Treasurer, who died August 9,
1916."'
There 1s no report on Foreign Correspondence.
M.". W.". STUART J. HORN, Grand Master, Wilmington.
M.". W.". HARRY J. GuTHRI!l, Grand Secretary, Wilmington.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
1916.

106th Annual, Washington, Dec. 20th.
Lodges, 30; Membership, 10,526; Gain 355.
Largest Lodge, Lafayette No. 19, 789 Members.
COMMUNICATIONS.
The 106th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, A. F. &
A. M. of the District of Columbia was held in the Masonic Temple
in the City of Washington, D. C., on December 20, 1916.
Various Special and Stated Communications were held within
the year, at which various business matters were considered and
disposed of.
At the Annual Communication, after the formal opening, and
preceding the Address of the Grand Master, the following distinguished visitors were received with appropriate honors and
invited to the East.
Brother George Fleming Moore, Sovereign Grand Commander
of the Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite for the Southern jurisdiction.
Past Grand Master Martin A. Morrison, of the Grand Lodge
of Indiana.
Past Grand Master Milton J. Hull, of the Grand Lodge of
Nebraska.
Past Grand Master John C. Muerman, of the Grand Lodge of
Idaho.

26

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Brother Charles H. Ramsay, Grand Treasurer of the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts, introduced by M.'. vV.'. Brother Henry K.
Simpson, Grand Treasurer.
Brother Gustavus A. Rogers, Representative of this Grand
Lodge near the Grand Lodge of New York, introduced by
Brother J. Harry Cunningham, Representative of the Grand Lodge
of New York near this Grand Lodge.
Brothers Moore and Rogers responded in eloquent terms to
the Grand Master's welcome;
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master in the opening paragraphs of his Address
congratulates the Fraternity upon the progress of Masonry within
the jurisdiction, his report indicating that the gain is the largest
recorded since the foundation of the Grand Lodge.
MASONIC AND EASTERN STAR HOME.
There apparently has been a little friction between the Grand
Lodge and the Grand Chapter of the Eastern Star over the administration of the Masonic Home, although not of a character to.
in any sense, impair the usefulness of the Home, and we gath~~
from reading the reports that the differences have been recon·
ciled, and complete harmony restored to the management of this
great Masonic charity.
A MOVE IN THE INTEREST OF CLOSER COOPERATION.
The Grand Master refers to the fact that the Scottish Rite of
Freemasonry for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
has its headquarters in the City of vVashington, and that the
Sovereign Grand Commander of the Scottish Rite is not only
interested in the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry but is, also, in
hearty sympathy with the aims and purposes of Ancient Craft
Masonry, and that his counsel, and advice, and sympathy are
of great benefit to the Craft in general, and the Grand Master is
pleased to note that co-operation along all of the lines of Masonry
within the District is producing splendid results, and is of vast
benefit to all branches of the Order.
·
The Grand Master recommends that the Sovereign Grand
Commander be invited to deliver an Address before the Grand
Lodge at the May Communication, and that the occasion be made
the most notable in the new Masonic year.
GRAND MASTER'S ACTIVITIES.
The Grand Master Jermane has, we believe, the record for
the year of official visitations to subordinates by Grand Masters,

REPORT ON CO:ctRE£PONDE~CE.

27

as he reports having made within the year 215 visits to subordinates, and inasmuch as there are only thirty Lodges within the
jurisdiction, it made an average of slightly over seven visits to
each Lodge.
In addition to this large number of visitations to Lodges, he
was present at a number of Masonic meetings of various other
kinds; twenty-four of which he enumerates, all of whicb would
indicate that he must have given up practically his entire time to
the work of Masonry during his year as Grand Master.
That ~omplete harmony prevails within the Crafi: is evidenced
from the fact that he was not called upon during the year to
render any decisions upon Masonic law, or make any rulings on
disputed questions.

ST. JOHN'S DAY COMMUNICATION.
The usual St. John's Day Communication was held at the
Temple in the City of \Vashington on St. John, the Evangelist's
Day, Dec. 27, 1916, for the purpose of installing the newly elected
Grand Officers for the ensuing Masonic year.
Most vVorshipful Brother Jam es W. Witten was installed
as Grand Master, and in his Address accepting the important
trust, indicated in eloquent words his conception of the high
mission of Masonry, and to indicate the trend of his thought in
this direction, the following paragraph from his thoughtful production is quoted:
"If Freemasonry has a mission in the world, and it has a large
one; if Freemasonry, or any other institution, justifies its existence,
and the efforts necessary to its support and maintenance, it must do so
through the good it does, through the lives it touches and betters,
through the fruit it bears; and when it fails, and as soon as it fails,
to fulfill its true mission. to meet the needs that gave it birth, and becomes fruitkss, it must follow the fate of the barren fig tree, because
the time is shortly coming, if it has not already come, when there is
and will be no room in society for institutions that make no contributions to its welfare."
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The Most Worshipful George vV. Baird, Past Grand Master,
presents his seventeenth annual report of the Proceedings of
Grand Lodges.
Brother Baird's report, as usual, is replete with interesting
comment. He considers California, 1916, and speaks highly of the
Address of Grand Master Burnett, and refers favorably to the
charitable activities of our. Grand Lodge.
Brother Baird continues to question the efficacy of prohibition as a means of reducing the evils of intemperance and upon

28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

this subject we quote from his Conclusion as follows:
"That bete noir, prohibition, is still active in the Fraternity, and
notwithstanding prohibitive laws have become effective in eighteen
States of the Union, there was an increase of 11,602,661 gallons of spirits
distilled during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, over that reported
the previous year. These figures were obtained from the Revenue
Officers of the Treasury Department.
"But, during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1916, there was brewed
1,182,192 less barrels of malt liquor than during the previous fiscal
year.
"The population of the eighteen dry States aggregates about 4.4%
of the total population of the United States (figured from the 1910
Census returns), and from this one would suppose the consumption of
distilled spirits would diminish in about that ratio; but for a fact the
output of spirits was 136,570,695 gallons during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1915; and 149,849,180 gallons during the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1916, which is an increase of 9.16%. These figures are
significant.
"It is evident that the prohibitive laws have not diminished the
production nor the consumption of distilled spirits (which makes
drunkards), while on the other hand the output of malt liquor has
diminished nearly 2%; and beer, be it remembered, is less harmful
than distilled spirits.
"That distilled liquor does go into the dry States there is abundance of evidence. A reputable dealer in the Capital City informs the
writer that in his shipment of liquor into the State of Maine, claims
were made for breakage, by his customers there; and upon investigation it was proven that even express employees purposely broke
the packages that they might obtain portions of the 'juice.'"
M.". w:. }AMES W. WITTEN, Grand Master, Washington.
M.". w:'. ARVINE W. JoHNSTON, Grand Secretary, Washington.

FLORIDA.
1917.

88th Annual, Jacksonville, Jan. 16-17-18.
Lodges, 243; Membership, 13,364; Gain 640.
Largest Lodge, Solomon No. 20, 453 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The 85th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of Florida assembled
in its 88th Annual Communication in the City of Jacksonville,
Tuesday, Jan. 16, 1917, Right Worshipful A. S. York, Deputy
Grand Master, presiding.
The Deputy Grand Master presided throughout the Annual

REPORT ON CORRESPOKDENCE.

29

Communication because of the inability of the Most Worshipful
James E. Crane, Grand Master, to be present.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master, James E. Craig, being unable to be
present, sent his Report and Address to the Grand Lodge, and
the same was read by Past Grand Master Haskell.
The Grand Master reported Masonic activities consisting in
part, of the constitution of the several lodges which received their
charters at the preceding Annual Communication; of dispensations
granted to form eight new Lodges; of the performance of cornerstone ceremonies-eight in number; and of other usual Masonic
functions.
DECISIONS.
The following are quoted from the rulings of the Grand
Master within the year:
"On February 4tb in response to an inquiry from Hillsborough
Lodge No. 25, I ruled'that a Lodge of Entered Appre~tices. or Fellow
Crafts cannot be held for advancement or exammat1on, m a room
adjoining the regular Lodge Room, while the Lodge is in session in its
regular Lodge Room.
"April 14th I responded to an inquiry fro_m Citrus Lodge No. 11?,
with the ruling that if a man was affiliated with a Lodge solely on !us
documentary evidence without being vouched for by a member of the
Lodge, the Wor8hipf~l Master had the right to examine the Brother
upon his first visit to the Lodge."
In passing upon this decision, the Jurisprudence Committee
called attention to the fact that not only had the Worshipful
Master the right to examine the Brother upon his first visit to
the Lodge, but, furthermore, that tht.. Brother's application for
membership should not have been voted upon by the Lodge until
after the Brother had been duly examined by a proper committee,
and the fact of his Masonry established.
Here is another decision which apparently passed the Jurisprudence Committee without comment, although the decision, in
our judgment, is not sound Masonic la,.w:
"June 28th I made the ruling, to Herman Lodge No. 108, that as
another vote was not taken, when a blackball was found, upon spreading the ballot on the application of J eff~rson J.. She~on, and meetings
being suspended for the summer at this meetmg, 1t wa~ lawful for
them to call a communication for a regular meeting night to vote
again, especially seeing that those who were in attendance before were
present again."

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPO:\DENCE.

MASONIC HOME AND ORPHANAGE.
At one of the sessions of the Annua1 Communication, Brother
Charles A. Wilson of Louisville, Ky., was introduced to the Grand
Lodge, and delivered a stirring address upon the functions of
Masonic Hornes, this being a subject in which Florida is at this
time particularly interested, the Grand Lodge having under consideration the question of the location of its contemplated Home.
The report of a Special Committee upon this subject was rendered
at this time. At the conclusion of the report a resolution was
adopted whereby a committee was appointed to determine the
selection of a sife for the Home, with power to proceed, after the
selection of a site, "to erect such a Home as in their judgment
will meet the needs of this Grand Jurisdiction.''

"It has been claimed by many that 'Masonr.y knows no flag' and
that Masons owe no allegiance to any special banner. With this statement, in a broad way, we agree, and the claim that the flag should
always be displayed in a Masonic Lodge and should float from every
Masonic edifice, does not appeal to the writer. \Ve claim that we
firmly believe that patriotism and love of country should he a prevailing element in the breast of every Mason, and the flag of the American Masons is the Stars and Stripes and it should always he shown
proper respect on every occasion. The flag of our English Brethren is
the Union Jack, that of the Germans and the French is the flag of
their respective countries, and so on, and Masons owe allegiance to
the civil representation of the country in which they hve. In our
opinion, Masons who are so ethereally constituted that they get restless when sitting in a Lodge under the flag of their country, are not
practicing one of the fundamental precepts of the Order, nor do we
feel that the omission to display the flag in every Lodge meeting is
any lapse or lack of patriotism or love of country. Every Mason must
be proud of the part the Order has borne through every srtuggle in the
nation, from the Boston Tea Party to the Initiation of Maj or General
Leonard E. Wood, Chief of Staff of the United States army of recent
date.
·

30

ORATION.
At the morning session of the concluding day of the Annual
Communication, the annual Oration was de1ivered by Worshipful
Lincoln Hulley, L.L.D., his subject being the "Masonic Ideal; a
Character of Stainless Honor.'' Upon the conclusion of the oration, on motion of Past Grand Master Ende!, the thanks of the
Grand Lodge were extended to the Grand Orator and he was requested to furnish a copy of his oration for printing in the Proceedings.
CORRESPONDEXCE REPORT.
The report on Foreign Correspondence, for the sixteenth consecutive year, is presented by Most Worshipful Silas B. Wright,
Past Grand Master.
Brother Wright's report is, as usual, comprehensive and
scholarly. He reviews in a fraternal spirit California for 1915;
also 1916, and refers in his Conclusion to several matters of
general interest, from which we qttote as follows:
"THE !'LAG."

"The wide discussion which has taken place anent the introduction
of the flag in Lodge and Grand Lodge meetings, shows a great diversity of opinion and some considerable opposition. The Grand Lodge
of Indiana has adopted a law requiring every Lodge in that State to
display the flag in the East at all times when the Lodge is open, and
they have formulated and adopted a certain form or ceremony for the
introduction of the flag after the opening of the Lodge or Grand Lodge.
"A ceremony has also 0een adopted in the Grand Jurisdiction of
Illinois and has been used at all of the schools of instruction in the
State during the year. It was exemplified in Kenwood Lodge, Milwaukee, not long ago and was very much appreciated and complimented
by the Wisconsin Masons.
"In Missouri the Grand Master advised that every Lodge should
be instructed to display the flag at all meetings, but the Grand Lodge
refused to adopt the recommendation.

"BLUE" LODGE.

"A number of requests for information have appeared in the
Masonic periodicals of recent date, and in one or two instances Grand
Masters have ventured a criticism upon the appellation 'Blue Lodge' as
applied to the Masonic Lc-dge for the Craft Degrees in the English
and American Jurisdictions. There are a large number of historical
incidents and much Masonic data on this subject. Probably the best
is by Dr. W. J. Chetwood-Crawley, late Grand Treasurer of the Grand
Lodge of Ireland and a noted Masonic writer. Much of his work has
appeared in the 'Ars,' that most excellent periodical published in
London.
"He says that the use of the word 'Blue' as applied to Lodges
first came to us from many centuries ago and the first authentic Masonic record in regard to the color 'hlue' is in the English and Irish
Grand Lodge minutes of 1731 and 1734, where they ordered the tJiree
Grand Lodge officers to have 'blue silk lining to their aprons and blue
ribbons for their jewels.' Jn the Scottish Grand Lodge, green was
used and their color records date hack to 1637, but the first three
degrees are known with them as the 'Blue Lodge' and in their third
degree work they make a very marked preference to 'blue.!.. In· the
English Grand Lodge records, the shades of blue were at one time
termed as of 'a watery tinge,' which is very near what is now called
'garter blue.'
"Going hack beyond the Grand Lodge of England to ancient and
biblical history we find an abundant field, and there 'blue' was almost
universally associated throu?hout Christendom with the 'Virgin Mother'
and it was one of the principal colors of the Orders of Imperial Rome,
Byzantium, and Egypt.
"Going hack to the tabernacle erected under the direction of
Moses, we find blue especially mentioned. In Exodus, 25th chapter,
8th verse, we find that Moses said, 'Of this is the offering which ye
shall take of them, gold and silver and brass, and blue and purple
and scarlet, and let them make me a sanctuary that I may dwell
among them.'

33

REPORT ON CORRESPONlJ"P'.NCE

32

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"Again in Exodus, 26th chapter, we find the instructions, 'And
shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of one curtain,' etc.
"In summing up the matter from these and from other references
not given above, it seems a natural sequence that the Lodges of Craft
Masons should be known as the 'Blue Lodge.' "
"ROMAN CATHOLIC MEMBERSHIP."

"The Grand Master of Texas decided that there was no law or
rule of Masonry prohibiting a member of the Fraternity from becoming a member of the Roman Catholic Church, so long as he is faithful to his Masonic obligations, but he doubts if it is possible to be
faithful to Masonic vows and be a good Catholic.
"It was held that Masonry does not attempt to dictate to any
member with reference to faith or creed. Masonry opposes ignorance,
tyranny, fanaticism and intolerance, regardless of what faith or creed
may foster it. \Ve require of our initiates a belief in the existence of
God, but do not deal with questions of sectarian nature. While it is
generally understood that the Roman Catholic Church forbids members uniting with any secret society not under Roman Catholic control, it is a matter which should address itself to the conscience of
every member, whether he can consistently maintain a membership in
both institutions."
M.". w:. APJ\LLE:s S. YoRK, Grand Master, Live Oak.
R.". W.'. \VlLBER P. WEBSTER, Grand Secretary, Jacksonville.

GEORGIA.
1916.
130th Annual, Macon, Oct. 31.
Lodges, 661; Membership, 42,749; Gain, 1,252.
Largest Lodges, Gate City Lodge ?\ o. 2, 779 Members; Piedmont Lodge No. 447, 599 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The One Hundred and Thirtieth Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons for the State of
Georgia was held in the City Auditorium, in the City of Macon,
commencing Oct. 31st, 1916. The Grand Lodge was opened in
Ample Form, by Most \Vorshipful N. H. Ballard, Grand Master.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The numerous activities of the Grand Master are set forth in
a comprehensive report. He states that he considers
THE MASO:NIC HOME
the most important matter for consideration during his term
of office, improvements for which are now under consideration.

DECISIONS.
The Grand Master rendered a number of decisions within
the year, from which we quote the following:

"Query-A member of this Lodge has drifte~ into a life that is
very unbecoming and has almost gotten on the !me of a dead-beat;
will not pay his debts when he can; has been accused of embezzlement
in another territory, and is also accused of arson. His presence in o~r
Lodge is very repulsive to a majority of the membership, .and wh!le
we as yet are unable to make a specific charge of un-Masomc conduct,
a general 'charge can be made and all necessary evidence for conviction can be had.
"Answer-I am not sure whether the Masonic Code authorizes
charges in the case stated, but I am going to give the Grand Lodge the
opportunity of either making such a rule or else declaring that it cannot be done. Therefore, you are authorized to prefer charges on the
grounds that the man's reputatio!l in the c.ommunity is. su.ch that it reflects discredit upon the Fratermty and his membe~shtp 1s h'.lrmful to
the general interest of the Lodge on account of this reputation. The
Lodge would be authorized to fin.d ~im guilty <_in such c~arges as
stated in your letter and to expel him 1£ they see ht. 'vVe will at least
make a test case of it."
The Committee on Jurisprudence held, in the above instance,
if any Brother, by any overt act, or by continuous improper
practices, should bring reproach upon the Order of Freemasonry,
or if he should do anything contrary to the good of the Order,
he is subject to charges, trial and discipline; but where charges
were based solely upon rumor of disrepute, to permit charges
would tend to encourage slander and backbiting, themselves
offenses under the Code.
, )¥e quote again:
"The question that the result of a ballot when once declared cannot
be reconsidere'd is a well established fact in our jurisprudence. The
Edicts of the Grand Lodge have gone so far as to state that, although
a man throurrh blindness made a mistake in casting his ballot, it could
not be reco1;;,idered. So many appeals along this line have come to
me that I am convinced that certain modifications of this rule should be
made. 'Where a Lodge certifies to the Grand Master that they believe
an honest mistake has been made. I believe that the Grand Master
should be permitted to authorize a new ballot, which shall .be. final.
This wiJI in no wise affect the secrecy of the ballot. It will m no
wise inquire into the reason for ~h.e ?bjection.. I~ would often save
an honest applicant from the hum1hation of reiect1on, and !he L?dge
from the same humiliation in that they had, through an unmtent1onal
error, prevented the applicant from becoming a Mason."
NECROLOGY.
This grand jurisdiction has not been spared from the scythe
of the Grim Reaper, \Villiam Alexander Wolihin, Grand Secretary,
having answered the final summons.

,

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

DISPENSATIONS.
The Grand Master granted an unusually large number of dispensations to confer degrees of Masonry out of time; to hold
annual elections, other than the time prescribed. He issued dispensations to form five new Lodges, and to constitute eight new
Lodges.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GRAND MASTER.
The Grand Master, by proxy, laid corner-stones to a number
of public buildings, the most notable being the Boundary Stone
that marked the beginning of one of the most stupendous undertakings of all times. This is the work of the Stone Mountain
Confederate Monument Association to carve on that monolith
heroic figures of great leaders of the Confederacy, in addition to
companies of cavalry, infantry and artillery, etc., and the ceremony at this time was a very impressive one.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

35

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Fraternal relations were extended to the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands, as a duly and lawfully constituted sovereign
Grand Lodge of Masons.
The report on Correspondence is. submitted by Raymund
Daniel, Chairman. It is a very comprehensive review and written
with discrimination. In his preliminary remarks, he contrasts
English Masonry at the present time, with the awful conflict in
Europe raging, to the peaceful condition of American Masonry,
at the time he wrote his report. California, 1915, is given courteous consideration.
M.'. W.'. FRANK 0. MILLER, Grand Master, Fort Valley.
R'.'. W.'. FRANK F. BAKER, Grand Secretary, Macon.

The Grand Master made a number of official visitations,
both to individual Lodges and Masonic conventions.

IDAHO.

We quote from the Grand Master on Masonic research,
showing his fine ideas, as follows:

49th Annual, Twin Falls, Sept. 12-13-14.
Lodges, 63; Membership, 4811; Gain, 222 .

. "The Grand. Lodge of Georgia is one of the oldest in Amer'ica.
With the estabhshment of the Colony, Masonry was introduced. A
Lodge chartered at that time is still in existence and a member of this
Grand Lodge, yet, if you wish to be one of the progressive Grand
Jurisdictions of the world, it will not be based upon age, nor upon
~mmber of l~dges or members, but entirely upon the intelligence of
its membership. But a short while ago it was deemed sufficient that
only a fe_w, should be educat.ed. The present, however, requires, due
to the spmt of i;nodern P!-lbhc schools, .that the entire people shall be
ed~cated ar:d tr'.1111ed. It 1s the same with Masonic progress. A short
while ago 1t might have been well for a Grand Jurisdiction to have
but a few bright Masons; however, the present demands if we ever
hope to take the rank to which our number and age entitles us that
a large ~ajority of the Craft shall be instructed in its history, ~bject,
and achievements.
. "A beginning along this line !las been made at Augusta. A Masomc Study Club has been orgamzed at that place. Great interest is
manifested an~ prizes are offered for the best essays on certain
phases of thi: ritual. It is hope~ !hat such clubs will multiply rapidly.
I. most heartily commend the spmt of the Augusta Masons along this
!me and recommend the organization of similar clubs throughout the
State."

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The M.'. W.". Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted
Masons of Idaho convened in its Forty-ninth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, in Twin Falls, Idaho, Tuesday, Sept.
12th, 1916, Grand Master Francis Jenkins presiding.

RELIEF.
When the City of Augusta was visited by a great fire in the
early spring, almost a complete catastrophe, an immediate fund
was raised for the relief of the sufferers showing the generous
and charitable spirit of Georgia Masons.

1916.

After the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, a Roll of Honor
was called of departed Past Grand Masters.
A number of Grand Representatives of Foreign Grand Jurisdictions were received and escorted to the Grand East, where
they were welcomed by the Grand Master in cordial salutation.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS .
Some exalted ideas are expressed by the Grand Master in the
opening paragraphs of his Address, as follows:
"Let us contemplate this glorious scenic landscape and d~aw from
it if we can a lesson that will upbuild the Craft whereby an important
step forward may be taken for the advancement of civilization. For
the untold centuries of time the snow that fell. upon the Tetons, together with snows that fell on other mountam ranges here about,
melted and the waters ran down to the great and beautiful Snake
River. The floods of each year carved deeper and 1eeper the bed of
the river until it formed a deep canyon, also along its course formed
numerous great and wonderful waterfalls as if nature bad run riot in

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

a freakish display of its powers to baffle the efforts of man· the
deeper the canyon, the drier and more desolate became the b'road,
sage-covered plains extending from each brink of the canyon to the
foot of the distant mountains on either side.
"But God. in His infinite wisdom and in His own good ti~e endowed man with the power of reason, understanding and wisdom that
by and with his indomitable courage, genius and untiring industry, man
has harnessed the numerous falls and converted its potential power
to heat, light and other purposes for man's use, and benefit; man by
his genius, co-operation and industry has conquered nature; has brought
the water upon the dry land; has reclaimed the former desolate and
waste lands in this particular vicinity of over one and one-third million acres, all of which has been accomplished and brought under a
high state of cultivation within the last dozen years, and in the center
of ~his land of great plenty, the land of milk and honey, is situated
Twm Falls, the Queen City of the Snake River plains, where she
nestl~s luxurian~ly in her rich sylvan bower and her people are kind,
hospitable, chantable and are as generous as is the abundant and
bountiful yield of her fertile soil. And now, my Brethren when amid
s~ch scenes of beauty and grandeur which beggars my f~eble d~scrip­
tion, such scenes of beauty and grandeur I hope cannot fail to influence our minds and deeply impress our hearts with the evident wisdom
and the majestic power of the Great Architect of the Universe that
we may revere Him, the generous dispenser of all good."
'
He refers to the harvest of the Grim Reaper, having garnered
fully fifty per cent of the Brethren.
Grand Master Jenkins granted a number of dispensations to
confer degrees, install officers, and change place of meetings. No
dispensations were granted to form new Lodges, although three
proposed new Lodges are under consideration.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

37

Bodies of Masonry in the warring nations and it is purposed to
raise $100,000 before the close of the present year.
The Grand Master recommended that the American Flag be
displayed in all Masonic lodges within the jurisdiction.
The Grand Master was able to visit every Lodge within his
jurisdiction during the year, traveling great distances in many
instances to reach individual Lodges.
The Address of the Grand Orator, Arch Cunningham, discloses the fact that the Masonic Home idea does not meet with
favor in this jurisdiction; that a Widows and Orphans' Fund
fully takes care of dependents in their customary surroundings
and associations, and that the Fund has been and is steadily
growing until it now amounts to more than $75,000.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Fraternal recognition was denied to "The Gran Logia Reginal
de Filipinas" as irregular and clandestine.
Brother Geo. E. Knepper, Chairman of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, presents his usual comprehensive and
complete report, this being his fifteenth in number. California,
1915, is generously reviewed.
M.'. W.'. JoHN D. BwoMFJl\LD, Grand Master, Nampa.
R.'. W.'. GEo. E. KNEPPER, Grand Secretary, "Boise.

DECISIONS.
A number of purely local decisions were rendered within the
year, most questions being disposed of by reference to the Code.
We quote one as of general interest:

ILLINOIS.

"'A member of Wardner No. 34 has been under suspension for
past few years, about four years, for non-payment of dues. During
the past few months it is known that he has been conducting, in
Shoshone County, what is known as an 'Original Package' saloon
selling intoxicating liquors by the bottle. It is the desire of the W or~
shipful Master to prefer charges, try, and, if found guilty expel the
above mentioned party.'
'
"By his neglect or failure to pay his lodge dues, together by action
of Wardner Lodge No. 34 in suspending him from the rights and
privileges, has placed him without the pale of Masonry."

77th Annual, Chicago, Oct. 10-11-12.
Lodges, 847; Membership, 148,055; Gain, 8,784.

This jurisdiction is raising a fund for Masonic War Relief,
in co-operation with other Grand Bodies of Masonry in the United
States, and the Association is in communication with Grand

1916.

LODGES OF MORI\ THAN ON!\ THOUSAND Ml\MBl\RS.
Garden City Lodge No. 141 .............................................. 1571 Members
Pleiades Lodge No. 478 .................................................... 1242
Union Park Lodge No. 610 ................................................ 1229
Covenant Lodge No. 526 .................................................... 1084
Garfield Lodge No. 686 ........................................................ 1082
Lake View Lodge No. 774 .................................................. 1044
Englewood Lodge No. 690 .................................................. 1040
Temple Lodge No. 46.......................................................... 1030
"
Mystic Star Lodge No. 758 ................................................ 1029

38

REPORT. ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

77TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.

tions are the very best. The family of children is a large one,
and the best of health prevails. A beginning has been made in
the way of introduction of manual training and domestic science
in the Orphans' Home.

The 77th Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of A. F. & A. M. of Illinois was held in the City
of Chicago at the Oriental Consistory Building on the 10th, 11th
and 12th of October, 1916.
The Grand Lodge was opened in due course by Brother
Austin H. Scroggin, Right ·worshipful Deputy Grand Master.
ANNUAL ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER.
Previous to reading his report, the Grand Master announced
that fifty out of fifty-one District Deputy Grand Masters were
present and that the entire membership of all of the committees of
the Grand Lodge, with the single exception of a brother who was
detained at home on account of serious illness in his family, were
present.
The Grand Master reported a year of unusual Masonic activity
and mentioned among the official acts of the Grand Lodge the
constitution of twelve Lodges which received charters at the preceding Annual Communication, the issuance of dispensations to
form eleven new Lodges; the dedication of six Masonic Temples,
and the placing of comer-stones of nine public buildings.
The Grand Master displayed a marked degree of zeal in the
matter of visitations, he having favored with his presence within
the year 103 :Masonic Lodges of the jurisdiction, not to mention
the many visits paid by him to clubs and many organizations
consisting entirely of Masons, and among these visitations were
not less than three Fiftieth Anniversary celebrations of subordinate Lodges.
DECISIONS.
Apparently the only decision touching Masonic law rendered
by the Grand Master within the year concerned a question which
was raised as to whether Lodges should carry life members on
their roll and pay Grand Lodge dues upon them when they had
not been heard of for more than seven years.
In the absence of anything in the Code upon · the question,
the Grand Master decided "that the Worshipful Master should
direct the Secretary of the Lodge to report the names of such
missing Brethren in the Grand Lodge returns as being 'legally
dead' and drop their names from the roll of active membership."
MASONIC HOMES.
From the report of the Board of Managers of the Masonic
Homes, it appears that the conditions in both of these institu-

39

The family at the Old People's Home is large and gradually
increasing. The Royal Arch Memorial Hospital, established about
two years ago, is filling a long-felt want, and provides the means
of caring for certain of the infirm among the elderly people,
whose needs before the establishment of the Memorial .Hospital
could not be properly taken care of.
MONITOR.
It seems that in this jurisdiction, the Monitor had been for a
great many years held under a copyright by a prominent Mason
of the jurisdiction, and latterly by his estate, and to remedy this
unusual and unsatisfactory condition, the Grand Lodge authorized
a new edition of the Monitor to contain a few slight changes
from the one previously held by copyright, and then provided
that the Grand Lodge itself should be the sole owner of the
Monitor, with the recommendation that each Lodge provide each
candidate upon his attaining the third degree a Monitor free
of charge. The complete new Monitor, as adopted, is set forth in
the Proceedings and differs in no essential particular from the
Monitor in use in California, and we presume in other jurisdictions.
NECROLOGY.
From the report of the Committee on Obituaries, we find
special mention made of the death within the year of Most
Worshipful \Villiam H. Scott, the Senior Past Grand Master of
the Jurisdiction.
Brother Scott was well known in California; he was a frequent
visitor to various Blue Lodges, and had been seen many times
in the Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge, he having
made California his home for many years preceding his death,
which occurred in San Francisco, and his remains were interred
in the military cemetery in the Presidio of San Francisco.
A PLEASANT INNOVATION.
In the second day of the Annual Communication, while the
Grand Lodge was at ease, the children of the Illinois Masonic
Orphans' Home were introduced to the Grand Lodge by the
Superintendent and Matron of the Home. The children rendered
a short programme and retired from the platform "amid the
tears and applause of the Brethren."

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

DECISION OF SUPREME COURT.
The Supreme Court of Illinois, Mr. Justice Dunn delivering
the opinion, in the case of Herbert Ashley representing the
Masonic Orphans' Home against the Board of Education, held
that the seventy-nine children between the ages of six: and fifteen
years, inmates of the Illinois Masonic Home, situated at La
Grange, Illinois, and within a certain school district within the
County, were entitled to all the privileges of the school; whereby
the effort to exclude these children from the schools of the
district, unless the Illinois Masonic Orphans' Home would pay
tuition for them in accordance with a resolution which had been
adopted by the Board of Education, was defeated; and the
children of the Home are thereby accorded the same privileges
of free tuition; etc., as are accorded to other children of the
district. Certainly a very righteous and proper decision; and
the only surprise caused in connection with this case is the
action of the Board of Education in attempting to exclude the
Home children except upon payment of tuition fees not exacted
from other children.
REPORT ON MASONIC CORRESPONDENCE.
A very capable and exhaustive report on Masonic Correspondence is by Worshipful Brother Charles H. Martin. His
report is prepared with excellent judgment, in which California,
1915, received courteous consideration.
BRO. RALPH H. Wnlll\LJ\R, M. W., Grand Master, Chicago.
BRO. ISAAC CuTTJ\R, Grand Secretary, Camp Point.

INDIANA.
1917.

lOOth Year, 96th Annual Meeting, Indianapolis, May 22-23.
Lodges, 564; Membership, 77,847; Gain 4,127.
Largest Lodge, Center Lodge No. 23, 1,455 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Annual Communication, and in accordance with the custom in this jurisdiction, the
Grand Lodge assembled in the Auditorium of the Masonic Temple,
and listened to a program of welcome, consisting in this instance
of patriotic music, and an address by Brother Frank L. Loveland,
D.D., Pastor of the Meridian Street M. E. Church of Indianapolis.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

41

Brother Loveland's Address was appropriate to the occasion,
being a blending of Masonry and Patriotism, whereiri he pointed
out the high duties incumbent upon Masons in this crisis in the
world's history, and wherein he indicated that Masonry forever
stands for certain things and stands forever against certain other
things.
Brother Loveland's Address was greatly appreciated by the
assembled Brethren, and was greeted at its close with prolonged
applause.
After the preliminary ceremonies, the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of the Ancient and the Honorable Fraternity of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of Indiana, convened in 96th annual
meeting, the date of the opening being May 22nd, and the Communication was presided over by Most Worshipful Harry B.
Tuthill, Grand Master.
RECEPTION OF THE AMERICAN FLAG.
Immediately upon the declaration of the Grand Master that
the Grand Lodge was opened, there was an alarm at the door,
and it was announced that the American Flag "seeks admission."
The Grand Lodge was called up, and two flag bearers entered
the Grand Lodge, led by the Masonic Quartet singing the "Star
· Spangled Banner," the Colors were received by the Grand Master,
and placed upon the rostrum amid great enthusiasm.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The place of honor in the Grand Master's Address is given
to the American Flag, to which he refers as follows:
"The American flag has been for years a mandatory article of
furniture in all regular and well governed Lodges within this Grand
Jurisdiction. Next to the three Great Lights, the American flag has
been· placed, not by order of the Grand Lodge alone, but by reason of
ou: universal love for our country, in the most honored place therein.
Without 01;der or direction from the Grand Lodge it is, scarcely without except10n, saluted by the Brethren as a part of the opening ceremony. This speaks volumes for our patriotism and for our common
love of country.
"May I not ask at this session the proper committee be authorized
and directed to prepare a salutatory service; that the national anthem
be included as a part thereof; with power vested in the incoming
Most Worshipful Grand Master to oromulgate the service as an executive order throughout the length a~d breadth of Indiana?"
DECISIONS.
The Grand Master made a number of official rulings, from
which we quote as follows:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"I have ruled that a male person, otherwise qualified, can present
his petition and be balloted on before he is t~en_ty-one years _of age;
that he becomes twenty-one years of age at mHlmght before _his twenty-first birthday; that he can be initiated on the evemng of his twentyfirst birthday."
"If a brother after an admonition, persists in the saie of intoxicating liquors, to b~ drunk as a beverage, it is the m~ndatory duty of
the Lodge to try, and if guilty, susp~nd o_r e~pel him. Ye,~' this is
Masonic law, and the Lodge has no d1scret10n m the matter.

Within the last five or six years, since the project was first
definitely entered upon, Indiana has raised the large sum of
$313,917.77 for the Masonic Home, to place the same up0n a sound
financial "basis on the day that it should open its doors to receive guests; and now, at the end of the first six months of its
existence, it was sheltering within its walls seventy beneficiaries
consisting of Masons, the wives and widows of Masons, and th~
orphans of Masons, and it has, no doubt, before it a wonderful
career of usefulness.

42

OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
The year 1916 was Masonically one of the most active years
in the history of the Grand Lodge of Indiana. Four Lodges
which received their charters at the preceding Annual Communication were duly constituted, and dispensations were issued to
form four new Lodges.
Twenty-five public ceremonies of the placing of corner-stones
of public buildings took place within the year under Masonic
auspices, and besides these functions, the usual routine of official
duties were performed by the Grand Master.
DEDICATION OF THE MASONIC HOME.
The one event of outstanding importance which occurred
within the year, was the dedication of the new Masonic Home at
Franklin, Indiana, concerning which event, the Grand Master
makes the following report:
"On the 28th day of October last, I presided at the ceremonies of
dedicating the Masonic Home at Franklin, Indiana. There was p~esent
to assist the whole roster of the Grand Lodge. The sun shone brightly
and the weather was crisp and invigorating. No building then constructed on the grounds was sufficient in size to house the nearly fi_ve
thousand royal Masons, their wives, an_d friends, and the c.er.emon.1es
of dedication were held on the plaza m front of the adm1111strat10n
building. After the ceremonies of dedication wer~ concluded, P~st
Grand Master Charles P. Benedict delivered a stirring address which
was listened to with marked attention and which thrilled the thousands
present. The Grand Master of Indiana also spoke.
"I have been much interested and gratified in my t_rave.ls ab01.~t
the State of Indiana to observe the intense lo_Yalty which 1s ma1_11fested by all of the brotherhood in the Masomc Home at Franklm.
Everywhere have been heard only expres~ions of fealty and enthusiasm-a fixed determination to support this grand project to the utmost. furthermore, it is very pleasing to note that only ~ho~e who
are in such physical or financial condition a_s to render aid imperative, offer themselves as members. An enhr~ ab~ence. of eff~:irt to
unload those who might possess doubtful quahficat10ns is mamfested
by Lodges throughout the State. All of these things and mor.e b~­
spe~k n;}1ch for the brotherly regard and loyalty of the Frater111ty m
Indiana.

43

PLEDGE OF SUPPORT TO THE PRESIDENT.
The Grand Lodge, at one of the sessions of the Annual Communication, passed unanimously, preceded by preambles of patriot·
ism, and amid enthusiasm, a Resolution, authorizing and directing
that a message be forwarded to the President of the United States
pledging the faith, loyalty and devotion of the 78,000 Masons of
Indiana to him and all constituted authorities of the United States.
This resolution, as stated, was unanimously adopted, and by a
rising vote, and a telegram to the President embodying tr.e resolution was forwarded, and in due course a telegraphic reply came
back from the President of the United States. thanking the Grand
Lodge for its patriotic resolution, and expressing the sense of
gratitude which he experienced in the assurances of support
from such a magnificent body of men.
GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL MEMORIAL
ASSOCIATION.
This jurisdiction, in common with most of the American
jurisdictions, has fallen in line in cordial support of the George
Washington National Memorial Association, which contemplates
the building of a Memorial, befitting to the Father of his Country,
and one of America's most eminent Masons, at Alexandria, Va.,
and, incidentally, it may be stated that at the last meeting held in
February, 1917, the funds in hand aggregated, in round figures,
$75,000, with promise of a rapid increase within the next two
or three years. It may also be stated that the site for the proposed Memorial has already been selected, being a commanding
elevation in the City of Alexandria, which had originally been
fixed upon as the site for the Na ti on al Capitol, before it was
located across the Potomac in the City of Washington. Furthermore it is expected that within a year, plans will be accepted
for the proposed building.

REPORT o~ CORRESPONDENCE.

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

OVATION TO GRAND SECRETARY.
Calvin V¥. Prather.

IRELAND.

An extremely pleasing and happy incident took place just
before the formal closing of the Grand Lodge, the last day of tlie
Annual Communication.

1916.

Brother Lincoln v. Cravens arose in Grand Lodge and stated
that he had an announcement to make in which h.e felt that the
members of the Grand Lodge would be greatly mteres:~d, and
stated that he had just learned that that day was the Fifteenth
Anniversary of his connection with Freemasonry of the man
that the speaker declared was the finest and gi;andest Grand Secretary of any Grand Lodge of Freemasons m the world, an.d
fter referring briefly to Brother Prather's services to the Mason.1c
in Indiana, he moved that the good wishes and good will
of all of the members of the Grand Lodge and of the 78,000
Masons of Indiana, be tendered to the bel~ved Grand Seuetary
with the hope that he would be able to give many more years
to the services of the Grand Body.
In putting the motion, the Grand Master called up the
Grand Lodge, and Brother Prather was given the Grand Honors,
which was the first time that any Grand Officer of th·; Grand
Lodge of Indiana had received the Grand Ho~ors up?n. such an
occasion. This was followed by a demonstration, :o 1t is stated,
such as has rarely been seen in the history of Indiana. Masonry.
Brother Prather feelingly responded to the demonstrat10~ of affection, and expressed the hope that many future years ot usefulness might be vouchsafed them all.

~rder

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence, being the fourt? from
the present Chairman, is by Past Grand Master E~mer Ji. Gay.
Brother Gay reviews California, 1916; he quotes hberal~y from
ti Address of Grand Master Burnett; he refers approvingly .to
Masonic Homes at Decoto and Covina, and to the large
financial transactions of our Grand Lodge.
Brother Gay's report throughout is interesting and fully up
to his usual high standard.

0~:

M.".

w:. ELBA L. BRANJGJN, Grand Master, Frankl~n.

.

R:. w:. CALVIN \V. PRATHER, Grand Secretary, Indianapolis.

45

The Stated Communication of the Grand Lodge of Ireland was
held in Dublin on St: John's Day, Dec. 22nd, 1916.
The Communication was opened and presided over by the Deputy
Grand Master, owing to the fact that the Grand
the Earl of
Donoughmore, was unable to be present, on account of his work in
connection with the Red Cross in France.
He, however, sent letters of cheer and encouragement to the
Deputy Grand Secretary, and also the Deputy Grand Master, in which
he referred particularly to the hope which he had expressed the year
before that the great war might terminate within the year, and while
this hope had not been
he had an abiding faith in the absolute
certainty of ultimate victory.
He calls attention to the fact that there is probably not a Lodge
of Freemasons in Ireland that had not sent representatives into the
great army that on the continent of Europe were fighting for human
freedom.
He expresses gratification at the progTess of Masonry in Ireland;
he calls attention to the fact that when he was initiated in the year
1858, there were only fifteen Lodges in the Citv of Dublin. while the
number of Lodges in that city at the present- time has ~eached the
splendid total of fifty-three.
REPORT OF DEPUTY GRAND SECRET ARY.
From the Deputy Grand Secretary's report, we learn that the
Jurisdiction had enjoyed a year of unusual growth and prosperity.
He refers at some length to the reeoent action of the Government
in introducing a bill in the House of Commons, withdrawing the permission previously enjoyed by the Royal Irish Constabulary and the
Dublin Metropolitan Police of joining the Masonic Order. The introduction of this bill caused a decided stir in the Masonic circles of
Ireland, and protests from various sources were addressed to influential members of Parliament expressing the earnest hope that the bill
would not pass, and the Grand Lodge itself unanimously adopted, on
Dec. 7th, 1916, the following Resolution upon the subject:
"That we, the members of the Grand Lodge of Freemasons of
Ireland, present at a meeting held in Dublin on the 7th day of December, 1916. having heard read a copy of the letter to the Right Hon.
H. E: Duke, K. C., M. P., Chief Secretary for Ireland, dated the 17th
day of November, 1916, and written by our Grand. Master, the Right

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Hon. the Earl of Donoughmore, emphatically endorse the protest
therein contained against the proposal to alter the existing law, and
thereby to prohibit the admission to our Order of members of the
D. M. Police and R'. I. Constabulary, and we solemnly declare that
the Masonic Order in Ireland is a benevolent, charitable, and social
society only; that it has no connection with any religious or political
body ; that it contains members of all shades of religious belief and
political opinion; and that both by its principles and in its practice
controversial subjects of a religious or political character are strictly
excluded from discussion at all meetings of the Order.
"That a copy of this Resolution be sent to the Righ Hon. the
Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant."

KANSAS.

47

1917.

6Ist Annual, Wichita, Feb. 21-22. ·
Lodges, 416; Membership, 45,684; Gain, 1622.
Largest Lodges: Albert Pike Lodge No. 303, 954 Members· Orient
.'
Lodge No. 51, 922 Members.
THE 6IST ANNUAL COM:VIUNICATIOX
The Most Worshipf~l Grand Lodge of A.ncient, Free ai1 d Accepted
M~sons ?f Kansa~ held its. A1.111ual Communication in the Scottish Rite

MASONIC INCIDENTS OF THE WAR.
A significant incident in connection with the war took place in
Holland, and is referred to by the Grand Secretary in his report as
follows:

Te nple 111 the City of W1ch1ta, Kansas, beginning Feb 21 19li th
Most Worshipful Giles H. Lamb, Grand Master, presid.ing.'
'
e
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
A year. of .progress is d.isclosed in the report of. the Grand Master.
A large ga111 111 membership was achieved and dispensations granted
for the formation of five new Lodges.

"A pleasing incident in connection with the war took place in
Holland in the early part of the year. Amongst the men of the British
Naval Brigade who were captured and interned in Holland were a
number of Masons to whom our Dutch Brethren showed a good deal
of kindness. They corn:;eived the idea of forming a Lodge at the
Internment Camp at Groningen, and applied to the Grand Lodge of
the Nether lands for a charter of constitution. This was granted under
the title of 'Gastvryheid' No. 113, with permission to conduct the ceremonies in the English language and in accordance with the English
ritual, and was duly constituted by that Grand Lodge."

0

The Grand Mast~r refers with feeling to the death within the year
~ ~he ;Most Worshipful William Mitchell Shaver, one of the most

d1st111gmshed Masons of the Jurisdictions.

XEW WARRANTS.

The Grand. Master reports trouble in certain lodges in conse~uence of the illegal use of a cipher ritual, and in consequence he
issued a warning to the effect that any lodge proven guilty of this
offense would suffer the arrest of its charter.

As evidence that the Grand Lodge of Ireland is making progress
in the right direction, attention is called to the fact that even in these
strenuous war times, substantial numbers of new Lodges were warranted within the year, as shown by the following quotation from the
report of the Grand Secretary :

DECISIONS.
The foll;:iwing decisions, which apparently passed the Jurispruence Committee, are quoted because of what appears to us the doubtful character of some of the principles which they enunciate:

"Five warrants to establish new Lodges were issued during the
year, four to Belfast-the 'W. :Vt Whitaker' No. 422, the 'Claremont'
No. 423, the 'Cliftonville' No. 424, and the 'Civic' No. 425; and one
to Dublin, the 'Orpheus' No. 426."

done ord more .degrees, and then moves out of the J. urisdict1'on of
h.t~iveLd
1s o ge an remams o t f
h · · d' ·
. th d t
f 'd
u o sue Juns ichon for two or more years

MASONIC CHARITY.
The Masonic charities of this Grand Jurisdiction are carried forward through a system of Annuities and through separate schools
maintained for boys and girls.
The reports covering these charities indicate that they have been
fairly maintained throughout the preceding year, notwithstanding the
drain upon the benevolent resources of the Brethren on account of
the great war in Europe.

d

c .. "Where a petitioner for the mysteries has been elected or re~

l
v o'thsa1 Lodge
·
· Jurisdiction
·
·'
andis th.e u "t
d'
' on pr
. op_er app l'1cat10n,
to waive
is, no w1 stan mg an obiect10n ma
t th f
·'
cation for waiver be on file against his adv:nced:eni{r;,e of such apph1 ;'~Vhed a P.etitioner makes application for the .mysteries and is
·
e e~ e an . receives one or more degrees · Held that h1·s el. t'
b h' 1·
·
'
ec ion 1s
valid and h 1
11 0
there were ~om~J:ctbafts ~r thhla~id~~b~~ hi \ ~: ~~~st~~~~~d, ~.lthou~h
ballot was spread, even though the ap licant was
.
e Im~ t e
~t thLe djurisdictiffon od'. the. Lodge that efected him·; ~ ~~ ~~r~~~tr j :l~Ii11h~~
e o ge so o en mg 1s a proper subject for discipline.''
'

1

.

1

1

. It. "'.ould seem to us in this case that, the lodge never having had
d
Y egree
upon him.

Jnnsd1~t10n over the applicant, could not legally confer an

49

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

MASONIC HOME.
The saddest chapter in the history of Masonry in Kansas is recorded in the cur.rent year in connection with the Masonic Home of
this Jurisdiction.

which Masonry fosters involves performance of the duties which
we owe to the public; it means a fraternity or community interest,
and a desire to know how the other half lives; a good citizenship
that stirs an instinctive spirit of fellowship; a desire to be our
brother's keeper and an impulse to take him by the hand and
help him over the hard places of life.

48

In the early morning of Dec. 22nd, 1916, the building was destroyed
by fire, which involved a loss of life of several of the residents and
at least one employee of the Home.
The Jurisdiction, with its accustomed vigor, immediately took
up the problems of the temporary care and comfort of the residents of the Home, and the matter of the permanent restoration
of the destroyed property, and the task of rehabilitation is going
forward rapidly in spite of the severe financial loss which the
Grand Lodge suffered.
The one great regret in connection with the destruction of the
Institution was the loss of life of four of the elderly residents of
the Home, and the faithful employee.
In connection with the sad affair, reference is made in the
report of the Secretary of the Home of the Grand Lodge to an
incident that is worthy of mention, which illustrates that in
moments of great disaster there is the "one touch of nature that
makes the whole world kin." The incident referred to is thus
spoken of by the Secretary in his report:
"I wish to pay high tribute to the citizenship of Wichita for the
magnanimous offers to assist, and in this no denomination nor creed
was known. One of the first offers of assistance came from the Sisters
of one of the Catholic institutions, located south and west of the
Home, in which they offered to care for at least twenty of our children. Later, this was supplemented by an offer from the Right Reverend John J. Hennessey, Bishop of the Diocese of Wichita, in which
he tendered assistance to the limitations of the various establishments
under his control. This proposal was later made to the Board in session, as you will doubtless remember, and thanks of the Board were
directed to be conveyed to him and to the good people of 'Wichita."
ORATION.
The Grand Lodge was greatly edified in one of the sessions
of the Annual Communication by the scholarly address ddivered
by Worshipful Brother William A. Johnson, Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of Kansas, and a member of Lodge No. 143.
The oration was of a high, patriotic order, wherein the orator
pointed out that our Institution fosters civil and religious liberty,
and the patriotism which makes for good citizenship; and that it
is not all of patriotism to live decently, to break no law, and to
pay taxes, etc., that it means more than simply to keep out of the
penitentiary and the poorhouse, but that the good citizenship

The orator pointed out some of the great names in our
country's history associated with our Fraternity and indicated that
Masonry has been from the very foundation of our government,
one of the great factors in the up-lift which our country's influence has wrought in world affairs.
At the conclusion of the address, the thanks of the Grand
Lodge were extended to the Grand Orator, the oration was ordered
printed in the Proceedings and extra copies in pamphlet f ..)rm were
ordered for distribution among the Lodges.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
The review of the Proceedings of other Grand Lodges is by
Past Grand Master Matthew M. Miller, Chairman of the Committee, the report being his fifteenth annual review.
Brother Miller refers in a complimentary manner to the oration of Brother Matt S. Hughes, delivered at the 1915 Annual
Communication, and discusses other matters of interest in that
Communication.
M:. w:. CHARLES E. LOBDJlLL, Grand Master, Great Bend.
R.'. W.'. ALBERT K. \V1Lso:>r, Grand Secretary, Topeka.

KENTUCKY.
1916.
116th Annual, Louisville, Oct. 17-18-19.
Lodges, 597; Membership, 44,380; Gain 993.
Largest Lodge, Preston Lodge No. 281, 1,165 Memhers.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The One Hundred and Sixteenth Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, Free and Accepted Masons, was
held in Masonic Temple, Louisville, Ky., commencing Tuesday,
Oct. 17, 1916, M. \V. T. J. Adams, Grand Master in the Chair.

51

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
There is a very complete resume of the activities of the Grand
Master within the year. Referring to the awful war in .Europe,
and the part that Masonry should take, we quote:

. .
f
·
b
civil court is a sufficient
" 1nswer-A conv1chon
crtme Y a.
·
t• tt'on of the
· "
f
M on to require an mves tga
stam on the ~haracter o 1"he J~nior Warden should prefer char~es
charges by his Lodge.
.
b
ent to the accused by regtsagainst t~e brother. .Notice m_ust ~e schar es and specifications, and
•tered ma:l, to~e~her wi!h a hcop~ of \
hi h ghe shall appear and enter
a notice m wntmg statmg t e time a w · c
the Master should
his plea.
the brotherdcabnnot appet~~d r~::°t~e Code is complied
see that he
represente
y counse
with.
.
d.
h
. lt to be in"The Grand Master has no power to trect ! ~ pena y inion that
fl.icted 011 a conviction of charges preferred,
d1t is my op
a man who is guilty of murder should be expe e ·
.d
1
"A copy of the court records wo~~~ ~U~db~o ~~~ ~~~~ltd:;~s~i~~
again.st the brother, 1?utdyob~ whoulCd ~e if the brother should plead not
of witnesses as require
Y t e o e

50

"May I not say that a meeting of the Grand Masters of our own
land, and of the world if possible. might become a mighty influence
in the direction of universal peace? No thought or endeavor could
be more appropriate for such an assembly. Our Organization is itself
a plea for peace and an argument for peace. Freemasonry makes for
the dissemination of the spirit of brotherhood throughout the world,
and teaches us that peace and harmony are the strength and beauty of
all institutions. Freemasons need not dwell on the fact that seventenths of the income of our nation is expended for war and its equipment, and that in other lands the tax is even greater. As Freemasons
we cannot fail to deplore the barbarity of war, the awful sacrifice of
human life and human hope, not merely on the field of carnage or in
the hospitals of the world filled with groaning victims, but in the
widows and orphans left helpless, starving, dying, because their protectors are taken away. Surely it were well for us to consider this,
and to support every thought and movement calculated to secure the
peace of the world.
"All the Masoni"c Grand Bodies and individual Freemasons could
not engage in a wiser. more righteous, more human or more useful
endeavor than to try in every proper way, with all their power, to·
influence their particular governments to make treaties with all other
nations looking to the perpetuation of the peace of the world."
The Grand Master was not able to attend the annual meeting of the George Washington Memorial Association, held Feb.
22, 1916, at Alexandria, Va., on account of the numerous cuties of
his office, nor was it possible for the Deputy Grand Master, the
Grand Senior Warden and the Grand Junior Warden, for similar
reasons, and Kentucky was not, therefore, represented at this
meeting.
Grand Master Adams granted a number of dispensations to
confer degrees, to lay corner-stones of four Masonic and public
buildings; to dedicate six Masonic halls, to Lodges to Pleet members, to Lodges to change location; to form three new Lodges.
DECISIONS.
A large number of opinions on subjects of general interest
were rendered by the Grand Master within the year, among which
were the following:
"Question-A member of a Subordinate Lodge was convicted on
a charge of murder and is now serving a life term in the penitentiary.
'He has always been a good member and still pays his dues promptly.
Should they file charges against him and expel him froni the Lodge?'
Also, would a tran!'cript of the court records be competent as evidence on a trial of the charges?

°

btr

1

*

guilty."

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Question-Can a brother actually chai!ge his hermabe1;t res;l~:n~~

bring his demit, and join the Lodge at his new ome e ore
·
months have elapsed?
,
demit from his
"Answer-He cannot.. ~he!! ~ .brother getd a that ranted the
Lodge and moves out of tts iunsd1ct10!1, the Lo ge 'f g the Lodge
demit has no further jurisdiction over him,
ecLo~et~ l~~nnot ballot
into _whos~ )urisdi~tiohn hie habs mover~'si~~~t ~f theirg jurisdiction for
on his petttton until e 1as een a
six months."
* * *
* * * the* question
of the profici~ncy of an
011
"Question-Is the vote
I<'ellow
Craft
in
the l~cture reqmred to be
Entered Apprentice or Must the vote on
their advancement be by
taken by secret ballot?
secret ballot ?
·
· ·
J
"Answer-There is no law of the Grand Lo~ge reqfiu!rm~ t 1at a
.
f h th
or not a brother s pro c1ency in the
vote on the que~1on od
e erf
Fellow Craft degrees shall be
0
lecktures of th~ b· ll~:eand r~;~~f~~~ i~ the absence of a Lodge by-law.
ta en on secre a
,
. d b
'a·ority viva. voce vote. However,
11
~h~ ~~~~e ~atli~J~t!~~i~~ ~f hi/a~v~n~ement to th.e. nex~, higher degree
must .be by secret ballot only, as Ill ballots on pettt1ons.

l!f

A

0

The Grand Master stated that he had enjoyed visitations to
·te a number of Lodges in all sections of the State, and was
~~:rywhere received with great kindness and courtesy.
He urges the Brethren to greater economy in expenditures of
Lodges to gather an attendance, and suggests the amou~1t sa~ed
nd sufficient to erect a Temple, tn which
would soon amass a fu
future generations might rejoice.
MASONIC HOME.
Kentucky Masons have a beautiful property for their Mason.\~
Home, and their institution radiates an atmosphere. of .go.od WI
and fraternal fellowship. During the past year 1mp101 ements

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

have been n;ad~ to add to the comfort of the fifty residents of the
Home .at t~1s tt;ne. Besides the Old Mason's Home, there is the
Mas~mc Widows and Orphans' Home, which at this time shelters
26 widows, 1~2 girls and 183 boys, a total of 361 residents. The.
cost per capita for maintaining the Home during the past year
was $135.33, evidence of the careful, and successful management
of the Home. The Brethren of the Jurisdiction are assessed
75 cents, a year to contribute to the support of the Home, and the
St. Johns League, through their activities, this year raised $12,000
for the sup~ort. of th.e Home. There is still a small debt on the
Home, but 1t will not be long before it is lifted.

REPORT ON CORRESPQ;"-:Fl<JNC.K

53

106TH ANNUAL GRAND COMMUNIC.ATION.
The 106th Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Louisiana
was convened at the Scottish Rite Cathedral in the City of New
Orleans on Feb. Sth, the Most VVorshipful B. B. Purser, Grand
Master, presiding.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The fra~ernal relations of Kentucky with other Jurisdictions
are most satisfactory. The report is prepared by \!Villiam w Cl k
p G M
d .
. 11'
. ar e,
· · .. , an is ~n mte 1gent and splendid review. We make the
following quotat10n from the reviewer's "Conclusion":

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
In the opening portion of the Grand Master's Address, he
uses as a figure to illustrate· the power of Masonry a certain
myth concerning an old painter, whereby, through a happy chanee,
he compounded one day a certain mordant, which, colorless itself,
possessed the power of heightening every color with which it was
mixed. By the help of this discovery, he became a note··I master.
Everywhere and always the charm of the picture was due to the
mixture whereby commonplace colors became of a superlative
quality.

"\\~e thought at one time that in our 'Conclusion' we would sa
something ~bou~ the. recently exploited General Grand Lodge b t y
tha~ abs_urd1ty is domg the one meritoriotts thing within its' p~we~s
p~r o;mmg the '.f~de-~way' .act, we shall let it quiet! · and ~acef 11 '
pass mto the obhv1on 1t merits, 'unwept, unhonored an~ unsuig.'" u y

The Grand Master likened the influence of Freemasonry, upon
those matters with which it comes in contact, to the discovery of
the old painter, whereby transformation was wrought in all of
the colors with which it was compounded.

California, 1915, received generous attention with uuc•tations
from the addres~ .of the Grand Master. \!Ve quote com~ent upon
one of our Dec1s10ns re visitors:
'th"Wel are of the opinion that the right to object to a visitor rests
w1 eac i m~mber of the Lodge present. \Ve hold that no one not
t!ie Master himself, has the right to admit a visitor into a Lod ~ ·f a
~ngle
t!n!~edr of that Lodge present objects to his presence. thi~ is
1
e r;i e ai
own by Mackey, who gives, as the rationale of the rule
that m no othe.r way can .the harmony of the Lodge be maintained and
th:it harmony is of the highest importance. We believe that h ' ·
tams that the 'rifih~ of ~isit' is a right possessed by every affiu::~d
Mason, and that 1t 1s sUbJect alone to the exception noted."
l\f'.'. W .... JAMllS N. SAUNDERS, Grand Master, Stanford.
R. · W. · DAVE JACKSON, Grand Secretary, Louisville.

LOUISIANA.
1917.
106th Annual, New Orleans, Feb. 5-6-7.
Lodges 1,026; Membership 18,314; Gain, 546.
Largest Lodge, Perfect Union No. 1, 415 Members.

The Grand Master asserted that all fair-minded jurlges pronounce Freemasonry as our social mordant. "The student of
legislation, the observer of our domestic and social prosperity,
appear in the excellences of our educational systems. One and all
find everywhere the influence of national reverence for Freemasonry."
Further he calls attention to the fact that in its unobserved ·
workings, Freemasonry is the element that has broui;;ht out the
choice beauty of the best things of which we boast. "Largely to
it, are we indebted for juster laws, better schools, happier homes,
greater security of social order, than can be found in any other
land."
The Grand Master observes certain weaknesses inherent in
the rapidity of growth of the Fraternity, and, referring especially
to his own Grand Jurisdiction, he thinks it lacks the solidarity and
cohesiveness which gave th~ Fraternity strength in by-gone days.
In these later days, he thinks that we hear too much of the
"play ground of Freemasonry" and the "Flower garden of Freemasonry," catch phrases put forth frequently by well-meaning
Masons; but, in his opinion, Masonry has no "play ground" nor
"flower garden," but is a progressive moral science, with pro-

ii4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

found respect for the Ancient Landmarks, working silently but
effectually, sanctioning ethical standards, and having nothing to
do, in his opinion, with "vaudeville, red and green
blatant
street parades, and that class of notoriety." These or ;5anizations
which have crept in and fastened themselves upon the great
body of Freemasonry, he likens to vegetable parasites and fungi,
and he looks forward to the rapidly approaching time when the
evil effects of organizations which claim to be Masonic, simply
because they are composed exclusively of Masons. will becc me innocuous, either because under the ban of the M~sons, or because
of internal reformation.

he should sit as ::Vlaster of the Lodge during a trial in the Lodge, and
whether or not further evidence than the conviction by the criminal
courts would be required in the Lodge.
"I Ruled that to expect him to preside in the Lodge as an umpire.
and to shape the procedure, when he had been in the most confidential
relations with the accused as his attorney in the courts. would be
placing too great a burden on him and might lead to unfair criticism.
and that, at his request, I would select a Past Master of his Lodge
to preside, or let the Senior Warden assume this duty.
"As to the character and amount of evidence, the Craft is not
bound by the findings either of guilty or not guilty of the. courts.
While it is trne an applicant for initiation who has been convicted of
a serious crime bears the stigma of 'ex-convict.' and quite likely would
not be eligible because not under the tongue of good report, as a. m";tter
of. fair dealing between the Brother .Mason and the Craft, the findmgs
of the colirts not only are not conclusive, but should have no serious
weight with the Lodge. I, therefore, ruled in this particular case that
the offense would have to be proved in the Lodge and to its satisfaction, just as if the trial had not been had in the courts."

There are a great many Masons who fully agree with Grand
Master Purser's opinions upon these subjects.
Grand Master Purser is also opposed to the idea of large
Lodges, and believes that more effective Masonic work can be
accomplished through Lodges having a smaller number of members, but yet enough to carry forward the charitable and other
Lodge functions efficiently.
He advised the recognition of the Grand Orient of France
as a Sovereign Grand Body, but this recommendation was reported on adversely by the Committee on Forceign Correspondence,
simply because of a lack of ev'idence at this time concerning the
character of this Grand Orient, the recommendation of the Correspondence Committee not to be construed as prejudicial to the
future consideration of the matter when additional evidence is
presented.
RULINGS.
The Grand Master ruled upon a large number of questions of
a local nature, and all of the rulings were apparently in accord
with the law of the Jurisdiction, and all were approved by the
Committee on Jurisprudence and sustained by the Grand Lodge.
We refer to one ruling touching the weight to be given in a
Masonic trial to the verdict of a Court of Justice after trial for
the same offense; from which it would appear that Grand Master
Purser entertains serious doubts as to the accuracy of verdicts
in courts of justice, and believes that such verdicts, after all, are
not entitled to a great deal of weight in a Masonic trial.
Here is the decision:
."The Worshipfttl Master of a Lodge, who had, under his profess1'?11· defended an accused on a serious charge, of which he was
convicted by the courts of the commonwealth, asked whether or not

55

The Jurisprudence Committee and the Grand Lodge sustained
the ruling, although the Jurisprudence Committee suggested that
no general rule could be formulated, but that each case should be
judged upon its own merits, which is practically in accord with our
law upon the subject.
ORATION.
On the second day of the Communication, \.Vorshipful
Brother George Soule of Quitman Lodge No. 76, delivered the
annual oration, which on motion of Past Grand Master L. E.
Thomas, duly seconded and carried, provided that "while not
voicing its approval or disapproval of all of the sentiments expressed by the speaker," the Grand Lodge expressed its appreciation of the greetings,tlf the Worshipful Brother, and ordered that
the oration be printed in the Proceedings.
The Orator,
his exposition of the qualities of 11.1 asonry,
referred at some length with appro\·al to certain passages in the
Address of Brother M. S. Hugh es, Grand Orator of th·~ Grand
Lodge of California in 1915.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Upon the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, recognition was extended to the "Supreme Council of Central America, A. and A. S. Rite, as a legitimate governing. body and possessed of an exclusive sovereignty within the
State of Honduras."
Louisiana is probably the most elastic in its rules coucerning
recognition of Grand Lodges of any Grand Jurisdiction in the

56

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

United States, which may explain the action in this case in recognizing as a Sovereign Grand Lodge of Ancient Craft :r--~asonry a
Body of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite.
The usual report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Chairman of the Committee, Rev. Brother Herman C. Duncan. It is in
condensed form, occupying only fifty pages of the printed Proceedings. Brother Duncan's reviews are made with discriminating
judgment and he gives courteous consideration to California, 1915,
with complimentary references to Grand Master Bledsoe's address
and to the oration delivered by Worshipful Brother Matt S.
Hughes.

M:. w:. JOHN W. ARMSTRONG, Grand Master, Welsh.
R.'. W.'. JOHN A. DAVILLA, Grand Secretary, Xew Orleaiis.

MAINE.
1916.
97th Annt1al, Portlancl, May 2-3-4.
Lodges, 205; Membership, 31.328; Gain, 444.
Largest Lodge, Ancient Landmark No. 17, 566 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The ~fost \Vorshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted ).;fasons
of the State of Maine met in Annual Communication Mav 2nd 1916
the Most Worshipful Thomas H. Bodge, Grand Master, p;esidi1;g.
'
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS.
E. Corson, Past Grand Junior \Varden of the
Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, and General Grand High
Priest of the General Grand Chapter of the United States, was introduced and welcomed. He extended the greetings of the Most Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.

R:. W.'.

ANNUAL ADDRESS.
The Grand ~:Taster's tribute to ).;fasonry, and especially to the
Masonry of his Grand Jurisdiction, is set forth in the opening paragraphs of his Address. from which we quote as follows :
"Masonry in Maine is certainly advancing
the broad, noble
sense of becoming more and more a part of the
of the members.
There has been a gain in nnmbers, our Grand
will tell you
it is 444, and there are now 31.328 affiliated members
our Lodges.
In this we are to he congratulated. Let us, however, not forget mere
numbers is not the mark at which we aim. Initiation is onlv a small
part of the work we shonld have in hand when we '1~ake "a man a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

57

Mason.' Masonry means more than the assembling in our Lodges,
reciting our ritual and making the applicants into members. It means
the teaching of the truths of Holy Writ which treat of the Fatherhood
of God and the brotherhood of man. :.Jo man can be made a Mason
unless he profess belief in Deity, and no man can be a Mason unless
he recognizes his duty to his fellows and neighbors and discharges
that duty with honor to himself. We cannot escape the Fraternity
being judged by the lives of members, and should so live that in our
communities each 'may be known as one to whom the burdened heart
may pour out its sorrows, to whom distress may prefer its suit, whose
hand is guided by justice and whose heart is expanded by benevolence.'"
MISUSE OF THE "WHITE" BALL.
We read a great deal; and hear a great deal, about the misuse
of the black ball, but the Grand Master Bodge calls attention to what
is possibly even a greater menace to our Institution than the misuse
of the black ball, in that sufficient care is not exercised in the use of
the high prerogative whereby unworthy material is often admitted to
our ranks because of lack of moral courage in refusing to use the
black ball when it should be used.
We quote upon this subject as follows:
"The matter of the black ball still holds its usual prominent place
in the correspondence. While it is doubtless true that it is occasionally
used by members in an unworthy manner, I am frank to state, Brethren,
I am more afraid of the misuse of the white than of the black ball.
"We are all human and most of us reasonably charitable, and I
think we more often err in admitting those who are not suitably qualified than in rejecting those who should be accepted; and when the
reverse occurs it is generally evidence someone was permitted to enter
who should have been refused admittance. But for that we cannot
reasonably argue that the black ball is wrongfully used. I wish moral
defects might be as clearly defined as physical imperfections and legislated against as strictly; but there is a wide latitude granted the Craft,
and each member is to determine from his own knowledge, observation or information what shall be his conclusion and consequent action.
\Vhile we teach it is the internal and not the external qualifications
that govern, there is no denying social prominence and financial success, inherited or acquired, have their influence.
"If the black ball is used with discrimination it is not likely any
will be admitted who will later use it viciously. In nearly every case
where a member is strongly suspected of interfering with the w'ork,
will be expressed the sentiment 'he should never have been admitted.'
Think this over, Brethren, and when you ballot bear in mind the reputation and harmony of your Lodge and Masonry arc at stake as well
as the good and pleasure of the petitioner.''
CONDITION OF THE FRATERNITY.
From the report of the Committee on Condition of the Fraternity,
we learn that Masonry within the jurisdiction is in very prosperous
condition, and, in passing, it is not out of place to observe that in

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

proportion to population, the State of Maine has a larger Masonic
membership than any State in the Union, or any country on the earth.
In other words, there are in the State of yfaine, in round figures,
thirty Masons to every one thousand of population, and, as stated,
this is a larger percentage than obtains in any other State in the
Union. In California the number is about twenty to every thousand
of population.

ANNUAL COMMUXICATION.
The 130th Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of J\faryland was held
at Masonic Temple, iu the City of Baltimore, Nov. 21, 1916, presided
over by the Most Worshipful Thomas J. Shryock, Grand Master.
The Semi-Anuual Communication was held at the Masonic Temple
in Baltimore on May 9, 1916, at which Communication business of a
routine character was transacted, and reports of various Committees
received and acted upon.

58

CHARITY FUND OF THE GRAND LODGE OF MASONS.
The State of Maine, Masonically speaking, is one of the comparatively few large Jurisdictions in the United States that has not a
Masonic Home. Its obligations of relief and charity, however, are
capably discharged through its Charity Fund, administered hy a capable
Board of Trustees.
This. Fund is applicable to the following cases, and the classification, it will be noticed, presents a rather comprehensive system of
relief. Following is the classification:
First, to poor and worthy members of Lodges under this Jurisdiction, in cases where the funds of their own Lodges are not adequate
to the exigeucy of the case.
S ecoiidly, to poor and worthy Masons resident in this State, not
members of any Subordinate Lodge, and being in circumstances to
ren~er such membership not a Masonic duty.
Thirdly, to poor and worthy Masons being sojourners in this State.
Fo11rthly, to other cases of distress.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Past Grand ).faster Albro E. Chase, who is also Grand Treasurer,
presents the usual report on Foreign Correspondence. His reports
are among the most interesting and valuable of the Reviews of Grand
Lodges. He gives generous consideration to California, 1915, and finds
much for commendation in the address of Grand Master Bledsoe, and
quotes several paragraphs not only from the Grand Master's Address,
but from the splendid oration of \i\Torshipful Brother ='>Iatt S. Hughes.
WALDO PETTENGILL, Grand Master, R1.1nford.
STEPHEN BFJlRY, Grand Secretary, Portland.

MARYLAND.
1916.
!30th Annual, Baltimore, Nov. 21.
Lodges, 116; Membership, 17,501; Gain, 366.
Largest Lodge, Concordia No. 13, 596 Members.

59

MISCELLANEOUS.
It is not the custom in this Jurisdiction for the Grand !\faster to
present any written report, a brief verbal statement by him, extending
.<t welcome to the assembled Brethren in the Semi-Annual and Annual
Communications, taking the place of the usual formal report.
At the Annual Communication in November, a letter from our
Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, John \i\Thicher, was read and
ordered to be printed in the Proceedings, Brother Whicher's letter
being an acknowledgment of the gift from Grand Master Shryock
to the Grauel Lodge of California of the oil portrait of Brother
Charles Gilman, Past Grand Master of Maryland. who had the distinguished honor of presiding over a Convention of Masons at Sacramento in April, 1850, at which meeting the foundations oi the Grand
Lodge of California were laid.
Brother Whicher expressed the thanks of the Grand Lodge of
California for this splendid gift, and conveyed also to Grand Master
Shryock assurauces of the high esteem in which he is held by the
Grand Lodge of California as a man and as a Mason.
Most \Vorshipful Brother Thomas ]. Shryock was unanimously
re-elected as Grand Master for the thirty-second consecutive term.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on correspondence is by Rev. Henry Branch, Past
Senior Grand Warden. The report is a condensed resume of the
Proceedings of the various Grand Jurisdictions with which Maryland
is in fraternal communication.
California, 1915, is fraternally reviewed, and Grand }faster Bledsoe's Address approvingly commented upon.
THOMAS J. SHRYOCK, Grand !\faster, Baltimore.
GEORGE Coor<, Grand Secretary, Baltimore.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

MEXICO.
(York Grand Lodge.)
1917.
57th Annual, City of Mexico, April 5th.
Lodges, 18; ::Vfembership, 1139; Net Decrease, 23.
Largest Lodge, Toltec Lodge No. 1, 269 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful York Grand Lodge of Mexico, Free and
Accepted Masons of the Republic of Mexico, held its Fifty-seventh
Annual Communication in Masonic Hall, April 5th, 1917, the Most
Worshipful Wayne A. White, Grand Master, presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master in his Address refers to the unsettled conditions prevailing in the Republic, which conditions have affected Masonry, as well as everything else.
He states, however, that all of the Lodges have been able to keep
open, and the four larger ones have been doing the usual amount of
work.
He refers to personal ill-health, which prevented his getting out
of the City of Mexico, in consequence of which ·he was unable to visit
the outside Lodges.
FRATERNAL RELATIONS.
The Grand Master refers to the relations of the Grand Lodge with
foreign Grand Jurisdictions as being most cordial; and he furnishes
a list of Grand Jurisdictions throughout the world that have recognized the Grand Lodge of Mexico, recognition having been extended
by twenty-nine Grand Lodges of the United States, and not less than
fifteen other Grand Lodges throughout the world, whereby it would
appear that the York Grand Lodge of Mexico had attained a very
substantial stamp of approval as a legitimate Grand Lodge.
REPORT OF GRAND SECR:ET ARY.
From the report of the Grand Secretary, concerning the condition
of .:V!asonry in the jurisdiction, it appears that the membership of one
Lodge remained stationary during the preceding year, four Lodges
showed a total increase of thirty members, ten Lodges showed a total
decrease of fifty-three members, leaving a net decrease of twenty-three
members, which ought not to be considered discouraging in view of
the difficult conditions under which the jurisdiction has labored.
The retiring Grand Master, Wayne A. White, was elected Grand
Secretary, and Brother \Vhite presents a condensed report on Foreign
Correspondence, being a review of a limited number of jurisdictions.
California is not in the list.
M:. W.'. STEPHEN MOTTA, Grand Master, Mexico City.
M.'. w:. WAYNE A. WHITE, Grand Secretary, Mexico City.

MICHIGAN.

60

61

1917.

73rd Annual, Lansing, ~fay 22-24.
Lodges, 439; Membership, 86,189; Gain, 4442.
LARGEST LODGES.
Palestine Lodge No. 357 ........................................................... .2550 Members
Ashlar Lodge No. 91 ................................................................... .1817
Zion No. 1 ...................................................................................... 1801
Detroit No. 2 .................................................................................. 1473
Friendship Lodge No. 417 ........................................................ 1357
Union of S. 0. Lodge No. 3 ...................................................... 1219
Lansing Lodge No. 33 .................................................................. 1051
Jackson Lodge No. 17 .................................................................. 1025
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Seventy-third Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Michigan assembled in the
auditorium of the Masonic Temple, in the City of Lansing, at high
twelve, Tuesday, the twenty-second day of May, 1917, for the purpose
of holding the Annual Communication, John H. Hawks, Most Worshipful Grand Master, presiding.
After the Address of \Velcome. the Grand Lodge was favored with
the introduction of Brother Albert E. Sleeper, Governor of the. State
of Michigan, who made a few well-chosen remarks.
The Grand Lodge was also favored with the presence of another
distinguished visitor in the person of the Most \Vorshipfol Grand
Master of Illinois, and also Brother Oliver Spaulding the dean of
Michigan's Past Grand Masters.
'
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
Grand Master Hawks sets forth very briefly the affairs of his
office during the year; he comments on the awful calamity of the war
m Europe and its relation to Masonry, and says :

"Jr:; this national eris.is, Masonry must not and will not play the
cowa_rd .s part. The meanmg of the word 'fraternity' will be intensified,
and it. is patent today as. never before that the world needs the conserva~1s~ and. steady1pg mfluence ~f Freemasonry. It appears to me
that 1t is the 1mperat1ve duty of this Grand Body to think soberly to
;eason acc~rat~ly, :;md to be ready at
time to reach out the h~lpmg hand m d;rections w~ere ~he need
greatest. No one can tell
what the commg year will bring forth, but God grant that we, as
brotI:ers, .shall stand .sho~ld~r to shoulder in the defense of our country, its liberty and its Justice. May prudence and fortitude be our
watchword as we move forward in our attempt to further the interests

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

of civilization God grant that the teachings of our Order may become
the working tools of our everyday life and not a mere veneer to be
cast off in the heat of passion or in the throes of a great national
crisis. Let us rededicate our illustrious Order to the human virtues
of Friendship, Morality and Brotherly Love. Without hate we will
stand true to the colors made glorious by the sacrifice of our fathers."
The Grand Master speaks feelingly of the Brethren who have
answered the summons of the Supreme Grand Master since the last
Annual Communication, and makes mention of the fact that since the
incumbency of Michigan's first Grand Master, Lewis Cass, down to
the year 1891, with but a single exception, all the former rulers of the
Craft have answered the final summons. This single exception is the
Grand Master for the year 1881, Brother Oliver L. Spaulding, rich in
years and honors, and who for the first time in several years, was
welcomed on the floor of the Grand Lodge.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE YEAR.
He constituted three new Lodges; be dedicated a large number of
Masonic Halls and Temples; he laid cornerstones of two Masonic Temples and several public buildings; be issued dispensations to form three
new Lodges; he made a number of official visits to Lodges of the juris·
diction.
MASONIC HOME.
The Board of Control of the Masonic Home lost one of its untiring members, Past Grand Master Brother Lucian E. Wood, and the
Grand Master appointed Brother Lou B. \Vinsor as his successor,
Michigan's worthy Grand Secretary.
Brother Winsor has served his Masonic duties faithfully, especially
as to attendance, the present Communication being his thirty-fifth con- ,
secutive Annual Communication attended.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Correspondence is presented by R:. w:. Lott B.
Winsor, Committee on Correspondence, being his fourteenth report.
He quotes liberally, and in the report on California makes quotations
from the Address of Grand Master Burnett, and the committees. ·

M:. w:. Lams H. FEAD, Grand Master, Newberry.
P. G. M. Lou B. WINSOR, Grand Secretary, Reed City.

JtEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

63

MINNESOTA.
1917.

64th Annual, St. Paul, Jan. 17-18.
Lodges, 264; Membership, 33,766; Gain. 1752.
Largest Lodge, Minneapolis Lodge No. 19, 1S82 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Sixty-fourth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Minnesota
was held at ~1asonic Temple in the City of St. Paul beginning Jan
18, 1917.

'

.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
From the Grand Master's Address, we learn that Masonry was
never before so prosperous in this jurisdiction as at the present time.
Four Lodges, which were granted charters at the preceding Annual
Communication, were duly constituted; dispensations were granted
to form four new Lodges; several corner-stone ceremonies were conducted by the Grand Lodge ; and the dedication with Masonic honors
was made of the new Masonic Temple at Mankato.
DECISIONS.
Among the decisions, we quote the following :
. "A ;yiaster .M~sC'.n in good standing belonging to a Lodge in a
ne:ghb?nng Junsd1ctton ~ies. Hi~ Lodge requests that he be given
Masomc Bunal. ~t the time of Ins death he was in the saloon business;, Can he be given Masonic Burial?
Answer-Yes. The l<?cal .Lodge failed in its duty to prefer
ch!lr.ges, and the brother bemg 111 good standing is entitled to all the
privileges of the Craft."
''.A motion is made to ·appropriate a certain sum for Christmas
Charity from the general funds of a Lodge. Under the Constitution
can funds be used for that purpose?
"Answe;-Ycs. Funds ~ay be used for any charitable purpose
deemed advisable so long as 1t does not conflict with the By-Laws of
the Lodge."
These are quoted simply to illustrate the simple nature of most
o'. t~e questions submitted to Grand Masters, the replies to which are
d1gmfied as so-called "decisions."
CIPHER.
The Grand Master refers to a "cipher" which has been apparently
creeping into the jurisdiction in various quarters, and advertised
through circulars mailed to members.
The Gr~nd. :V1aster warns the membership against the use of these
.
tlleg?l .pubhcatlons an.d calls att~ntion to the fact that the printing,
pubhshmg, or purchasmg, or selling of any such work is contrary to

(14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the law of the jurisdiction, and that the proven violation of the law
will involve severe Masonic discipline.
ORATION.
A stirring and eloquent Address was delivered at one of the
sessions during this Annual Communication by the Grand Orator,
Worshipful Brother John Boden. Brother Boden received the thanks
of the Grand Lodge and his oration is published in full in the Proceedings.
MASONIC HOME.
Perhaps the most interesting feature of this Annual Communication was the discussions and actions centered about the Masonic
Home proposition.
Some years ago, this jurisdiction committed itself to the establishment of a Masonic Home, but provided that the actual construction of the Home should be deferred until a fund of $100,000 had been
accumulated as a foundation. A year ago, the fund thus accumulated
amounted· to about $75,000, and the present Grand Master, Brother
Alfred G. Pinkham, determined, if possible, to bring this fund, during
his incumbency of the Grand East, to the minimum of $100,000 required, before the actual work of construction should commence, and
throughout the year of his administration he devoted strenuous efforts
to the completion of the task, adding within the year to the $75,000
already in hand at the beginning, something like $10,000, and at this
Annual Communication, through the enthusiasm awakened for the
cause, additional subscriptions, which were asked for at the conclusion
of the report of the committee upon the subject, were made in a few
moments to the extent of $17,200, which more than covered the amount
needed, and as a result the project has now been definitely entered upon,
and, by resolution, duly adopted. the Trustees of the Minnesota Masonic Home were authorized, empowered and directed to proceed
forthwith to acquire a suitable site for a Home, to adopt plans for the
required buildings, and to go ahead speedily with the construction of
the same.
The Grand Lodge also, by unanimous vote, extended its· sincere
thanks to the Grand Master, for his constant and persistent work for
the benefit of all of the Masons of the Grand Jurisdiction in his untiring efforts in behalf of the Home.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Most Worshipful Irving Todd, Chairman of the Committee, submits the report on Foreign Correspondence, a succinct and discriminating review of the various Grand Jurisdictions.

65

A courteous review of California, 1916, is made, and the magnificent work of the California Jurisdiction in behalf of Masonry
highly commended.
J\f.' · \V:. ALBERT BERG, Grand Master, St. Paul.

R:. w:. ]OH:-< F1sHEL, Grand Secretary, St. Paul.

MISSISSIPPI.
1917.

99th Annual Communication, Jackson, Feb. 13-14.
Lodges, 378; Membership, 20,467; Gain, 133.
THE NINETY-NINTH ANNCAL COMMCNICATION.
The Ninety-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
Free and Accepted Masons, was held in the City of Jackson, Feb.
13th and 14th, 1917.
Previous to the opening of the Grand Lodge, a public reception
was tendered to the Grand Body by a large number of Brethren and
citizens of Jackson in the Century Theater, an elaborate program of
addresses and music being carried out to the delight and edification
of the· Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master in the remarks made by him in connection
with the ceremonies referred to the war in Europe, and stated that
not a silligle crowned head in all of the belligerent countries belonged
to the Masonic Order, and he stated that he had no doubt the war
would never had taken place if the kings and rulers of war-stricken
Europe had taken the vows and obligations of Masonry.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
At the conclusion of the public reception, the Grand Lodge wrts
opened in Ample Form, Most \Vorshipfol George B. Power, Grand
Master, presiding.
In the opening paragraphs of his Annual Address, he enumerated
a number of the illustrious men in the long line of Grand Masters who
had seryed before him as rulers of the Grand Lodge of Mississippi in
the ninety-nine years of its existence, some of the names being household words throughout the length and breadth of our broad land.

UNNECESSARY LODGES.
The Grand Master refers to the tendency, which has existed in
years gone by, to create Lodges unnecessarily, and under conditions

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

66

67

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

MISSOURI.
that contained no promise of their becoming vigorous, self-sustaining
and useful organizations, pointing out that· many of them had not been
well placed, that some of them which still exist are doing absolutely
nothing in the way of work; and he expresses the opinion that the
Grand Jurisdiction would be strengthened if some of these weak and
feeble Lodges should consolidate with neighboring Lodges, thereby
creating a more active Masonry, even if fewer Lodges. I-le asks the
Brethren to consider some of the statistics compiled by the Grand
Secretary, which show that of the 560 Lodges chartered by the Grand
Lodge since its organization, 184 have become defunct, a little 'Ilorc
than 30%, ~nd furthermore, that in the year 1915, thirty-eight Lodges
met only for the purpose of suspending members for non-payment of
dues (and incidentally to save the Lodges from having to pay Grand
Lodge dues on them). In 1915, 152 Lodges lost membership.
The condition discussed by the Grand Master exists in certain
other Grand Jurisdictions where the tendency has been to form new
Lodges without sufficient consideration to their probable success 111
the future.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
The Grand Master made a large number of official visits within
the year. He refers particularly to his several visits to the Masonic
Home and to the tri-state Easter services held at Memphis. Two
corner-stone ceremonies were conducted by the Grand Lodge within
the year; dispensations were issued to form two new Lodges; and
otherwise the Grand Master displayed commendable activity in the
discharge of the duties in connection with his exalted office.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Most Worshipful
Henry C. Yawn, Past Grand Master. He presents, in a condensed
and readable form, a review of the various Grand Jurisdictions, giving
California, 1915, brief but courteous consideration, with quotations
from the Annual Address of Grand Master Bledsoe.
G. FRl\Dl\RIC CuLLl\Ns, Grand Master, Wallerville.
FRl\Dl\RJC GORDON SPl\l\D, Grand Secretary, Vicksburg.

1916.

96th Annual, St. Louis, Sept. 19.
Lodges, 639; Membership, 66,853; Gain, 2887.
LARGEST LODGES.
Temple Lodge No. 299 ................................................................ 1250 Members
Jvanhoe Lodge No. 446 ............................................................... .1202
Mt. Moriah Lodge No. 40 .......................................................... 1058
THE NINETY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Ninety-sixth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Missouri, was convened at
Scottish Rite Cathedral, St. Louis, Sept. 19th, 1916, the Most Worshipful Frank R. Jesse, presiding.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, the justly
celebrated Moolah· Orchestra, composed of musicians, members of the
Shrine, in conjunction with the children of the Masonic Home, rendered a program of instrumental and vocal music for the entertainment
of the Grand Body, which program was highly appreciated, as expr.essed by the Grand Master in appropriate words of thanks rendered
at the conclusion of the program.
ADDRESS OF THE GRAND MASTER.
In the opening paragraphs of his Annual Address, the Grand
Master refers to the great war in progress in Europe, and gives expression to a sense of gratitude that our country was not involved
in the world struggle.
This condition is, regrettably, not true at the present time, but
America has never in her history evaded any responsibility which has
been thrust upon her, and has not refused now to take her place by the
side of those who are battling, as we believe, for the rights of humanity and liberty, and for the vindication of the principle of selfgovernment.
Grand Master Jesse expresses his belief that Freemasonry has
always been at the front of every movement which has for its purpose
the amelioration of the condition of mankind, affirming that it has
always stood strong and unfaltering for the right, amid the throes
and turmoil of contending factions, affirming that it has defied bigotry
and superstition in the middle ages, and that it has taken part, with
its influence, in all of the conflicts for right in the world's history;
that it has ever been the defender of justice and the protector of the
defenseless ; that it has been the guardian of the weak ; the friend of
education and the foe of ignorance; that it has been a bulwark of

68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDmNcm.

freedom, a comfort to the oppressed, and a relief to the distressed,
the widow and the fatherless, and he closes his eloquent tribute to
Masonry with the declaration "that it has withstood the acid test of
time, the horrors of war and the wreck of empire, and stands today
unchanged and changeless; faithful among the faithless; firm among
the faltering; steadfast in its purpose; supreme in its integrity; grand,
glorious, and eternal in its devotion to mankind."
MASONIC HOME.
The Grand Master refers with justifiable pride to the Masonic
Home of Missouri.
We quote his words concerning this great Masonic charity:
"Out on Delmar avenue in this city the Freemasons of Missouri
have erected a monument to that Masonic virtue which, 'next to a
belief in Deity, lies at the foundation of Freemasonry'; it is the
Masonic Home. In this splendid building and equipment we have a
concrete manifestation of that truly Masonic virtue, charity, without
which our beloved Institution could have never survived the shock
of the ages. The very genius of Freemasonry is Love, the spirit of
which not only unites its member5 in an unbroken phalanx as a band
of brothers, but overflows those bounds and expands into a stream
of Charity for all mankind."
DECISIONS.
The following are quoted from the decisions of the Grand Master,
as containing perhaps information that may be generally interesting:

"Question-An expelled Mason petitions for reinstatement, receives a two-thirds vote and is granted a certificate of good standing.
Does this entitle him to any other Masonic privilege than to petition
for membership? If so, what? Also, may he petition any Lodge in
the State for membership, or can he petition only the Lodge which
expelled him and which also .issued the certificate of good standing?
"Answer-Upon the case stated the party is not entitled to any
privilege other than to petition for membership. He may petition any
Lodge in this State if he has been a resident of this State for one year.
He is not required to petition only the Lodge which expelled him."
"Question-A brother is made a Master Mason in a Lodge in
Illinois which does not require an examination as to his proficiency
in the third degree. On demit from his Lodge in Illinois he is elected
to membership in a Lodge in Missouri and is elected an officer therein.
Will he have to stand an examination as to his proficiency in the third
degree before he can be installed?
"Answer-No. The Masonic status of a brother is fixed by the
law of the jurisdiction wherein he was made a Mason. Our law requiring an examination as to proficiency in the third degree, and imposing penalties for failure to do so, only applies to Master Masons
raised in this jurisdiction."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

69

"Question-Is one who is engaged in the manufacture of Weiss
beer containing two per cent alcohol eligible to petition for the degrees? Weiss beer is not considered an intoxicating liquor.
"Answer-No. Ten drinks of beer containing two per cent of alcohol is just as intoxicating as one drink of whisky containing twenty
per cent of alcohol, and makes you feel a great deal worse."
This decision might be defended, perhaps, upon the general principle of homeopathy,. that the higher the trituration, the higher the
power.
Of course, the ordinary mortal may fail to comprehend this process
and, in accordance with the same principles, a tankful of liquor, if the
human system were capable of absorbing it, might be intoxicating as
a glassful, with the same absolute quality of alcohol. condensed into
1.he smaller portion; and we would imagine that if a beverage containing not more than two per cent of alcohol is intoxicating, that
ordinary tea and coffee are equally as stimulating, and the habitual
user thereof ought to be as ineligible for the degrees of Masonry as
the one who partakes of the concoction declared illegal in the above
decision of the Grand Master.
MISCELLANEOUS.
The traveling silver trowel that we had almost lost track of, turns
up, so it appears from the report of Grand· Master Jessee, in Illinois,
for he speaks of a visit to Stephen Decatur Lodge No. 979 at Decatur,
Ill., held in honor of the Traveling Silver Trowel. This emblem and
symbol of Masonry, started on its journey several years ago by one
of the New York Lodges, will need to "speed up" or it will take an
eternity in getting around the world, and back home.
The Grand Master reports an interesting visit made by him to
Alexandria, Va., on Feb. 22nd, to the Washington Masonic Memorial
Association. This enterprise is receiving an increasing volume of support, but a number of years, we imagine, will need to elapse before
the enterprise is placed upon the substantial financial basis that will
enable it to go ahead with the construction of the proposed memorial
building.
ORATION.
The Annual Oration was delivered by the Grand Orator, Right
Worshipful George F. Rixey, in which he traces the origin and teachings of Freemasonry, asserting that the Institution exists today because
it is s·ought after, and has endeavored to teach the truth only; that
it has been free of sectarian bias; free of fraud and ostentation,
and that its practice and tenets have been addressed toward the uplift
of humanity; that it teaches self-control and charity in the best and
broadest sense; that it proclaims the universal Fatherhood of God and
the houndless Brotherhood of Man.

70

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

At the conclusion of Brother Rixey's eloquent Address, the thanks
of the Grand Lodge were by vote tendered to him, and his oration
was ordered printed in the Proceedings.
REPORT ON FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Fraternal Correspondence is by R:ev. C. C. W oo<ls.
D. D., Past Grand Master. Brother \Voods discusses several matters
of interest in the introduction of his report, and we quote what he
has to say concerning corner-stones. There may be some slight difference of opinion upon one or two of the conditions mentioned by him.
but, as a whole, the principles under which corner-srones are placed
by the :M:asonie Fraternity are correctly outlined:
"In this, as in much else, the. custom. and practice. of our Gr~ml
Lodges differ more or less. But 1f we mistake not-.w1thout dwell~ng
011 individual cases coming before us-the consensus ts that accordmg
to the principles of our Order :
"A corner-stone cannot be laid on the Sabbath day.
"A corner-stone cannot be laid for a framed or otherwise flimsy
building.
"A corner-stone cannot be laid after the wall is built above it.
"And
"A corner-stone laid by the hands of Freemasons sho1dd bear on
one of its faces the imprimatur of the Grand Lodge.
Brother \Voods' reviews of the various Grand Jurisdictions are
characterized by intelligent selection for quotation and discriminating
comment.
California, 1915, is generously reviewed with approved quotations
trom the Address of Grand ).faster Bledsoe.
EDWARD HIGBEE, Grand Master, Kirksville.
JoHN R'. PARSON, Grand Secretary, St. Louis.

MONTANA.
1916.

52nd Annual, Butte, Aug. 30-31.
Lodges, 101; Membership, 9902; Gain, 921.
Largest Lodge, Missoula Lodge No. 13, 381 ).{embers.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted :M:asons of
Montana held its Fifty-second Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple at Butte, August 30, 1916, Grand ).faster Dr. Robert
vV. Getty in the Chair, and concluded at the town of Virginiathe place of its birth-on Friday, Sept. 1, 1916.

71

A large number of Special Communications were held within
the year, to lay corner-stones; to dedicate .Masonic Halls; to constitute Lodges, etc.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS.
After the opening of the Grand Lodge in Ample Form, a
number of visitors were received, among them being Brother Sol
Star, the oldest Past Grand Master of the Jurisdiction, and who
was the eighth Grand Master of the Jurisdiction; and also Brother
A. ]. Poznansky, \,;ho was the first Junior Grand \Varden of the
Grand Lodge.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The report of the Grand Master is very complete arid businesslike, and he calls attention in the opening paragraphs of his Address, to the fact that this is the Fiftieth Anniversary of the founding of the Grand Lodge, as follows:
"This Grand Lodge has come to the fiftieth year of its existence.
Born amidst the turmoil and strife incident to the influx into the Territory of men in the search of wealth, to be obtained lawfully by some,
and unlawfully by others; and when we revert to the beginning of this
Grand Lodge, note its small membership, of, I believe, only nine Brethren, and then view this large assemblage here today, we can hardly realize that this Grand Lodge has made such growth, in Subordinate Lodges
and in membership."
He refers to the awful calamity in Europe, and believes that
out of the war will arise a new Civilization, which will march under
one banner, upon which will be inscribed "Peace on earth; good
will toward men."
NECROLOGY.
Two members of the Grand Lodge of this jurisdiction were
called to their final rest, Past Grand Master, Brother John Griffith
Bair, and W. Senior Grand Steward, Brother Charles C. Proctor.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GRAND MASTER.
The Grand Master constituted nine new Lodges to which
charters had been granted at the previous Annual Communication; he issued dispensations to form six new Lodges; he made
a number of official visitations to subordinates; he laid cornerstones to four buildings; a small number of decisions were rendered by him.
MASONIC HOME.
The Grand Master reports a marked improvement in the management of the Home, and states that the residents there are happy
and contented. A great many improvements are being made in
the buildings to add to the comfort of the guests.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

i2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

SEMI-CENTENNIAL EXERCISES AT BUTTE.
The meeting was opened at the High School Auditorium
August 31, 1916, with an invocation, after which the audience was
favored with a vocal selection, which was well received. M.". w::
Brother H. S. Hepner then addressed the audience, as did, also,
Grand Master Allen. A very interesting Address on the Historical
Phase of the Celebration was presented by Brother Lew L. Callaway, Past Grand Master, which was printed in full in the Proceedings.
On September 1st, the Grand Lodge journeyed to Alder and
Virginia City, Virginia City being the former capital of the Territory and rjch in historic interest to Montana, where the Masons
finally repaired to the Old Masonic Temple, built in 1867, now
occupied as the hall of Virginia City and Montana Lodges, and at
this session it was moved and carried to purchase the ground and
property of the first meeting place of the Grand Lodge in Montana, and erect thereon a Monument to those Brothers who participated in its creation.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
There is a report on Foreign Correspondence prepared by
Past Grand Master H. S. Hepner, this being his eighth review on
Correspondence. It is written with splendid discrimination, California, 1915, being courteously considered.

:w:. \V.". DR. R. W. GETTY, Grand Master, Milltown.
R.". \V.". CORNELIUS HEDGES JR., Grand Secretary, Helena.

NEBRASKA.
1916.

59th Annual, Omaha, June 6-7.
Lodges, 270; Membership, 23,664; Gain, 1359.
LARGEST LODGES.
Covert Lodge No. 11 ------------·-··-------··------·-------·-···--·-····-·-------·800 Members
St. John's Lodge No. 25 ····--··----------··--------------------··------··------718
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society
of Free and Accepted Masons of Nebraska met in Annual Communication in Freemasons' Hall, Omaha, on June 6, 1916, Most
Worshipful Samuel S. Whiting, Grand Master, presiding.

73

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
_The subject which receives the position of honor in the Grand
Master's Address is the Nebraska Masonic Home, several pages
of the Address being devoted to consideration of this beneficent
institution. He is glad to observe that the Masonic Home is on
a firm foundation, the Brethren manifesting a marked willingness
to contribute to the maintenance of the institution. The trustees, he observes, have no complaint to make touching the liberality of the Grand Lodge in supplying funds, and the only reward
the trustees desire is the appreciation and the good will of the
Brethren.
In addition to the regular Masonic Home, there has been, in
accordance with instructions .issued by the Grand Lodge a year
ago, erected at Fremont, a substantial cottage for girls, and he
announces that there are now thirteen children at the Home at·
Fremont, in addition to a number of boys still at the Home .at
Plattsmouth. Nebraska has seen the wisdom, as did California,
of separating the beneficiaries of our Masonic Homes, placing
the elderly people in one Home, and children in a separate institution.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
Dispensations were granted to form two new Lodges within
the year, and the several Lodges which received charters at the
previous Annual Communication were duly constituted and officers
installed.
Public ceremonies of placing comer-stones of public buildings
took place upon six occasions within the year, and a large number
of visitations to Subordinate Lodges were made by the Grand
Master to the great benefit and advantage of the Lodges so
favored.
DECISIONS.
The following decisions were made by the Grand Master
within the year:
"I have made the followin·g decisions:
"A lodge room cannot be legally dedicated, if it is occupied by
other bodies, unless they are auxiliary bodies.
"A candidate wearing an immovable ring is not thereby debarred
from receiving the degrees of Masonry.
"I decided that a petition, received February 15th, 1916, could not
be acted t•pon at th next regular meeting, March 14th, 1916, the law requiring petitions to lie over one lunar month."

74

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

75

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEN01:!J.
ORATION.
At the evening session of the first day of the Annual Communication, the Oration was delivered by Worshipful Brother Charles
L. Richards, Grand Orator. The Grand Orator's address consisted
of an exposition of Masonic principles. He pointed out the fact
that there is no conflict between Christianity and Freemasonry,
but rather a co-operation between the two.
He shows clearly that Masonry stands for true and genuine
charity, for enlarging the facilities for the care of the unfortunate,
and that Masonry, by her acts, shows that we are living in an
age of deeds as well as words, whereby the Brotherhood of Man
means more today than it has ever meant before, which permits
us to cherish the belief that the day of hatred and distrust is
passing away, to be succeeded by an era of generosity, unselfishness and kindness.
At the conclusion of the Oration, the Past Grand Master,
John A. Ehrhardt, moved, and it was voted and carried unanimously, that the thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered to the Orator,
and that the Address be published with the Proceedings.
PROMOTION· OF WORLD'S PEACE.
In accordance with the fashion of 1916 among Masonic Grand
Lodges, there was the appointment, at this Communication, and in
due . course, the report of the Committee on Promotion of the
World's Peace. There was an idea prevalent about a year ago
that the promotion of the world's peace might be brought about
possibly by the adoption of Resolutions of Fraternal Organizations and the issuance of polished rhetoric from authoritative
sources, urging upon the warring nations of Europe that the only
sure pathway to tranquillity was "peace without victory," and
Nebraska was no exception to the rule, in that a committee of this
character was duly appointed, but developments in the world's
history within the last twelve months has demonstrated that the
only way to secure peace, and peace with the triumph of the
principles of liberty and freedom, is to fight for it; and not only tb
fight, but to fight until peace with victory is attained and military
despotism is eternally destroyed.
MASONIC HO:\fES.
An interesting and valuable table containing information concerning Masonic Homes is presented in the Pwceedings of Nebraska, and becanse of the valuable data set forth in the report,
it is copied and presented herewith:

.:
!!

"'c

M
:!

"');!

r.1

1%1

0

,ii

~

15 ....
~

="'o:!

~

z

0

"'::;J
-<

~

lil!I

~s:

•

~1-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENeE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

NEVADA.

Owing to the death within the year of Past Grand Master
Charles J. Phelps, who had been writing the reports on Correspondence for a number of years, the Grand Master appointed
as Chairman of the Committee, Past Grand Master John A.
Ehrhardt.

1916.

76

A special report was made by Committee on Foreign Correspondence upon recognition of Grand Lodges, and in accordance
with the recommendations of that report, the so-called Regional
Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands was denied recognition,
thereby confirming fully the recognition previously extended to
the regular Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
Recognition was also denied for the time being, at least, to
the so-called Independent Grand Lodge of France.
The regular report on Foreign Correspondence is also by
Chairman Ehrhardt, and in his Introduction, he expresses appreciation of the opportunity of being permitted to familiarize himself with the great work being done by the Masonry throughout
the world.
His report is a condensed, although an extremely well written
Review of the various Grand Jurisdictions. He considers California, 1915, in a kindly manner, referring with well-chosen quotations to the scholarly Address of Grand Master Bledsoe.
Reference is made, also, to the masterly Oration delivered
by Worshipful Brother Matt S. Hughes.
In his Introduction, Brother Ehrhardt expresses the apprehension that this report may be not only the first one from his
hand, but the last, also. We trust that this fear may not be realized, because he shows eminent fitness for the duties which he
has so capably discharged for the current year.
M.'. W.'. ANDREW H. VEILE, Grand Master, Norfolk.
R.'. w:. FRANCIS :E. WHr'.tE, Grand Secretary, Omaha.

77

52nd Annual, Reno, June 13-14.
Lodges, 23; Membership. 1975; Gain, 2.
Largest Lodge, Reno Lodge No. 13, 357 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Fifty-second Annual Grand Communication of the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Nevada was held at the Masonic Temple, in the City of Reno, commencing Tuesday, June 13th, 1916,
Grand Master Benjamin \V. Coleman presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master made a business-like statement of his official activities within the year, stating there were no matters of
great importance demanding his consideration.
He states that while many from the -constituent Lodges have
been called to their reward, the members of the Grand Lodge
have been spared.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE YEAR.
The Grand Master made a large number of visitations during
the year to Subordinate Lodges.
At the last Annual Communication, a resolution was passed
to appoint a Master of Instruction, and the Grand Master made
such appointment. The work of the Master of Instruction is to
hold schools of instructions in several places in the jurisdiction,
saving the expense of having the Master of Instruction, Brother
Past Grand Master.David, visit every Lodge in the jurisdiction.
Grand Master Coleman did not find it necessary to render
any decision on Masonic law; he issued dispensation to form one
new Lodge; he received an invitation to attend the Washington
Masonic National Memorial Association, held at Alexandria, Va.,
but was unable to attend, and appointed Brother William H. Sands
to represent him; he recommended a Masonic Magazine to be
published by a Supreme Grand
of Free and Accepted
Masons.
Commenting upon the world war, he says:
"May the spirit of this great Fraternity so permeate our o~~ation
that the brazen monster of conquest may never rear his head among us,
and. that this prayer may be realized, let us remember the words-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

'iS

"'Woe to the robber who gathers
In fields where he never has sown,
Who has ~tolen the jewels of others,
And builded to mammon a throne.
" 'For the throne of his god shall be cr~mbled,
And the scepter be swept from his hand,
And the heart of the haughty be humbled,
And a servant be chief in the land.
"'For the Lord of the harvest hat~ said it,
Whose lips never uttered a be,
.
And his prophets and poets have read it,
In symbols of earth and of sky;
"'That to him who hath reveled in plunder
'Ti! the angel of conscience is dumb,
The shock of the earthquake and thund,e,;.
And tempest and torrent shall come.
MASONIC HOME.
Nevada has no Masonic Home, but at this Communication
passed a resolution to set ·aside each year ten per cent ?f. the gross
revenues as a Grand Lodge Charity Fund, to be admm1st~r~d by
the Trustees of the Fund, and thus take care of the charities of
the jurisdiction.
FLAG DAY RESOLUTION.
It was recommended that the American Flag be placed in
the Grand Lodge Room, and also in the Lodge Room of every
constituent Lodge within the jurisdiction.
ORATIO~-

The annual Oration was delivered by Grand Orator Brother
Lloyd B. Thomas, his subject being "The Trowel-The Implement of International Peace," and a vote of thanks of. the Grand
Lodge of Nevada was extended to the Brother for his scholarly
effort.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

The report on Foreign Correspondence is by ~ost .Worshi.pful Brother Edward D. Vanderlieth. His _rep~rt is wntte~ with
splendid discrimination. California, 1915, is liberally considered
in a courteous and fraternal spirit. Quotations are made from the
Address of the Grand Master, Benjamin F. Bledsoe.
ALFRED Vv. HoLMES, Grand Master, Reno.
M:. \V:. EDWARD D. VANDI'.RLIETH, Grand Secretary, Carson City.

79

NEW BRUNSWICK.
1916.

49th Annual, St. John, April 25-26.
Lodges, 39; Membership, 3768; Increase, 101..
Largest Lodge, St. John's Lodge No. 2, 222 Members.
THE FORTY-NINTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Forty-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted
Masons of New Brunswick, was held at Freemasons' Hall in the
City of St. John on Tuesday, the 25th day of April, 1916, the Most
Worshipful Hedley V. B. Bridges, LL. D., presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The thought uppermost in the minds of all of the Canadian
Jurisdictions is the great war in which the British Empire is
involved, and this thought is emphasized in the opening paragraphs
of Grand Master Bridges' Address.
He states that it has been estimated that Canadian Masons
to the number of ten thousand have already enlisted for foreign
service, and that many Brethren of the Craft have laid down their
lives in defense of liberty and freedom.
He refers with pleasure to the increase in membership within
the year, but takes greater pleasure in the knowledge that Masonry
is capably fulfilling her mission and discharging her duties within
the Province.
He refers feelingly to the Brethren who have been called to
their reward within the year, giving especial honor to those after
whose names are written the words "killed in action."
His official visitations within the year included practically
every Lodge in the jurisdiction. He accords special praise to the
District Deputies, whose activities have been highly commendable,
thereby showing themselves to be strong and efficient officers in
discharge of their duties.
In closing his excellent Address, he refers with pride to the
progress made by Freemasonry in the Province in the last fifty
years, noting particularly the increase within the last few years
of the element of enthusiasm, whereby a higher standard has been
created, to the end that the outlook for the future of the Craft
is exceedingly bright. He affirms his belief that Masonry is an
organization of strong and sturdy men, who are striving, according

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

to their best light, "to act upon the square, to uphold the leaven
of truth, and to walk uprightly before God and man."
As he comprehends Masonry, it impresses itself with especial
force in these times of war and stress and tragedy that it is a liie
of duty and service, and he feels that each individual Mason is
learning the lesson, as the Great Empire, to which the Province
belongs, is learning the lesson, that through pain and peril,
through distress and danger, through want and suffering, that
war is the curse of the ages; that peace is a divine boon; that
selfishness is almost the supreme evil, and that it is "more blessed
to give than to receive."

in the death of their Grand Master, George Edward Bales, who,
the few months he was left to serve, proved well qualified for the
trust placed upon him. That he always had the good of others
uppermost, was shown during his lifetime in active work in the
building of the Masonic Home at Manchester, and of which he
was Trustee until his death.

FOREIGN RELATIONS.
Consideration was given by the Committee on Foreign Relations to the request for recognition as a Sovereign Grand Body
by the Grand Lodge, Philippine Islands, and in accordance with
the recommendation of that Committee, the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands was formally recognized as a Sovereign Grand
Body, and the cordial good will of the Grand Lodge of New
Brunswick was extended to the new Grand Lodge.

M:. w:. HEDLEY V. B. BRIDGES, Grand Master, Fredericton.
R.'. w:. J. TWINING HARTT, Grand Secretary, St. John.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
1917.
128th Annual, Manchester, Dec. 27.
Lodges, 80; Membership, 11,111; Gain, 53.
Largest Lodge, St. John's Lodge No. 1, 422 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The One Hundred Twenty-eighth Annual Communication of
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable
Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of N~w
Hampshire was held at Freemasons' Hall, in the City of Concord,
Wednesday, May 16, 1917, with R.'. w:. Abraham L. Garmon,
Deputy Grand Master, in the Chair; the Grand Master, M.'. w:.
Brother George Edward Bales, having departed this life during
the year.
ADDRESS OF ACTING GRAND MASTER.
R.'. w:. Brother Garmon, in the opening paragraphs of his
Address, calls attention to the irreparable loss of the Grand Lodge

81

·Brother Garmon refers to the harvest of the Grim Reaper in
this Jurisdiction, including M.'. w:. Holman Arthur Drew, who
was Grand Master in 1913; Thomas Perkins Cheney, Senior Past
District Grand Master; Henry Eben Burnham, Grand Master in
1885, and others.
·
Grand Master Bales, during that portion of the term of office
for which he was spared, granted dispensations to hold Special
Communications and to conf~r degrees; he rendered one decision,
as follows:
"After his application for the degrees of Masonvy had been read in
a Lodge having jurisdiction over him, and before a ballot had been
taken on the application, the petitioner moved into the jurisdiction of
another Lodge.

"Qu•e.stion-Has the Lodge to which he made the application the
right to ballot on the same ?
"Answer-Yes, the said Lodge has jurisdiction over said petitioner."
MASONIC HOME.
The Masonic Home of this Jurisdiction is the pride of all New
Hampshire Masons, and has just completed a successful year.

In his Conclusion, the Acting Grand Master states that he
endeavored to carry out every known wish of their departed Grand
Master, and, as well as possible, to fill his place in the affairs of
the Grand Body.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is a very comprehensive review by Harry M. Cheney, being his eleventh report
From his preliminary remarks, we excerpt the following:
"Everywhere brotherhood is holding fast to its ideals, with astonishing accretions of those who are eager to join in the uplifting mission
of ou; institution. It seems to be permitted the Correspondence writers to say, annually, that there has never been such advance before, as
in the year just gone. That is true this year, as it has been true for
many years. There are spots here and there of which this may not be
said, in all frankness, bµt taking a comprehensive view of the condition
of the fraternity, as a whole, it is so. Our membership is larger; our
finances are in better shape; our benevolences are increasing; our faith
and hope have been heightened.

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"The r;nan who is a member of a Masonic Lodge has every reason
to be happier than ever."

*

*

*

"I wd~e .these lines in mid-April days, wherein have been provoked
many anxieties, because of our national step into the maelstrom of
war. . I am one who. believ~s th.at it is all a part of God's plan, whereby this .great and ;1ch natwn IS to he an agency in making this old
world better than It has ever been before. Freemasons are the type
of mei:i "."ho must ?ee it through. In this struggle the national· and
Mason.1c 1dea_ls are m. ful.l accord. May it end soon, but not until it is
made 1mposs1ble for its hke to terrorize the earth again."
California, 1916, is fraternally considered.

M:. w:. ABRAHAM L. GARMON, Grand Master Manchester
tt:. w:. HARRY M. CHENEY, P. G. M., Grand Secretary, C~ncord.
NEW JERSEY.
1917.
!30th Annual, Trenton, April 18-19.
Lodges, 199; Membership, 44,381; Gain, 2124.
Largest Lodge, Trimble No. 117, 838 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
A number of Emergent Communications were held during the
year to lay corner-stones, constitute Lodges, etc.
The Annual Communication was held at Trenton, April 18th
a~d 19th, 1917, Grand Master M:. w:. William R. Meakle, presiding. One hundred ninety-one of the one hundred ninetv-nine
Lodges were represented.
•
After the opening of the Grand Lodge, "Old Hundred" was
sung, under the leadership of the Grand Organist.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Address is a brief one, necessitated on account of the
Grand Master's r.ecent illness. He refers to the frightful toll
exacted by the .gnm messenger of Death during the year, among
those called being Grand Secretary, Right \V orshipful Theodore
B. Townley, and Most Worshipful Benjamin F. Wakefield.
. The jurisdiction is in a thriving condition, the membership
bemg the largest of any Masonic year in the history of this Grand
Jurisdiction, evidencing that men seeking higher ideals in !if
e
find this growth in the Masonic ranks.
T~e Grand Master constituted three new Lodges; issued dispensations to form four new Lodges; laid two corner-stones; and
made a large number of visitations to Subordinate Lodges.

83

MASONIC HOME.
The Masonic Home Committee was instructed at this Communication to prepare a suitable account of the activities of the
Masonic Home, experiences, hopes and prospects, to be furnished
all the Subordinate Lodges, that the good this Home is doing
may be generally known. There was introduced at this Communication, the oldest resident of the Home, age 91 years, as well
as the youngest, age four years, showing the vast scope of the
Home in its usefulness.
Grand Honors were accorded to Right Worshipful Brother
Henry S. Haines, Grand Instructor, who has given forty-six years
of uninterrupted service in various representative capacities, a record in this Grand Jurisdiction.
OLD MASONIC TEMPLE.
The old Masonic Temple has been completely restored and
presented to the Grand Lodge by the Masonic Historical Association of Trenton, and is to be preserved to posterity not only as
a Masonic Museum, but a connecting link between the everchanging present and the definitely~fixed past.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS.
After the Grand !.1aster's Address, distinguished v1s1tors were
received from Delaware-Most \Vorshipful Brother Stuart J. Horn,
Grand Master; Right \Vorshipful Brother George B. Hynson.
Deputy Grand Master; Right Worshipful Brother Frank B. Newell,
Junior Grand Warden; Most Worshipful Brother Thomas J. Day,
Past Grand !.faster of the Grand Lodge of Delaware. The visitors
were received and welcomed and accorded the Grand Honors.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report is submitted by Robert A. Shirrefs, Chairman of
the Committee, being a review of sixty-four Grand Lodges. California, 1916, is briefly considered.

M:. \V:. \VILLIAM M. THOMPSON, Grand Master, Trenton.
R:. \V:. ISAAC CHERRY, Grand Secretary, Elizabeth.

84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

NEW MEXICO.
1916.

39th Annual, East Las Vegas, Oct. 9-10-11.
Lodges, 45; Membership, 3737; Gain, 173.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Thirty-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of New Mexico was held
in the hall of Chapman Lodge No. 2, i~ the City of East Las
Vegas, beginning Oct. 9, 1916, the Most ·worshipful Amos W.
Pollard, Grand ::\faster, presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master's high conception of Masonry is set forth
in the opening paragraphs of his Address, from which we quote
as follow~:
"Masonry is vastly important to us as it is our inspiration, our
philosophy and our religious guidance; to some of us it is our religion,
if it may be so termed.
"Masonry has always been a potent influence for good in every
community, a builder of character and of good citizenship, ever subservient and obedient to the laws of the state and never waivering in its
allegiance. It is a leveler· of persons in every rank and state of life,
recognizing every Mason as a brother and an equal. Our lives are but
passing events in the world, pawns in the game of life, living entities
today and gone tomorrow, but Masonry will continue in its present
high plane so long as this world shall survive. The whole world may
be at war and nations and empires crumble and fall, but the ravages
of warfare will not affect the principles upon which Masonry is founded
and it will rise up from the ashes of such devastation and ruin unsullied
and unchanged.
"Is it not an honor to be enrolled a member of an institution that
stands for right living, correct thinking, a high standard of morality,
with tolerance for the belief of every man, with charity for all mankind?
"It is the inspiring and elevating things in Masonry that have drawn·
us together today as one band of fellows, and not the legislative or
social functions of this meeting. So in our deliberations let us not
forget the beautiful tenets of our institution, ever remembering to encompass them with legislation that will reflect credit and honor upon
us as Masons."
DECISIONS.
As evidence that the ever-present question of the status of a
Mason in arrears for dues is troublesome in New Mexico, as well
as in other jurisdictions, the following is quoted from the "decisions" of Grand Master Pollard:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

85

Question-Is a member of any Lodge in: good standing if he has
allowed his dues to become delinquent one or more years, taking into
consideration the fact that the said member has not been suspended,
that his dues have not been remitted and that the Lodge is paying his
per capita tax to the Grand Lodge? When does a member cease to be
in good standing?
"Held-The good standing of a member of a Lodge is affected
solely by suspension or expulsion. Non-payment of dues is not of itself
a Masonic offense. A member ceases to be in good standing only upon
conviction after due trial."
This apparently passed the Jurisprudence Committee, but can
hardly be the law, even in New Mexico.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GRAND MASTER.
That every Lodge in the jurisdiction might receive the benefit
of an official visitation from either the Grand Master or one of
the other elective Grand Officers, he divided the Lodges of the
jurisdiction into four groups, allowing one group to each of the
principal Grand Officers, and in this manner every Lodge in the
jurisdiction received an official visitation from one of the high
officials, and a number of the Lodges were favored by visitations
from more than one of the Grand Officers.
The recommendation of the Grand ~faster that this method
of division be adopted as a permanent regulation of the jurisdiction, however, was not adopted, the presumption being that this
feature of the Masonic work ought properly be left to the judgment and discretion of future Grand Masters from year to year.
Numerous dispensations for various purposes were issued by
the Grand Master, and extensive correspondence between the Grand
Master of New Mexico and the Grand Masters of other jurisdictions over controverted points is set forth in the Grand Master's
Address, a spirit of fraternity and good will characterizing the
exchanges of letters between the ruling officials of the different
jurisdictions.
ANTI-LIQUOR LEGISLATION.
Legislation was adopted whereby not only are those who are
engaged in the retail liquor business rendered ineligible to membership, but those already members of the Fraternity who, after
becoming members, engage in this business are rendered liable
to expulsion from the Fraternity, which legislation is along the
lines of the provisions of our California law, and in harmony with
the general trend of Masonic legislation throughout the United
States.
THE REPORT ON FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Foreign Correspondence is by the ·worshipful John Milne.
He reviews in a painstaking manner the various Grand Jurisdic-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

tions, giving courteous consideration to California, 1915. In his
report on California, he states that the Grand Orient of Italy was
recognized as a Sovereign Grand Lodge by California. As a matter of fact, this was not the action taken by California, in 1915, the
resolution adopted being to the effect that after the Grand Orient
of Italy shall withdraw certain of its Lodges chartered by it in
several American Grand Jurisdictions, thereby annulling its invasion of the territory and rights of other Grand Lodges, then the
question of the recognition of the Grand Orient of Italy would
receive serious, and probably favorable, consideration for its claim
for recognition from the Grand Lodge of California.
Our personal opinion upon the subject as to whether or not
the Grand Orient of Italy, entirely aside from the question of her
invasion of the territory of other Grand Lodges, is entitled to
recognition as a Sovereign Grand Lodge of Ancient Craft Masonry
may be of slight impurtance, but, in our opinion, even if the question of the invasion had not been charged against her, the Grand
Orient of Italy is not entitled to recognition as a Sovereign Grand
Lodge of Ancient Craft Masons, for other good and sufficient
reasons.
ALONZO B. McMtLLEN, Grand Master, Albuquerque.
ALPHEUS A. KlltN, Grand Secretary, Albuquerque.

NEW SOUTH WALES.
1916.

28th Annual, Sydney, June 14.
Lodges, 265; .Membership, 22,465; Gain, 963.
Largest Lodge, Monoah Lodge No. 41, 235 Members.
GRAND LODGE COMMUNICATIONS.
The Volume of Proceedings under consideration embraces the
reports of the various Quarterly Communications from Sept.· 8,
1915, up to and including the Quarterly of June 14, 1916. which is
also the Annual Communication.
In the Volume are also recorded the Proceedings of the
Special Communications of June 13, 1916, and July 7, 1916, at
which time the Investiture of Grand Lodge Officers for the ensuing Masonic year took place.
The various Communications were presided over by the Most
"Worshipful Grand ~faster, Brother \Villiam Thompson, who was

87

at the Quarterly Communication of June, 1916, re-elected to succeed himself as Grand Master for the third term.
The outstanding feature of all of the Communications throughout the year concerns the great war in which the British Empire
is engaged, and the highest memorials contained in the book are
the various "Rolls of Honor" printed in connection with each
Quarterly Communication, being lists of Brethren, active members of the various Subordinate Lodges, who have enlisted with
the Australian Expeditionary Forces, and the lists of those reported "killed at the Dardanelles," and elsewhere. The individual
names listed in these "Rolls of Honor" aggregate several thousand, and indicate that probably from ten per cent to fifteen per
cent of the Masons of this Jurisdiction have enlisted in the cause
of liberty against military domination and oppression.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
At each of the Quarterly Communications, the Grand Master
delivered an Address, setting forth official actions, from which it
appears that the year was an active period for the Grand Lodge,
in which several new Lodges were constituted, and dispensations
issued to form other new Lodges, and that, notwithstanding the
great war, this Jurisdiction shows a degree of growth and prosperity greater than any year, perhapS, in the history of the Grand
Body.
In one of his Addresses, the Grand Master refers feelingly to
the death of one of the eminent English Masons in the person of
Lord Kitchener, who was Grand Warden of England in 1897,
District Grand Master of Egypt and the Soudan in 1889, and District Grand Master of the Punjaub in 1902.
The Grand Master refers to Lord Kitchener's famous message
to his soldiers, which breathed the true spirit of Freemasonry, and
to his untiring efforts in promoting amongst the soldiers the great
principles of temperance. sobriety and morality. It afforded evidence that he ever had before him the high ideals of our glorious
Institution.
The Grand Master refers to Lord Kitchener's visit to Sydney,
some six years ago, and states that the Craft will ever treasure
the memory of that great occasion.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by a Committee of
five, of whom Very \Vorshipful Brother S. Scott-Young is chairman.

88

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The report is an intelligent review of a number of Grand Jurisdictions, with which New South Wales is in fraternal correspondence.
California seems to be omitted from the report, our Volume
of Proceedings evidently having failed to reach the chairman of
the Committee.
The following paragraphs are quoted from the report of the
Foreign Corespondence Committee, showing that in the opinion of
this Committee, correspondence with other Grand Jurisdictions
scattered throughout the world has a tendency to enlarge the vision
of the individual jurisdictions, and overcome the tendency, which
ofttimes exists in particular jurisdictions, to wrap themselves, so
to speak, in a cloak of "insular conceit" and condemn any practice to which the particular jurisdiction may not be accustomed:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

89

NEW YORK.
1917.

126th Annual, New York City, May 1.
Lodges, 861; Membership, 203,716; Gain, 6293.
LARGJIST LODGES,

Genessee Falls Lodge No. 507 ..... ,.................................... 1657 Members
Yonnondio Lodge No. 163 ................................................ 1603
Central City Lodge No. 305 ................................................ 1271
Syracuse Lodge No. 501 ...................................................... 1067
Washington Lodge No. 240 ................................................ 1004
"
Binghampton Lodge No. 177 ............................................ 1001
Valley Lodge No. 109 ......................................................... 1000
"

"We are apt to wrap ourselves in a cloak of insular conceit and
condemn any practice to which we are not accustomed· this be~ause
our mind becomes contracted and moves in but a small o'rbit. 'If, however, w~ study ~he manners and customs of our fraternity in other
l<:nds, with. a desire for knowledge, we shall soon find that each point of
difference is founded on some sound reason or some ancient tradition
has its origin in some fact or legend which, like the familiar symbol~
common to us all, conveys a high moral lesson.
,

ANNUAL COM~IUNICATION.
The 126th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of New York was opened in
the Grand Lodge Room, Masonic Hall, City of New York, in the
afternoon of May 1, A. D. 1917, Most 'Worshipful Thomas Penney,
Grand Master, presiding.

"Such a study will enlarge our orbit, and as we move in the more
extended _sphere and s~rvey .the M_asonic world f:om pole to pole, we
shall realize the vast d11nens10ns ot the great Society of which we are
units, how wi4e its embrace,. how beneficent its influence, and, it may
be that, becommg. obsessed wit~ a sense of the deep re?ponsibility such
as our membership should enta!l, we shall walk worthily of our privilege, and endeavor to demonstrate to those around us both in our home
life and business connections, that it is not in vain that we have seen the
light, but that the effect of the revelation has been to purify our lives,
to ennoble our characters, and to make us better husbands, fathers, citizens, masters and servants."
-

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The patriotic fervor animating the Grand Master is disclosed in
the following paragraphs from the opening portion of his Address:
"Now we are called upon 'to fight for the things which we have
always carried nearest our hearts; for democracy; for the ultimate
peace of the world; for th,e rights of nations, great and small; and the
privilege of men everywhere to choose their way of life and of obedience.'
"It is our sincere belief that in this crisis, perhaps the greatest
in the history of our country, as in the earlier days, we will stand a
united people, irrespective of the place of our birth or that of our forefathers, ready 'to dedicate our lives and our fortunes, everything that
we are and everything that we have, for this, our beloved country."

M:. w:. Bro. WM. THOMPSON, Grand Master.
ARTHUR H. BRAY, Grand Secretary, Sydney.

OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
As is usual in this great Jurisdiction, the one who presides
as Grand Master is called upon to devote practically his entire
time to the duties of his exalted station.
In his Report, the Grand Master enumerates a long list of
his activities, and of the many "ceremonies" conducted by him
within the year; possibly greatest prominence being given to the
official visitation on June 25th to the Masonic Home at Utica. On
this occasion, the Grand Master was accompanied by his staff of
Grand Officers, and probably more than one hundred distinguished
Masons from' various parts of the Jurisdiction.

REPORT ON t:~RRES?ONDENCK

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Another notable visitation made by the Grand Master was to
the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania at
Philadelphia on Dec. 29th, 1916, upon which occasion he was
accompanied by a large number of his associate Grand Officers.
Dispensations were granted for the establishment of six new
Lodges.
MASONIC HOME.
Concerning the great Masonic charity of the Jurisdiction, that
is, the Home at Utica, the Grand Master refers to it as a splendid
monument of the Fraternity, expressing in concrete form the great
heart and generous instincts of the Craft.
This institution gathers within its sheltering arms probably
the largest number of beneficiaries of any institution of its kind
in the world. The membership of the institution at this date consists of 171 men, 117 women, 83 boys, and 67 girls, a total of 438,
who are receiving the benefits of this wonderful Masonic charity.
The investment in the Home, and the properties sustaining
the Home, amount of several million dollars, and the annual disbursement for the care of its beneficiaries runs into hundreds of
thousands of dollars.
PATRIOTIC DEMONSTRATION.
At one of the sessions of the Annual Communication, patriotic demonstrations took place in which the Masons of New York
pledged themselves to the support of the government in this
crisis in the world's affairs; and the following resolution, expressive of these sentiments, was unanimously adopted:

"Resolved, That we, the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York, in annual communication assembled,
pledge to the government of the United States our unswerving support,
and to our country our best efforts, our fortunes, and our lives, to the
end that victory may crown our arms, and government of the people, by
the people, for the people, may not perish from the earth."
After the adoption of the above resolution, Brother Theodore
Roosevelt, a member of the Fraternity, former President of the
United States, was introduced to the Grand Lodge, and favored
the Grand Body with a stirring and thoroughly American address,
from which we quote two brief paragraphs as follows:

"It was a fine thing for the Grand Lodge as its first work to pass
this resolution that I have in my hand. I congratuate you, Brothers
and Master. It is a fine thing to have laid down so clearly the principles ~or which we are fighting no:w. the principles of freedom and justice,
the liberty of all peoples, the nght of small nations to govern themselves free from aggression, the duty of this great democracy to try
to support the common policy of the free peoples as they have against
the governments which deny freedom to their peoples.

*

*

*

91

"Now I for one-and one of the odd amenities of our political life
has heen th~t some of the same gentlemen who have been most active
in preventing us from organizing in our own defense, and who have been
able to remain in safety behind the shield of the British flag, have
passed their time in making faces at Great Britain. But l am not content
to owe my safety or owe the safety of this nation to the British flag
or any other flag or any other army than our own. I want to see
Uncle Sam able to help his neighbors, when they do right, and to defend himself from them if they go wrong. And T want to see us take
steps that will make ns a factor for the peace of righteousness throughout the globe."
The address of the former President of the United States was
listened to with rapt attention, and was followed, at its conclusion, with a whirlwind of prolonged applause.
The Grand Lodge was also visited at this time by Hon. vVilliam Renwick Ridell, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ontario; and Brother Ridell was, at the conclusion of the address· of
Brother Roosevelt, introduced, and he, too, made a stirring and
patriotic appeal.
Brother Ridell was followed by Brother Louis A. Watres,
Right Worshipful Grand Master of Pennsylvania, with a speech
fitting to the occasion, after which the Most Worshipful Sydney
A. Luke, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Canada, also spoke,
and then other distinguished Brethren, making the occasion one
of the most notable of its kind iri the history of any Grand Lodge.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is from the usual committee, of which Most Worshipful Brother William Sherer is
Chairman.
As being of general interest, the following is quoted from the
"Introduction" of his report:
"At this time your Committee feels that it would not be out of
place to call attention to the high stand taken by the Brethren two
hundred years ago. It is just two hundred years since, on St. John
Baptist's Day, June 24th, 1717, an assembly was held at the Goose and
Gridiron Alehouse in London and 'with the oldest Master Mason
(now the Master of a Lodge) in the chair,' elected and installed Anthony Sayer Grand Master and formed the Grand Lodge of England.

*

*

*

"Ancient Charges and ceremonies, called from many sources, were
compared, digested and adapted to modern conditions and a Constitution and Charges were formulated which enunciated the highest ethical
platform of that time. For the age was decadent. The Grand Lodge
was formed at a time when individual and social morality was known
only to be scoffed at. Religion seemed dead and worship a farce. The
bigotry and intolerance of a cold and formal Church-in which a few

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

devout worshippers only served to mark the drunken ignorance of
many of its ministers and the lewd degeneracy of the mass of its
adherents-were matched on the other hand by a fierce dogmatism
and a narrow and cold religion which spent itself in cruel hatred of
all men rather than in pious love of any. Men and women alike were
utterly worldly, society utterly base and degenerate.
"It was in such a time that Freemasonry received an organized form
which, in its first general statement of belief, purpose and command, expressed itself as follows: 'A Mason is obliged by his Tenure to obey
the moral law; and if he rightly understands the Art he will never be a
stupid Atheist nor an irreligious Libertine. But though in ancient times
Masons were charged in every country to be of the religion of that
country or nation, whatever it was, yet it is now thought more expedient only to oblige them to that religion in which all men agree, leaving their particular opinions to themselves : that is, to be Good Men and
True, or Men of Honor and Honesty, by whatever Denomination or
Persuasion they may be distinguished; whereby Masonry becomes the
Centre of Union and the Means of conciliating true Friendship among
persons that must have remained at a perpetual distance.'
"This statement may verily be called the Magna Charta of our Fraternity. It is not surprising that at a time of bitter intolerance in politic3 and religion, this great Masonic platform of Morality, Toleration
and Good Will challenged the sympathetic attention of good men everywhere. In this spirit of tolerant morality Freemasonry 'has spread its
beneficent influence wider and wider over the earth.' In all lands and
among all peoples Freemasonry has been found on the side of individual, social and political righteousness, it has stood against wickedness
among the high and the lowly, it has spread the light of social and political truth, it has proclaimed a high code of ethics for men and governments; it has withstood evil and promoted works of private and
public beneficence. It has passed through periods of misunderstanding,
misrepresentation, obloquy and persecution and has gradually won the
respect of the world. In the few places where its ministry has been
refused and repelled, religious bigotry has kept men in ignorance or political despotism has held men in thrall.
"For two hundred years the progress of Freemasonry has so closely
kept pace with the progress of civilization and human liberty that it
would be only fair and moderate to claim that the Ancient Craft has
been, at least, a willing agent in the advance.
"The two hundred years now ends in a welter of blood. Into this
world conflict our American Republic has been gradually drawn through
no desire of ours either for contest or conquest. In this conflict every
Freemason of our jurisdiction-so cosmopolitan in its origin, so polyglot
in its speech-stands devotedly loyal to the United States of America.
'In the State we shall be quiet and peaceable citizens, true to our government and loyal to our country. We shall not countenance disloyalty or rebellion, but submit to legal authority and obey the laws of the
country in which we live.'
"And in whatever of conflict we may be engaged as Free Masons
we shall never forget that we war not against men, but against powers,
not for conquest nor territory, but to establish human rights, to proclaim human liberty and promote human happiness. We shall be tolerant, patient and sympathetic with those at home and abroad whose

hearts are saddened and whose lives are hroken by this cruel warfare.
We ,shall remern,ber that 'Man's love of man is, next to Love of God,
mans first duty. And we shall look forward to the time when Freemasonry, practicing charity and benevolence, shall assuage the bitterness
of contest, quench the fires of hatred, bind up the wounds of strife
renew and reanimate the spirit of World Brotherhood, draw all me~
tog~ther. in th<; bonds of the mystic tie and establish a confraternity of
nations m which Love of God and of men, God's children, shall alone
be regnant."

92

93

· The Chairman reviews in condensed form the various Grand
Jurisdictions with which New York is in fraternal relations.
California, 1916, is considered, with complimentary reference
to the Address of Grand Master Burnett, an.d quotations therefrom.
:'.\1.'. w:. THOMAS PENNEY, Grand :'.\faster, Buffalo.
M.'. w:. RoBE:RT JUDSON KENWORTHY, Grand Secretary, Brooklyn.

NEW ZEALAND.
1916.

27th Annual, Auckland, May 10-11-12.
Lodges, 200; Membership, 13,622; Gain, 187.
THE TWENTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATIOX.
The Twenty-seventh. Annual Communication was held at Auckland, New Zealand, beginning May 10th, 1916, the Most \Vorshipful John Joseph Dougall presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master opens his Annual Greetings with the remark, "Notwithstanding the war, the: experience of the Fraternity
within the Jurisdiction in the preceding year had been such as to
justify him in saying that .Freemasonry has been prosperous during the past twelve months."
Two new Lodges were opened and the funds of the Grand
Lodge· increased in the year at a greater rate than in any year
in the history of the Grand Lodge.
In his Address, the Grand Master referred to a matter which
he described as not a pleasant one, but to which he felt it his
duty to refer, and that was a Circular issued by him within the
year, asking the Lodges to abstain from the use of alcoholic liquor
during the war, stating also that while he is not a Prohibitionist
he would not retract one solitary paragraph of the "Appeal." H~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

94

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

had been subjected, he stated, to a certain amount of criticism,
referring particularly to an attack upon him which had appeared
in the Masonic publication called the "Craftsman."
we are in thorough sympathy with the Grand Master i~ this
matter and we have no doubt that 95% of all the. Masons m the
world are in sympathy with him in the appeal which he m~de ~o
Masons to abstain from the use of alcoholic liquor, and with his
statement that he would not attend a Lodge, while he was Grand
Master in which intoxicating liquor was used at refreshment.
Th'e Grand Master's stand is to be commended i~ the ~ighest
terms possible, and the only surprise that sugge~ts itself :s. t.hat
there should be from any quarter whatever the slightest criticism
of his action.

BALANCE SHEET.
From the Balance Sheet of the Grand Lodge, it ~ppe~rs that
the Grand Lodge of New Zealand has funds aggregatmg m valu.e
$250 000 or more. Its relief is administered by a system of annmties.' as is common in most of the Australian Jurisdic~ons, and the
system has much to commend itself for efficiency an economy.
WAR RELIEF FUND.
.
This Jurisdiction has in process of accumulation a War Relief
Fund which at the elate of the Annual Communication a.ggregated
000 and the retiring Grand Master was especially comnear1y $50 , ,
·
· W
F d
mended for the success of his efforts in regard t~ this
ar un ,
initiated by him, ;ind it was stated that '.he splendid result thus far
achieved had been principally through his eloquent advocacy of the
claims upon the Fraternity of the Brethren at the front.
REVIEW OF CORRESPOKDENCE.
By order of the Board of General Purposes, the usual Review
for 1916 was omitted.
Bro. Quvl!R K1CHOLSON, Grand Master, Auckland.
MALCOLM NiccoL, Grand Secretary, Auckland.

NORTH CAROLINA.
1917.
!30th Annual, Raleigh, Jan. 16.
Lodges, 442; Membership, 25,910; Gain, 880.
LARGEST LODGES.
Phalanx Lodge No. 31
Mt. Hermon Lodge No. 118

Members

95

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of
North• Carolina, convened in its One Hundred and Thirtieth Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, in the City of
Raleigh, Tuesday, January 16, 1917, Grand Master A. B. Andrews
Jr., presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master reports that the year has been one of
unusual Masonic activity, and that the gain in membership and
quality of the work are ample reward· and genuine satisfaction.
Under the heading of Necrology, he calls attention to the
vacant chair of the Grand Secretary, John C. Drewry, who performed his duties in the capacity of Grand Secretary for twentytwo years unstintingly, and whose influence and inspiration did
much to bring North Carolina Masonry up to its present standard.
In his will, Grand Secretary John C. Drewry bequeathed the sum
of $10,000 in trust, to be .known as "The Drewry Memorial Grand
Secretary's Fund." This sum is to be handled by a Board of
Trustees and invested until it by accumulation or additions shall
amount to $20,000, when its earnings are to be used to pay the
salary of the Grand Secretary.
DECISIONS.
The Grand Master rendered a large number of decisions
within the year, among which were the following:
"A Mason made in a Lodge under the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico
and petitioning a North Carolina Lodge for affiliation can be healed
as provided in Regulations 149 and ISO of the ::Vlasonic Code."
"Regulation IS!, forbiclcling healing' any degree conferred in a
clandestine Lodge, does not apply to the foregoing as the Grand Lodge
of Porto Rico is not a clandestine Lodge, though it has not been recognized by our Grand Lodge."
"A <limit takes effect from the time it is ordered granted. When
a <limit is ordered and delivered by the Secretary to the Brother, he is
then a non-affiliate Mason, and can only re-connect himself with the
Lodge issuing the climit or any other Lodge by petitioning the Lodge as
a non-affiliate."
"A person of illegitimate birth, if otherwise qualified, is eligible to
the degrees of Freemasonry. The Masonic order looks to a man's moral
character and not his antecedents, and only requires he must he a man
of good character and standing in the community.
"'Honor and shame from no condition rise,
Act well your part, there all the honor lies.'
"A Master can invite a Brother from another jurisdiction (in this
instance a former Grand Lecturer of a sister Grand Lodge) to confer
work, and it would be entirely proper for the Brother to give the lee-

97
REPO..~T

ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ture as taught in his State, as he is unfamiliar with. our lecture. _In. this
instance the candidate was the son of the non-resident Mason mvlted.
Such invitations should be only occasionally extended, and not regularly
done so as to interfere with the Stevenson work taught by our Grand
Lecturers."
"A Lodge in its By-Laws cannot provide that a member 'Yhose
dues are in arrears for one year shall not be allowed to vote. It is the
privilege of every member of a Lodg:e in g?od standin~ to vote on all
questions, the humblest member havmg vo.1ce equal with the ~aster,
·hence this ruling. A Lodge can only deprive a member ~f votmg by
suspending him for nonpayment of dues in accordance with the Masonic Code.
.
"It is recommended to aU Lodges that they make their dl1es payable annually in advance, in preference to being paid at the end of the
year."
The Grand Master attended the sessions of the \Vashington
Masonic Memorial Association, held at Alexandria, Va.; he had the
honor of returning to the University of North Carolina the Davie
Plate, which was laid with Masonic honors by Most Worshipful
Grand Master \Vm. R. Davie, 123 years before, and which when
the University had been despoiled in the days between 1865 and
1875 had disappeared, and which had recently been found in a
brass foundry, and returned to the Grand Lodge. Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held to lay comer-stones
of both Masonic and public buildings. The Grand Master issued
dispensations to form four new Lodges.
MASONIC RELIEF.
During the year a nttmber of individual applications for relief
were made to the Grand Lodge, and assistance given. This Jurisdiction accomplishes a great deal of good through its Orphan
Asylum at Oxford, which institution cares for 375 children. There
is also a Masonic and Eastern Star Home now caring for thirty
guests, and it is proposed to build additions at the Home to provide for the care and maintenance of an increased number of aged
Masons and their dependents.
GRAND ORATOR'S ADDRESS.
The Annual Oration by Grand Orator Hon. F. C. Harding
was a magnificent and splendid effort, and a rising vote of thanks
was extended by the Grand Lodge to Brother Harding.
At the second day's session of the Grand Lodge, a delegation
from the Grand Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star of North
Carolina, appeared before the Grand Lodge, and extended an invitation to the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, A. F. & A. M.,
of Nor th Carolina, to attend their next Annual Session. This invitation was prompted with the spirit of co-operation of the Order

of the Eastern Star in its great works of charity to humanity, and
of making the world better,
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
',
.
The report on Correspondence is by Brother Marshall De'Lancey Haywood, Committee, this being his first review. His
report is concise and intelligent. California, 1915, ·is considered,
reference being made to· the construction of our law as .to the
admission ofa ·visitor, the Worshipful Master being the sole .judge,
which is at variance with the law in. North Carolina in this regard,
whereby a member of a Lodge. may object to a visitor, with. no
power in the Master to ·overrule such objection.
,.

M:. vv:. CLAUDE L. PRIDGEN, Grand Master, Wilmington.
R:. w.·. WILLIAM \V. WILLSON, Grand Secretary, Raleigh.

. NORTH DAKOTA.
1916.

27th Annual, Fargo, June 20.
Lodges, 113; Membership, 10,055; Gain, 462.
Larg!!st Lodge, Shiloh No. 1, 746 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
· The Twenty~seventh Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge, A. F. & A. M., of North Dakota, was held in the Masonic
Temple, City of Fargo, June 20th and 21st, 1916, Most Worshipful
Harry Lord, Grand Master, presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Address of the Grand Master was a business-like statement of his official activities within the year, and the Grand Lodge
Proceedings state that the Address "was most acceptable in form
and expression and was received with marked favor."
Three new Lodges that received charters at the preceding
Annual Communication were d·uly constituted; dispensations were
issued .to form two new Lodges, an important corner-stone cere'mony was performed by the Grand Lodge in the placing of the
corner-stone of the Masonic Temple of Minnewaukan Lodge No.
21; and another notable public Masonic event was the dedication
later in the year of the same Temple, which was participated in
by the Grand Master and Staff of Grand Officers, at which the
dedicatory address, a splendid effort, which was received with
very favorable comments from all present, was made by the Most
\Vorshipful Grand Secretary, Brother Walter L. Stockwell.

REPORT ON CORRE8PONDENOE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Master rendered a few so-called "decisions" construing the local law of the Jurisdiction, which decisions were all
announced as correct and proper by the Jurisprudence Committee
and the Grand Lodge.
•

by the Grand Lodge of a sum of money to be used for the purchase of a prize, to be given to the winner of a State Oratorical
Contest, participated in by selected contestants from the various
educational institutions of the State, the contestants being in no
way connected with Masonry.
The contest this year took place, as usual, and the prize, a
solid gold watch, suitably engraved, was awarded by the chosen
Committee to the successful contestant.

98

TRUSTEES OF RELIEF FUND.
North Dakota is one of the comparatively few Grand J urisdictios that does not administer relief through the tnedium of a
Masonic Home, but if one may judge of the aspirations of this
Jurisdiction from the report of the Trustees of the Relief Fund,
one might reasonably conclude that a Masonic Home is still atnong
the hoped-for things in North Dakota. The report of the Trustees
touching this theme is as follows:
"Could we but look into the future some years to come, we would
be enabled to see a magnificently equipped and endowed Masonic Home
in North Dakota, endowed with the wealth of willing, generous brothers who of their substance had provided means for the honor and glory
of their faith in the Order, by endowment and other sources of their
material belongings, for the housing and the caring of those of
their Brotherhood who were less fortunate in their struggles for competence; building a monument to themselves which would last for all
time, enduring and abiding for ages.
"The needs of the· brethren of this State is not a poor house, or
alms house, but a comfortably equipped Home for the convenience and
comfort of our aged and infirm friends who could be pleasantly situated
in the place provided for them as guests without the feeling that they
were objects of charity in its commonly accepted definition, but as
guests in a warm wholesome atmosphere of love and light."
This Jurisdiction is fortunate (or unfortunate, as one may look
at the subject) in that the Trustees of the "Relief Fund" were
called upon to disburse from this fund just $100, and that as relief
to just one case, during the year, and upon the subject, the Trustees report as follows:
"During the past year there has been but one call for financial
assistance which was promptly met, the circumstances being made plain
to your Trustees that it was an exceptionally deserving case. The relief
bestowed, $100.00, brought letters of thankfulness from the worthy distressed brother as well as from his home Lodge, which had granted him
·
substantial aid."
This Jurisdiction must indeed be fortunately situated to have
only one call made within the year upon the Relief Fund of the
Grand Lodge.
PRIZE IN ORATORY.
This Grand Jurisdiction has a distinctive feature of its own
that does not obtain in any other Masonic Jurisdiction of which
we have any knowledge, and that is the setting aside each year

99

We refer .to this feature of North Dakota Masonry, as it is,
we believe, entirely unique, and because it is a matter in which
this Jurisdiction manifests a marked degree of interest.
FRATERNAL CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Fraternal Correspondence is by Most Worshipful William E. Hoover, Past Grand Master. His report is a brief
and intelligent review of the various Grand Jurisdictions, in which
California, 1915, is considered.
He evidently misinterpreted the action of California concerning the Grand Orient of Italy, as he states that fraternal recognition was extended to this Body by the Grand Lodge of California. This, however, was not the case. Recognition was, for the
present at least, withheld.

w:. ALEXANDltR B. TAYLOR, Grand Master, Fargo
\VALTER L. STOCKWELL, Grand Secretary, Fargo.

i\:{.°.

NOVA SCOTIA.
1!':116.
5lst Annual, Bear River, June 14.
Lodges, 74; Membership, 6855; Gain, 90.
Largest Lodge, St .. Andrews Lodge No. 7, 262 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Fifty-first Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Nova Scotia
was held in the rooms of the Baptist Church, Bear River, N. S., beginning Wednesday, June 14th, 1916, with M:. w:. Bro. Donald Fisher
Fraser, Grand Master, in the Chair.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS.
The Grand Lodge was favored with distinguished visitors in the
persons of M:. w:. Bro. J. T. Whitlock, Past Grand Master of the

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Grand Lodge of New Brunswick, and M:. W:. Brother Walter P.
Doull, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Prince Edward
Island, who were accorded Grand Honors, and invited to take seats in
the Grand East.
The Grand Lodge then repaired in a body to St. John's Anglican
Church, where Divine Service was held, and an eloquent and instructive sermon preached by the Grand Chaplain, R. '. W:. Bro. Rev. Edward
A. Harris, after which the Grand Lodge returned to its place of meeting, where a vote of thanks was tendered to the Grand Chaplain for his
masterly effort.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
There is an excellent address by Grand Master Don F.
who makes note of the fact that the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia is
now starting upon the second half of their first century as an independent Grand Body, and he reviews the splendid growth and strength
of the jurisdiction in the half century just passed.
He comments on the war now raging in Europe, and we .excerpt the
following in reference to Masonry and its relation to this subject:
"Tradition says that Masons were first known as 'Noachida,' or
sons of Noah, and that the actual sons of Xoah believed that when the
waters which covered the earth subsided, an era of peace would be established for all generations. It also says that Moses was a Grand
.Master of the .Masons, and dreamed that when the Children of Israel
reached the Promised Land they would rest there in peace and undisturbed. If there is no history to warrant this tradition, the idea behind
it may well give inspiration and hope to Masons of today, who in common with millions of people in Europe, are marching through strife and
sorrow, and the Shadow of Death, though not without hope. It was
not given to Moses to enter the Promised Land, and it cannot be given
to the Masons of today to walk the field of universal peace ; but in spite
of all that is happening, true Masons, strong-hearted and faithful, will
still believe they are marching forward not falling backward, and that
the Masons of tomorrow will, through the scribes of the Masonic Lodges
of the world, write in their archives that the brotherhood of man which
they have cultivated has prevailed."
Nova Scotia Masonry has many members in every branch and
rank of military service in the present world-war, and already has
sacrificed many of her Brethren in defense of world liberty and freedom.
Within the year, the Grand Lodge was called upon to mourn the
passing of one of its most valued members, M.". \V:. Bro. T. A. Cossman, P. G. M., a Mason of sterling worth and honesty of purpose.
The Grand Master issued a Charter to one new Lodge; two Lodges
under dispensation were chartered, one being the Nova Scotia Lodge of
Research, unique in that it is dependent upon the support of the entire
jurisdiction, and is to be devoted to .Masonic education and research.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

101

MASONIC HOME.
The :Masonic Home is in a flourishing condition, and the sum of
$1000 was voted from the Grand Lodge Funds to the Trustees of the
Home, at this session of the Grand Lodge.
There is also a Charity Fund in this jurisdiction, from which two
grants were approved to individual applicants during the past year.
A large number of dispensations were granted of a local nature on
Masonic law.
The Grand Master made a number of official visitations to subordinate Lodges, resulting in great benefit to the recipients of his encouragement and inspiration. In spite of the demands of the war on Nova
Scotia Masons, the jurisdiction has gained in strength and numbers,
and at the same time has been united as never before for mutual good.
NECROLOGY.
The Grand Lodge was called upon to mourn the passing of Earl
Kitchener of Khartoum, prominent in British military life, and a
military
of his time, and one of the most eminent of British
Masons.
FRATERNAL CORRESPONDENCE.
James C. Jones, Acting Grand Secretary, presents his first report
on correspondence, and we quote his opening remarks as follows:
"Herewith I submit my first review of the doings of sister Grand
Lodges during the past year. In reviewing the various Proceedings I
have refrained from making any comment or criticism, feeling that this
had better be left until I was more comfortably placed in my seat at the
'round table.' Every volume received up to the time of going to press
has been reviewed. I am indebted to my good friends the Representatives of New- York and Louisiana for reporting on their respective
Jurisdictions."
His review is very comprehensive and painstaking. California,
1915, is considered, with liberal quotations from Grand Master Bledsoe's able address. His comment upon attending religious service is
quoted:
"The Committee on Report on Correspondence review Nova Scotia's proceedings for 1914 and rather slur at our Grand Lodge attend"
ing Divine Service at the opening of our sessions. We can assure our
good friends of Califo!nia that we have never yet heard of any of
our members compla1mng of any part of the services we have held,
no matter what sect or church we attend, and like all Grand Lodges,
ours .is composed of various religious ideas and thoughts."
Far be it from us to "slur" any such action as attending divine
service; we only questioned the propriety of a .Masonic Grand Lodge
attending all(V sectarian religious church.

M:. F:. DONALD FISHER FRASER, Grand Master, New Glasgow.
R.·. \V. ·. THOMAS 1fowBRAY, Grand Secretary, Halifax.

102

REPORT ON CORrtESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

OHIO.

these should be avoided, save in exceptional circumstances. It is far
better, in my mind, that any changes or amendments be acted upon
by the Grand Lodge after reference to the Committee on Jurisprudence."

1916.
107th Annual, Columbus, Oct. 18-19.
Lodges, 546; Membership, 107,039; Gain, 5854.
LARGES'l' LODGES.

·woodward Lodge No. 508 .................................................. 1416 Mei~~bers
York Lodge No. 563 ·································:··········· ............... 1;;~
Halcyon Lodge No. 498
Bigelow Lodge No. 243
1;~
Yeatman Lodge No. 162 ......................................................10
Rubicon Lodge No. 237 ..................................................... .1030
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the M'ost Ancient a~d
Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of Ohio
opened its 107th Annual Communication in the City of ~olumbus
Oct. 18, 1916, the Most Worshipful Frank H. Marquis, Grand
Master, presiding.
Previous to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, Addresses
of Welcome on behalf of the City of Columbus to the Grand
Lodge were delivered by Honorable George J. Karb, and Most
\Vorshipful Brother Charles A. Pretzman, with suitab.le. response
by Most \Vorshipful Past Grand Master Nelson \V11liams, following which there was
THE ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER.
The Annual Address of the Grand Master was a straightforward business statement of his activities, and the activities of the
Grand Lodge within the preceding year.
Dispensations to form six new Lodges, a number very unusual
in Ohio, were granted. Dedication ceremonies to the number. of
seventeen of Masonic Temples, Halls, and Lodge Rooms, at nme
of which 'the Grand Master officiated in person, took place.
Ten corner-stones of public buildings were placed under Masonic auspices within the year; and otherwise, the yea; was _oi:;e
of marked Masonic activity, the net gain in membership of J8:i4
being the largest in the history of the Grand Lodge.
DECISIONS.
Under this heading, the Grand Master remarks as follows:
"All requests for an opinion or decision have beef! satisfactorily
answered bv reference to our existing !av.'·. I do not beh~ve m ;urthe~
complicating our Code by unnecessary decisions from the Grand Master,

103

VISITATIONS.
Concerning official visitations to Subordinate Lodges, the
Grand Master has this to say:
"I have made thirty-six visits, and was in every instance received
with splendid hospitality. In making these fraternal visitations I endeavored to cover as much of our Grand Jurisdiction as possible by
meeting at some central point and inviting all the surrounding Lodges.
In this manner I was enabled to meet with the members of over two
hundred and fifty Lodges. A visit from the Grand Master means much
to a Lodge, and my only regret is that J could not devote !IJOre time to
the performance of this pleasant duty."
A PLEASANT INCIDENT.
A pleasant incident occurred at one of the sessions of the
Grand Lodge at this Annual Communication, in which the oldest
living Mason of the Jurisdiction was introduced to the Grand
Lodge, the incident being described in the Proceedings as foltows:
"M.'. W.'. Bro. Wm. B. Melish asked permission of the Grand
Lodge to introduce a Brother who is perhaps the oldest living Mason
in Ohio in the person of Bro. V. C. Deardorff, of Tuscarawas Lodge
No. 59 Canal Dover, Ohio, he having attained the age of ninety years
and ha'ving been a Master Mason for sixty-seven of those years. The
Grand Lodge rose. and welcomed the Brother, to which he responded
feelingly of his long and pleasant experience as a member of the
Order."
REPORT ON FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence by its Chairman, Most
Worshipful Nelson Williams, contains the usual Review of the
Proceedings of other English-speaking Grand Lodges, this report
being the sixth in number from the present Chairman.
He states in his Introduction that little has been gleaned from
the Volumes of Proceedings of the current year which is of interest to the Fraternity in general, as the business of the Grand
Lodges for the preceding year had been largely of a routine
character.
·
He refers, however, to the action of the Grand Lodge of
England, in barring from the Lodge Rooms of its Subordinates
members of German birth, and expresses the opinion that the
action of the Grand Lodge of England is foreign to a just and
proper conception of Masonic teaching, etc.
Opinions differ upon this subject, and, as we stated a year
ago, even before our own country was involved in the Great War,
that what the Grand Lodge of England did upon this subject was

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the concern of the Grand Lodge of England alone, and that the
safety of the British Empire was the matter of paramount importance; and that, if, in the opinion of the Grand Lodge of England,
exclusion, for the time being, of German members from Subordinate· Lo<lges was necessary to safeguard the Empire, the action
of the Grand Lodge of England was justifiable; and what has
occurred since we expressed those views a year ago has confirmed
us in the opinion voiced at that time.
Brother Williams reviews California, 1915, Grand Master Bledsoe presiding. He expresses various forms of criticism of some
of our Masonic activities, referring to the Masonic Temple at San
Francisco. as presenting an unfortunate form of Grand Lodge
financiering, although he is not probably as familiar as we are in
California with the manner in which Masonry in this State undertakes and carries through successfully large affairs, as it will the
financing of the Temple in San Francisco. California, Masonically
and otherwise, bores with a large auger.
He finds fault with the action of the Grand Master in failing
to regard as of material importance the "War Relief Association"
started in Ohio for the purpose of extending Masonic relief to
the war-stricken nations of Europe. The purposes of this organization were undoubtedly of a high order, yet its puny efforts were
so insignificant as to be totally discouraged even by the proposed
beneficiaries, which is historically true; and we can find nothing
to criticise in Grand Master Bledsoe's opinion that the project
was one to which he could not give his official approval.
Brother Williams also criticises the opinion expressed by the
Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence of California, that
we entertained serious doubts that the Throne of Grace would
be greatly moved by the repetition of a certain made-to-order
printed prayer for peace, mailed out from one of our American
Jurisdictions with the request that everyone repeat it. We ventured to express the opinion that these so-called "prayers" printed
on a handbill, and repeated parrot-like by individuals, would be
about as effectual as running a phonograph record on a talking:
machine in moving the Almighty. We are still of that
opinion, but Brother Williams apparently holds otherwise, and
refers to the Lord's Prayer as a parallel case. When we recall,
however, who was the Author of the Lord's Prayer, Brother Williams' parallel becomes funny. We do not quite remember, but
believe that the name of the author of the N cw York supplication
was Pretzman.

OKLAHOMA.
1917.

104

i\l.". \V.". Joa C. CLORJ,, Grand Master, Cincinnati.
R.". W.". J. H. BROMWELL, Grand Secretary, Cincinnati.

105

9th Annual, Oklahoma City, Feb. 20.
Lodges, 440; Membership, 29,520; Gain, 1302.
Largest Lodge, Oklahoma City No. 36, 873 Members.·
THE NINTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Ninth Annual Communication was held in the .City of
Oklahoma.
Preliminary to the official opening of the Grand Lodge, the
Grand Body was entertained by children from the Masonic Home,
who rendered a program, musical and otherwise, to the edification
of the assembled Masons and their friends.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
At the opening of the Grand Master's Address, he made a
recommendation which was apparently forthwith unanimously carried by rising vote to the effect that the UNITED ST ATES FLAG
become a part of the paraphernalia of the Grand Lodge and of
each of its constituent Lodges, which flag shall be spread upon
the altar and upon which shall rest the Three Great Lights of
Masonry,
DECISIONS.
That peace and harmony prevail among the Craft may be inferred from the statement of the Grand Master that no question
of importance has been brought to his attention for an official
ruling, and that such questions and answers as have taken place
have been of a routine nature, mostly answered by the Constitution, and which cannot, therefore, be properly called decisions, and
are, therefore, as the Grand Master states, omitted from his report.
MASONIC HOME.
The Grand Master reports progress and efficiency in the
affairs of the Masonic Home at Darlington. There are now sheltered at the Home 146 children and 31 adults, all of whom appear
to be comfortable, happy, and contented.
MASONIC ACTIVITIES.
The year preceding was evidently a prosperous one, Masonically speaking; four new Lodges were constituted; a large number
of dispensations for various purposes were issued, including three
to form new Lodges; numerous corner-stone ceremonies were performed, and the Grand Master paid not less than seventy-nine
visits to Subordinate Lodges.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In the closing paragraph of his Address, the Grand Master
pays high tribute to Masonry, as follows:

"When Asiatic cholera threatens us, we quarantine against II i
when yellow fever is borne from the tropics on the wings of the 11\0M•
quito, we quarantine against it.; when the pl.ague st.alks. out from the
rat-infested harbor of Guayaquil, we quarantme agamst 1t. When tl11
homicidal fever rises from the battlefields of Europe, we· should quor•
antine against it. And any trader, speculator,. merchan! or manufac·
turer who would send a vessel flying the American flag mto the estab·
lishecl zones of war, and bring on the impending conflict, is a traitor
and a knave.

106

"Finally Brethren, since life was given to the germ which grew
and developed into the Masonic Order this old world has witnessed
many changes. Nations have risen to might and glory on land and
sea, have fallen, their heroes enslaved and their banners trailed in the
dust; cities of marvelous beauty and wealth have vanished, covered
with the ashes of volcanic fires and the sands of the desert, forgotten
until some venturous explorer sheds light upon their hidden treasures
and reads their story to a wondering world. Men have come and gone
and the handwriting on the wall which tells of their having lived is a
sculptured bust, a painting rare, or verse of deeds of bravery and daring bold. But the principles of this order change not, nor age, nor
decay; shining with the light of Purity within, glowing with the energy
and vigor of achievement, heedless alike of the sound of strife, and the
battle's cry. They are embodied in a spirit, deathless, sublime."
ORATION.
The Grand Orator, Worshipful Brother ·woodson Easley Norveil, delivered the Annual Oration, his subject being "Federations
of the Future."
The entire trend of thought of the Grand Orator was in the
direction of the wisdom of America keeping out of the European
war. "He kept us out of war" was the slogan and battle-cry on
which a President was re-,elected in November last.
This oration was delivered on the 21st of February, after the
slogan "He kept the country out of war" had served its purpose,
and a few brief weeks before war was actually declared.
A few quotations from the Orator's Address will indicate that
the address would have been more appropriate had it been delivered in October, 1916, instead of just prior to the second inauguration of President \Vilson, and a few days before he appeared
before Congress and demanded a declaration of war against Germany:
"\Vhy is this great repuhlic, so long consecrated to the cause of
peace, now trembling on the verge of war? Because, we too, would
achieve mastery in the fields of trade. It is saiq that we have a right
to the freedom of the seas. The individual has many rights that he does
not use. He has a right to he upon a thoroughfare of the city while a
riot is in progress, but his judgment tells him to make his right subordinate to his safety. He has a right to travel a given part of the
highway, but he willingly turns aside to avoid a collision. It will be a
sad hour in the history of human freedom when we abandon the· principle promulgated by \Vashington and followed by all the great patriots
whose service has g·iven power to the republic and glory to our flag, by
engaging in a war ahroad, where the spirit of commerce instead of the
devotion of the patriot has called millions to march beneath the banners of nations, whose governments promise nothing to benefit mankind.

*

*

107

*

"LET US SUSPEND COMMERCE WITH EUROPE UNTii.,
THIS WAR IS OVER; AND URGE UPOX THEM, AT ITS END,
THAT THE ECONO:Y!IC LOSSES OF WAR ARE TOO GREAT
TO BE COM PENSA TED BY AXY PROFITS OF COMMERCE,
HOWEVER VAST; AND POINT THE WAY FOR THEM TO
SEARCH OUT THE UNOCCUPIED PORTIONS OF THE
EARTH AND BY PATIENT INDUSTRY PRODUCE BY TOIL
INSTEAD OF PLANNING TO DESTROY, AND LIVE IN PEACE
WITH ALL THE WORLD."
REPORT ON CORR.ESPONDENCE.
The annual report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past
Grand Master Thomas E. Humphrey. He reviews in a capable
and discriminating manner a large number of foreign Jurisdictions,
although California fails to receive notice, the Journal of our Proceedings apparently not having been received by the reviewer.

r.1:. \V.'. SAM"GEL W. HoGAN, Grand Master, Cashion.
l\f.'. w:. WM. Mos1ts A1'rnERSON, Grand Secretary, Oklahoma City.

OREGON.
1917.

67th Annual. Portland, June 13.
Lodges, 164; Membership, 15,207; Gain, 425.
Largest Lodge, Washington Lodge No. 46, 876 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Sixty-seventh Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, of the State of Oregon, was
opened in the Auditorium of the Masonic Temple, Portland, Oregon, Wednesday, June 13, 1917, by Most Worshipful \Viii Moore,
Grand Master.
THE FLAG EPISODE.
The Grand Lodge of Masons of the State of Oregon, at its
session of 1916, on the suggestion of Rev. William W. Youngson.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

D. D., ordered an American Flag to be placed in each Masonic
Lodge in Oregon, and appointed a committee, consisting of Past
Grand Masters Frank J. Miller, George H. Burnett and William
C. Bristol,· to prepare a ceremonial for the reception of the Flag
at the opening of each Lodge.

the rising stm of Argentina-but we would have our youth believe and
feel that the glorious stars and stripes is the grandest of them all!
There are many great and worthy sovereigns in the world-But we
would have our children contend that a certain scholar who sits in the
'White House risen from the ranks, the representative of one hundred
million free p~ople, is the greatest of them all! There are many national
floral emblems-the broomflower of England, the shamrock of Ireland,
the thistle of Seotland, the lily of France, the cornflower of Germanybut for our bovs and girls our field daisy should be the handsomest of
all the floricuftural show. There are the lion and the unicorn, the
Gallican cock, the Russian bear, the strangled serpent of Mexico, the
Siamese elephant, the Chinese dragon ; but our schoolboys must be
firmly convinced that the American eagle is the boss of the whole menagerie! In Germany and Russia they have double eagles, strange and
monstrous birds with two heads; hut our eagle, with one good, healthy
head on him, is more than a match for any of them !

108

At the opening of the Grand Lodge, the Flag was escorted
into the Lodge Room according to the form outlined by this committee. After it had been placed on its pedestal, the Rev. W. W.
Youngson, behind a screen, with the Flag floating in the breeze
of an electric fan, impersonated the Flag, and gave the following
address, as quoted below:
"The Flag of your Country greets you! I am grateful to the Grand
Lodge for having made me a necessary part of its equipment and for
having ordered all lodges in the jurisdiction to accord me a special position of high distinction and to welcome me with befitting ceremony
at the opening of each session of the Lodge.
"I am the symbol of the brotherhood of man. I stand for courage,
for chivalry, for generosity and honor. No man must touch me roughly;
no hand shall touch me irreverently; I am the birthright of privilege
and integrity. I have floated since June 14, 1777, over a country of
benevolence, refuge and progress. To bear me is an honor, to own
me a sacred trust. I am the emblem of Freedom, of Equality, of Justice, for every person and creature as I float unvanquished, untarnished,
over the open door of free education.
"Let me tell you who I am. The work that I do is the making of
the real flag. I am not the flag, not at all. I am but its shadow. I am
whatever you make me, nothing more. I am your belief in yourself,
your dream of what a people may become. I live a changing life, a life
of moods and passions, of heartbreaks and tired muscles. Sometimes I
am strong with pride, when men do an honest work, fitting the rails
together truly. Sometimes I droop, for then purpose has gone from
me, and cynically I play the coward. Sometimes I am loud, garish and
full of that ego that blasts judgment. But always I am all that you
hope to be and have the courage to try for. I am song and fear, struggle and panic, and ennobling hope. I am the day's work of the weakest man and the largest dream of the most daring. I am the constitution and the courts, statutes and statute makers, soldier and dreadnaught, drayman and streetsweep, cook, counselor and clerk. I am the .
battle of yesterday and the mistake of tomorrow. I am the mystery of
the men who do without knowing why. I am the clutch of an idea and
the reasoned )}Urpose of resolution. I am no more than what you believe me to be, and I am all that you believe I can be. I am what you
make me, nothing more. I swing before your eyes as a bright gleam of
color, a cymbol of yourself, the picture suggestion of that big thing
which makes this nation. My stars and my stripes are your dreams and
your labors. They are bright with cheer, brilliant with courage, firm
with faith, because you have made them so out of your hearts, for you
are the makers of the flag, and it is well that you glory in the making.
There are many flags in the earth-the union jack, the tricolors of
France, the Nether lands and Belgium, the yellow field of Spain, the full
moon of Japan, the star and crescent of Turkey, the lone star of Chili.

109

"By the Pass of Thermopvlae, bv Trafalgar Square, by the Arch
of Triumph and the Column of July~ the Statute of United Germany
guarding the Rhine, by the Lion of Lucerne, by the Forum of Rome,
and by the Plaza of St. Mark, in Venice, we see in what estimate patriotism has been held by all historic peoples.
"Come he from where he may-from the bogs of Ireland, the glens
of Scotland. the greenswards of England, the fjords of Norway, the
glaciers of Switzerland, the forests of Bohemi~, the vim:y_ards of Italywhen he touches these shores he is to leave his old poht1cal creeds and
allegiances behind him; he is to say. 'This flag is my flag; this land
is mv land; this Constitution, these law;s. are for me henceforth and
fore~er!' To all such, a most gener9us welcome. As Dr. Van Dyke
has. so well said :
"'And thou, my country, write it on thy heart,
Thy sons are they who nobly take thy part;
Who dedicates his manhood at thy shrine,
Wherever born, is born a son of thine.'
"Before us today go the spirit forms of ·washington and Lafayette,
Hamilton and Jefferson, Grant and Sherman, Lincoln and Seward,
Garfield and McKinley. Let us follow after to a worthy fame, maki_ng
our names a consolation to our friends, a renown to ourselves, an mspiration to those who come after us, and an honor to God.! Let us
build our lives into this great republic, and receive the gratitude of a
free and noble posterity. And standing here, in this solemn _hour of
our nation's destinv when decisions the. most momentous smce the
Civil ·war or the biginning of our history are being made, let us repeat
Whittier's prayer :
"'0,, make Thou us, through centuries long.
In peace secure, in justice strong;
Around our gift of freedom draw
The safeguards of Thy righteous law;
And, cast in some diviner mold,
Let the new cycle shame the old.'
"We are going into this war, not because we want to defend ourselves against Germany, but because America does not want to live
in a w.orld in which a nation with a submarine soul and with a submarine way of getting what it wants shall be accorded any right to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

say what the world shall be like. We will listen to Germany, and we
will see that Germany is listened to, but we will not live in a world
that is determined by Prussian autocracy, or a future civilization dictated to us by the Hohenzollern vision and conscience and the imperial
German will. In going into this war it is the world we are thinking
of, and not ourselves. It shall not be a world in which a nation that
wins a fight by striking below the belt, by sneaking under water and
by using chlorine gas, and by knocking down a little, helpless neutral
in her way, shall be allowed to dictate the ideals and conditions under
which men on this planet shall live.
"'For we
Who scarce yet see
Wisely to rule ourselves, are set
Where ways have met
To lead the waiting nations on!
Not for our own
Land now are freedom's flags unfurled,
But for the world.
" 'Shall you complain who feed the world?
Who clothe the world?
Who honse the world?
Shall you complain who are the world
Of what the world may do?
As from this hour
Yon use your power
The world will follow you.
"'The world's life hangs on your right hand;
Your strong right hand !
Your skilled right hand!
You hold the whole world in your hand;
See to it what you do!
Or dark or light,
Or wrong or right,
The world is made by you.
" 'Then rise as you never rose before!
Nor hoped before!
Nor dared before!
And show as was never shown before,
The power that lies in you.
Stand· all as one !
See justice done!
Believe and dare and do!'

their bit~er . lesson and take their own affairs into their own hands,
by substitutmg democracy for the costly absurdity of hereditary rule
by royalty and aristocracy?
'

llO

0

"The world believes that the indescribably awful world war now
making Europe a hell was precipitated after long preparation by
imperial ambition, surrounded and supported by a handful of men,
not distinguished for intelligence or purity of motive, after months
and years of delirious diplomacy, conducted in secret. Does anyone
imagine that the common people of Germany, who have to endure
the agony, are cruelly sacrificed by millions. would have voted this
gigantic folly and wickedness ? They are suffering from the despotic
control exercised over them by governmental specialists. What profits
it to the slaughtered millions that a paranoic, autocratic, hereditary
ruler has written his name forever into history in blazing letter of
hell fire? How long will it take the common people of Europe to learn

111

"'The boast of heraldry, the pomp of power,
And all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave
Await alike the inevitable hour'
The paths of glory lead but to the grave.'
" 'The tumult and the shouting will die,
The Captains and the Kings will depart;
Still stand thine ancient sacrifice,
An humble and a contrite heart ;
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forget, lest we forget.'
"But the time is coming
" 'When navies are forgotten
And fleets are useless things, .
When the dove shall warm her bosom
Beneath the eagle's wings;
" 'When memory of battles
At last is strange and old,
When nations have one banner
And creeds have found one fold ;
" 'When the Hand that sprinkles midnight
With its powdered drift of suns,
Has hushed this tiny tumult
Of sects and swords and guns;
" 'Then Hate's last note of discord ....
In all God's worlds shall cease,
In the conflict which is service,
In the victory which is peace!'
"Democracy a failure? Never has it been so great a success.
Never before has so great a multitude of all nations and kindreds
and people and tongues been eager to lay down their lives for their
~ellow-men. In the twelfth an~ thirteenth centuries heroes engaged
m a crusade to recover for Chnstendom the tomb in which the body
of Jes~s was buried. In the twentieth century greater heroes are engaged m a crusade to make the world safe for democracy.
" 'Here stands your Flag.
Hail it!
Who dares to drag
Or trail it?
Give it hurrahs,
Three for the stars,
Three for the bars.
Uncover your head to it.
The soldiers who tread to it
Shout at the sight of it.
The justice and right of it,
The unsullied white of it,
The blue and the reel of it,
And tyranny's dread of it!

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

112

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Here stands your Flag!
Cheer it l
Valley and crag
Shall hear it,
Fathers shall bless it,
Children caress it,
Ali shall maintain it,
No one shall stain it.

The pledge was ratified amidst tumultuous applause by the assembled Brethren, who with one accord instantly arose to their feet and
cheered.

" 'Cheers for the sailors that fought• on the wave for it,
Cheers for the soldiers that always were brave for it,
Tears to the men who went down to the grave .for it,
Here stands your Flag !'
"'I am Old Glory, the flag of your country'-'By angel hands to valor
~~~

l:l3

.

.

"'We're told the Persians taught their youth
Three things, forsooth :
To ride the horse with g.race and skill;
To make the arrow do their will;
To tell the truth !
" 'Old Sparta trained each son to wield
On open field,
His weapon in the State's defense;
And bade him not return from thence
Without his shield.
"'My native land I ask thee now,
How speakest thou?
A million sons thy message wait;
What word of thine shall make them great-,-What mutual vow?'
"Columbia's answer to her own :
" 'First bend thee down and kiss the earth
Thou standest on;
.
'Tis sacred soil where Freedom won
So fair a crown.
Pledge, then, thy life by every art
Of hand and heart,
O'er fields enriched with patriot's blood
To sow the seeds of BrotherhoodN or spurn thy part.'
"The Flag of Your Country is waiting for your answer! What
is the message of this Grand Lodge to Old Glory today? Shall the
keynote of Masonic thought for this year be Efficient Patriotism? The
Flag of Your Country is waiting for your answer ! What is it?"
At this moment Brother Y oungson stepped out from behind the
screen, saying:
"Most Worshipful Grand Master: With your permission I will
answer for the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge the question asked by
the Flag of Our Country, and I will do so in these words:
" 'We pledge allegiance to our flag and to the republic for which
it stands; one nation, indivisible, with liberty and j nstice for all. We
pledge America to help make the world safe for Democracy.'"

By unanimous vote the entire Address was ordered printed in the
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, and also by unanimous vote it was
ordered to be given to the press for publication as the platform of
the Masonic Fraternity in the State of Oregon.
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR.
The Grand Lodge was honored by the presence of a distinguished
visitor in the person of Harry A. Raser, the personal representative
of the Grand Master of the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar
of the United States for the Jurisdiction of Oregon.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master's Address was a very complete statement of his
activities during his term of office, showing that he had devoted unselfish care and attention to the discharg~ of his duties.
He constituted one Lodge that had received its charter at the last
Annual Communication; and instituted three new Lodges. He laid
corner-stones to two Masonic buildings, by proxy. He granted a number of dispensations of a local nature.
GR'AND LODGE CONFERENCE ..
The Grand Master issued a call for a Conferei1ce of the Grand
Masters of the various Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, to be
held in Portland, but, it being impossible to get a good representation, or at least one-half of the jurisdictions present, the call was
withdrawn.
MASONIC WAR RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
There is a Charity Fund set aside for relief . of members of the
Fraternity at war, which is growing, and it is expected will finally be
placed where it will achieve the greatest relief and be ready for distribution immediately at the close of the present world war.
MASONIC HOME.
There is no Masonic Home in this jurisdiction, although there is
a growing sentiment in this direction, the Grand Chapter of' the Eastern
Star having already started a small fund for that purpose, and it will
not be long before Oregon will be able to extend charity and relief
through the means of a Home, which, as stated, there is a strong
desire to establish.

114

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
David P. Mason, Correspondent, again presents the Report on
Correspondence, which is scholarly and interesting. California, 1916,
is fraternally considered, and quotation made from the Address of
Grand Master Albert B. Burnett.
M.'. W:. \V. G. ScHJ!LLENBARGER, Grand Master, Portland.
R.'. W.'. ]As. F. RoBJNRON, Grand Secretary, Portland.

PENNSYLVANIA.
1916.

Annual, Dec. 27.
Lodges, 502 ; Membership, 126,680; Gain, 6134.
LARGEST LODGES.
University Lodge No. 610 ............................................ ~ ............. 1219 Members
Dallas Lodge 1\o. 508 ............. :.................................................... 1208
''
COMMUNICATIONS.
The business of this jurisdiction is transacted in four Quarterly
Communications, and one so-called Annual Grand Communication, held
at Philadelphia on St. John the Evangelist's Day, Dec. 27th, of each
year, for the installation of officers who are elected at the regular
December Quarterly, and, also, for the reception of reports.
At the Annual Communication on St. John the Evangelist's Day,
this year, distinguished visitors from other jurisdictions were present,
particular mention being made of the Worshipful William R'. Meakle,
Grand Master of Masons of New Jersey, accompanied by his Staff
of Grand Officers; Most Worshipful Brother Thos. J. Shryock, Grand
Master of Maryland, accompanied by his Director of Ceremonies; and
the Most Worshipful Thos. Penny, Grand Master of Masons of New
York, with a large number of his Grand Officers.
All of the Quarterly and the Annual Grand Communications were
presided over by the Most Worshipful Brother Louis A. Watres,
Grand Master.
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER.
Grand Master \Vatres sets forth in business-like form a resume
of his official activities within the year, particular mention being made
of the constitution of the five new Lodges which received their charters at the preceding Annual Communication, whereby the total number of Lodges within the jurisdiction was carried forward to a total
of 502.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

115

Important corner-stone ceremonies, eight in number, are enumerated by the Grand Master, these Ceremonies being performed only for
important public buildings, such as mentioned by him-a Federal
Postoffice building, a Municipal building, High School bnilding, Masonic Temples, etc.
The Grand Master issued a large number of so-called "edicts,"
otherwise interpretations of the law of the jurisdiction; and in this
jurisdiction there is no appeal from the decision of the Grand Master,
that is, no review of his "decisions" by any Jurisprudence Committee
or by the Grand Lodge itself. In other words, his "edict" is the law,
unless and until changed by some other subsequent Grand Master.
The following paragraphs are quoted from the eloquent "Conclusion" of Grand Master Watres' Address:
"In its majestic sweep of one hundred a.nd thirty-t\VO years 9rand
Lodge has carried aloft its banner, upon which are emblazoned liberty,
equality, the Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man.
"How sacredly it has kept its trust is well attested by its existence.
under circumstances so worthy of note.
"The development of Freemasonry, not only in our Jurisdict!on,
but throughout the world, has been phenomenal. Mate!ially speakm~,
it would be difficult to enumerate its wonderful growth m dollars or 111
membership; Without suggesting that its spiritual development has
not been proportionately great, it is true to say. that, Masonry today
pre-eminently needs a larger and better spmtual d~v!'!lopm~nt, a
growth that shall be along higher and better and more spintual Imes.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"It is not enough that we should be proud of our material greatness. It is the reach, the influence and the usefulness of Freemasonry
that should more strongly appeal to us. We should look through the
tools of our profession to the things those implements stand for. The
white leathern apron by itself is useless and meaningless, but when
we look through it to the things it stands for, it is uplifting and ennobling.
"If Freemasonry has been a force in the world, if it has m0ulded
governments, wrought righteousness, bui!ded ch0:ra~ter, and made men
more diligent, prudent, tei;iP.er,ate ~nd d1scr;et._ 1£. It ,ha~ brought harmony and beauty and eqmhbrmm mto mens ltves; 1£ 1t has done il:ll
these things-and it has, and more-it i~ not bec~use of any power 111
and of itself,. separate and apart from its fountainhead, and 1t.s. fountainhead is the Book of the Law. It is because of the recogmt1on of
this truth that Freemasonry has withstood the shock of Empires and
the assault of centuries.
"Never ioince the world began was the solidarity of the race so
emphasized : never since the morning stars sang together was it more
clearly seen. that man is his brother's keeper; never in all the centuries
was th~ opportunity to lend a hand so eag~rly sought; never in :in
history has there been such need for material help, never such dire

116

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

distress. On the other hand, never has there been such power to assist
nor such willingness to comfort. This spirit of helpfulness is the 'immediate jewel of our Souls' and should be kept bright and shining.
"So long as there shall be weak hands to uphold and trembling
knees to strengthen, and until that happy day shall come when men
and women everywhere shall be strong and self-reliant, so long will
the spirit of helpfulness, exemplified, make life better and sweeter
and holier."
MASONIC HOME.
Probably the most complete Masonic Home establishment in the
world has been developed by the Grand Lodge at Elizabethtown, Pa.
The number of guests of the Homes at Elizabethtown is at this
time 285. The community life is reported as ideal with the reign of
absolute harmony. The Committee reports that the spirit of fraternity,
helpfulness, gratitude, forbearance, and consideration one for another,
is plainly apparent to all upon entering the sacred portals of the
Homes, and mingling with those whose happy surroundings have been
made possible by the beneficence of the Grand Lodge.
The Homes are complete, in that provision is made for the attendance at the public schools of the children of the Home. The religious and social life of the residents of the Home have been provided
for; an extensive library has been installed, and hospital service for
those in need thereof has been provided for upon a most scientific
scale.
FINANCIAL.
The Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania is distinguished among the Grand
Jurisdictions of the world by its high-class methods of finance. The
Chairman of its Committee on Finance, Worshipful Clement B. Newbold, is one of the ablest and most distinguished figures in the American World of Finance; and it is largely because of the high character
of men that Pennsylvania has always chosen to fill its important· and
exalted stations, that it has attained its commanding figure in the
:Vfasonk Jurisdictions of the world.
· The· Statements of the various Funds rendered at the. Annuai'
Grand Communication, and at the different Qµarterly Communications,
particularly the Quarterly Communication of December, are ·more
comprehensive and complete, we believe, than similar Statements rendered by other jurisdictions; and the open, financial methods of Masonic Jurisdictions, exemplified, for instance, by Pennsylvania, is in
pleasing contrast with the financial· methods of certain •great religious
organizations, and some others, that are not religious, where the evident
purpose is not to afford information, but to conceal the same.

117

As evidence of the financial importance ·of this jurisdiction, we
quote the Balance Sheet presented at the Quarterly Communication on
Dec. 6th, as follows:
Cash ............................................................................ $ 33,964.42
Accounts Receivable, Sundry Lodges and other
bodies ..................................................................
5,987.57

~~na'li¥fst1I~n~

l,7ob;~:~

..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Masonic Homes, Grand Lodge ............................ 1,195,561.70
----$2,942,260.97
Charles Jackson McClary Memorial Fund No. 1.. $ 20,475.00
Charles Jackson McClary Memorial Fund No. 2..
30,712.50
Emergency Relief Fund ..........................................
13,179.54
Girard Bequest
89,654.80
Grand Lodge Charity
.................................... 122,084.86
JYlaxwell Sommerville Bequest, Art Fund ......
12,527.62
l\faxwell Sommerville Bequest, Banquet Fund..
5,709.19
Stephen Taylor Bequest ........................................
15,800.00
Thomas Singleton Bequest ....................................
28,335.11
•
Thomas R. Patton Memorial Charity Fund...... 122,724.86
Thomas Ranken Patten Masonic Institution
1,024,478.40
for Boys
110,773.40
Henry King Bequest,
5,000.00
.Mortgage Account .................................................. .
1,601,455.28
Total ...................................................................................... $4,543,716.25
REPORT ON COR:RESPONDENCE.
The Report on Correspondence is presented by \Vorshipful Thomas
F. Penman, Chairman, this being his first report, he having succeeded
as Chairman of this important Committee the late Brother James M.
Lamberton, who, for sixteen years, presented this report on behalf of
his Jurisdiction, and who was universally regarded as one of the most
capable reviewers belonging to the reportorial gttild.
In his introductory remarks, Brother Penman states, after giving
the matter consideration, that he conceives his occupation as that of
a "chronicler" rather than a "critic," his reason for this conclusion
being stated by him as follow:s :
"The fact is, there is little common ground in the affairs of Grand
Lodges from which to proceed. to profitable controversial discussion.
In their independence of one another they differ in laws, regulations,
policy and methods-even, to some extent, on the subject of Landmarks; they may be said to agree entirely only on the fund?-mental
moral truths, which admit of no controversy. All we want is news
of the Masonic world which keeps us in homogeneous touch with our
world-wide Fraternity and from which we can note its progress and
neutralize a tendency towards isolation."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

His initial report ·is scholarly and excellent, and bears evidence
of thoughtful care in its preparation.

RECOGNITION OF THE GR'AND LODGE.
Almost universal recognition of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands by the other Masonic Grand Lodges of the world has now been
extended, there being only three Grand Lodges in the United States
which have thus far failed to take action, and the total number of
Grand Lodges which have granted recognition is now seventy-seven,
twenty-four additional recognitions having been received within the
preceding year.

118

He reviews California, 1915, in a courteous and fraternal spirit,
with generous quotations from the Address of Grand Master Bledsoe.
In his Conclusion, Brother Penman discusses various subjects of
interest, which he has encountered in his perusal of Grand Lodge
reports.
He refers favorably to the proposed memorial to Washington, the
Mason, at Alexandria, Va. He discusses quite extensively Masonry
in _its relation to the liquor question, and discovers, which is very
apparent to those who have the opportunity of following the doings
of Grand Lodges, that liquor is "taboo" with the Masonic Fraternity,
with the immediate prospect that all engaged in this nefarious business will be absolutely disqualified for membership in the Great
Brotherhood.
R.". W.". Loms A. WATRES, Grand Master, Philadelphia.
R.". W.". ]oHN A. P.ERRY, Grand Secretary, Philadelphia.

PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
1917.

5th Annual, Manila, Feb. 13-14.
Lodges, 38; Membership, 1839; Gain, 1138.
Largest Lodge, Manila Lodge No. 1, 350 Members
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Fifth Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Philippine Islands was
held in the Masonic Temple in the City of Manila, Feb. 13th and 14th,
1917, Most Worshipful William H. Taylor, Grand Master, presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
In the opening paragraphs of his Address. Grand Master Taylor
felicitate~ the Craft upon the fact that the Fraternity is domiciled, as
its headquarters, in the splendid new Temple in the City of Manila,
one of the most magnificent buildings in the entire Far East.
He calls attention to the splendid growth of the Fraternity, both
numerically and financially, the net gain in the six chartered Lodges
being 112, in addition to the 1039 members in the thirty-two Lodges
under dispensation.

119

UNIFICATION OF MASONRY IN THE PHILIPPINES.
The great work accomplished in the preceding year in the Masonry
of the Philippine Islands was the practical unification of all of the
Masonic Lodges, with the exception of possibly one or two under the
Scottish Constitution, whereby the old Lodges chartered by the Grand
Orient of Spain surrendered the charters received from that authority,
and all of them have come under the Grand Jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippine Islands by dispensations from that Sovereign
Grand Body. There were thirty-one of these old Lodges, all of which
received charters 'at this Communication, making, with the Lodges
previously in existence under the Grand Lodge of the Philippine
Islands, a total of thirty-eight Lodges in that Grand Jurisdiction.
There now remains in the Philippine Islands one Lodge, or possibly
two Lodges, still in existence under the Scottish Constitution, but it
seems altogether likely that both of these Lodges will surrender their
Scottish charters, and accept charters under the new Grand Lodge.
which will complete the absolute unification of Masonry in the
Philippines.
ANNUAL ORATION.
The Annual Oration was delivered in the afternoon session of the
first day of the Annual Communication by the Grand Orator, Worshipful Brother Charles S. Banks, who developed the theme "The
Practical Na tu re of Our Craft." His Address was interesting and
instructive, and upon motion of Brother George R. Harvey, Past
Grand Master, the thanks of the Grand Lodge were tendered to the
distinguished Orator, and his ·Address was ordered printed in the
Proceedings.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign CorresJ}ondence is by Worshipful Brother
Walter William Webber. In his Introduction, he calls attention to
some of the features of universal Masonry that have impressed themselves upon his observation in his review of the various Grand Lodges,
and states among other things that "Masonry is Action," and believes
that this fact is especially emphasized in Masonic Homes and other
Benevolences, and finds that the reading of reports of these various
Masonic Activities is truly inspiring.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Statistics for the year 1915, he states~ show an investment in such
Homes of over seven millions of dollars, and that during the year
1915, $1,278,302 were contributed to the support of such Homes, which
contained 3057 elderly people and 2282 children, a total of 4339 beneficiaries. This certainly is a record of which any Mason may well
be proud.

QUEBEC.

120

121

1917.
47th Annual, Montreal, Feb. 14.
Lodges, 66; Membership, 8491; Gain, 238.
Largest Lodge, Royal Victoria No. 57, 353 Members.

Brother Webber has the correct idea, also, of the true character
of the "Grand Master," in that the "Grand Master" is a creation of
the Grand Lodge, and that, regardless of the theory of his original
position in Ancient Craft Masonry, he now has only such powers as
are delegated to him by the Grand Lodge, and that any attempt to
misuse those powers, .or to exceed his authority, may be checked by
the Grand Lodge, and his "decisions" may be modified or reversed.
This, in our opinion, is the correct exposition of the character and
province of the Grand Master, although in certain Grand Jurisdictions,
Pennsylvania for instance, the Grand Master still retains much of the
original conception of his autocratic power, and his "decisions" are
not subject to review by the Grand Lodge, but stand absolutely as the
interpretation of the law of the Jurisdiction, unless and until modified
or reversed by some succeeding Grand Master.

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most \Vorshipful Grand Lodge of Quebec, Ancient, Free and
Accepted Masons, held its Forty-seventh Annual Communication in
the City of Montreal, on the 14th day of February, 1917, Most Worshipful Edward A. Evans, Grand Master, presiding in the Grand East.

Brother Webber in his report calls attention to Scotland's objection to surrendering her l\fasonic rights in the Islands, although Scotland has now not more than two Lodges, possibly not more than one
Lodge, chartered in the Philippines, and it is likely that both of these
Lodges will come under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands within the coming year, but the objection of Scotland is quite consistent with her history in connection with other
Grand Lodges, which have been established where S.cotland has Subordinates, and no surprise, therefore, should be occasioned because
of her reluctance to acknowledge the new Grand Lodge, although
this acknowledgment will ultimately, even if grudgingly, be given.

This form of dispensation is frequent in the Canadian Jurisdictions, but is practically unknown among the American Grand Lodges.

Brother \Vebber presents an interesting report throughout and
our Brethren of the Philippines are to be congratulated upon having
so capable and painstaking a reviewer.
·
WM. H. TAYLOR, Grand Master, :Manila.
NE:WTON C. COMFORT, Grand Secretary, Manila.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
· A great deal of importance attaches in this Jurisdiction to attendance by Lodges upon church services, and dispensations are frequently granted to Lodges to attend chureh services in regalia, and
the Grand Master, in the opening portion of his Address, expresses
the gratification _he has experienced in the frequency within the Jurisdiction within the last year of attendance by Lodges upon divine
services.

The Grand Master refers with much feeling to the sudden death
within the year of Most Worshipful Brother Sir Melbourne McTaggart Tait, the Senior Past Grand Master of the Jurisdiction.
The Grand Master refers to the great war as the subj e'ct uppermost in the minds of the Brethren, and calls attention to the patriotic
efforts on behalf of the Mother Country, exerted by the Canadian
people in general, and the Masonic Brethren of Canada in particular.
GRAND CHAPLAIN'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Lodge was highly edified and entertained at the afternoon session of the opening day of the Ai;mual Communication by a
scholarly Address delivered by the Right Worshipful Brother, the
Reverend Prof. C. A. Brodie-Brockwell, District Grand Chaplain of
the Montreal District.
At the conclusion of the Address, it was moved by Right Worshipful Brother Rev. George A. MacLennan, and seconded by Right
Worshipful Brother R. '. W:. R. Chas. Young, that the thanks of
the Grand Lodge be tendered to the Grand Chaplain for the very
interesting and learned discourse delivered by him, and that the Grand
Secretary be instructed to print the Address in the Proceedings of the
Grand Lodge.

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ST ATE OF MASONRY IN THE JUR;ISDICTION.
From the Re~~rt of the Committee on the State of Masonry, we
learn that. a cond1t1on of unusual progress and prosperity exists, and
the Committee remarks that it is "exceedingly pleasant for us to learn
that ~he net increase in our membership during this second period of
war is over double that of the previous year, while the receipts from
all sources have been the largest 011 record."
The assets of the Grand Lodge amount to $100,267.38.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by )fost Worshipful
E. T. D. Chambers, Past Grand Master. In the Introduction of his
:ep?rt, he calls attention to the fact that it was thirty years ago-that
is, m 1887-that he had the honor of his first appointment as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations; that he has been
the recipient of the same honor ever since, with the exception of the
two years 1896-7, when he was serving the Jurisdiction as Grand
Master.

. Hi; pres~nt report, therefore, is his twenty-eighth, making him in
pomt of service one of the oldest of Correspondence Committee Chairmen.
.
In his Int~oductio~, he discusses a number of subjects of especial
mterest, referring particularly to the war now devastating the continent of Europe; to the "Universality of Masonry"; to the subject of
"Swedish Masonry"; to the alleged "Grand Lodge National of France."
which'. ip his opinion ( a.nd in this he agrees with nearly all l\fasonic
authorities :"ho h.avc given the subject any consideration), has 110
ground for rts claim as a Sovereign Grand Lodge.
~r~~her Chambers ~lso refers to the "General Grand Lodge, ab-

surdity,

and to the futile efforts of a few Brethren to revive this

~ubject, :"hich has made repeated and abortive efforts to gain suppor~

111 Amenca, apparently first in 1822; and again in 1842 and 1843 in
the City of Washington; .and again in 1847 in Baltimore; in 185J at
Lexington; and 1859, 1877 and 1893 in Chicago; to say nothing of
the .several annual conferences of Grand Masters, etc., in recent years,
endmg with the collapse of the Oregon effort to hold a Convention in
San .Francisco in the Exposition year, for the express purpose of propagatmg the idea of a National Grand Lodge.

Brother Chambers prints a table showing the membership of the
Grand Lodges, disclosing a total membership of consid.erably m excess of 100,000, surely a splendid showing for a population no greater than that contained within the Dominion of Canada.
s~veral C~nadian

123

Brother Chambers reviews California, 1916, courteously and intelligently, and expresses the opinion that there is much food for reflection in the able Address delivered by Grand Master Albert G. Burnett,
.and he quotes liberally from not only Brother Burnett's Address, but
also from the Oration of Brother Samuel A. Burke, which he regards
as a high literary production.
Brother Chambers' report manifests throughout a master hand,
and may be read with interest and benefit by all interested in the
subject of Masonry.

w:.

BRO. W. \V. \V1LLJAMSON, Grand Master, Montreal.
R.'. \V. '. BRO. \V1LL H. \VHYTE, Qrand Secretary, :VIontreal.

)'I.'.

QUEENSLAND.
1916.
12th Annual, Brisbane, June 12 .
N llmber of Lodges, 66; Membership, 2610; Gain, 220.
IXSTALLATION OF GRA::\D MASTER.
At the Stated Communication of August 10th, 1915, Most Worshipful Brother A. M. Hertzberg was installed as Grand Master for
the seventh consecutive term. This practice of re~electing the Grand
Master for a large ntlmber of years obtains in most of the Australian
Jurisdictions, and Brother Hertzberg has served as Grand Master for
more than half of the entire existence of the Grand Lodge of Queensland.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
After his installation, the Grand Master made a patriotic and
inspiring Address to the Grand Lodge. He also set forth in a businesslike form the Grand Lodge activities, indicating the capable manner in which Masonry is performing its functions in the Grand Jurisdictions of Queensland.
There have been, as is well known, many obstacles placed in the
way of this Grand Lodge by the Grand Lodges of England and Scotland, which Grand Lodges were loathe to surrender the jurisdiction
in Queensland which had been exercised by their District Grand
Lodges for a great many years; but from the report of the Grand
Master, it appears that nearly every Masonic Jurisdiction in the world,
outside of England and Scotland, has recognized the regularity of the
Grand Lodge of Queensland, and this Grand Lodge is, therefore, firmly
estahlished as a Sovereign Grand Lodge of Ancient Craft Masonry.

124

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE. ·

Since the last Communication, Queensland has received formal
recognition from five Grand Lodges, viz., Iowa, New Hampshire,
Prince Edward Island, California and Manitoba, with a membership
of 123,734, making a grand total of nearly two million Masons who
have recognized the sovereign character of this Grand Lodge.
MASONIC HOMES.
This Grand Jurisdiction, while one of the youngest in the world,
is looking forward to the establishment of a Widows and Orphans
and Masonic Home, and the Brethren are urged by the Grand Master
to spare no effort in speeding the day that will see this exalted ambition realized.
A fund amounting to something like $25,000 has already been
created as a nucleus toward the establishment of an institution of this
character.

M:. w:. A. M. HERTZBERG, Grand Master.
R:. w:. CHARLES H. HARLEY, Grand Secretary, Brisbane.
RHODE ISLAND.
1916.
126th Annual, Providence, May 15.
Lodges, 37; Membership, 9466; Increase, 272.
Largest Lodge, What Cheer Lodge No. 21, 751 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations was opened in Ample Form in Freemasons' Hall,
Providence, May 15, 1916, Most Worshipful Reuben S. Bemis, Grand
Master, presiding.
ADDRESS OF THE GRAND MASTER.
The Grand Master presents a concise, businesslike statement 9f
his official acts within the year, his duties consisting in the usual
routine of affairs, incident to his exalted station.
This is one of the comparatively few American Jurisdictions that
encourages the attendance of Lodges upon divine service, and nnmerous dispensations were issued within the year to permit Lodges to
attend church in regalia.
The Gran'd Master manifested an unusual degree of activity in the
matter of official visitations to Subordinate Lodges, and his efforts

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

125

in the direction of stimulating interest by these official visitations were
greatly appreciated by .the Lodges of the Jurisdiction.
He states that he received a number of requests for advice from
Masters of Lodges, but that no official decisions were necessary, all
questions that arose being decided by reference to the Constitution
and Laws.
The Grand Master makes a recommendation along the lines of
simplifying, if possible, the rule respecting the physical qualifications
of the candidate, his idea being, we assume, that greater latitude
be allowed to Lodges in accepting those having visible physical <lefects, but possessing the necessary moral and mental qualifications.
A PLEASING INCIDENT.
An incident of a pleasing nature occurred within the year in the
unveiling of the bronze tablet placed on the Chamber of Commerce
Building of Providence, a ceremony which took place under the auspices of the Grand Lodge on May 9, 1916, the building having been
occupied as far back as 1797 as a place of meeting of several of the
Masonic Bodies of Rhode Island, and in which Grand Commandery
of Knights Templar and appendant Orders of Massachusetts and
Rhode Island were organized in 1805.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
Worshipful Brother William L. Chatterton, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, submitted a special report on
recognition of Grand Lodges, and in accordance with the recommendation of his report, fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand
•Lodge of Queensland, and was denied to the recently organized, socalled, National Grand Lodge of France.
There is no general report on Foreign . Correspondence.
WILBCR A. ScoTT, Grand Master, Providence.
S. PENROS~ WILLIAMS, Grand Secretary, Providence.

SASKATCHEWAN.
1916.
10th Annual, Swift Current, June 21.
Lodges, 125; Membership, 7117; Increase, 346.
Largest Lodge, Wascana Lodge No. 2, 261 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Tenth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Ancient,
Free and Accepted Masons of Saskatchewan was held in the City of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Swift Current, beginning Wednesday, the 21st day of June, 1916, the
Most Worshipful Brother William Murray Thomson on the Throne.

of liberty and freedom upon the Continent of Europe. It is estimated
that not less than ten per cent of the entire membership of the Canadian Jurisdictions are now serving under the British Flag with the
allied armies for the overthrow of military despotism.

126

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
This Annual Communication, being the tenth since the foundation
of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master, in his Address, takes occasion
to institute a few comparisons between the Province of Saskatchewan
as it was ten years ago, and as it is today, and also a few comparisons touching Masonry as it was then, and is now.
He calls attention to the fact that Saskatchewan is essentially an
agricultural province, and referring simply to one of the staple crops
of the Province, he mentions that in 1905 there was produced in the
Province 42,600,000 bushels of wheat, whereas in 1915, this crop had
increased to 263,000,000 bushels, which, as a matter of fact, is almost
half the normal production of this cereal in the United States.
. Referring to Masonry, he finds that when the Grand Lodge was
launched upon its career of usefulness, there were twenty-nine Lodges
with a membership of about 900, whereas now to these twenty-nine
Lodges have been added ninety-six, making a total of 125 Lodges, with
a membership of over 7000.
From these statements, it is manifest that, not only has the Province of Saskatchewan, within the past ten years, made wonderful
progress, but Masonry itself in the Jurisdiction has made wonderful
strides.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES.
The Grand Master was active in the discharge of his official duties
within the year. All the Lodges which received charters at the preceding Annual .Communication were duly constituted, most of them
by himself in person. He granted dispensations to form nine new
Lodges; he was active in official visitations to Subordinate Lodges;
numerous dispensations for various purposes were issued by him, and
he, otherwise, manifested a marked degree of official activity.
DECISIONS.
Among the "approv.ed rulings," here is one that is not the rule
in American Jurisdictions:
"The position of the S. W., when ruling the Lodge in the absence
of the W. M., shall be in a chair placed on the dais in front of the
E. He shall be addressed as Brother S. W."
ROLL OF HONOR.
As usual in Canadian Jurisdictions, the Roll of Honor, numbering
in this case several hundred, is printed, of Brethren in good standing
in the Jurisdiction who have volunteered for active service in defense

127

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by the Cl12.ir ..
man, Worshipful Brother A. S. Gorrell. No better report has ever
been published in this Jurisdiction than the one presented at this
time by Brother Gorrell.
There are many articles written by leaders of .Masonic thought
incorporated in this report, and the entire production is well W<)rthy
careful perusal.
Brother Gorrell reviews California, 1915, and quotes liberally from
the Address of Grand Master Bledsoe, with approving comment upon
several of his decisions .
J. H. ANDERSON, Grand Master, Saskatchewan.
W. B. TATE, Grand Secretary, Regina.

SCOTLAND.
1916.
The business of this Grand Jurisdiction is transacted at Quarterly
Communications held within the year. There appears to be no change
in the official roster, the Most Worshipful Colonel Robert K. Stewart,
Grand Master.
At the Quarterly Communicatiort held in February, new officers
were elected to take the place of those retiring.
The Annuity Fund, from which charity is dispensed, was increased
in amount. The Charity Administration of this Grand Lodge, by Annuity System, appears to be doing a great deal of good, and looking
after a large number of dependents.
As to the attitude the Grand Lodge should assume toward Brethren
of alien enemy birth and nationality during the present war, we quote
as follows:
"(1) That Grand Lodge of Scotland should approve of and act
in harmony with the resolution already passed by the Grartd Lodge of
England-regarding the attendance of such Brethren at Grand Lodge
or Daughter Lodge meetings, and they therefore recommend that Grand
Lodge. should, at tae May Communication, pass a resolution in the
followmg terms :

128

REPORT, ON. CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"'That in order to prevent the peace and harmony of the Ci;aft
being disturbed, it is necessary that all Brethren of German, Austrian,
Hungarian or Turkish birth or nationality should not, during the continuance of the war, and until Grand Lodge, after. the treaty of peace
has been signed, shall otherwise determine, attend any meeting o·f
Grand Lodge, or any Provincial or District Grand Lodge, or Daughter
Lodge, or any other Masonic Meeting, and that such Brethren do, and
they are· hereby requir.ed by Grand Lodge to abstain from such attendance.
"'That during the period of. non-attendance in obedience to this
resolution, such Brethren shall not be required to pay any annual contribution that may become due, which non-payment shall not be considered as constituting an arrear of dues.'"
The following resolution was passed in regard to taking more
drastic steps by severing altogether Masonic ties with German and
Hungarian Grand Lodges, or Brethren, as follows:
"That for Constitutional and broad Masonic reasons this' Grand
Lodge is not prepared to take the further steps adverted to in Grand
Secretary of England's letter, being of opinion that justice cannot be
done to such vital questions until after peace shall have been restored."
California is fraternally reviewed.
R.'. w:. DAVID R'Ern, Grand Secretary, Edinburgh.

SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
1917.

Adelaide.
Membership, 6020.
. The Half-Yearly Communication of this Jurisdiction was. held
Oct. 18th, 1916, in Freemasons' Hall, Adelaide, M.' · W .' · Brother
Eustace B. Grundy, Grand Master.
The Lodge was opened by the singing by the Ilrethren of the first
verse of the National Anthem, after which the report of the Board of
General Purposes was heard.
After the business report, the Grand Master made a short Address,
referring at once to the great war in Europe, which has meant the
sacrifice of many thousands from this Jurisdiction for the Empire, and
much sorrow to desolate .homes, and he urges, although there is as yet
no end in sight, greater self-sacrifice. We quote, as indicative of his
exalted ideas :
"Brethren of the Grand Lodge, a mon:ientous guestio:i. of supreme
importance-the question of National Serv1ce-awa1ts dec1s1on. I ven-

129

~ure, then, to say that the first duty of every man and of every Mason

is to study the matter with the utmost care, and so gain a real knowledge of the facts as they are today, and the true bearing of those facts
upon the question which it is ours to decide. Then let each of us· act
according to his conscience, honestly-act fearlessly-always remembering that in this high matter it is not the personal aspect which ought
to guide us, but the National aspect-the good of the Nation; not the
convenience of the individual. The great necessity of the Empire; not
the effect on each particular citizen. If we keep this great principle
in mind and act upon it, then we shall assuredly arrive at a right decision, even if in doing so we have to partake of the sacrament of
self-sacrifice and loss!'
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was held April 4,
1917, at Adelaide.
Recognition was extended during this year to the Grand Lodge
of Queensland,
The membership of this Jurisdiction has increased in spite of
the fact that many fighting Masons are at the Front.

,,

The report of the Board of General Purposes shows this Lodge
to be in a flourishing financial condition, and evidences the fine business
ability of this Jurisdiction, and the creditable manner in which the
Masonic obligations of relief and charity are discharged.
FRATERNAL CORRESPONDENCE.
l.fore than half of the Proceedings of South Australia is devoted
to a review of Sister Grand Lodges, this being the seventh report by
the Committee.
1rdlie re;mw of California, quotations are made from the Address
of Grand Master Burnett, and others .
M.'. w.·. EusTACll B. GRU:N'DY, Grand Master, Adelaide.
R.'. W.'. CHARLJlS R. J. GLOVllR, Grand Secretary, Adelaide.

SOUTH CAROLINA.
1916.

140th Annual, Charleston, Dec. 12-13.
Lodges, 266; Membershjp, 17,397; Gain, 617.
Largest Lodge, Centenary No. 312, 703 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The 140th Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Ancient, Free Masons of South Carolina was held in the
Masonic Temple in the .City of Charleston, S. C., Dec. 12th and 13th,
the ).fost Worshipful Brother R. A. Cooper, Grand Master, presiding.

130

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.

AGE OF THE GRA:\'D LODGE.
This Jurisdiction for several years last past has been agitated over
the question of the age of the Grand Lodge. The Volume of Proceedings before us is designated as the Proceedings of the "140th
Annual Communication," but about two years ago some of the members
of this Grand Jurisdiction, who had been delving into the subject as to
the ages of the various Grand Lodges in America, became convinced
that the Grand Lodge of South Carolina was entitled to the
position of greatest honor, so far as age is concerned, among the Grand
Lodges of America; and a Committee was duly appointed to inquire
into this important subject and ascertain if South Carolina had not,
as a matter of fact, been cheating itself to the extent of forty years,
in the matter of age, the desire being not to make itself appear as
young as possible, but on the other hand, as ~d as possible; and the
findings of this Committee were to the effect that South Carolina, in
some manner, had lost in the discard forty years. In other words, that
instead of dating its existence from 1776, the date should have been
1736, which would make this Annual Communication the 180th instead
of the 140th.

Following introductory remarks incident to his Address, the Grand
Master places, apparently in his judgment, the subject of most importance to the Jurisdiction, what he designates as the
MASONIC HOME FUND.
In this connection he states that a great deal has been said on the
floor of the Grand Lodge within the several years .last past concerning
the work of the Masonic Home Trustees, and the method followed
in this Jurisdiction of dispensing charity.
The Grand Master states that he is each year more fully convinced
that the plan adopted by South Carolina tentatively several years since
should be made the permanent policy of the Jurisdiction, which policy
contemplates the administration of the charity functions of the Grand
Lodge, so far as widows and orphans are concerned, which is the
"individual" or "annuity" method, as distinguished from the "Home"
method; and the Grand Master recommends, which recommendation
was subsequently adopted, that the word "Home" be stricken from the
title of the Fund, and the title subsequently adopted at this Communication is "Masonic Relief Fund" instead of "Masonic Home Fund."

South Carolina, therefore, is one of the comparatively few Jurisdictions in the United States that has definitely decided against the
Masonic Home system, and from the standpoint of economy, there is
undoubted wisdom in South Carolina's action.
GRAND MASTER'S ACTIVITIES.
The Grand Master reports nine official visitations to Subordinate
Lodges.
The activities of Grand Masters in respect to official visits have
a wide range, the nine visitations reported by Grand Master Cooper
of this Jurisdiction being, perhaps, the smallest number of visitations
indicated by any Grand Master, and the largest number, so far as our
reading of current Proceedings has gone, being 215 visits to Subordinate Lodges, reported by Grand Master Jermane of the District of
Columbia.
Five Lodges that received charters at the preceding Annual Communication were duly constituted within the year; dispensations were
issued to form three new Lodges; four corner-stone ceremonies took
place under the auspices of the Grand Lodge, and the Masonic Temple
at Columbia, S. C., was dedicated.

131

The Grand Secretary. however, apparently overcome by a sense
of modesty, has continued to number the Proceedings on the old basis,
and some action of the Grand Lodge will probably be needed to advance the serial, whereby the Grand Lodge of South Carolina will
become the oldest on the American Continent.
CORRESPONDENCE REPORT.
The Correspondence Report is again by the very capable reviewer,
Past Grand Master G. L. Michie. He reviews with rare intelligence
and discriminating judgment the various Grand Jurisdictions. He gives
courteous 'consideration to California, 1915, quoting liberally from Grand
Master Bledsoe's rulings and decisions, and referring approvingly to
the Masonic activities of our Grand Body.
M.'. w:. R. A. CooPllR, Grand Master, Laurens.
R'.'. \V:. FRANK HART, Grand Secretary, Columbia.

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

SOUTH DAKOTA.
1917.
43rd Annual, Hot Springs, June 12-13.
Lodges, 143; Membership, 12,226; Gain. 522.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

133

:.l"ECROLOGY.
While many were called to their final reward from the Subordinate Lodges, the Grand Lodge lost a distinguished member and exemplary citizen, Brother William Seth Stockwell, Junior Grand \.Varden in 1893, and a permanent member of the Grand Lodge.

LARGEST LODGES.
Unity Lodge No. 130......................................................................638 Member,;
Aberdeen Lodge No. 38..................................................................487

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE.
It was rec?mmended that recognition be given to the Grand Lodge
of the Republic of Panama, and on motion the recommendation was
adopte.d.

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of South Dakota commenced its Fortythird Annual Communication in the Morris Grand Opera House at
Hot Springs, June 12th, 1917, the Most Worshipful James Roane,
Grand Master, presiding.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
There is a very complete report on Correspondence by Past Grand
Master S. A. Brown. California, 1916, is given courteous consideration, and mention is made of the fine effort of Brother Burke the
Grand Orator of California.
'

Immediately upon assembling, the American Flag was brought in
by the Grand Stewards, saluted, the members standing and uniting in
singing one stanza of "The Star-Spangled Banner," and then displayed
in the Grand East.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
In his Annual Address, the Grand Master refers to the growth of
Masonry in the Jurisdiction, and the improved quality of its work.
He granted dispensations to form four new Lodges; he laid cornerstones of two Masonic buildings; he constituted one new Lodge.
DECISIONS.
He rendered a number of decisions of a local nature, among which
we find the following:
"Ques.-\Vhat would be the standing of a member if he should
join the Catholic Church?
"Ans-,ver-Masonry does not concern· itself with the creed sect
or religious opinion of its members, provided always that belief i~ God
as the Supreme Architect of the Universe is a Masonic essential."
CHARITY FUND.
It was recommended at this Communication to place the sum of
$1500 in the Grand Charity Fund, from the General Fund, and that
a further sum of $1000 be advanced from the General Fund to the
Grand Charity Fund temporarily, in order to enter a subscription of
$4000 for Liberty Bonds to be placed in the Grand Charity Fund, and
this resolution was adopted.

M.'. W.'. FRED H. RUGG, Grand Master, Yankton.
R.' · W.' · GEO. A. PETTlGREW, Grand Secretary, Sioux Falls.

TENNESSEE.
1917.
103rd Annual, X ash ville, January 31.
Lodges, 962; Membership, 29,258; Gain, 958.
LARGEST LODGES.
Masters' Lodge No. 344 .............................................................. 729 Members
Cumberland Lodge No. 8 ........................................................... 513
"
ANNUAL COMMUXICA TIOX.
In compliance with the provisions of the Constitution, the 103rd
Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the
State of Tennessee was held in Freemasons' Hall in Nashville Tenn.
beginning on \.Vednesday, January 31, 1917, Most \Vorshipful Charle~
Barham, Grand Master, presiding.
1

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
\.Ve quote the opening paragraph of the Grand Master's Address
as follows:
"BRETHREN: In con:iing: together for the One Hundred and Third
:\nnual Grand Commumcat1on of the Most yv orshipful Grand Lodge of
fennessee, our grateful thanks should be given the Great Architect of
the Universe for the many blessings He has bestowed upon us during
the year-not only as a Fraternity, but as citizens of a common country. We have been brought from under the black shadow of war and

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

of industrial strife. 'vVe have walked sa~ely as a State and Natj,on
while the world without seemed to rock w1.th the clash of ~rms. VV 1th
us the miseries of other men have been viewed afar off like. spectr?s.
Mercifully have we been spared to work out a ~eaceful destmy w~ile
horrors and agony crushed and oppressed our neighbors on every side.
For us have been the kindly fruits of the earth; for them. a harvest
of tears and desolation. How profound should be our gratitude; how
humble should be our walk before that Mighty Presence!"

He also comments upon the fact, that is well known, that Lodges
with an enthusiastic membership are, as a rule, the growing Lodges
of the Jurisdiction.

134

VISITS MADE BY THE GRAND MASTER.
The work accomplished by the Grand Master in the matter of
official visitations to Subordinate Lodges was well-nigh wonderful.
He reports having made 327 visits to 314 Lodges in seventy-two counties. Upon the subject of official visitations, we quote him as follows:
"At first it was hoped that possibly seventy-five Lodges might be
personally seen, but better than this was not expecte~ .. As the work
progressed, two things . became .apparent-first, the w1l1111,g~ess. of the
Brethren at no small mconvemence to themselves, to assist 1~ planning and in making practicable that which at first s~emed 111;.practicable; second, the cordial desire of the. Lodges to be mcluded 111 the
itineraries. Chiefly because of the assistance I have s?. generously
received, I have made three hundred and twenty-se.ven v1s1ts .to three
hundred and fourteen Lodges in seventy-two counties. In tlurty-four
counties all the Lodges were visited.

* * *
"A check of our annual reports was made to determine which
(if any) of the Lodges ~ad not been previously visited hy. a ?rand
Master. It was found this could not be accurately ascertamed, but.
so far as the repprts show, there were on January. 1, 1916, one hundred
and thirteen which had not been seen-at least smce 1865 .. I am able
. to say that this number has now been reduced by the ~?rk of th.e
present year to forty-one. I wish all could have been v1s1ted, but it
was impossible; our incoming Grand Master t~erefore need n?t fe~r
the ground has been so fully covered that 111s own labors m this
direction are unnecessary.

* * *
"The making of these visits necessitated 15,097 miles of travel,
and there were in attendance at the meetings 6875 Master Masons."
Some of the Grand Master's observations concerning localities i.n
which Masonry flourishes are interesting, particularly the fact upon
which he comments that Masonry has a stronger hold in the rural
districts than in the centers of population, and upon this subject, we
quote his observation, as follows:
"The statement as to the possibilities of our· rural Lodges is borne
out by the fact that those States of the Union which have the greatest
percentage of Masons to population are States without cities of the
first class; for ~xample~ Main~, with 39.7 J?er thousand; ".erm~nt.
with 38.4; Michigan, with 26.:i; Kansas, with 23.8, and Wyommg,
with 22.5."

135

Here is what he says upon this subject:
"Another fact of overwhelming importance is this: There is not
in Tennessee today a bright Lodge that is not an enthusiastic Lodge,
nor an enthusiastic Lodge that is not a growing Lodge. And this
must be so. for, if our profession is such that knowledge does not
produce zeal, and if zeal so caused is not of that character which exhibits itself without as well as within the Lodge, and by its manifestation in our lives encourages and persuades other men to ask admittance, then the Order itself is a sham and a delusion and not worth
the while of earnest men."
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, commenting upon the work of
the Grand Master, pays special tribute to his great industry and zeal
in favoring with his personal presence such a large number of the
Lodges of the Jurisdiction. His activities deserve the high praise
paid him in the report of this Committee, as follows :
"The work of your Grand Master throughout the year has led
him into .great diversity of activities and his record is unprecedented
for comprehensiveness and efficiency. He comes to you from a harvest field of Masonry, made richer far by his earnest, intelligent and
loving labors, and that will, we trust and believe, become yet stronger
and far more golden by reason of the great work he has wrought,
the words of encouragement, and the instructive lessons he has so
widely and generously carried to the Tennessee Craft. His record
of 'Official Visits' is without parallel, whether considered in point
of number, diversity, or territory covered. He has not waited for,
but has made opportunitY. for visitation. He has been with the
numerically strong and. well-equipped Subordinate, and has traveled
far and wide to reach and to help, instruct and encourage the weak
and struggling rural Lodge. Instant in season and out of season, his
travels have been brightened by the sweet songs of the birds of
springtime, bathed in the sunshine and melting heat of summer and
chilled by the shivering winds of bleakest winter time, marked always
by a zeal unbounded, a devotion that knew no rest. Impartial always,
and seeking ever to improve conditions and accomplish all possible
good for the Brethren, he deserves and will, in rich measure, receive
your commendation. We must heartily congratulate our worthy Grand
Master upon the abundance of his labors during the year and felicitate
the Craft upon their good judgment and wisdom in selecting such an
able, aggressive and faithful servant."
DECISIOXS.
The Grand Master made a large number of rulings construing the
local law of the Jurisdiction, which rulings, with slight modifications,·
were approved by the Jurisprudence Committee and the Grand Lodge.

136

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Chairman, Most
\Vorshipful Henry A. Chambers. In his "Introduction," he discusses
a number of questions which have appeared to him as of more or less
prominence in his reading of Grand Lodge reports. He refers to the
subject of "Physical Qualifications," and observes that the tendency
of Grand Lodges is generally to a more liberal construction of "physical qualifications," and to the fact that the tendency is to look to the
inner qualifications rather than to the outer qualifications in considering the fitness of an applicant for the degrees of Masonry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

137

Preliminary to the opening of the Grand Lodge, a program of
addresses was carried out, and certain distinguished visitors, as follows, were introduced, several of whom favored the assembled Brethren
with remarks suitable to the occasion:
R.". W.". Bro. Nelson Williams, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of the State of Ohio.
R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Henry Banks, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge ·of the State of Georgia.

R'.". W.". Bro. Harry K. Simpson, Past Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.

THE LIQUOR QUESTION.
He also mentioned the "liquor question" as being a subject more
or less prominent in Grand Lodge discussions, and observes the growing tendency to banish absolutely from the Masonic ranks those who
are in any way connected with this ungodly traffic.

R.". \V.". Bro. George E. Corson, Past Grand Junior Warden of
the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia.

Other subjects discussed by him are: "Masonic Homes"; the
abortive efforts to create interest in the subject of a "General Grand
Lodge"; the rules of "Recognition" for Bodies seeking to establish
the standing of Sovereign Grand Lodges ; "Documentary Evidence,"
etc.

ADDRESS OF THE GRAND MASTER.
After the preliminaries incident to the opening of the Grand
Lodge had been disposed of, and the Grand Lodge itself had been
opened in Ample Form, the Grand Master delivered his Annual Address.

He reviews California, 1916, referring to the Address of Grand
Master Burnett. He is impressed with the extent of our Masonic
charities, and in other respects has kindly words for the Masonry
of our Jurisdiction.

He identifies the highest c1v1c qualities of the great Commonwealth of Texas with the Masonry of that State, both of which he
exalts, as evidenced by the following paragraph taken from his opening remarks :

M.". W.". JoHN T. PEELER, Grand Ma:;ter, Htmting<lon.
R.". W.". STITH M. CAIN, Grand Secretary, Nashville.

TEXAS.
1916.

8lst Annual, ·waco, Dec. 5-6-7. ·
Lodges, 896; Membership, 68,324; Gain, 2515.
Largest Lodge, Fort Worth No. 148, 1024 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Texas, Ancient, Free and
Accepted Masons, held its Eighty-first Grand Annual Communication
at the Masonic Temple, in the City of Waco, commencing Tuesday,
the 5th day of December, 1916, the Most Worshipful Dan S. McMillin,
Grand Master, presiding.

R.". w:. Bro. George W. Treadwell, Grand Senior Warden of
the Grand Lodge of the State of Louisiana.

"The history of Masonry in Texas is the history of Texas, because those who were foremost in making Texas a free country,
making it what it was, what it is, and what it is destined to be, also
planted Masonry in Texas. Many of her most noted soldiers, statesmen and jurists have occupied the prominent positions in the Subordinate Lodges and the Grand Lodge of Texas and directed its destinies
with the same intelligence and patriotism displayed in the formation
and guidance of the new Republic and State, and leading to the great
success it has now attained and the even greater success which no
Mason doubts it will attain in the future. For we see before us the
flower of the young manhood of Texas, strong in their knowledge and
zeal for the principles of Masonry, which they have learned to love
and practice in the years of their young manhood, and it is a joy to
know that those who are following after us are so much better qualified than we have been to carry on the great work that means so much
to humanity."
He refers to the present condition of ::'vfasonry in his Jurisdiction
as follows:
"I am glad to report to you that Masonry in Texas was never in a
more flourishing condition than now. Peace and harmony, with very

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRl<JS:FONDENCE.

few exceptions, have prevailed throughout the year. A very gratifying increase in membership is noted, but greatest of all, the principles
of Brotherly Love and Relief have been shown in so many ways that
we may truly call this a great year for Masonry in Texas."

"During the year I have received many requests from various
Lodges of this Jurisdiction requesting me to authorize another Lodge
of this Jurisdiction to confer a degree, or degrees, for their Lodge
as a courtesy to them.
"In all cases I have declined to grant the request made, and
"Held-That the resolution of the Grand Lodge adopted in 1914,
found on page 207, Proceedings 1914, applied to Grand Jurisdictions
only, and not as between Subordinate Lodges, both being of this
Jurisdiction; and that by waiver or certificate, as provided in the
Edicts of the Grand Lodge. was the proper course to pursue by those
desiring advancement."

138

PHYSICAL DISQUALIFICATION.
'Texas is still one of the comparatively few American Jurisdictions
that holds to a strict construction concerning physical disqualifications,
and the Grand Master, in his Address, gives a list of thirty-eight
defects ruled upon by him within the year as disqualifying applicants
for admission, and among some of these defects, we find the following:
Monahans Lodge No. 952-Defect: Loss of first joint of little
finger of right hand.
Lee Scott Lodge No. 793-Defect: Sees but little out of one eye;
the other eye perfect.
Nolan Lodge No. 1003-Defect :Loss of first joint of second
finger of right hand.
\Ve may say, however, that notwithstanding the apparent strictness of this Jurisdiction touching the subject of physical disqualifications, it is nevertheless very much more liberal than formerly, and
there has been within the last three or fol1r years a very decided relaxation of its rules upon the subject of physical defects.
MASONIC FUNCTIONS.
A marked measure of activity was manifested in the performances
of Grand Lodge ceremonies; there were not less than twenty-five
corner-stone ceremonies; numerous dispensations were granted to publicly install officers; dedications of not less than five Lodge rooms
took place, and otherwise, the year was an active period for the
Grand Master.
DECISIONS.
A number of rulings were made by the Grand Master upon questions of interpretation of the Constitution and laws of the J urisdiction, all of which interpretations were apparently upheld by the Jurisprudence Committee and the Grand Lodge.
We quote as follows from the decisions, as possibly presenting
questions of general interest:
"Question-Is it permissible for the Order of Eastern Star to form
a procession and precede the Masonic procession to the place of installation?
"Held-It would be improper for any, except Masonic Bodies,
acting as an escort. to precede the Lodge in procession on public
occasions. The Order of Eastern Star not being recognized by our
Grand Lodge as a Masonic Body, it would he improper for them to
form a procession and precede the Lodge to place of installation."

* * *

l3D

MASONIC ORPHANS' HOME AND SCHOOL.
Texas has a _just pride in its Masonic Home and School, this
being one of the finest institutions of its kind in this or any other
country, and concerning this institution, we quote from the Grand
Master's Address as follows :
"No Grand Master's report would be complete without reference
to the Orphans' Home, though I have no intention of going into details of that institution, as that will be given you by our Board of
Directors and Superintendent.
"During the year I have visited the Home repeatedly, and met
with the Board of Directors in their deliberations, and observed the
care with which they considered every question affecting that noblest
work of Masonry in our State today, which is the visible and valuable
manifestation of the tenets of our profession of Brotherly Love, Relief
and Truth. Under their careful management 'Our Home' stands preeminent among like. institutions in the whole world as to successful
financial management, comfort of our children, and their moral, physical and spiritual training, under the excellent direction and management of our peerless Superintendent, Brother Walter Acker, and his
noble and devoted wife. Brethren, go see the actual workings of our
Home, as I have done, and you will come away with a renewed inspiration of their great work.
"Our Brethren cannot fully appreciate. because they do not know,
the labor, the time and the tremendous responsibility involved in the
successful management of this most important trust. It is seldom that
the most extensive business enterprise demands such sound judgment,
so mnch laborious attention to details, and such careful circumspection, yet all this is freely rendered by our excellent Board of Directors
without compensation or reward, save the happy consciousness of duty
well done. Their devotion and fidelity deserve all praise. We shall
never know how much we are indebted to the Directors of our Home
until they have gone to their reward, and we come to fill their places.

"If our Home is not the most symmetrical and magnificent of
structures ever erected by human hands, it is to every true and devoted Mason the most beautiful Masonic emblem ever contrived. In
its structure there are no cedars from Lebanon, nor marbles from the
quarries of the East, but its foundation is Trust in God, and its pillars
are Faith. Hope and Charity. The gold of Ophir does not adorn its
portals, nor precious stones from afar gem its corridors, but the smiles
of cheered widowhood and orphan children illuminate its hall, and its

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

gems are the teardrops of gratitude sparkling in the eyes of orphan
children.
"My Brethren, that Home is our Mount Moriah, that is our Temple, sacred to Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth."

UTAH.

140

ADDRESS OF GRAND ORATOR.
At the evening session of the first day of the Annual Communication, Worshipful Brother Andrew L. Randell, Grand Orator, delivered
his Address, the subject being "Masonic Study and Research." His
learned discourse was greatly enjoyed by the assembled Brethren, and
upon motion, duly made and seconded, the Orator was tendered the
thanks of ~he Grand BCJdy, and the Address was ordered to be printed
in full in the Proceedings.
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by George W.
Tyler, Past Grand Master, Chairman, the report being the fifth in
number from this distinguished Mason.
Reviews are presented of the various Grand Jurisdictions, courteous consideration being given to California, 1915, with complimentary
references to the Address of Grand Master Bledsoe, and to certain
features of California Masonry, particularly to our Homes at Decoto
and Covina.
The writer, in his "Conclusion," announces his voluntary retirement from the Chairmanship of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence. His retirement will be a distinct loss to the corps of Grand
Lodge Reporters. The Jurisdiction of Texas has been enriched by
the addition of his name to the list of eminent Masons who have presided over this Committee in the past-such names as Sayles, Gray,
Sexton, Cushing, Botts, Mott, Elgin, McLeary and Matthews.
Past Grand Master Tyler voices his appreciation of the many kind
words of approval which have come to him while he is still living,
from those who have known of his work, and have appreciated the
same, and as Brother Tyler steps back into the ranks, we are sure
that he takes with him the good wishes of all the members of the
Reportorial Guild.
M.'. W.'. FRANK C. JoNES, Grand Master, Houston.
R.'. W.'. W. B. PEARSON, Grand Secretary, Waco.

141

1917.
46th Annual, Salt Lake City, Jan. 16-17.
Lodges, 20; Membership, 2605; Net Gain, 132.
Largest Lodge, Mount Moriah No. 2, 441 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of Utah held its Forty-sixth Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, on January 16th and 17th, 1917, Most
Worshipful Charles Clifton Griggs, Grand Master, presiding.
GRAND ORATOR'S ADDRESS.
After the opening of the Grand Lodge, a departure from the
usual order of procedure took place in that the Grand Orator, Brother
John E. Carver, was introduced, whereupon the Annual Oration was
delivered, which consisted principally of a review of the traditions
and history of Freemasonry.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
Upon the re-assembling of the Grand Lodge in the afternoon of
the first day of the Annual Communication, the Grand Master delivered his Annual Address, which consisted of a resume of the business of the preceding year.
The Grand Master reported personal and official v1s1tations to all
of the Lodges in the Jurisdiction, with the exception of one Lodge,
which was visited by the Deputy Grand Master.
OUR NATIONAL EMBLEM.
Th·e Grand Master states in his report that in all of his visitations to Subordinates, he drew especial attention to the spirit of patriotism which prevailed throughout our country, and, in this connection, called the attention of the various Lodges of his Jurisdiction
to the history of the American Flag, which is inseparably linked with
the history of American Masonry, and in his visitations he mentioned
to all of the Lodges that it is right and proper to display our National
Emblem in the East in all Lodge rooms, and in the official visit which
he made to his own Lodge-Tintic No. 9-he presented the Lodge with
a large silk American Flag, and received their assurances that at all
future meetings the Flag would be displayed. He states further that
many of the Lodges have always displayed the Flag in the East, and
he states that the few that have not observed the custom have since
been notified by him to do so, and he is pleased to inform the Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPON!>ENCE.

Lodge that the National Emblem is now displayed in the East in
every Lodge room in the Jurisdiction. This is a custom concerning
which there is a difference of opinion as to its wisdom.·

VERMONT.

REPLY TO SUGGESTION TOUCHING SUPREME GRAND
LODGE.
The Grand Master says that within the year he received a letter
from the editor of a certain Masonic publication, stating that a movement is under way, headed by a certain Past Grand Master of Indiana,
to form a "Supreme Grand Lodge," wherein the editor asked the
Grand Master if he thought the Grand Lodge of Utah would favor
such an idea.

124th Annual, Burlington, June 13-14.
Lodges, 103; Membership, 14,533; Gain, 292.
Largest Lodge, Granite Lodge No. 35, 448 Members.

142

Immediately upon receipt of the communication, Grand Master
Griggs replied that, in his opinion, the idea would receive no support
whatever in the Grand Jurisdiction of Utah. Grand Master Shryock
of Maryland says the idea is so dead that it stinks.
COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE.
A special report of the Committee on Correspondence was made,
touching the request of a Body styling itself the "Grand Lodge of the
Republic of Panama," asking for recognition. The Committee was
unable to discover sufficient grounds for the recognition of this Body
as a Sovereign Grand Lodge of Ancient Craft Masonry, and recommended that the request for recognition be denied. The report, which
was unquestionably well founded, was unanimously adopted.
Most Worshipful S. H. Goodwin, Past Grand Master, Chairman
of the Committee on Correspondence, submits his third Annual Report.
Brother. Goodwin reviews California, 1915-1916, and while he expresses criticism of some of the actions of our Grand Lodge, as well
as some of the views of the Chairman of the Committee on Corr~spon­
dence, concerning the action of the Grand Lodge of Eng1and, which
we approved, in excluding certain Masons of German birth and making, as visitors in English Lodges, we express no resentment of
Brother Goodwin's criticism, as he manifests a spirit of good will,
and we are entirely satisfied to stand by the record as it is, without
change and without apologies of any sort.
CHARLES FRED JENNINGS, Grand Master, Salt Lake City.
FREEMAN A. McCARTY, Grand Secretary, Salt Lake City.

143

1917.

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The 124th Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Vermont convened in its rooms in the Masonic Ti;mple, City of Burlington, on
Wednesday, the 13th of June, 1917, and was presided over by M.".
Grand Master Henry H. Ross.

w:.

GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master's Address is a very complete resume of his
activities during his term of office. In his introductory remarks,
touching upon the awful calamity of the war in Europe, and its relation to Masonry, he has this to say:
"It may be that among the blessings to the world that are bound
to emerge from the world-wide welter of war there shall come a
clearer vision than we have ever known of what is meant by universal
brotherhood. Groups 'of Masons that hitherto have stood apart and
looked askance at one another are standing face to face. We are
learning what are the essentials of our Craft. Emphasis is being laid
less upon the question 'from whence come you' and more upon 'whither
are you traveling.' The devout Christian beholds with sorrow the
various sects of Christendom divided and too often opposing each
other. They earnestly pray as Chris.t himself prayed that 'these all
may be one.' So let the Mason who prays at all pray that the divided
ranks of Freemasonry may be closed up and, united in heart and
action, work together for the good of all mankind. Sure it is that
there can be no permanent peace so long as warfare of any kind
exists, commercial, industrial, social, political, or even fraternal. All
these must be done away and all nations stand side by side as do
the States of our country, independent yet united in the bonds of the
Union, before the vision of England's seer can be realized-'The Parliament of Man, the Federation of the World.'"
He makes extensive and fitting comment on the harvest of the
Grim Reaper, which included two beloved Past Grand Masters,
M.". w:. Charles Arba Calderwood and M.". w:. Kittredge Haskins,
Masons who had given active Masonic service of usefulness in promoting the best interests of the Craft.
OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES WI'.I'HIN THE YEAR
Grand Master Ross states that the growth of the Craft has been
the largest of any year in its history. He called one Special Communication to lay the corner-stone of the Henry W. Putnam Memorial

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Hospital, at Eennin,gton, the date being the anniversary of the "Battle
of Bennington." He issued numerous dispensations for various purposes, such as attending divine services, etc.; he rendered two decisions
on Masonic law.
GRAND LODGE CHARITY FUND.
The Grand Lodge of Vermont has a Permanent Charity Fund
which is gradually increasing, but does not warrant the building of
a Home as yet, but as evidence of the broad vision of Vermont charity,
we quote the Grand Master upon this subject, as follows:

Jurisdictions maintain, as it were, a law department, a sort of an attorney-general, who passes on the questions of law before they are
promulgated. In North Carolina questions of law are passed on by
the Grand Master in case only of appeal from the Subordinate Lodge.
Some of these methods have an advantage over our method in which
the Grand Master announces the law, makes a ruling, renders judgment and the same is acted on ; after which the correctness of the
Grand Master's ruling is submitted to the Committee on Jurisprudence of the Grand Lodge, whose report is affirmed or disapproved
by the Grand Lodge. Under this method the judgment has been enforced before the validity of the law has been established; and,. if the
Committee on Jurisprudence overrules the decision of the Grand Master and the Grand Lodge approves the Committee's report, it is then
established that the law is different from the law given the Subordinate Lodge by the Grand Master, which has been acted upon by the
Lodge. Probably a majority of the Jurisdictions are in accord with
our practice. It requires some care in reporting a decision from another Jurisdiction, in order to ascertain just what the decision was
as rendered by the Grand Master and then follow the same up to determine how far the decision was sustained, modified or overruled
either by the Committee on Jurisprudence or subsequently by the
Lodge in acting upon the Committee's report. Many errors creep into
the reports of the Committee on Correspondence through oversights
in this regard. A careful judicial foreign correspondent and compiler
who would specialize in gathering these decisions for a number of
years, would perform a service for his own and all the Jurisdictions."

"I feel sometimes that we are a bit selfish in our charity. \Ve
do little outside our Fraternity, and I am aware that Lodges sometimes give grudgingly when it should be a delight to give. It is true
that we have given for the general relief of sufferers from fire, flood,
earthquake, and pestilence. But for the most part our benefactions
have been to our own. I would have the Grand Lodge of Vermont
and its constituents in such condition that no worthy Brother in need,
no Masonic wife or widow should be without the necessities and comforts of life, no Masonic children lacking in all that we regard so
essential for our own little ones, should grow up without the opportunity of developing into useful manhood and womanhood. Are anv
sick, I would have nursing care at their service; are any in need o"f
such surgical skill as those in better circumstances can command to
prolong life and comfort, I would have it, too, within their reach. I
hope to see the time when in every public hospital within this Jurisdiction there shall be an endowed Masonic bed or sum of money set
apart to care for any who may need its advantages. I trust the time
may speedily come when we can say to any suffering Mason, 'My
Brother, you are ill and in need of the best medical skill. It is provided for you by your Brethren. By your consistent life as a Mason
you have acquired the right to these things. The best in medicine
and surgery is yours.' "
FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
There is a brief report on Foreign Correspondence by Charles H.
Darling, Past Grand Master, appointed as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. Past Grand Master Marsh 0. Perkins,
who had long been Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence,
passed away February 10, 1916, and his successor, Past Grand Master
Kittredge Haskins, in turn was deceased August 7, 1916, and Brother
Charles H. Darling is therefore a new recruit to the ranks of Foreign
Correspondents.
His idea of a Correspondence Report is a general resume of important events of other Jurisdictions, in topical form: He makes mention of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of the Founding of the Grand
Lodge of England.
We quote from his comment on "Decisions" as follows :
"In Mississippi questions of law are submitted to a law committee, as I understand, before the decision is rendered, While some

145

M.'. \V.'. DAVID A. ELLIOT, Grand Master, White River Junction.
M.'. \V.'. Hl':NRY H. Ross, Grand Secretary, Burlington.

VICTORIA.
1916.

Melbourne.
Lodges, 237; Membership, 15,812; Gain, 592.
C0:'.\1MUNICATIONS.
The business of the Grand Lodge of Victoria is conducted in
Quarterly Communications and the usual Communications of this
character were held in 1916, all of them presided over by the Most
Worshipful Brother, the Honorable C. Carty-Salmon.
FINANCES.
Like most o.f the Australian Grand Jurisdictions, Victoria is upon
a sound financiar footing. The Grand Treasurer's Balance, presented
at the. December Quarterly Communication, shows a total belonging
to the several Funds of £50,330.7.11, the equivalent of about $250,000.

147

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDI1NCE.

ADDRESSES OF GRAND MASTER.
At the various Quarterly Communications, the Grand Master made
brief, businesslike reports, setting forth his official activities, and the
progress of Masonry within the Jurisdiction; several new Temples
were dedicated to Freemasonry within the year; and the usual advances by the Board of Benevolence made during the year amounted
to about $8000, and the total disbursed in this manner since the foundation of the Grand Lodge is reported as about $170,000.

the Most High may deem wise, this fearful devastating struggle n:ay
be brought to an end, that we and the peoples of the earth may en1oy
what He has so bountifully provided."

148

THE GREAT WAR.
The Jurisdiction of Victoria, in common with all other Masonic
Jurisdictions of the British Colonies, treats as the subject of uppermost
importance the great World \Var in progress, in which the British
Empire is struggling for existence, and, with her allies, to carry forward to victory the great principles of Liberty and Freedom.
From an inspection of the current report of Victoria, it is observed that probably ten per cent of the entire Masonic membership
of the Jurisdiction is enlisted under the colors and battling bravely
at the front.
The last words of the Grand Master, in closing the December
Quarterly Communication, were upon this very vital topic, as follows:
"Before I .close Grand Lodge, I wish to say a word or two with
regard to the future. We have been buoyed up with hope that each
Quarterly Communication and each New Year would see the coming
of peace. Surely our hopes will not be disappointed during the coming year. Surely in His own good time will the Great Architect of
the Universe bring about that peace, which is so much desired. So
far as we are concerned, we hope to have peace with honor, and, above
all, peace with certain security for the future. We have many of our
Brethren at the front. I do not know of any organization which has
done as much as Freemasonry has done. Only last evening I attended
the Australia Felix Lodge of Hiram, which has no fewer than 25 per
cent of its members serving at the front; but this is only typical of the
Fraternity throughout Australia. Increasingly heavy demands will be
made upon us, and there is at the present time urgent need for greater
economy, and it is only by individual sacrifice and personal economy
that we can hope to meet these demands. As Freemasons we are.
looked upon as men of some substance, and it is generally agreed that
we ju·stify this by contributing what is expected of us, and it is up to us
to show our proper appreciation of our further responsibilities. It is useless to look to the State or Federal authorities alone to take steps to provide means to meet these added demands, so I would ask you to
exercise in your homes and in your daily lives that economy which
has proved during this present war one of the most potent factors in
the success of our nation. I would ask you to look forward with
confidence to a happy and prosperous New Year. Our land of the
Southern Cross has been blessed with seasons which we have rarely
had before. We hope that during the coming year, and as early as

M:. w:. ERO. THE HoN. C. CARTY-SALMON, Grand Master, Melbourne.
R.'. w:. BRO. CHARLES JAMES BARROW, Grand Secretary, Melbourne.
'VIRGINIA.
1917.

139th Annual, Richmond, Feb. 13-14-15.
Lodges, 324; Membership, 26,027; Gain, 496.
Largest Lodge, Marshall Lodge No. 39, 594 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The 139th Grand Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
Virginia was held in the Masonic Temple in the City of Richmond,
beginµing Feb. 13, 1917, Most Worshipful James Alston Cabell, Grand
Master, presiding.
The Grand Lodge was favored with the presence of distinguished
visitors in the persons of Most Worshipful Henry Banks, Past Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of Georgia, and a Representative of the
Grand Lodge of New Jersey.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master plunges into a succinct and businesslike statement of his official activities within the year; he issued dispensations
to form three new Lodges; he reports a marked activity of the Fraternity within the year ·in the placing of corner-stones of public .buildings, not less than twenty-seven such ceremonies having been performed under his authority.
He reports visitations to a large number of Subordinate Lodges,
and sets forth with commendable precision his other official activities.
l:Jnder the caption, "Physical Qualification," he makes the following pertinent remarks:
"It is about time for this Jurisdiction to assert that' in selecting
material for Masonry it depends more upon the mental efficiency and
the moral character of the candidate than his physical ability to perform manual labor.
"I hope the light will never dawn upon the day when our Institution will forget the debt of gratitude the world owes to those broad-

148

149

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

m'inded, sturdy workmen who were the custodians of our great truths,
and nursed and kept burning the sacred fires upon the altars of what
we today call Masonry through all the long and terrible era of the
Dark Ages, with its ignorance, its intolerance, and its superstitions;
but I can see no sound reason why we should, in this day of enlightenment and of speculative Masonry, handicap our Institution, and seriously circumscribe its usefulness, by continuing the observance of old
regulations, which have nothing to recommend them except that they
were wise and judicious in another age and under other conditions."

Grand Master of Masons of North Carolina, who was introduced,
escorted to the Grand East, and saluted after the ancient custom of
Masons, after which he favored the Grand Lodge with fitting and
pleasing remarks.

DECISIONS.
From his decisions, the fo1lowing are quoted:
"Question-The candidate for initiation was prepared and alarm
had been given, when information of his serious moral turpitude was
communicated to the Master. Was it right for him to arrest the
initiation at that stage?
"Answer-Yes ..

"Question-Can an Entered Apprentice be prevented from advancement by an objection secretly communicated to the Master of his
Lodge?
"Answer-Under section 129, the Master may decline to confer
the degree, in which case the candidate stands rejected, and his fee
must be returned; or he may delay the advancement for investigation. If the objection be a serious one, he must give it consideration,
no matter how communicated."
That peace and harmony and good will will prevail throughout
the jurisdiction may be judged from the following eloquent words from
the concluding paragraphs of his Address:
"By the help of God, I am able to report our Jurisdiction has been
blessed with peace and harmony, our influence and power have been
enlarged, our membership increased, and our material possessions
added to. I have an intense desire-almost a passion-for the prosperity and greatness of our Institution, but my conception of that
prosperity and greatness is more spiritual than material. I do not long
fqr an Institution possessed of a large membership and vast wealth
so much as for one that can and does command the respect, the cGmfidence, and the admiration of mankind; that wields a great influence
and power for the good of God's creatures-consoling sorrow, assuaging pain, and
'-bringing gladness
To eyes that fail with wakefulness and tears,
And ache for the dark house and the long sleep';
that lifts them to higher and nobler conceptions, and so meets .the demands, the cares, and the responsibilities of life that mankind must
bf':ar testimony that the world is wiser, happier, and better because of
its existence and in consequence of its teachings."
ANOTHER DISTINGUISHED VISITOR.
The second day of the Annual Communication, the Grand Lodge
was favored with a visit from the Most Worshipful C. L. Pridgen,

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, by Most Worshipful Joseph W. Eggleston, Past Grand Master, Chairman.
We quote the following paragraph from his "Conclusion" as worthy of thoughtful perusal:
"Striving for members is un-Masonic. All degree work, and little
or no social life or instructive features, is a sad mistake. But, perhaps, worse and most destructive of all, is permitting our peace-loving
institution, which is in its very essence the antithesis of controversy,
to be drawn into religious contention. We have our work to do in
the world, and have no mission to fight or contend with anybody.
That we are sometimes attacked today by the Roman Church, as we
have been for centuries, is no excuse whatever. Wordy defense is
confession of weak vulnerability, and just that is what Rome wants.
Their fulminations have never hurt us in all the ages, and, if we only
have the sense to leave them to beat the air, they never will. If on
earth there ever was a set of people who could afford to smile in
silence at any and all attacks, we are just those people. What we
choose to do as individuals is another story.
"Our fathers had none of these mistakes in their Masonry. These,
and some others, are modern innovations, and should be rigorously
weeded out. Let us keep our Masonry pure and simple; do what we
can for our fellow-man, especially those of our household, and let
other organizations do as they will."
Brother Eggleston's review throughout is characterized by intelligent selection for quotation and beneficent and killdly criticism.
California, 1915, is reviewed with generous selections from the
Address of Grand Master Bledsoe, and favorable references to the
Masonic activities of our Grand Jurisdiction.
M.'. W.'. HENRY K. FIELD, Grand. Master, Alexandria.
R.'. W.'. CHARLES A. NESBITT, Grand Secretary, Richmond.

150

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

WASHINGTON.

and it is proposed to erect an additional building at a cost of about
$25,000, affording quarters for 42 persons, and for additional comfort
for guests.
We quote from the Grand Master's "Conclusion," as expressive of
his true Masonic spirit, below :
"We are necessitous creatures, and there is no time at which we
do not need human ministrations in the way of relief; hence, we
should be ready to extend the same. The opportunity to extend reli~f,
whether it be financial or in the way of securing employment or m
the visiting of the sick or in seeing to the burial of the dead,. or in
caring for the widow and orphan, is too valuable to be overlooked in
such an institution as ours; it is not overlooked, and therein, I think,
lies the strong appeal of our institution to ordinary men. Let us look
well to it, therefore, that we pass by no opportunity wherein we
may extend such assistance as we may be called upon to render to
those who have the strongest possible claims upon us."

1916.

59th Annual. Tacoma, June 13, 1916.
Lodges, 218; Membership, 21,698; Gain, 974.
Largest Lodge, St. John's Lodge No. 9, 892 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUKICATION.
The Fifty-ninth Annual Communication of the 1\fost Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of \.Vashington conveneJ
in the City of Tacoma on Tuesday, June 13th, 1916, and was called
to order by the M:. \V:. Robert L. Sebastian, Grand Master.
After the opening ceremonies, an Address of \Velcome on behalf
of the Masons of Tacoma, was tendered by \V:. Brother Earl A.
Richardson, which was responded to by R:. w:. Brother Alonzo E.
Emerson, Junior Grand Warden.
'
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
In the opening of his Annual Address, the Grand Master assures
the Brethren that his appreciation of the honor conferred L1po11 him
in electing him to the high office of Grand Master, has been and is
sincerely valued.
NECROLOGY.
The Grand Master reports the decease of Most \Vorshipful
Brother Robert C. Hill, Past Grand Master, an honored and able
Mason.
DECISIO:NS.
The Grand Master reports that he made no decisions during his
term of office, such questions as were presented to him for attention
being, in most cases, answered by referring to the Code.
ACTIVITIES OF THE GRAND MASTER.
Grand Master Sebastian constituted during the year six new
lodges; he laid corner stones of a large number of public buildings;
he issued eight dispensations to form new Lodges; he also issued dis-.
pensations for numerot1s other minor purposes of a local nature.
He mentions the increased interest in the work of Masonry through
the Grand Lecturer, who conducted Lodges of Instruction, visiting in
all 104 Lodges; he was entertained by the Acacia Fraternity, whose
members are Master Masons and also university graduates and stand
very high; he visited a number of Subordinate Lodges.
MASONIC HOME.
The Masonic Home of this Jurisdiction is accomplishing a great
· deal of good, housing to its utmost capacity aged and ailing :Masons,

161

FOREIGN' CORRESPONDENCE.
There is a review of a large number of Jurisdictions arranged in
topical form, by Ralph C. McAllaster, Committee. He quotes the
Grand Master of California upon acquiring new members into the
Fraternity, but m'ore especially in maintaining harmony between those
who are already in it. We quote the reviewer on "Volume of the
Sacred Law" :
VOLUME OF THE SACRED LAW.
"Iti deciding upon the petition for a new Lodge at Peking, China,
the Grand Master of Massachusetts was confronted with the problem
that the Bible is not the 'Volume of the Sacred Law' to all peoples,
and there was a certainty of such Lodge receiving applications from
those whose obligations would be considered more sacred if taken on
their own particular volume. His conclusions were:
"'To the Christian, the Volume of the Sacred Law is the Holy
Bible, and upon it he should be obligated. The Christian religion is
the prevailing religion of our Lodges and, therefore, the Holy Bible,
as the Volume of the Sacred Law, is and must always be part of the
furniture of each Lodge. Its sanctity, however, does not appeal to the
Islamite, and the ceremony of initiation would lose much to him in
binding effect if his obligation should be taken thereon. While the
Holy Bible should not be removed from the Lodge, the conscientious
Islamite who so desires may be permitted to take his obligation upon
the Koran : the Hindu, otherwise qualified and accepted, may be permitted to have the Vedas spread open before him; and the rite of
initiation may be so far adapted to the conscience and religious belief
of a candidate as to permit his taking the ohligation in a manner and
form regarded by him as sacred and binding, and upon that work
which to him is the Volume of the Sacred Law, providing always that
such Volume of the Sacred Law teach Monotheism.'"
The Committee, to whom the matter was referred, agreeing with
the Grand Master.
M:. w:. GEORGE R. MALCOLM, Grand .Master, Walla Walla.
R:. w:. HORACE \V. TYLER, Grand Secretary, Tacoma.

152

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
1916.

17th Annual, Perth, April 27th.
Lodges, 97; Membership, 4108; Gain, 66.
Largest Lodge, St. John Lodge No. 1, 105 :Vfembcrs.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Communications of this Grand Lodge are held quarterly, and the
Quarterly Communication held in April of each year is considered,
also, the Annual Communication, upon which occasion in 1916, the
Most Worshipful Brother C. 0. L. Riley, Archbishop of Perth,
Grand Master, presided.
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER.
At the Annual Communication, the Grand Master Riley instituted
a few comparisons between the condition of the Jurisdiction at this
time, and at its inception sixteen years ago.
The grand total of the various Funds belonging to the Grand
Lodge aggregate £34,411, the equivalent of which would be about
$170,000, which is an impressive amount to belong to a Grand Lodge
m existence no longer than sixteen years.
The Grand Master also contrasts the membership sixteen years
ago with the present membership, there being only thirty-three Lodges
on the Grand Lodge roster then, whereas there are now ninety-seven
Lodges with a membership exceeding 4100.
WORLD WAR.
The theme uppermost in all of the Addresses of the Grand Master delivered within the year, is the great World War rocking the
civilization of the earth since August, 1914.
Western Australia has done its duty manfully, and Grand Master
Riley calls attention to the fact that even as long ago as April, 1916,.
more than three hundred Master ~fasons, members of the Western
Australian Jurisdiction, were serving at the front ; and he also refers
to the active part which Masonry is taking in the· actual life of the
troops on the firing lines. He mentions the fact that there are several
Military Lodges, with traveling warrants, holding meetings and conferring degrees behind the firing line, and within sound of the guns,
special reference being made by him to the Seventh Royal Irish Fusiliers and the 16th Royal Irish Rifles, and others.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

153

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by a committee of several members, each member presenting his Reviews of certain Jurisdictions allotted to him.
California, 1915, is reviewed by Brother "F. A. McM."
The Worshipful Brother refers to the Masonic Homes in California as most worthy institutions, performing in their way a wonderful work Generous quotations, with approving comment, are made
from the Address of Grand Master Bledsoe.
RE-ELECTION OF GRAND MASTER RILEY.
It is a characteristic of the Australian Jurisdictions to re-elect, for

a large number of successive terms, the Grand Master; and Grand
Master Riley, Archbishop of Perth, was re-elected at this Communication to serve his thirteenth consecutive term as Grand Master. In
fact, he has been Grand Master of this Jurisdiction throughout the
entire existence of the Grand Lodge, with the exception of four years
at the beginning.

w:.

M:.
Bro. C. 0. L. RrLEY, Grand Master, Perth.
J. D. STEVENSON, Grand Secretary, Perth.
WEST VIRGINIA.
1916.

52nd Annual, Huntington, Nov. 15.
Lodges, 150; Membership, 19,693; Gain, 865.
Largest Lodge, ~fount Olivet No. 3, 562 Members.
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Fifty-second Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of West Virginia,
was held in the Masonic Temple, at the City of Huntington, commencing Wednesday, Nov. 15th, 1916, Grand Master T. Wilbur Hennen presiding.
GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
Commenting upon the awful calamity of the war in Europe the
Grand Master says:
"Since last we met the world has passed through one of the most
momentous years of history, but in spite of the turmoil and disaster
with which our fellow creatures of many of the great nations of the
earth have been and are still surrounded, we return our heartfelt
thanks to Almighty God, through whose divine guidance we have been
led through paths of peace and unbounded prosperity."

155

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

NECROLOGY.
This Jurisdiction was called to mourn the loss of many brethren
with whom they have associated and worked during the years
that have passed, and the Grand Lodge missed at this session a
number of its members, among whom were Past Grand Master Robert
\Vhite, Grand Master in 1874; Past Grand Master George Hatch;
William George Bennett, Grand Master in 1883; and Most Worshipful
Brother Neil Robinson, Grand Master in 1899.

The establishment of a Masonic Home has been .referred to "
Committee, who are to secure information along this important subject and report.

15'

OFFICIAL ACTIVITIES OF THE GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master granted a number of dispensations to hold
special communications, publicly install officers, etc.; he laid a large
number of stones to both public and Masonic buildings; he dedicated
one new Masonic temple; he visited several Grand Lodges of other
Jurisdictions upon invitation, and attended the annual meeting of the
George \Vashington National Masonic Memorial Association at Alexandria, Va.
DECISIONS.
The Grand Master rendered a large number of decisions, among
which were the following:
"A petitioner who is elected and receives the Entered Apprentice degree and is afterward declared irregularly made, because objections had been filed with the Worshipful Master previous to his
initiation, may again present his petition for the degrees of Masonry
after one year from the time his previous petition was balloted upon."

.*

* * * *

"An Entered Apprentice who is unable to qllalify for advancement by reason of impaired or defective memory can not be permitted to advance until his physical condition enables him to comply with
the ritualistic requirements governing proficiency."

WAIVER OF JURISDICTION REFUSED.
We quote the Grand Master on this subject, showing the period
of time this Jurisdiction retains jurisdiction over rejected material:
"September 7, 1916, I received a letter from :Vfost Worshipful
Thomas J. Shyrock, Grand Master of Masons in Maryland, containing
the request of King Davids Lodge No. 68. Baltimore, :Viaryland, that
Mannington Lodge No. 31 grant said Lodge a waiver of jurisdiction
over Mr. Hyman Kaplan, who was rejected by Mannington Lodge in
February, 1911. I replied advising Most Worshipful Brother Shyrock
that in this jurisdiction we only attempted to retain jurisdiction over
rejected material for a period of three years, and since more than that
length of time had passed since Mr. Kaplan's rejection, we did not
claim jurisdiction over him, and so far as we were concerned thev
were at liberty to act upon his petition without consulting us."
·
CENT'.ENNIAL OF OHIO LODGE XUMBER ONE.
This important historical event was held in the City of Wheeling
on Dec. 13th and 14th. The Ohio Masons are justly proud of their
century of Masonic history and usefulness.
FOREIGN CORR'ESPONDENCE.
Brother George W. Atkinson, P. G. M. and P. G. S.. presents· a
very exhaustive report on correspondence. California, 1915, is re viewed in a generous spirit.
M:. w:. CHARL'ES CARRIGAN, Grand Master, Moundsville.

M:. w:. JOHN M. COLLINS, Grand Secretary, Charleston.

* * * * *

"A Lodge U. D. can not conduct a Masonic trial. Charges of
Un-Masonic conduct against a member of a Lodge U. D. who stands
quasi dimitted must be filed with and disposed of by the Lodge from
which the brother became quasi dimitted when he signed the petition
for a dispensation for the new Lodge; except when the charges ·originate with some other chartered I~odge, in which case the Lodge above
referred to as having jurisdiction, could, at its discretion, delegate the
disposal of the charges to the complaining Lodge."
CHARITY.
There is a Grand Lodge Educational Committee in this Jurisdiction· that has been active during the past year, extending. monetary
assistance to a number of worthy children of deceased brethren.
Many cases of merit were investigated and assistance extended,
although there is no Masonic Home in this Jurisdiction where de
pendents may be placed.

WYOMING.
1916.
42nd Annual, Sheridan, Sept. 13-14.
Lodges, 34; Membership, 3518; Gain 202.
·Largest Lodge, Cheyenne No. 1, 360 Members.
THI<: FORTY-SECOXD ANNUAL COMMUXICATION.
The Forty-second Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
\Vyoming was held in the Masonic Temple at Sheridan, Wyo., Sept.
13 and 14, 1916, the Most Worshipful W. H. Dickinson, Grand Master, presiding.
Preliminary to the formal opening of the Grand Lodge, an
address of welcome on behalf of Sheridan Lodge No. 8 to the Grand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Lodge was delivered by Brother Frank H. Fraser of Sheridan Lodge,
with response on behalf of the Grand Lodge by Brother David J.
Howell of Acacia Lodge No. 11, Cheyenne.

lent report, and we have no doubt will prove a most worthy successor to the former distinguished Grand Secretary of this J urisdiction.

GRAND :\!ASTER'S ADDRESS.
The Grand Master sets forth with businesslike precision his
activities within the preceding year, referring particularly to tl1e
Special Communications held by the Grand Lodge at Cheyenne, Cody,
and Laramie, for the purpose of placing corner stones of public
buildings. His official visitations extended, apparently, to all parts of
the Jurisdiction and his administration was capable and efficient.

In Brother Lowndes' present review, California, 1915, is given
courteous consideration with quotations from the masterly address of
Grand Master Benj. F. Bledsoe.

156

DECISIONS.
We quote the following ruling of the Grand Master upon the
subject of "physical qualifications" to indicate that the law of vVyoming is apparently in harmony with our own upon this subject, and in
harmony with the prevailing trend of opinion throughout the
Masonic world :

"Question-We have a party who is desirous of becoming a
Mason, but owing to a stroke of infantile paralysis, one of the lower
limbs is under-developed and causes him to use his hip excessively.
His limbs are complete, but are out of proportion to each other. Can
we accept his petition ?
"Held-That where a candidate can take all the positions required
in giving and receiving the work that he is qualified, physically, to
make application for the degree."
MASONIC HOME FUND.
There is in this Jurisdiction in process of accumulation a fond
which, when it reaches adequate proportions, will be used, according
to the present purpose of this Jurisdiction, for the foundation of a
Masonic Home.
FRATERNAL CORRESPONDENCE.
In accordance with the custom which has prevailed in this Jurisdiction for a great many years, the report on Fraternal Corre~
spondence is made by the Grand Secretary, and the late Grand Secretary Brother William L. Kuykendall for nearly thirty years performed the service of Chairman of the Correspondence Committee in
a most capable manner, his annual reports having been read with
a great deal of interest throughout the Masonic world.
Since
Brother Kuykendall's decease in 1915, the duties of foreign correspondence have devolved upon the present Grand Secretary, Very
Worshipful Joseph M. Lowndes. Brother Lowndes makes an excel-

M:. w:. HERBERT J. KING, Grand Master, Laramie.
R.'. w:. JosEPH M. LowNDES, Grand Secretary, Lander.

157

INDEX-1917

A

Page

Accounts-Committee on .............. ·-------······································c.........•... 575
Report of Committee ...........---·················································-·---··374
Address at Dedication Covina Home·------···························--············.-454
Annual, before Grand Lodge
At Memorial Services ....................................................................426
Of Grand Master (See also Grand Master).---·················-···.269
Of J. W. Linscott ............................. :................................ _............. 558
Alamo Lodge No. 122-Suspension of Master ...................... ·-----------509
Alphabetical list of Lodges ..... ·---------·······················································601
Location of Lodges ........................ ---···························--------·------·--610
Alta Vista Lodge-Constituted ...................................................-------····322
Amador Lodge No. 65-Trial record ........... -..............................325, 499
Ambulance Corps, Masonic-Grand Master's reference to _________ .277
Amendments to Constitution-Sections 3, 28, 32A, 50 (lost) ..421, 517
Section 17, Election of Grand Officers (lost).------·-···--356, 514
Section 30, Reports of Committees (lost)---·-------·-·······356, 514
SectioHs 33 and 35, Trustees of Homes ................311, 447, 515
Section 50, Standardizing all forms .. ·--·············-----------·----··-····.493
Section 78, "Moon" dates (lost) ...................................... .-420, 571
Section 128, Remission of dues of soldiers ..... ·----··---·-·--··-·-··-516
Sections 216-220 (lost)---··········-----····-····························-·-----492, 514
Anderson, James Wright-Commending form of Constitution
---------···········································································--374, 504, 507
Annual Oration-By Robert B. Gaylord ...............,............................. .436
Argonaut

Lodge-Constituted ........... _.................................................... 322

Army or Navy-Residence qualifications ................................. .282, 513
Ashlar Lodge No. 306--Petition of expelled member for
restoration .................-......................................................324, 521
Atlanta, Georgia-Fire at ..........................................................................322

ii

INDEX

B

INDEX
Page

Balder Lodge No. 393-Trial record .......................................... 324. 499
Boards of Relief-Appropriation for ......................................... 501, 568
Honolulu, Report of........................................................................395
Los Angeles, Report oL ...................................383, 501, 508, 569
Oakland, Report of................................................................ 390, 568
Sacramento, Report of.. ........................................................ 389, 568
501
San Diego, Report
San Francisco, Report oL..................................................374, 501
San Jose, Report of........................................................................ 396
Bonds of Grand Lodge-List of... .......................................364, 372, 570
Of Masonic Homes ........................................................................463
Liberty, Resolution to purchase ....................................... .425, 570
Burlingame Lodge No. 400-Trial record .................................. 324, 499
Burnett, Albert G.-Portrait hung ........................................................322
By-Laws-Amendments approved during the year ........................326
Committee on....................................................................................268
Report of Committee ...................................................................... 537

c
Candidates-To be presented with Constitution ............374, 504, 507
Card Index for Los Angeles Board of RelieL ....................... 508, 569
Card system for visitors ..................................................................397, 494
Center Lodge-Constituted ......................................................................322
Cha'rters_;Committe·e on ............................................................................ 268
Report of Committee ......................................................................498
Charter Rock Lodge-Reimbursemenr for dttes overpaid ............ 503
Claims for r'eimbursemenL. ......................................... .421, 422, 503, 517
Committees-'-On By-Laws ............................................................. .268, 575
'Oil Charters ............................................................................268, 49/l
On Delimiuent Members Required ............................................ 536
'On Grand Lecturer's Report ..................................................... .406
On Grand M-aster's Address ........................................................300·
On Modification of Ritual... ....:.................................................... 507
J..;ist or Sta'nding..........................':........................................... 575, 419
On Recognition of Latin Masonry........................................... :566
To provide method of contributions to Endowment
Fund .................................................................................... 523, 568
Conference of Grand Masfers ..................................................................289
Constitutional Atnendments ................311, 3'56, 420, 493, 5i4, 5l6, 571
Constitution and Ceremonies-Grand Secretary's reference to ....321
Proposition to present copy to each candidate..'"'374, 504, 507

iii
Page

Corner Stones-Ceremony for laying cannot be performed
for placing tableL. .........................................................280, 511
Coronado-Dedication of hall at.. .......................... ~ .............................. ~322
Correspondence-Personnel of Committee ...........:.................. :.......:.575
Covina Home-Dedication of .............................................. ~......... 322, 449
Departures during the yeaL...................................................... ..491
List of residents (See Masonic Homes) ................................490
Credentials-Personnel of Committee ..................................................575
Report of Committee ............................. ;.........................c.••.• : .••••• 537
Crocker Lodge No. 454-Moneys advanced at organization ... :·... .279
Crockett Lodge No. 139-Trial record ........................ ::.......... :... 324, 499
Culver City Lodge ....................................................................319, 320, 498

D
Decisions of Grand Master (See also Grand Master) .......... ,280. 511
Decoto Home-List of residents (See also Masohic Hom:es) .... 485
Degree teams ....................................................................................... .280, 514
Degrees by courtesy-How may be requested .................................. 283
Letter from New York on extending......................................328
Delinquent members-Committee on required ... ,........................ :..... 536
Denson, Samuel Crawford-Death of.............................................. ,_.. .294
Memorial services for .................................. ,............:....................426
Dimit-Notice of intention, how given ............... ~ ...;....................281, 511
Diplomas for Soldiers and Sailors ................... ;... :.....................:.......... 523
Dispensations issued during the
Doric Lodge No. 216-Trial record ................... .'.... :.. :.......,:... :...324, 499
Dues-Exemption from Grand Lodge ................. ,......................ZSl, 511
Relative to remission after 50 years' membership .............. 506
Remission of Soldiers and Sailors ................281, 424, 512, 515
Suspe-nsions for non-paym·ent, r-em~dy for, .......... ;... :..:......... 536
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297-Trial record .................................. ,:;,zs, 499

E
East Gate Lodge No. 290-Trial recor4 on app-eaL............ ,.324, .S(X)
El Centro Hall Association-Cancellation of n·ote of........... :424, 504
Employment Bureaus--Report's oL..................... ,.: ..:.... ;... 381, 383, 394
Endowment Fund--Investnrent in Liberty B·onds ord·ered.: ...,... .:Si'tl
Personnel of Commiftee ................................................. :.. ,...........576
Relative to ...................................................... 293; 371. 372, 4o6, 409
Report of Committe·e .............................. ,........... .'... .'......... ,...,.. :... :...406
Resolution to provide method for contdbu-tions .. ,,.h-.52~.. :568

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Enterprise Lodge No. 70-Claim for reimbursement ............ ..422, 517
Examination of Candidates-How should be conducted ......281, 511

Page
Grand Master-Address at opening of Grand Lodge ...... ;............ .269
Account of visits bY--···-··--··--·---·-------:............................................. 39&
Address ordered to be printed ........ ·-·------···-···----········---·--..442, 571
Committee on, and Report oL...................... :.................. 300, 365
Conduct of funerals ....................................:...... ~---·-'·---------------------276
Conference of Grand Masters.·-··--------··-···----···---··--------·····---·--····289
Covina Home-Survey of.. ·--------·---·--------·--·-------·-···------------292, 312
Crocker Lodge No. 454-Concerning moneys advanced
at organization of _____ ·------------------------·-·-··------------···-·----·--·······.279
Decision-Degree teams ...... ______ ------·---------··--···----·-··-···-··-··280, 514
Dues, remission of.. ................:..................................... 281, 512
Examination of candidates, how should be
conducted... ·-----------·--------------··--------~·-····---······-·--···-····281, 511
Fees for dispensation to dect ·officers ............... :...280, 511
Funds, how may be used .... :.......... ---------------····-·-·---·-.281, 511
Funds, expenditures for social putposes................281, 511
Funerals, Lodge must be opened at, when ................... .281, 511
Grand Lodge dues, exemption from ....................... .281, 511
Life membership, subsequent increase. of dues .... 282, 511
Lodges at military barracks.·-----·-·-····-----·-···-·--·--·---··-·281, 512
Masonic emblems, political use of... ____ :___________________ 281, 511
Membership, withdrawaL.................. -------···--·-·--·--·---.281, 511
Memorial tablets cannot be laid ........... ~---·-··-----·-·----.280, 511
Past Masters' Associations ................................. 280, 283. 513
Residence qualifications of soldiers ...... :...................282, 513
Saloon. stockholder in ....... ·-·····------·-·--·--···------·-····-····--282, 512
Traveling Lodge, no authority for .................. 281, 285, 511
Visitation under assumed name ............................... 280, 511
Dispc;nsations, approval of ______ ,___________________ ·-···--··-····-····--··--·-·----516
Donation to Decoto Home by a Brother................................ 292
Endowmen~ Day.. ·--------···--··---·-·---·--·-·--·-·-----------··--·--··--·····-····--------293
Finance Committee, proposed change of designation ........ 275
Financing of Lodge buildings ....................................................274
Initiatory ceremonies on groups' of candidates ........... .274, 507
Liberty loan, encouragement of.. ___________ .......................... 277, 278
Lodges constituted b Y----------···--~-----····---'-:--------···-·····---···--···-·-··-·--322
Masonic Ambulance Corps ....... ·-··-------··--···---·-··-··-······----·-·-·--·-·-.277
~asonic
Education .... ____________________________________._ _____ ..........279, 4'21, 517

iv

Exeter. Lodge No. 424-Trial record .. ·-······---····----·--··-···-·-----··· .. --324, 499
Extinct I ,odges-List of.................. ·-·---·--·-·-·------·-·····---········-············ ...... 591

F
Faber, Dr. Harold K.-Survey of Covina Home by..............292, 312
Thanks of Grand Lodge to .. ·-------·----·····-···--·········--······---··-.425, 567
Fees for dispensation to elect officers..---·-----·-------·-···--·-·-···-·----280, 511
Filmer, William P.-Appointed on Ritual Committee ......... .419, 575
Finance Committee-Personnel of........................................................ 575
Proposed change of designation (See Reports of
Committees) -------·------··-·-····--·-·-·-·-.. --·--··--'"····-·-·-··--·-·-----··.275, 572
Forms. to be standardized and sold by Grand Secretary............ ..493
French Masonry-Relative to recognition oL. ................................. 566
Fresno Lodge No. 247-Petition to restore expelled member
··-----··-·-··--·-·-··--···---···---···--·····-····--·-··-···-·-------··-----···--··--------··324, 522
Funds-Per capita tax for Representatives ........................................ 521
Of Lodge, How may be used ......... -----···-·-···----·········-··-··-··.281, 511
Funerals at Decot0---···-·-·-·-··--·-····--··--··'-··--·····-·--···----------······-···-···--····-······489
Lodg·e must be opened at, when·--···-------·-···-·--················281, 511
I:y Los Angeles Board of Relief... ...........................................384
Hy Oakland Board of Relief... .....----------····-·-·----··--·······-·······-----392
By San Francisco Board of RelieL.--------·-··-····--·------··--·--····-379
Grand Master's observations relative to ............................... .276
Funeral Service-Proposed revision of ...............•.............................. ..419

G
Gayford, Robert B.-Oration before Grand Lodge....... .436, 442, 571
Oration at dedication of Covina Home .... ·-··-··---·---··-·····-------.454
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30-Petition of expelled member
for restoration .......---·······---····-····--··-····--·---······-··-----····-···325, 522
Grand Lecturer-Annual report oL ...................................................... 396
Report of Committee on ..............................................................494
Visit to HawaiL ___________________________________________________________________________ ...270
Grand Lodge-:-Election of officers ........... --·----------------··-··-·····-···---~-----572
l nstallation of officers .................................................................... 572
Officers present at opening__________ ·------··-··-··-···-----··-····--··-···--···--·.267
Representatives present at·-·-·-------------·-··-------·····----····-···-······-······537
G.rand Lodg·es of North America-List of... .......................................600

v

Masonic Homes, history of trust-----------·-·········--······----···-·-·-------300
Investigation by........·-----·-··-···--------·--·-------------·-·-······-··-··--····--289
Masonic Temple, reference to ......... :........................................... .289
Military Lodges·--··-----··--·--···-··-·--·-·····------------------------····-·---------------.285
Necrology _______________________________________________________________ ................. :........... 294
Red Cross, relative to Lodge contributions to ................... .278

vi

INDEX
Page

Requests to sit for portraiL .......................................................502
Silver service presented to ............................................................576
Soldiers, information bureaus established..............................278
Special communications of Grand Lodge called ....................322
West Lake Lodge No. 392-Concerning a trial by............ 279
Grand Secretary-Annual report of ......................................................319
Atlanta, Georgia, fire and proffer of relieL.........................322
Bonds held by Grand Lodge ........................................................364
By-Laws amended during the year ..........................................326
Committee on, Report oL ...........................................300, 365
Dispensations issued by................................................................ 325
Hermosa Beath, Lodge at denied ............................................ 320
Life mem1'erships created during the year ............................326
Lodges constituted during the year..........................................322
Lodges organized during the year ..................................319, 320
Portraits of Past Grand Masters .............................................. 322
Receipts for the year............................................................365, 368
Required to standardize all forms ............................................493
Relief Fund, condition of..............................................................321
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208-Destruction of records .............. 323
·Sales during the year.................................................................... 36~
Secretary of Masonic Homes ........................... .292, 311, 447, 515
Special communications of Grand Lodge ................................322
Tr.ial records reported .................................................................... 324
\.\Tarrants drawn during the year ................................................ 356
Grand Treasurer-Annual report of......................................................368
Grievance Committee, Personnel of (See also Reports of
Co1n1nittees) .............................................................................. 575
Groves, Artemas, Past Grand Master of Arizona-Received....... .426
Guyett, Roderick G., Senior Grand Deacon pro tem ..................... .268

H
Hart, Edward Henry-Death of ............................................................295
Memorial services ........................................................................... .433
Hermosa Ileach-Lodge at denied ........................................................320
Honolulu Board of Relief-Report of.. ................................................395
Howard, William H .-Portrait hung ....................................................322
Hunter, George Vv.-Eulogy by..............................................................429
.Hutaff, Gustav A., Grand Treasurer pro tem .................................... 268

I
Initiatory ceremonies-Proposed modificatian ........................274, 507

INDEX

vii

J

Page

Jubilee celebration of 50th installation of Grand Organist ..........524
Jurisprudence Committee-Personnel of (See also Reports of
Committees) ........................................... :..................................575

L
La Fayette Lodge No. 126-Proposed amendment to
section 78...............................................................:..........420, 571
Lassen Lodge No. 149-Petition to etilarge jurisdiction ......420, 516
Latin Masonry-Committee on recognition of..................................566
Leavitt, Bradford-Address before Grand Lodge............................ 558
Lectures prepared by Committee on Masonic Education ..............495
Lewis, Edward W.-Expelled...............................................................-.511
Liberty Bonds-Grand Master's endorsement......................... .277, 278
Resolution to purchase ..........................................................425, 570
Libertas Lodge ............................................................................ 319, 320, 498
Liberty Lodge No. 299-Trial record ..........................................325, 499
Library Committee-Appropriation for .........................:...................... 506
Personnel of Committee ................................................................ 575
Report of ........................................................................................... .422
Life memberships created during the year ........................................326
Life membership-Increase of dues, effect of..........................282, 511
Linscott, John W.-Address before Grand Lodge..........................558
List of Soldier and Sailor members ...................................................:329
Location of Lodges .......................................................................:............610
Lodges-Alphabetical list of..................................................................601
Contributing- to Endowment Fund ............................................409
Financial condition of, relative to ......................................... -.570
Of instruction held ..........................................................................403
List of, with fees and dues shown ............................................ 578
List of Ext_inct ..................................................................................591
~rganized during the year ..................................................319, 320
Representatives present at Grand Lodge ............•................... 537
Taxes paid by....................................................................................526
Locatiop. of........................................................................................610
Los Angeles B.oard of Relief-Report oL.........................................383
Employm,ep. t Bureau..............................................---·······-··········383
Card index for .......................................................................... 508, 569

.viii

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page

M
Madeley, George W.-Proposed amendments to
Constitution ........................- ............................................492, 514
Masonic Ambulance Corps-Reference to ....- ..........................277, 285
Masonic Education-Appropriation for .......................•........................ 569
Grand Master's reference to proposed plan ........................... .279
Personnel of Committee on .......................................................... 575
Proposition to create office of Chancellor......... :......... .420, 517
Report of Committee on ................
495
Masonic Emblems,.......Political use oL..........................................281, 511
Masonic Homes-Adoption of Report of Trustees .......................... 557
Amendments to sections 33 and 35, Constitution ................311
Christmas donations ........................................................................479
Deaths at Decoto ............................................................................489
Decoto, list of residents at ......................................................... .485
Dedication of Covina Home........................................................449
Departures from Covina................................................................491
Donations to ............................................................................292, 475
Endowment Day and Fund ......................293, 371, 372, 406, 409
Grand Master's report of investigation ..................................289
Grand Secretary to be Secretary of................292, 311, 447, 515
History of trust ..............................................................................300
Income and revenue ........................................................................461
Interpretation of trust ....................................................................308
Matron at Decoto, appointment oL..........................................446
Mental and physical survey at Covina .................................... 312
Operating expenses ..........................................................................459
Per capita tax levied...................................................................... 569
Powers of Trustees ................................................................309, 31l
Relative to incorporation ..............................................................309
Report of Grand Treasurer.......................................................... 369
Report of Secretary ........................................................................458
Report of Trustees .......................................................................... 443
Residents at Covina ........................................................................490
Residents at Decoto .......................................:................................ 485
Resignation of Mary B. Noble ....................................................445
Securities held by............................................................................463
n ............................................

ix

Superintendent's report..................................................................465
Survey of Covina Home .....................................................292, 312
Thanks for survey............................................................................ 567
Trustees, names of.......................................................................... 575
Masonic Temple Association-Annual report oL. ...........................373
Grand Master's commendation of..............................................289
Purchase of stock by Grand Lodge .......................................... 503
Mayer, Samuel David-Jubilee celebration, 50th installation........ 524
Meese, William R.-Suspension as Master of Alamo Lodge ...... 509
Memorial services ........................................................................................ 426
Merced-Corner stone of hall laid ........................................................322
Mileage paid to Representatives ............................................................ 518
Military Barracks-Lodges at ........................................................281, 512
Military Lodges .....•..................................................................................... .285
Modesto-Corner stone of hall laid ......................................................322
"Moon" dates-Construction of Section 78 ............................... .420, 571
Schedule of ........................................................................................ 577
Moneta Lodge No. 405-Trial record, Master..........................324, 499
Morgan Hill Lodge-Constituted .......................................................... 322
Mount Oso Lodge-Constituted ..............................................................322
Mountain View Lodge No. 194--Claim of Reading Lodge
against.......................................................................................... 505

N
Necrology ..............................................................................................294, 323
New Lodges ..........................................................................................319, 320
Noble, Mary B.-Resignation as Matron at Decoto ...................... ,.445
Nutting, Charles Wilber-Death of......................................................294
~emorial services for .................................................................... 429

0
Oakland Board of Relief-Appropriation for .................................... 568
Report
Oceanside Lodge No. 381-Trial record ................................. ~....325, 499
Officers of Grand Lodge-Election of.................................,................ 572
Names of............................................................................................266
Present at opening..,.......................................................................2.67
Since organization .........................................,.................................. 596

INDEX

INDEX
Page
. Oration, Annual, by Robert B. Gaylord..............................................436
Ordered to be printed..................................................•....... .442, 571
At dedication of Covina Home ..................................c••••••••••••••.454
On Early-day Masonry, by J. W. Lins,cott............................558
On Life of Thomas Starr King, by Bradford Leavitt ........ 558
Orland Lodge No. 265-Trial · record ............................................324, 499
Owen, Hugh James-Death of..............................................................294

p
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389-Trial record ..............................325, 499
Past Masters' Associations ............................................ ,.......280, 283, 513
·Patton, Charles L.-Eulogy by ..............................................................427
Paul Revere Lodge-Constituted............................................................ 322
Pay of Members--Personnel of Committee on ................................ 575
Report of Committee......................... ~............................................ 518
Perkins, George C.-Telegram to, and reply............................425, 443
P<>lit~cal advertising unmasonic ...................................................... 281, 511

Portrait of Grand Organist.. ......................................................... 525, 571
Portraits of Past Grand Masters hung ..............................................322

R
Radcliff, Charles M.-Portrait of hung ................................................322
Ramona Lodge No. 457-Trial record........................................325, 500
Reading Lodge No. 254-Claim for reimbursement ............... .421, 505
Trial record No. 229................................................................,....... 509
Red Cross-Reference to contributions to ......................................... .278
Relief-Condition of Emergency Fund ................................................32"1
Proffered to Georgia......................................................................322
Reports of Boards of Relief-Honolulu .............................................. 395
Los Angeles .............................................................:........................383
Oaklarid ..............................................................................................390
Sacramento ........................................................................................389
San Diego ........................................................................................ 393
San Francisco ..................................................................................374
San Jose ............................................................................................396

Page

Reports of Committees-Accounts........................................................ 374
By-Laws of. Lodges ........................................................................ 53i
Charters
Correspondence (See Appendix).
Credentials ........................................................................................537
Endowment ......................................................................................406
Finance-Appropriations Boards of Relief... ................. 501, 568
Card index for Los Angeles Board of Relief... ............. 569
Charter Rock Lodge, reimbursement ................................503
Claim of Reading Lodge...................................................... 505
Dues after 50 years' membership ...................................... 506
El Centro Hall Association, note of....... .............
...... 504
Financial condition of Lodges ............................................ 570
Liberty Bonds, investment of funds in,..........................570
Library, appropriation for .................................................... 506
Masonic education, appropriation for ................................ 569
Masonic Temple Association, purchase of stock in ....503
Per 'capita tax for Homes .................................................. 569
Portrait of Grand Master ....................................................502
Printing of Grand Master's Address ................................571
Relative to petitioners for degrees paying Home tax.. 505
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208-Refund of dues ....................571
Salaries of Grand Officers ..................................................502
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214-Reimbursement .... 503
On Grand Lecturer's Report ........................................................494
On Grand Master's Address ........................................................365
Grievances-Ashlar Lodge No. 306--Petition of expelled
men1ber for restoration .................................................. 521
Trial record No. 190, from East Gate Lodge................ 500
Fresno Lodge No. 247-Petition for restoration of
expelled member.............................................................. 522
Golden Gate Lodge, trial record No. 114-Petition of
expelled member for restoration.............................. 522
Suspension of Master of Alamo Lodge ..........................509
Omnibus report ........................................................................499
Reading Lodge-Trial record No. 229.............................. 509
Ramona Lodge'-Trial record No. 220.............................. 500

xii

INDEX

INDEX

xiii

Page

Page

Jurisprudence-Amendment to sections 33 and 35 ..............515
Amendment to section 128.................................................... 516
Claim of Enterprise Lodge under section 41.. ..............517
Decisions of Grand Master (See also Grand Master) .. 511
Dispensations approved .......................................................... 516
Extending jurisdiction of Lassen Lodge ........................ 516
Relative to change of designation of Finance
Committee .......................................................................... 572
Relative to Grand Chancellor .............................................. 517
Library Committee ..........................................................................422
· A!asonic Education ..........................................................................495
Pay of 1:.Iembers ..............................................................................518
Returns of Lodges .......................................................................... 525
Report of Grand Lecturer ........................................................................396
Of Masonic Temple Association ................................................373
Of Secretary Masonic Homes ................................................... .458
Of Superintendent Masonic Homes ....................... ;................. .465
Of Trustees Masonic Homes ......................................................443
Returns-Personnel of Committee .......................................... ;............. 575
Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee on .................................. 525
Rio Vista Lodge-Destruction and issuance of charter.................. 323
Refund of Grand Lodge dues ........................................... .492, 571
Ritter, Arthur-Survey of Covina Home .................................... 292, 312
Thanks of Grand Lodge to ................................................425, 567
Ritual-Personnel of Committee on .................................................... 575
Suggested modification to permit work on groups ......274, 507
Rodden, George F.-Eulogy by..............................................................433
Rockridge Lodge .......................................................................319, 320, 498

San Pedro-Dedication of hall at.. ........................................................322
Social Fund-Expenditures permitted .......................................... 281, 511
Sol.diers and Sailors-Diplomas for ...................................................... 523
Remission of dues of.................................................... 281, 512, 516
Exceptions as to residence qualifications ........................282, 513
Information Bureaus established .....................................278, 327
List of Volunteers in service......................................................329
Permission to visit in Latin countries ......................................566
Proposition to remit dues of..............................................424, 515
Stevenson, Jonathan D.-Portrait of hung ........................................ 322
Supplies to be sold by Grand Secretary ............................................493
Survey of Covina Home ..........................................................................312

T
Traveling Lodges-No authority for ..................................281, 285, 511
Trustees Masonic Homes (See Masonic Homes).
Turlock Lodge No. 395-Trial record ......................................... :324, 499
Tutt, John A.-Portrait of hung ............................................................322

v
Vallejo-Corner stone of hall laid at .................................................. 322
Visitors-Card system adopted ......................................................397, 494
Under assumed name ............................................................ 280, 511

s

w

Sacramento Board of Relief... ........................................................ 389, 568.
Salaries-Grand Officers ............................................................................ 502
Saloon-Stockholder in ................................................................... .282, 512
San Bernardino Lodge-Trial record ..........................................325, 499
San Buenaventura Lodge-Clajm for reimbursement.. .................. 503
San Diego Board of Relief... ................................................................... 393
Employment Bureau ........................................................................ 394
San Francisco Board of Relief.............................................................. 374
Employment Bttreau ........................................................................381
San Jose Board of RelieL ........................................................................ 396

Wagstaff, Denman S.-Proposed funeral service ............................ 419
Warrants drawn during the year .......................................................... 356
West Lake Lodge No. 392-Trial records ..............279, 325, SOS! 510
Whited, Jesse AL-Relative to Masonic education ................420, 517
Woodland-Corner stone of Courthouse laid .................................. 322

