L.DUIS CLAU.!JJE DRAPEAU
Grand Master
Louis C. Drapeau was born near Live Oak, California, August 30,
1885. His mother, whose maiden name was Virginia Lynds, and his
grand parents, J. B. Lynds and Katherine Lynds, are buried in the old
cemetery at Gridley, California.
Bro. Drapeau moved to Oakland at an early age, and attended
grammar and high school in that city. He worked for Past Grand
Master and United States Senator Geo. C. Perkins, as messenger, clerk,
and finally private secretary, and went to Washington, D. C. with the
Senator.
While in Washington Bro. Drapeau graduated from the law department of Georgetown University, with the degree of L.L.B.
In 1913 Bro. Drapeau went to Ventura, California. For a year he
was official shorthand reporter of the Superior Court there. Then he
practiced law in southern California until October 4, 1937, when he
was appointed judge of the Superior Court in Ventura County.
Judge Drapeau served on the Superior Court until March 31. 1949,
when he was elevated to be associate justice of the District Court of
Appeals in Los Angeles, a position which he now holds.
Justice Drapeau was married to Julia Irene Mead in 1906. Three
children were born to that union, Virginia Lynds Wegis, Louis C.
Drapeau, Jr., and Jack Drapeau. The passing of Julia left them motherless at an early age.
In 1923 Justice Drapeau married Dorothy Julia Reese. Dorothy is
the eldest daughter of the late Past Grand Master David John Reese
of Ventura. Of that marriage two children were born, David Rhys
Drapeau and Jerry Drapeau. Dorothy took over the unfinished task of
raising this large family, and today is loved and revered by her husband
and all the boys and girls, now men and women grown.
Judge Drapeau had the thrill and pleasure of assisting in the conferral of the 3d degree of Masonry upon two of his sons, Louis C.
Drapeau, Jr.• and David Rhys Drapeau.

LOUIS CLAUDE DRAPEAU
Grand Master
1951 - 1952

Judge Drapeau has been active in community and civic affairs. He
is past president of the Ventura Rotary Club, and of Cabrillo Parlor,
Native Sons of the Golden West; Past Exalted Ruler of Ventura
Lodge No. 1430, Benevolent & Protective Order of Elks; life member

Parent-Teachers Assodation: and for many years member of the
American Legion and Independent Order of Odd Fellows.
Judge Drapeau also served three years as Building and Loan Commissioner of the State of California from 1934 to 1937.
·
His Masonic History is as follows:
Made a Master Mason in Oakland lodge No. 188 May 20, 1907.
Master of San Buenaventura Lodge 214, two years.
Charter Master of Poinsettia Lodge 633, and served two years.
Inspector for the Grand Lodge two years.
President Southern California Past Masters Association, one year.
In Grand Lodge, Bro. Drapeau served on the Homes Endowment
Board,· the Committee on Grievances, and the Board of Trustees for
the Masonic Homes. He was elected to and passed through the several
stations of Junior and Senior Grand Warden, and Deputy Grand
Master, becoming Grand Master in October, 1951, and serving until
October, 1952.
Bro. Drapeau's other Masonic affiliations are as follows: Member
of and Past High Priest of Ventura Chapter No. 50, Royal Arch
Masons of California; Member of and senior Past Commander of Ventura Commandery, No. 17, Knights Templar: Member of Santa Barbara Consistory, Scottish Rite Masons: coroneted a 33d degree Mason
in 1952. Member of Royal and Select Masters of California: Order of
Sciots: Al Malikah Temple, Order of the Mystic Shrine: Order of the
Red Cross of Constantine: honorary member of the Legion of Honor
of the Grand Council of the Order of De Molay.
Due to the nature of Grand Master Drapeau's judicial duties it was
possible for him to devote an extraordinary amount of time to the
affairs of the Office of Grand Master, and he heeded the call of his
Brethren without thought of conserving either his time or his strength.
He visited the Brethren in the metropolitan cities and in the out of the
way places.
His friendliness, the human touch so peculiarly his, and his down to
earth treatment of the problems confronting him, endeared him not only
to the Craft at large but to the Officers with whom he was closely associated. He was, and will always remain, one of the most popular Grand
Masters in the last quarter of a century.

'6rattb Ltbgt nr C!talifnmta
I, LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary of the M:.W:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that body at its one-hundred third
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 13th day of October, A. L. 5952, and terminated on Friday,
the 17th day of October, A. L 5952.

Jn 0Ie.atimnn11 B~trtnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M. •.W. ·.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this thirty-first day of
October, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
fifty-two.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED THIRD ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One~Hundred Third Annual
Communication in the Civic Auditorium, San Francisco, on Monday,
October 13, A. L. 5952, at 10:00 A. M.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LODGE
M. •. W. ·.Lo ms C. DRAPEAU------------------------------------------------Grand Master
R .".W.°.ARTHUR M. WARREN. ____________________________ .Deputy Grand Master
R ••• W. ·.FRANK HARWELL, J R-------------------------------Senior Grand Warden

R .·.w.·.HENRY C. CLAUSEN----------------------------------Junior Grand Warden
v.·.w. .FRANCIS v. KEESLING, P. G. M. ______________________ .. Grand Treasurer
v:.W.".LLOYD E. WILSON, P. G. M, ____________________________ Grand Secretary
v.·.w. .WALTER H. E. VONKONSKY ________________________________ Grand Lecturer
V. ·.REVEREND THOMAS GRICE.. ________________________________ Grand Chaplain
W. .CLARE B. CAMPBELL._ ________________________ Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.°.ELBERT W. DAvis ______________________________ Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.°.RAYMOND G. TAYLOR.---------------------Assistant Grand Lecturer
W:.Guy B. MIZE---------------------------------·----Assistant Grand Lecturer
w.· .AUGUSTUS H. ALLEN ________________________ Assistant Grand Lecturer
0

0

0

W. .RALPH c. HINE------------------------------------------------------Grand Orator
W.°.PAUL A. PFLUEGER-------------·----------Assistant Grand Treasurer
W. .HENRY D. 0LIPHANT________________________ Assistant Grand Secretary
W. .ARTHUR H. TRIGGS ____________________________________________ Grand Marshal
W. ·.CONLEY L. LAFORCE ______________________________ Grand Standard Bearer
W. .ARTHUR T. MEAD ______________________________________ Grand Sword Bearer
W. '.WALTER F. SANBORN __________________________________ Grand Bible Bearer
0

0

0

0

W. ·.LYMAN E. HALLOWELL--------------------------Senior Grand Deacon
w:.A.
CURRIE--------------------------------------------Junior Grand Deacon
W. ·.HARRY K. Wmup ____________________________________ Senior Grand Steward

c.

w:.JoE A. TAYLOR------------------------------------------Junior Grand Steward
W. •.M. ARTHUR WAITE. _______________________________________ Grand Pursuivant
W.'.CHARLES E. ANDERSON--------------------------------------Grand Organist
W. · .ALYJN A. HQRWEGE•.. ,,, .. ,, ........... ,..... , .. ,... ,, ..,.., ........ Grand Tiler

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

8

DEVOTIO NAL SERVlCES

PAST GRAND MASTERS*
M:.w:.Osc AR LAWLER
M.'.W.'.FRA NCIS v. KEESLING
M.'.W.'.CH AS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.·.w.·.WIL LIAM RHoDEs HERVEY
M.'.W.'.AR THUR S. CRITES
M.'.W.'.GEO RGE L. JoNES
M.'.W.'.WI LL H. FISCHER
M.'.W.'.CHA RLES M. WOLLENBERG
M.'.W.'.ROB ERT B. GAYLORD
M ..• w .•. EARL WARREN
M.'.W.'.RO LLIE w. MILLER
M.'.W.'.LE ON 0. WHITSELL
M.'.W.'.WI LLIAM B. OGDEN
M.'.W.'.LLO YD E. WILSON
M.'.W.'.CLA UDE H. MORRISON
M.'.W.'.AR THUR w. BROUILLET
M.'.W.'.JOH N R. MOORE
M.'.W.'.CH ESTER H. WARLOW
M.'.W.'.EDw ARD H. SrnMs
M.'.W.'.ELLSWORTH MEYER

\

'

M.'.W.'.AR THUR PAULSEN
1,980 officers and representati ves from 572 Chartered Lodges and
eight Lodges under dispensation were reported as present, and the Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, following which
the Flag of our Country was received.

* All Past Grand Masters registered by the Committee on Credentials
are included for convenience of reference.

9

_,l
I

The House of Life
Very Reverend THOMAS GRICE, Grand Chaplain
Most Worshipful Grand Master,
Members of the Grand Lodge,
Delegates to the 103d Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Masons of California
As I look upon you and feel something of the high privilege of this
hour, I am wondering, as I speak my message, if I shall receive your ap~
proval and approbation . I covet that.
At least I can say that I come to this high privilege not by my own
worthiness, but by the blessing of our Most Worthy Grand Master who
has given to me a place among you as your Grand Chaplain. I regard this
office as the highest and the noblest that a minister of any church may
attain. It has been a great and wonderful year for me to have gone up
and down the State with our Grand Master and to have witnessed the
sincere and cordial reception of his message, to have listened to his in~
terpretation s of the teachings and landmarks of Free Masonry. I want
to say I wish I could have had this experience 25 years ago. It would
have made me a better minister and interpreter of the Book on the altar.
I want to thank him for this great year of life and to say in your pres~
ence that because of it I am a better Mason, a better man and a better
American.
And now may I submit for your approval this simple devotional
talk with which we may begin the 103rd Annual Communica tion of the
Grand Lodge of Masons of the State of California.
I begin with a text from the Bible. Without an open Bible upon its
altar a lodqe can neither receive, nor initiate candidates, nor transact
business. There are 75 references to the Bible in our Ritual and every
name in the Ritual is from the Bible. I quote these words from its sacred
pages:
"By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out
unto a place which he was to receive for an inheritance and he
went out, not knowing whither he went for he looked for a
House which hath foundations , whose builder and maker is God."
I know that old man, or it might have been his younger brother. He
lived back in the northern part of the state of Minnesota. Today, when
you come upon that settlement you find the land cleared, the swamps
drained, and acres of smiling farms. And on each one there stands a
neat, two story farm house. The landmark, however, which attracts the
attention of every traveler, is a great brick house which stands on a hill
and is three stories high. Its architecture is pretentious, the walks of

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

years of life"-an unfinished house-Micha el Angelo, immortal painter
and architect, at eighty-nine .years of age said, "I am dying, when I
have scarcely learned the ABC of art. I was just getting ready for my
real work,"-an unfinished house. Victor Hugo, the great French writer,
said, "For fifty years I have been writing my thoughts in prose and
poetry; but I feel that I have not said a thousandth part of what is in
me." Yes, life is like an unfinished house for most of us. That is why
every Master Mason is directed to the Hour Glass in our Ritual.

noticed on the other side of the bed another chair and said, "I see I'm
not your first visitor, Alec." "Oh," Alec said, ''I'll tell you about the
chair. It's like this. Years ago, I couldna pray. I fell asleep on my knees.
And even if I kept awake, my thoughts would wander. And I worried
about it and I spoke to the minister about it. And he told me not to
trouble my head about kneeling down. Said he, 'Just sit you down, Alec,
and put a chair agen ye, for the Lord, and talk to him-just as though
He sat beside ye,'-and I've been doing it ever since. So now you know
what the chair is doing, standing the way it is." A week later, the
daughter came into the parsonage. As soon as I saw her, I knew something had happened. She said, "Father died last evening. I had no idea
that death was so near. He had just gone to lie down for an hour. He
seemed to be sleeping comfortably. I left him for a few minutes. When
I came back, he was gone. He didn't seem to have moved, except that
his hand was on the chair. Do you understand?" And I said ,"Yes, I
understand." Alec Fraser had been living on the third floor of the House
of Life and had gone out from that room to have a still closer fellowship with his God. To the Home where sight takes place of Faith.
"BUILDING A HOUSE/" ls there a better description of human
life than that? I think not. That's the reason why our home is so dear to
us. One of the sweetest songs ever sung tells the same story. Some
years ago, an American died in a foreign land and they buried him in
foreign soil. He slept his sleep for thirty years. In 1883, a company of
Americans stood by his grave in Africa and they opened it. They took
his body out, and wrapped that body in the Stars and Stripes and put
it in a coffin and brought it to New York Harbor. They put it on a
special train. Took it to Washing ton and marched down Pennsylvania
Avenue, headed by a band. Out came the President, the Vice-President ,
the Members of the Cabinet. Congress adjourned and the Supreme
Court-all the great men of the nation came out to welcome that body
home.

"Behold how swiftly the sands run and how rapidly our
lives are drawing to a close. Thus wastes man. Today he puts
forth the tender leaves of hope. Tomorrow blossoms and bears his
blushing honors thick upon him.· The next day comes a frost
which nips the shoot and when he thinks his greatness is still
aspiring, he falls like autumn leaves to enrich our Mother Earth."
Yes, I say, Masonry teaches, warns us, that human life is like an
"unfinished house."
And, now, let us go inside the House we are building.
3. The Soul Hath Its First Floor: It is here that most people live
and die. To them, life is toil, laughter, tears, holiday, game of profit and
loss, to give a little, to get much for the stomach, and the back, and the
pocketbook. That is the tale. Most of us know there ought to be other
floors in the House of Life. Some of us have even built the walls and
the stairway, but we rarely ever climb the stairs. How seldom we read a
great book? Or hang a picture? How many of us, when asked, say,
that the Bible is dry and that we have no time to pray?-We're so
busy that we never have time to think. "We are so occupied with the
stones of the street that we never turn our eyes to the stars."
Then, like the old man's house, the "House of Life" should have a
second floor. Suppose we go up the stairway. In this chamber there is
more room, less furniture and fewer inhabitants. The society is choice
and the conversation fine. When you and I have gone-we liked it so
much that we said we would go back some day and make it home.
And, then, there is the third story to the "House of Life." This is
the Upper Chamber. It's the glory of the House and the crown of all
the rest. The experience of that Holy of Holies we cannot put into
words. The life lived in that room is not dependent on activity but on
fellowship, faith and prayer. It is the life we live with God. Not much
furniture in it sometimes, but what there is, is useful. I wonder/ I wonder/
-do we all have a third floor in the House of Life?
Let me tell you the story of Alec Fraser. He is an old Scotsman.
The minister of the local church called, for Alec Fraser was sick and
confined to his room. The daughter placed a chair, and the minister

13

Who was he?
What battle had he fought? None. What picture had he painted?
None. What invention had he given to the world? None at all. But
he had written a little song, sung by millionaire and artisan. Sung by
the farmer at the plow, sung by the man in the trenches of Flanders
Fields. and dug-out of Iwo Jima, sung by the sailor on the high seas.John Howard Paine had written
"Home, home, sweet home
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home."
Yes, building a house and making it home is dear to the heart of
every American-bu t especially so to every fine Mason.
4. As we close this simple narrative, may I make these observations?
You can call it the exhortation, if you like. Jn the building of the House

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

we work with God. Then we may discover that we live in a house that
hath foundations whose builder and maker is God. And thus,

of Life, will you remember that God and man are partners. Free Masonry reminds us of this truth again and again. Remember that we are
builders. Savages are not. As soon as they start to build, they get away
from savagery.

"Through the deep caves of thought we hear a voice that singsBuild thee more stately mansions, oh, my soul,
As the swift seasons roll!
Leave thy low-vaulted past!
Let each new temple, nobler than the last,
Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,
Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea."

Remember-that our whole planet is a place of labor and that we
are builders together-with God. The Master Mason learns this lesson
in the Third Degree. One of the hierographyical emblems is the beehive. "The beehive is an emblem of industry and recommends that
virtue to all created beings from the highest seraph in Heaven to the
lowest reptile of the dust." All effort does not accomplish anything.
There must be togetherness. So we do not go to the butterfly for an
example. We go to the bee. "As busy as a bee," working for the community in the hive.

Oliver Wendell Holmes
"Amen-So Mote it Be."

Remember- God is a builder. He loves to build. He lives to build.
The Creator is transforming chaos into unity. discord into harmony,
darkness into light, raw materials into spiritual perfection.
And God is building Humanities. He is busy building Civilizations.
He is also building in the realm of mind and spirit as well as of matter.
He is building universal spiritualities. In all of this, we Masons are
working with the Master Builder, the Supreme Architect. We are
workers together with God.
God sketches the plans, puts them on the trestle board, as we would
say, gives us the blueprints and then it is up to us. He leaves it to our
initiative to put things together by our own purpose and skill and training. Roughly speaking, we ask for bread and He gives us a handful of
seed and points to the soil. We ask for fish and He leads us to the river.
We ask for a mast for our ships and He points to the forest. We ask for
a house and he gives us a handful of clay. We ask for a temple and he
gives us an unshaped rock. But-mind you, and remember, we are
workers together with God. Whether we build a house, a temple or a
city, we must work with God.
Remember-no task will fail that has God for a partner. Man is a
spirit, a child of the Infinite, and the resources of the Infinite are His.
The hand that carved a war club can be trained to carve an altar and
build a temple. The mind that split the atom can be trained to build
the City Four Square.
The earth is not man's goal. It is a starting place. We haven't tried
all our powers, even in this world-let alone reached their limit. When
Victor Hugo was dying, he said, "I know that I am the Chrysalis of an
archangel." But let us remember this can only be brought about when

15

'.I

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER
Lams C. DRAPEAU, Grand Master

pie is of such great promise. Every one of these ceremonies gave me a
feeling of satisfaction and delight.
On March 15th, however, Mother Nature failed to cooperate. She
sent a deluge. It has been said that the Grand Master floated those two
cornerstones in. And one Past Grand Master opined that they were
seen a day or two later out in the illimitable reaches of our broad Pacific
Ocean, halfway to Catalina Island. However, the cornerstones are still
there, and the buildings to rest upon them are progressing apace.

Brethren, another Masonic year has come and gone. In conformity
to the usages of our Craft, it now becomes my duty to render an account
of my stewardship from the close of Grand Lodge in October, 1951,
until this Communication.
It has been a pleasant and busy year.
To the brethren, living and dead, who made it possible for me to
occupy the high office of Grand Master of Masons in California, I
tender my heartfelt thanks.
NEW LoDGES CONSTITUTED

I constituted four Lodges: Los Altos Lodge, No. 712, October 26,
1951: Castro Valley Lodge, No. 713, November 1, 1951; Blue Lakes
Lodge, No. 714, November 2, 1951: and Magnolia Park Lodge, No. 715,
November 15, 1951.
Each one of them has made an auspicious beginning. and each one
of them goes forward with the good wishes and good will of all Masons
everywhere.
NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

The following new Lodges were instituted:
January 7, 1952, Belmont Shore, U.D., Seal Beach:
May 26, 1952, Research Lodges, U.D., in Northern and Southern
California:
July 1, 1952, Wayfarer Lodge, U.D., Whittier;
August 8, 1952, Estero Lodge, U.D., Cayucos;
August 16, 1952, San Lorenzo Valley Lodge, U.D., Boulder Creek:
August 23, 1952, Home Lodge, U.D., North Hollywood;
September 13, 1952, Mineral King Lodge, U.D., Visalia.
Each one of these Lodges under dispensation has my sincere best
wishes. I am sure each one of them will demonstrate an ability to work
in Masonry which will warrant Grand Lodge in granting a charter. Research Lodge in San Francisco was instituted by our Deputy Grand
Master; all of the others by me.
CORNERSTONES ••

Grand Lodge laid cornerstones for the following Masonic Temples:
March 15, 1952, Monte Vista Lodge No. 655, at Long Beach;
March 15, 1952, West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373, at West Los
Angeles:
May 17, 1952, El Sereno Lodge No. 588, at Los Angeles; and
June 14, 1952, Lomita Lodge No. 644, at Lomita ..
These were joyous occasions. The beginning of a new Masonic Tem-

CENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONS

I participated with the brethren in the observance of eight Centennial Anniversaries of Lodges of this jurisdiction:
November 1, 1951, Eureka Lodge No. 16, at Auburn:
February 21, 1952, Washington Lodge No. 20, at Sacramento;
April 29, 1952, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, at Honolulu;
May 8, 1952, Georgetown Lodge No. 25, at Georgetown;
May 9, 1952, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19, at Stockton;
May 10, 1952, Madison Lodge No. 23, at Grass Valley:
May 22, 1952, Occidental Lodge No. 22, at San Francisco;
June 27, 1952, El Dorado Lodge No. 26, at Placerville;
July 26, 1952, Martinez Lodge No. 41, at Martinez.
These were great occasions. What a history of Masonry each of
these Lodges in its hundred years of existence represents. It was a privilege indeed to join with the good men of the present day in commemorating the work of the good men of a hundred years ago.
Unfortunately I missed one Centennial, that of Mountain Shade
Lodge No. 18, in Downieville. This was due to conflicting dates, and
was a matter of regret to me.
NEW TEMPLES DEDICATED

The following new Temples were dedicated by Grand Lodge:
November 17, 1951, Greenleaf Lodge No. 670, at Whittier;
November 24, 1951, Canoga Lodge No. 611, at Canoga Park:
November 30, 1951, Blythe Lodge No. 473, at Blythe:
F~bruary 1, 1952, Vista Lodge No. 687, at Vista:
February 9, 1952, Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625, at Los Angeles:
June 4, 1952, Glendale Lodge No. 544, at Glendale;
July 31, 1952, Fontana Lodge No. 653, at Fontana;
August 1, 1952, Point Loma Lodge No. 620, at San Diego:
August 2, 1952, Oceanside Lodge No. 381, at Oceanside:
September 6, 1952, The Gardens Lodge No. 621, at Los Angeles:
September 17, 1952, Callayomi Lodge No. 282, at Middletown.
This wonderful record demonstrates how California Masonry is
really on the march. Eleven new Temples completed by our brethren in
one year.
Moreover, in every one of these Temples the brethren have built
themselves into the edifices. We are again engaging in operative, as

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

well as in speculative Masonry. Our own brethren laid out the work
and dug the footings; mixed the concrete and laid the foundations; built
the walls and put on the roofs; finished and decorated the interiors. That
is a record which any Masonic jurisdiction has the right to be proud of
and to rejoice in. I predict a glorious future for every one of these Lodges.
Another interesting trend too in the building of these Temples is
that they are all on one floor. They are not two~story buildings. With
ample parking spaces, this type of architecture seems to fit the modern
trend in both urban and suburban communities.
GRAND MASTER'S BREAKFASTS

Grand Master's breakfasts, generally on Sunday mornings, have been
very interesting. Generally under the auspices of Masters and Wardens
Associations or Boards of Relief, I attended the following:
October 14, 1951. San Francisco;
March 2, 1952, Santa Maria;
March 16, 1952, Los Angeles;
March 30, 1952, Long Beach;
April 6, 1952, Sacramento;
May 17, 1952, Los Angeles;
May 25, 1952, Berkeley;
June 22, 1952, (Anchor Lodge, Compton-St. John's Day); and
September 14, 1952, Fresno.
Each of these functions was well programmed and well attended.
Indeed they afford the Grand Master an opportunity to meet a great
number of Masons.
ATTENDANCE AT SISTER GRAND LoDGES

It was my privilege to attend the Annual Communications of the
Grand Lodges of Oregon and of Nevada. As has been our custom, our
Junior Grand Warden attended the Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Arizona, and our Deputy Grand Master attended the Communication
of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
As I look back through the past four years I think one of the greatest
pleasures you have given me has been the opportunity to attend these
Communications of our sister Grand Lodges as your representative. I
met such fine people; such friendly people. I enjoyed every bit of it.
The last Communication of our sister, Oregon Grand Lodge, was
their Centennial year. So our Deputy Grand Master and our Grand
Secretary also attended. Because of delay in plane service which kept
me away that afternoon, our Deputy Grand Master, for me, laid a
wreath upon the grave of the first Grand Master of Oregon who was
our first Grand Treasurer in California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

GRAND MASTER'S CONFERENCE WITH THE OFFICERS OF
GRAND LoDGE AND THE PAST GRAND MASTERS

Our Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems was the originator of
this custom. I thought it a particularly good idea, and continued it,
calling the elective Grand Lodge Officers and the Past Grand Masters
together in San Francisco January 19, 1952.
The conference functions something like that of the executive of
a corporation with his vice~presidents and past presidents. The inter~
change of views and suggestions from all the brethren who attended
was of great assistance.
GRAND MASTER'S CONFERENCE IN WASHINGTON, D.C.

Together with our Deputy Grand Master and our Grand Secretary
I attended the Conference of Grand Masters of North America held at
Washington, D. C.; also the meeting of the directors of the George
Washington Memorial at Alexandria, Virginia. Both conferences were
held during the week of the birth date of the father of our country.
The experience was well worth while. Our Grand Lodge has many
matters of business to transact with other Grand Lodges. So I think it
highly desirable that our Grand Secretary and other Grand Lodge
elective Officers should become personally acquainted with like officers
of other jurisdictions.
INSPECTORS CONFERENCES

I was able to attend but two of our Inspectors Conferences, one at
Del Mar, and the other at Lake Tahoe. I missed the other districts.
These conferences are of great value to California Masonry. Indeed
I cannot leave our Inspectors without comment upon the unselfish de~
votion and service which every one of them renders. This is the working
body of Masons who teach our esoteric work to officers of our Lodges
and who supervise Masonry in all its work throughout the year.
THE GRAND MASTER'S VISIT TO HAWAII

Following our annual custom I spent two delightful weeks in Ha~
waii last April. visiting the Lodges and our brethren in the enchanted
isles. Masonry there is in a healthy condition.
I was met with the traditional courtesy and entertained in the tra~
ditional manner of the Islands. I am indebted to all of the brethren in
Hawaii; especially to the Masters and Wardens of the several Lodges,
and to the two Inspectors there, for a most enjoyable and interesting
experience.
While there I attended one Centennial Observance, already men~
tioned. Also I convened a special communication of Grand Lodge, and
laid wreaths at the graves of two Hawaiian Kings who in their day were

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masters of their Lodges. Grand Lodge was assisted in this memorial
service by a number of old Hawaiian Societies. It was an exceedingly
colorful and interesting ceremony.
MEMORIAL SERVICES FOR DECEASED PAST GRAND MASTERS

I suppose every Grand Master has had some one particular project
of his own-or some one particular duty which appealed most to him.
I have had that experience in laying wreaths at the places of rest
of the mortal remains of our Past Grand Masters who have gone to that
"undiscov'rd country from whose bourne no traveler returns."
In this work I have had the invaluable assistance of our Committee
on History. Graves have been located, pictures taken of the ceremonies
and a proper record made. None of all of our Past Grand Masters was
overlooked.
While in the District of Columbia last February, with the assistance
of the Grand Master and Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia,
wreaths were laid upon the graves of our third and of our fifth Grand
Masters. One is in the old Congressional Cemetery in East Washington; the other in Arlington.
We were unaible to find the exact place of rest of Past Grand Master
Howard in the old cemetery at Virginia City, Nevada. Vandals have
destroyed or carried away his headstone. But we laid a wreath for him
at a monument erected in memory of another celebrated California and
Nevada Mason, Brother Storey.
I find that at the graves of some of these Past Grand Masters there
is no headstone or marker whatever. Some are buried in family plots
with only the name of the family on a monument. Most of the headstones
make no mention of the fact that our departed brother was Grand Master of Masons in California. I am wondering if it might not be a good
idea for Grand Lodge to inscribe the Masonic record of these distinguished men on markers or on existing monuments in these plots. I suggest that the Committee on History make some study of this idea.
May I leave this subject with one personal comment. Nearly fifty
years ago, as a boy, I worked for the Honorable George Clement Perkins, Grand Master of Masons in California in 1871. First I was his
messenger boy; then his clerk; and finally his private secretary. He was
the only man I ever worked for, for when I left him I went into the
practice of the law for myself.
Without his encouragement, without his patience with me, without
his belief in me, I doubt if I should ever have attained the high honor
with which you have entrusted me.
So it was with a particular thrill that as Grand Master this year I
laid a wreath upon the grave of this our Past Grand Master, former
Governor of California; and United States Senator from this State for
many years. May he rest in peace.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

SUMMATION OF TRAVELS

Thus ends the detailed chronicle of my travels. In addition to functions already mentioned, I attended 70 receptions throughout the State,
24 dinners, and a dozen barbecues, including a grand Hawaiian luau
on the Island of Hawaii. When I figured up the mileage I was astounded
-47,270 miles altogether.
I have been treated with the utmost courtesy and consideration by
the officers and Brethren of every Lodge in this our great State. I shall
never forget their friendliness and kindliness.
GRAND LODGE OFFICERS

I have been impressed with the unselfish devotion of the brethren
of the Grand Lodge the Junior Grand Officers, the Grand Treasurer, the
Grand Secretary, and his able assistants; the Grand Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturers, the entire lnspectorial Corps, and the membership
of all of the Committees.
Men of every business and profession have given so freely of their
time and of their talents. They have labored so earnestly for the good
of our order that I pause and now express to each one of them the thanks
and appreciation of every Mason in our jurisdiction.
I think I should add just a special word or two for our Grand Treasurer, for our Grand Secretary and for our Grand Lecturer.
The Deputy Grand Master has been at my elbow all through the
year; his aid and assistance have been a source of strength to me. In
the north he, and in the south the Senior Grand Warden, have taken
off my shoulders the entire burden of preparing for receptions and Grand
Lodge functions. That is the reason those meetings have run so smoothly
and impressively.
Our Junior Grand Warden this year is an accomplished lawyer. He
has done the research and prepared the text for most of the Grand Master's legal rulings. For this we are all indebted to him.
The time and thought devoted to our fiscal affairs by our Grand
Treasurer is impressive.
Every Grand Master, of course, comes closely in contact with our
Grand Secretary. I have never asked for anything from our Brother,
Lloyd Wilson, or his staff, that has not been cheerfully and freely given.
It has been a pleasure to work with every one of them.
While our Grand Lecturer did not enjoy the best of health for a
part of the year, nevertheless he has kept in touch wi~h t~e assis~ant
grand lecturers and inspectors all the way through. De11pite his handicap
he has rendered an outstanding service.
PAST GRAND MASTERS

As in every Blue Lodge the Past Masters are always the strength
and support of the Lodge, so it is true in Grand Lodge. I have had the

22

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

aid and counsel of my good friends, the Past Grand Masters of this
jurisdiction. I have leaned upon them. Whenever one or more of them
have been able to attend Masonic functions at which I was present, I
have had a feeling of security-th at my friends were in my corner.
To every one of our Past Grand Masters I express my thanks and
appreciation .
During the year, as I have observed our great institution so busily
at work throughout the state, many things have come to my attention.
I wish I could tell you about all of them, 'hut time does not permit. Some,
however, are of such importance that I think I should briefly comment
upon them.

OuR MASONIC CLUBS AT BERKELEY AND Los ANGELES

EARTHQUAK E DAMAGE

I had a visit to Tehachapi Lodge set on my calendar for July 26th,
1952. This was to have been another of the famous annual meetings
of that good old Lodge, to which in years gone by Masons have come
from all over California.
On July 22nd came a destructive earthquake in the southern San
Joaquin section of our State. Our Masonic Temple in Tehachapi was
demolished.
Our good Brother, our Senior Past Grand Master, Oscar Lawler,
telephoned me on the morning of the earthquake and told me that he
stood ready to do anything for our brethren in the earthquake area. He
got in touch with the Master of Tehachapi Lodge and proffered immediate assistance of Grand Lodge. Fortunately this was not necessary.
Then I called a meeting in Bakersfield for July 25, 1952. All of the
Inspectors, and the Masters and Wardens of the Lodges in the area were
present, together with Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler, Past Grand
Master Arthur Crites, Arthur M. Warren, Deputy Grand Master,
Ray Taylor, Assistant Grand Lecturer in the District, Ralph C. Hine,
Grand Orator Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary, and
Arthur Triggs, Grand Marshal. A hurried survey of the damage indicated what had happened to Tehachapi Lodge; also that considerable
damage had been done in Maricopa, and some damage in Taft, Bakersfield and in Ventura. I appointed a Committee of the following brethren
to make a more extensive survey of the damage, to keep in touch with
the situation in the several places named, and to report to you at this
Communica tion: Past Grand Master Oscar Lawler; Past Grand Master
Arthur Crites; Assistant Grand Lecturer Ray Taylor, together with
our Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, Grand
Orator and Grand Marshal.
Another severe earthquake followed later, destroying the Temple at
Maricopa and doing further damage. This situation will be covered in
more detail by the Committe e's report. The Lodges most seriously
stricken have been asked 'by the Committee to submit full particulars
as to damage suffered and plans for restoration. lt is hope the data will
be available for consideratio n at this Communica tion of Grand Lodge.

23

During the year I attended receptions by the Clubs sponsored by
you at the University of California in Berkeley and in Los Angeles.
There was a goodly attendance at each reception. I appreciated the opportunity to meet with the directors, the student members of the clubs,
and their guests.
In August I wrote to the Masters throughout the State suggesting
that they contact any brethren whose boys and girls contemplate d going
to either of these institutions of learning, and call the attention of such
brethren to the advantages offered by our clubs.
COURTESY DEGREES IN HAWAII

Because of the great number of requests, and the terrific burden
upon the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, it was my regrettable duty
to order no further Courtesy Degrees. It did not seem possible to draw
the line at any particular place; to permit some candidates to receive
the degrees and not others. The obvious situation was that our Lodges
in the Islands were literally beinq swamped with requests for Courtesy
Degrees and had to have some relief.
OUR MASONIC HOMES AT DECOTO AND COVINA

I went to receptions given to me at our Homes in Decoto and Covina
-July 11, 1952 at Decoto and September 26, 1952, at Covina. I was
thrilled and overjoyed at the response which I received from our old
friends at Decoto, from the boys and girls at Covina, from the officers
of the Homes, and from the members of the Homes Board.
As many of you know, our Homes have always been close to my
heart. I have served on the Endowment Board and on the Homes Board.
As I said many years ago, our Masonic homes are indeed "the flower
of Masonry in California."
DEDICATION OF CEMETERY PLOTS

During the year I dedicated two cemetery plots, one at Whittier;
and one at Bakersfield. A beautiful monument appearing at the latter
place was put there by the generosity of our Past Grand Master Arthur
Crites.
CoNFERRING THIRD DEGREE IN MY MoTHER LooGE

A highlight in my year was when I went to Oakland Lodge No. 188,
and helped the officers confer the Third Degree of Masonry. On the
20th day of May, 1907, I was raised to the sublime Degree of a Master
Mason in that Lodge.
DEMoLAY -JoB's DAUGHTER S-RAINBOW GrnLs

As I have gone about our great jurisdiction, I have been particularly
impressed with the good work by organization s for boys and girls-the

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Order of DeMolay. Job's Daughters and Rainbow Girls. It has been
a plea~ure to observe the friendly regard by our brethren for these boys
and girls, and the respect and good will which they and their sponsors
have f~r us. Time after time they have been present at Grand Master's
receptions, helping in the multitudinous chores incident to such affairs.
SOJOURNERS COMMITTEE

.Reading ~rother Whitsell's history, and reports of prior Communications of this Grand Lodge. I have been impressed with the fact that
almost every Grand Master has worried because so many sojourning
Masons in California fail to join with us.
So I appointed a Sojourners Committee and named a number of
active Masonic brethren members of it. Their report will be made a part
of the proceedings of this communication.
CHAIN LETTERS

I do not know how long the present chain letter has been going
around. I know that Past Grand Master Ellsworth Meyer was so concerned about chain letters that he directed a communication to every
Master in the State, trying to put a stop to it.
During the last year the evil has hobbed up here and their. When
I have heard of it I have asked the Inspectors, and the Masters of
Lodges in the vicinity, to call the attention of the brethren to the evils
involved. In one or two cases, misguided brethren whose names were
signed to these letters were reprimanded.
The. practice is, of ~ourse, reprehensible. It is my hope that good
sense will finally prevail and that all Masons will cease being parties
to such childish things.
NEW RITUAL FOR CEREMONIES

It was my privilege to use for the first time the new ritual for our
ceremonies as adopted at the last communication of this Grand Lodge.
It was also my privilege as a Junior Grand Lodge officer to assist three
of my predecessors in these ceremonies, in which the old ritual was used.
Without excep.tio~ I think the changes in the ritual have been good.
Brethren o~ t~e sidelmes .can see and hear more; confusing marching
has been ehmmated; and m some respects the ceremonies have been
shortened so that meetings end earlier and the brethren go home at reasonable hours.
VISITS BY OUR LoDGES TO LODGES OF OTHER JURISDICTIONS

The practice of exchanging visits with Lodges of other jurisdictions
is of great benefit. I think. Such visitations make for friendliness among
Masons of our and of sister jurisdictions.
However, it should be remembered that before such visits are made

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

request must be made to, and approved by the Grand Master of California and by the Grand Master .of the sister jurisdiction.
It came to my attention that visits were being made by California
Lodges to Lodges in Baja California without this reference and approval.
I am sure no Grand Master will ever deny requests for such visitations, unless it should appear that they are becoming a burden upon
the brethren of our sister jurisdictions. We must remember that Lodges
in our sister jurisdictions do not have the membership which will permit
unlimited entertainment of visiting brethren, no matter how courteous
and agreeable the brethren of such lodges may be.
DEATHS OF PAST GRAND MASTERS AND GRAND LoDGE OFFICERS

It is with a feeling of loss and sorrow that I report the deaths of
three Past Grand Masters:
January 25. 1952, Gilbert C. DeForest:
February 4. 1952, Randolph V. Whiting:
August31, 1952, John Stewart Ross.
At a later time in this communication appropriate proceedings will
be had, dedicated to the memory of these great and good Masons who
have each one of them gone to a rich reward. These services will be
conducted by lifelong friends.
As my term was coming rapidly to its close, the sable-winged angel
of death paused to take from our midst Worshipful Brother Jay A. Powers, our Grand Pursuivant. After a lengthy illness he too passed to his
reward September 24. 1952.
RECOMMENDAT IONS AND RULINGS

Now we come to those portions of this message which will require
reference to committees and action by this Grand Lodge. For reference
purposes I will give to each one of them a number.
RECOMMENDAT ION AND RuLING No. 1-THE OVERGROWN LODGE

It is my considered opinion that there comes a time when Lodges
become too large. When that happens. Masonry in general suffers. And
the opportunity to participate in our work is denied to many qualified
and well-deserving brethren. The more members a Lodge has, the less
opportunities there are for Masons to go through the chairs.
When a Lodge gets too large its membership tends to divide into
cliques. Sometimes the officers have their own private parties, and draw
away from the membership. It becomes difficult if not impossible for
the brethren to know one another.
Some Lodges tend to become business. rather than fraternal organizations. Average attendance goes away down. Membership in numbers
alone does not make good Lodges; big bank balances and holdings of
securities do not reflect Masonry at its best.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I should like to have Grand Lodge consider legislation:
(a) Placing a limitation upon the number of candidates which
Lodges with over a certain number of members may have in a given
year; and

its premises "for mercantile or other uses consistent with the purposes."
Hence, it would follow that under a strict interpretation of our present
law the Temple Association may lease to the "off sale" seller. But, if
you will permit a suggestion, I would warn the Temple Association that
as a matter of policy, consistent with care to avoid criticism of the Craft,
the lease should retain control as to advertisements and other means
of conducting business. It is conceivable, for example, that the lessee
might placard the temple with liquor ads. Even radio companies will
not now permit any liquor advertising.

( b) Making it the duty of such Lodges to sponsor and to foster
new Lodges.
However, I doubt the wisdom of recommending such legislation
without further thought and consideration. I therefore recommend that
the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee for the purpose of
studying this phase of California Masonry, to report its findings and
recommendations to our next Annual Communication.
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No.

2-

SHoULD WE HAVE A JuDGE ADVOCATE?

You will remember that I told you a'bout all the legal work done
f~r us by ~ur J~nior Grand Wa~den. He suggests that our Grand Lodge
give consideration to the establishment of an office like that in the State
of New York, known a.s Judge Advocate.
In that State the Judge Advocate does the legal research for rulings
of the Grand Master. This he assembles and reports upon to the Grand
Lodge. He is appointed by and holds office at the will and pleasure of
the Grand Master.
This matter too I think should be given some further thought and
consi~eration. I therefore recommend that it be ref erred to a special
committee to be appointed by the incoming Grand Master, to report at
the next annual communication of this Grand Lodge.
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 3INCREASE MEMBERSHIP OF LODGE FINANCING COMMITTEE

During the year I made two temporary appointments to the Committee on Lodge financing, at the suggestion of the chairman. It is apparent that the Committee will function better with nine instead of seven
members. I therefore recommend that section 70 of our Ordinances be
amended to increase the membership of the Lodge Financing Committee accordingly.
.
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 4

May a Temple Association lease part of its premises to a store which
sells retail bottled liquor?
It has been held that an applicant for the degrees of Masonry, whose
sole business was the operation of a retail bottled goods liquor store,
was eligible. Also, that a similar applicant, whose sole business was the
wholesale liquor business, was eligible.
Under Section 151, Ordinances, a Temple Association may rent

RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No.

27

5

Was the 1951 legislation relating to forfeiture of fees for failure
of an applicant to present himself within 5 years for the second and
third degrees, prospective or retroactive?
In my opinion the law is retroactive so that it is applicable, but so
that in computing the 5-year period there should be included any time
of such failure preceding as well as after the passage of the legislation.
Thus, it is immediately applicable to anyone who at this tiine has permitted 5 years to go by.
My reasons for so thinking are as follows:
Grand Lodge has the power under Section 6 of the Constitution to
pass such legislation. The question, therefore, is whether such was the
intent of Grand Lodge. That this was the intent of Grand Lodge is
apparent from the history of the legislation, since it was intended to
cure a long standing and irritating situation.
The retroactivity of by-laws calling for forfeiture of dues paid has
been the subject of civil law. Generally speaking, of course, a new law
of a society will not be interpreted as retroactive unless it was so intended
( 4 Am. Jur. 461 ) : but if a constitution of a society reserve the right to
amend the by-laws then it may be retroactive if reasonable (Robinson v.
Templar Lodge, 117 Cal. 370: Power v. Sheriffs Relief Assoc., 57 Cal.
App. 2d 350). Considered abstractly as a statute which operates retroactively. an analogy may be found in Helvey v. Security-First Nat.
Bank of L.A., 99 Cal. App. 2d 149 ( 1950), in which it was held that
the abandoned property act would permit escheat of unclaimed bank deposits.
In Masonic law we recall that amendments to the constitution are
effected immediately on close of the annual communication (Section 27,
Constitution), and ordinances are similarly so effective (Section 350,
Ordinances). It has been held that an applicant who refuses to go forward after initiation is not entitled to return of any portion of the fee
(Section 573, Edicts and Resolutions). Also, Section 2 of Article IV
of our uniform code of by-laws provides that the fee paid by an applicant for the degrees does not come forward to be initiated within three

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

months, the fee shall be forfeited. A somewhat analogous situation is
also presented in respect of dues paid in that, regardless of payments
of dues in advance, a lodge may enact legislation for additional dues
(Section 531, Edicts and Resolutions).

Moreover, a lodge should never publish so as to reach the profane
that which should 'be kept within its tiled precincts (Sec. 696 R.D.)
In any event, no Mason should ever use Masonry for his business
advertising or purposes (Section 748 R.D.), nor ask the profane to assist
Masonic charities (Secs. 795, 795a).

RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

No. 6

May a lodge purchase the official Grand Lodge publication "One
Hundred Years of Freemasonry in California," or subscribe to the magazines "New Age," or "Channel Counties Mason?"
As a general rule, a lodge may spend its funds for the purchase of
books, and for the maintenance of a library, for the benefit of its members. Thus, the purchase of the set of the official "One Hundred Years
of Freemasonry in California" is proper. (Section 608.)
With respect to magazines, it would be impracticable and unwise
at this time for the Grand Master to rule thereon. The lodge and not
the Grand Master should in the first instance, at least, and in light of
Masonic law and Masonic policy and current directives of the Grand
Master, examine any such proposed item for purchase and see whether
it is proper for inclusion in the lodge library.
This would seem to be especially true now in view of the current
activities of the Committee on Publications. Reference is made to the
letter dated October 23, 1951, from the Grand Secretary to all Masters
and Inspectors, setting forth the report of the special Committee on Publications and the law adopted by the Grand Lodge; the letter dated November 6, 1951, from the Grand Secretary to all Masons of this jurisdiction; and the letter dated November 30, 1951, from the Grand Secretary to all lodges of this jurisdiction and all other interested parties.
These indicate the problem in California and the process by which publications may be cleared by the Committee on Publications, in a prescribed manner, subject to the limitations of the law and the policy laid
down. These are the channels that the Grand Master has requested be
followed.
It would appear, therefore, that any ruling by the Grand Master
with respect to any specific magazine might unwisely intercept the work
of the Committee on Publications, and might well be misconstrued as
an oblique official blessing where none was intended.
No. 7
May a lodge use its funds available for fraternal intercourse to print
and publish in an advertising magazine known as "Kern County Masonry and Eastern Star" information concerning the lodge? The answer
is no. (Sec. 127 R.D.)
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

Reference is made to rulings of the Grand Master set forth in letters
from the Grand Secretary dated October 23, 1951, November 6, 1951,
and November 30, 1951.

29

RECOMMENDATION AND RuLING No. 8
When may an Entered Apprentice or a Fellowcraft, as the case may
be, whose advancement was stopped by objection thereto made and
sustained, again request such advancement?
He must wait a year before again applying for advancement (Sections 818 and 819).
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 9
May Lodge funds be used to sponsor a public Christmas tree in the
U.S.O. building? The answer is no.

No. 10
May Lodge funds be used to maintain recreation facilities for Masonic servicemen and members of the DeMolay, primarily, but possibly
also used by other persons; and, may such funds, for that purpose, be
obtained from the proceeds of a picnic to be sponsored by the interested
Lodges? The answer is no.
Aside from the administrative difficulties, it appears that such activities are prohibited by Masonic law. For example, a lodge may not sponsor widows' and orphans' funds (Section 912). Such undertakings are
collateral to the purposes of a Lodge, and hence, the financial undertakings are collateral, however worthy may be the motives of the movers. There are numerous dangers inherent in such sponsoring by Lodges
of collateral undertakings, and in related commercial activities.
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

1

No. 11
Where a member dies, and his dues are paid in advance for one or
more quarters (not fractions thereof), may or should the Lodge return
to any proper person the unearned dues?
The answer is that the Lodge may and should return to the proper
estate representative the mentioned unearned dues.
Under Section 133, Article IX, Section 1, the dues of a member are
payable quarterly in advance.
Membership in a Lodge is terminated by death (Section 174). As
analogies, it has been held that liability for dues ceases immediately on
demit (Section 534) and on expulsion until restoration (Section 535).
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 12
May Lodge funds be used to compensate an inspector for his time
spent at Grand Lodge, or for speakers at Public Schools Week programs and Constitution Month observance programs?

31

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As to compensation of inspectors, the answer, given on the assumption that the question assumes the inspector will receive payment of
permissible expenses, is no. Section 68 provides for the payment of an
inspector's expenses. Such expenses are defined to be "necessary expenditures for transportation to and from each annual communication
of the Grand Lodge. in the same manner as ordered for the officers or
representatives of lodges." The same section prohibits payment in more
than one of those capacities and the section also provides the conditions
of attendance required for payment.
As to the use of lodge funds for such speakers as are included in the
question, it would appear that this comes within the scope of social
purpose, the expenditures of which are authorized by Section 159,
subject to the terms and conditions thereof and provided the Lodge in
good faith uses the funds for the "promotion of fraternal intercourse"
(Section 637).

RECOMMENDATION AND RuLING No. 16
May life membership funds be invested in building and loan associations.
The answer is no, as to California building and loan associations.
but yes as to federal building and loan associations.
Under the laws of the State of California, savings banks may not
invest in California building and loan associations. Certain persons or
firms, as estate representatives, trustees and insurance companies, who,
under the law must invest in funds legal for savings banks, may, by
reason of special legislation, and under certain conditions, so invest certain funds. But, savings banks, as such, may not invest in California
building and loan associations. ( Deerings General Laws, Act. 652, Section 61: Statutes 1949, Chapter 202.)
The California Building and Loan Association Act provides: "All
shares issued by any duly chartered Federal savings and loan association shall be legal investments for the funds of executors. administrators, guardians, and trustees of every kind and nature and for the funds
of all insurance companies, cemetery associations and savings banks and
are acceptable and may be used as security for the faithful performance
of any public or private trust or obligation; provided, such association
shall be an 'insured institution' as defined in Title IV of the National
Housing Act." ( Deerings Act 4241, Section 1.)
Therefore, since under Section 152 a Lodge may invest its funds only
"in securities prescribed as legal for savings banks," and since there
has been no change under the new Section 152.1 so far as this question
is concerned, it follows that a Lodge may not invest its funds in California building and loan associations, but may invest its funds in federal
building and loan associations.

30

No. 13
May Lodge funds be used for the purpose of paying an organist?
The answer is no if the payments are as salary: and the answer is
yes. however, if the payments are as expenses within the limitations of
Section 159.
There is no specific provision in Masonic law for payment of salary
to an organist of a Lodge (Section 620).
Considered in the category of expenses, however, a different situation is presented. For example, a lodge may buy an organ as a necessary expense within the category of Section 157 (Section 608 (a) ) .
The expense of an organist would be fully authorized and justified,
however, as necessary expenditures from the entertainment funds of a
Lodge, in furtherance of fraternal intercourse, and subject to the limitations on the use of such funds ( Section 159) The social purposes authorized by this Section, namely. "the promotion of fraternal intercourse," is a very comprehensive expression. The expense of Public
Schools Week has been authorized for such promotion (Section 637).
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 14
May a Mason act as a bartender, serving drinks to the public, on
behalf of the American Legion?
The answer is no ( Section 210).

No. 15
Does the death of a member while under suspension bar subsequent
restoration?
The answer is yes (Section 565).
.
It should be observed that the answer above assumes due notice
given to make effective the suspension. If such notice were not given,
then the act of suspension would be a nullity. (Sections 257, 557.)
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

RECOMMENDATION AND RuLING No. 17
May El Dorado Lodge contract with other fraternal orders to conduct and provide perpetual care of a cemetery in which all these respective orders have various allotments of graves? The answer is no.
It appears that dating from 1871 the Lodge and certain of the other
fraternal orders acquired land for burial purposes of their respective
members at Placerville. Later, other fraternal orders acquired adjacent
properties. Then there was formed the Union Cemetery Association,
composed of trustees of these orders. It was discovered in 1951 that some
perpetual funds had been erroneously used for operating expenses. One
of the fraternal orders, the Redmen, some years ago disbanded and its
property became the property of the Association itself. Current activities are directed toward a reorganization.
In the over-all picture, presented by the present request for a ruling.
it appears that it would be unlawful and improper for the Lodge thus

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to enter into the proposed cemetary organization, such as partnership,
or joint venture, or corporation, to be bound by contract in that manner
and thus obligate the Lodge membership in the future, to become subject to State laws and civil courts, possibly be tempted to draw upon
the funds of the Lodge to meet liabilities, and possibly do all this in
connection with graves of the other fraternal orders. (Sections 155 to
159; 616 a to 617; 627.)
In the portion of the cemetery which was set apart for Masonic purposes-that is, to provide a suitable place for the burial of the dead of
the Lodge-it would be proper for the Lodge to expend necessary funds
to obtain proper places for such burial of its own dead and also to keep
that portion in good condition. (Section 605.)

No. 19
a date during Public
on
falls
When the Stated Meeting of a Lodge
held?
be
meeting
the
should
date
what
on
Schools Week,
The Stated Meeting should be held as called for by the By-Laws
of the Lodge. See Proclamation of the Grand Master of February 15 •
1952.

RECOMMEND ATION AND RULING

No. 18

May the Master of King David's Lodge declare rejected an applicant on the report of an investigatin g committee which contained one unfavorable report by a member thereof1
The answer is yes (Sections 228, 675, 678).
The Master could review the acts of the committee and satisfy himself as to the reasons assigned for the reports ( Section 669). While the
conclusions of the committee members without giving any supporting
facts may be lawful. the better policy is to require the committee of investigation to report the facts upon which the favorable or unfavorable
conclusion is based (Sections 674, 675). Also, the Master could have
referred the report again to the committee for further investigation (Section 677). Or, if it appeared that new evidence was available or that
further inquiry was desirable, a committee which might not have performed its duty could have been discharged and another appointed to
do the work more faithfully or more exhaustively (Section 677).
From. the facts reported on the question presented, however, it appeared there was a basis stated for the unfavorable report, albeit the
basis may in the opinion of some have been insufficient; but, in any event,
apparently the Master was satisfied and the Master declared the applicant rejected.
Under these circumstances, no new application from this applicant
may be received by any Lodge within twelve months of such rejection,
unless by dispensation of the Grand Master (Section 219). Such a dispensation should not be granted, however, unless it appears to the Grand
Master that a mistake was made, or that extraordina ry circumstances
exist (Section 428 ) .
Only the Lodge that rejected the applicant can ask and receive such
a dispensation (Sections 432, 705, 108).

33

RECOMMEND ATION AND RULING

No. 20
our Grand Lodge
from
obtain
Lodge
May members of an irregular
a dispensation for a charter? The answer is no.
.Grand Lodge will not recognize or hold Masonic intercourse with
an irregular Lodge or its members (Secs. 101, 116 R.D.).
The m~m~ers of such irregular Lodge, however, may individually
n:iake application regularly for the degrees in a Lodge of our jurisdiction; and, if elected, may receive the degrees and thus become a member (Secs. 418, 419, 867 R.D.).
RECOMMEND ATION AND RULING

No. 21
May one having a demit but unable to prove himself apply for the
degrees of Masonry? The answer is yes.
The proposed candidate may apply regularly for the degrees· and
if elected, may receive the degrees and thus become a member (Sec~ 490'
'
·
491, 1044, Ross Digest).
RECOMMEND ATION AND RULING

No. 22
May a Lo~ge try a member who pleaded guilty to sexual offenses
and was comm1t_ted to the State Hospital as a sexual psycopath?
The answer 1s yes.
RECOMMEND ATION AND RULING

RECOMMEND ATION AND RULING No. 23
or club of Masons sponsor a DeMolay Chapter?
group
a
May
?h~ answer is yes, if its is not a direct or indirect Lodge activity or
af f1hation.
I find ~ot?ing in our Masonic law which would prohibit a mere voluntary association of Masons for the cultivation and promotion of a DeMolay Chapter, if it is in no way a Lodge affiliation or activity. Such
a ~r~~p or club would not be part of our Masonic system. But if the
act~v1ties thereof bec~me subversive of the best interests of Masonry,
or 1f the members, bemg Masons and publicly associated in that character, acted in a manner detrimental to the principles of Masonry or in
a manner which reflected ill on the good name of Masonry, they ~ould,
of course, be amenable to our Masonic law (Sec. 863 R.D.).
Our Grand Lodge on many occasions has indicated its approval
of the ideals, aims and purposes of the Order of DeMolay, and has
urged Masons as individuals to lend to the movement their moral and
personal support (Sec. 520 R. D.).

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

It is recognized that meritorious work is being done among boys by
the Order of DeMolay. Also, that such a great and good movement and
its growth should be carefully developed and safeguarded. In order that
there may be among Masons information and cordin.ation as to the Order
of DeMolay, but not sponsorship, the Grand Lodge created and has
continued a Committee on DeMolay (Grand Lodge Proceedings, 1946,
pages 66, 198; 1947, page 161: 1948, page 137; 1949, page 158; 1950,
page 136; 1951, page 217).
It has been reiterated, that according to the Masonic law as viewed
in California, our traditional Masonic policy and ancient landmarks wiJI
not permit sponsorship of a DeMolay Chapter by the Grand Lodge or
by a Lodge thereof. Neither Grand Lodge nor any constituent Lodge may
assume any responsibility in connection with any sponsorship of a DeMolay Chapter (Sec. 521 R.D.).
It is a maxim of jurisprudence that what cannot be done directly,
cannot •be done indirectly. Accordingly, any group or club of Masons
which does sponsor a DeMolay Chapter should not convert this to an
indirect Lodge activity or affiliation. It would stem that taking a part
of a Lodge name, such as the number of the Lodge, might be construed
erroneously in some quarters as an oblique blessing direct from a Lodge.
(Secs. 748, 750 R.D.).
The Master of a Lodge is charged at his installation "to avoid all
dissimulation." A club or group of Masons from a particular Lodge
should not associate to sponsor a DeMolay Chapter if such association
is merely a device or pretense by which the Lodge itself actually is doing the sponsoring. The group or club should be separate and apart
from a Lodge, and so conduct itself that no claim could fairly be made
that it is in fact a Lodge activity or affiliation.

It is recognized that this may work a financial hardship on the
Brother, but under Masonic Law, such hardship would not justify an
exception. Secs. 947, 887 R.D.).

RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 24
Should a Lodge return to a rejected candidate his fees on the expiration of sixty days from the date of a stated meeting at which the Master
reported the fact of objection?
The answer is yes (Sec. 237, 801 (a) R.D.).
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 25
May expenses incurred in sponsoring Public Schools Week programs be charged against the general expenses of the Lodge?
The answer is no (Sec. 637 R.D.).
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 26
May a Mason enter upon and engage in the saloon business, in connection with his business as assignee for the benefit of creditors, not
in connection with and as part of the operation of a bona fide hotel or
restaurant?
The answer is no (Sec. 210 R.D.).

35

No. 27
Should the fees of an Entered Apprentice, initiated in 1936 and with
reference to whom the Lodge was instituting proceedings for the forfeiture of fees in accordance with Section 133, as amended in 1951, be
considered as forfeited, even though a declaration to such effect had
not been made when he died March 15, 1952?
The answer is that in the absence of a contrary directive by the
Lodge, the fees may be considered forfeited. A declaration of forfeiture
is not necessary. (Sec. 133, R.D.)
RECOMMENDATION AND RuLING

No. 28
What procedure should be followed to complete the conferring of
the Second Degree on a Brother who absented himself mistakenly from
the Second Section?
The Lodge should commence again, and confer and complete the
entire Degree on the Brother at the one occasion. The lectures appertaining to the Degree must be given at the time it is conferred. ( Sec. 192,
S.3: 483: 500 R.D.).
RECOMMENDATION AND RULING

No. 29
May a Lodge proceed under Section 332 Ross Digest, for automatic
expulsion of a member who has been convicted of violating Secs. 288
and 288A Penal Code and thereafter was committed to Norwalk State
Hospital as a sexual psycopath?
The answer is yes. (Sec. 332 R.D. as amended.)
RECOMMENDATION AND RuLING

No. 30
Does conviction of a felony make ineligible to membership an applicant for degrees, where no time was served and restitution was made
and rehabilitation seems apparent?
The answer is yes.
In 1875 Grand Lodge decided that one who has served a term in
the State Prison was not "Under the tongue of good r~port" and hence
could not petition for the degrees (Sec. 208, 875 R.D.).
In 1948 there was presented to the Grand Lodge a resolution to
amend Section 208 to provide by express and specific statute that a
person convicted of a felony could not apply for the degrees. Grand
Lodge rejected the resolution.
This resulted in decision Number IV in 1951 by Past Grand Master
Paulsen recommending that the decision of 1875, as reported in Section
875 R.D. be set aside and disapproved and that the question of whether
an applicant is "Under the tongue of good report" be left to the disRECOMMENDATION AND RULING

36

PROCEED INGS OF THE

cretion of the Lodges. The decision did concede, however, that as the
law then existed a person who had been convicted of a felony, or at
least had served a term in the State Prison, was not entitled to apply
for the degrees. The Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes disapproved this decision and recommendation and the report of disappro val
was approved by Grand Lodge.
Consequ ently it is now the law, in accordan ce with our long-esta blished policy, that an applican t for degrees be ineligible to membership
if he has been convicted of a felony or has served a term in the State
Prison.
RECOMM ENDATIO N AND RuLING No. 31
May a member of the Scottish Rite propose for membership therein
a brother, prior to expiratio n of twelve months from receiving his degree of Master Mason?
The answer is yes, provided the proposed member did not, himself,
within such twelve~month period, apply for, or receive, or become initiated in the Scottish Rite (Sec. 223, R.D.).
RECOMM ENDATIO N AND RuLING No. 32
Under Sec. 301, as amended, R.D., must the Grand Master, or one
of his deputied and authoriz ed officers appoint in every case the Master,
or a Past Master of this jurisdiction to preside at the trial; and, must
the Grand Master, or his said officers ascertain whether the person to
preside at the trial is qualified?
Sec. 301, as amended, R.D., requires that the Grand Master, or one
of his deputed and authoriz ed officers must, in each case, appoint the
Master, or any Past Master of this jurisdiction as Trial Master to preside at the trial. The Master may, without such appointment, act in respect of certain procedur al steps, as specified in Sec. 301.
It is required by Sec. 301, as amended , R.D., that to preside at the
trial, the Master, or Past Master, be in good standing , skilled in Masonic
law, qualified fairly to try the case, and be not a witness. It is not incumbent on the Grand Master , or his said deputed officer, to ascertain
whether the Master, or Past Master, be so qualified, but in the event
the Master, or Past Master, is not so qualified, he should report the facts
to the Grand Master or to his deputed and authoriz ed officer, who can
then appoint another to preside (Sec. 957, R.D.)
RECOMM ENDATIO N AND RULING

No. 33
May a Mason act as a bartende r?
The answer is no. (Sec. 210, R.D.).
The cited law reads that "any Mason * * * who shall become a
barkeepe r, shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon
due trial and conviction of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and
privileges, including membership in any Lodge."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

37

The fact that his activities as bartende r are in connection with an
establishment owned by his father, would not, under Masonic law, justify
any exception. (Sec. 947, R.D.).
RECOMM ENDATIO N AND RuuNG

No. 34
What procedur e should be followed on a candidat e who, during the
obligation of the First Degree, refused to conform to the ritual by a
declared intention not to become bound to assume the penalty thereof?
The Master at the next regular meeting should refuse to initiate the
candidat e and should himself announc e his objection to the candidat e.
Then, if this objection be not withdraw n within the sixty day period,
the objection becomes absolute and the Lodge may return the fees of
the rejected candidat e. Secs. 802, 237, 133, Art. IV, Sec. 2, R.D.).
There is abundan t written Masonic law which justifies the action
indicated. By Art. Ill, Sec. 6, R.D., our Constitu tion requires "a strict
adherenc e to the Ancient Landmar ks of the Order." Landmar k Eighteenth requires the qualification of the candidat e for initiation. Sec. 650
R.D. enjoins us to remember always that "the ritual itself constitutes
binding law."
Thus, the ritual must be adhered to by all Lodges and Masons. ( R.D.
Sec. 247).
RECOMM ENDATIO N AND RULING No. 35
1. May a Lodge receive an applicati on for the degrees of Masonry
from the owner of a bona fide restaura nt who sometimes acts there as
a barkeeper?
The answer is no. (Sec. 210, R.D.). The mere fact that this person
only occasionally serves cocktails does not alter the fact that he at those
times is a barkeepe r. The word "barkeep er" should be defined to mean
a person who tends a bar where alcoholic drinks are sold.
2. May a Lodge receive an applicati on for the degrees of Masonry
from one who is not presently but who was formerly a barkeeper?
The answer is yes. (Sec. 210, R.D.) The fact that the applican t was
formerly engaged as a barkeepe r is not in itself a ground of disqualification under Section 210.
RECOMM ENDATIO N AND RuLING No. 36
May the San Diego County Masonic Officers Association and brethren of that County sponsori ng an annual Flag Day Observa nce wear
Masonic clothing while participa ting therein?
The observan ce in question has been held annually since 1927 when
the Masons of San Diego County erected a flag pole on Marsten Point
in Balboa Park. It was dedicate d on June 15 of that year by Grand Master George L. Jones. The base of the pole was reconstru cted in 1947 and
rededica ted on June 14 by Past Grand Masters Claude H. Morrison

38

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

and George L. Jones. The base now bears Masonic symbols and a plaque
with the inscription "Erected by Free Accepted Masons of San Diego
in commemoration of the adoption of our flag in 1777."
The answer would appear to be yes, under Section 649, R.D.
In order to remove any doubt, however, and in view of Section 872.
R.D., it is suggested that Section 124, R.D. be amended by adding
thereto:
"or in accordanc e with the dispensati on of the Grand Master."
Dispensat ion may then be granted for any commendable occasion.
RECOMME NDATION AND RULING No. 37 ·
May a Lodge receive an application for the Degrees of Masonry
from one who has leased a bar and restaurant for five years with an
option to buy?
The answer is no. (Section 210, R.D.)
The fact that the prospective candidate has leased his bar, but with
an option to buy. indicates that he retains ownership of the liquor license, among other things. He is, therefore, at least indirectly engaged
as an owner in the saloon business within the meaning of Section 210,
R.D.
No. 38
may not be granted
this
but
demit
a
requested
has
Where a brother
in advance has not
dues
of
payment
months'
three
required
the
because
been made, may his wife and unknown to him pay the dues in order that
the member may not be suspended ?
The answer is no.
The duty of paying dues is imposed upon the member. A member
who wilfully fails to pay his dues must suffer the penalty which he knowingly invites. Such a deliberate violation of the by-laws of the Lodge is
in itself unmasonic. ( R.D. 552, 557). And it follows that no third person
can cure for a member his deliberate unmasonic act ( R.D. 557). While
it has been held that tender of delinquen t dues may be made by another,
this should be done under circumstances of the member's action, consent
or knowledg e (R.D. 563). A lodge, for example, cannot loan money
to a member ( R.D. 554). It would seem that the Master and the Committee on Delinquen t Dues, in this case, should make sure of the facts
before reaching a final conclusion, and should comply with all provisions of our law as to notice. ( R.D. 553, 554.)
RECOMME NDATION AND RuLING

No. 39
call of special meetthe
of
manner
and
method
the
What should be
ings for Degree work?
The by-laws, Section 133, R.D., Art. III, Sec. 2, do not particularize
the method or manner of such call, but notice to the members should be
RECOMME NDATION AND RuLING

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

39

given a reasonable time in advance and should include a request to attend
for some specific purpose and the time and place thereof, and otherwise
should comply with Section 298, R.D. See also, Section 963 R.D.
Obviously, it would be unlawful to confer a Degree before the hour
set (Section 778 (a) R.D.) or to switch the specific purpose from one
Degree to another. The "hour set" for Degree work would include the
time indicated in the call.
RECOMME NDATION AND RULING No. 40
Is there any violation of the prescribed regulation s relating to the
formation of new lodges if those who give the notice of intention to apply
for a dispensation, required by Section 105, R.D., exceed the number
on the ultimate petition, and which number on the ultimate petition do
conform to the number as provided by Section 101, R.D.?
The answer is no.
Section 105, R.D. does not limit the number of those who may give
the notice of intention. 1£, therefore, they exceed in number the ultimate
and legally numbered petitioners, it is merely superfluity which does not
vitiate.
The critical question here is whether the actual and ultimate petitioners number at least twenty-five and not more than fifty, as prescribed
by Section 101, R.D .. and if they give notice of intention as prescribed
by Section 105, R.D. It is assumed that they did this and that there has
been compliance with this phase of the regulation s.
No. 41
May an Officers Association compel its member Lodges to contribute
toward an Association treasury, including the cost of decorating Masonic
graves on Memorial Day? To this question I answered no.
If an Officers Association thus by resolution could compel payment
of Association expenses, whether for authorized or unauthori zed purposes, it would give to the Association control over the funds and property of its member Lodges, and thus violate Section 151 R.D. This reads:
"A Lodge must retain the control of its own funds and property."
Moreover , it appears that the cost of decorating Masonic graves on
Memorial Day does not come within the purview of the instructive purposes of an Officers Association. (Sections 864, 864 (a}, R.D.)
The Lodges themselves may voluntaril y and by agreemen t contribute
to an Officers Association treasury for authorized purposes. (Section 864
(a) R.D.)
The Lodges themselves also may expend their funds for the purpose of decorating Masonic graves since this is within the authorized
activities of a Lodge. (Section 649, R.D.) Such expenditu res, of course,
must be within the limitations of Se~tions 157 to 159, R.D.
RECOMME NDATION AND RULING

41

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECOMMENDATION AND RuLING No. 42
Is it sufficient compliance with Section 240 R.D., after objection is
made kl the advancement of a Fellowcraft, if there was not read to the
Lodge members the part of the Committee report setting forth the cause
assigned, but merely that portion which contained the conclusions of the
committee that the objection was well taken and which, as thus presented,
was sustained by vote of the members so that the Fellowcraft was denied advancement?
The answer is no.
Since the cause assigned was not presented to the members then they
could not have voted thereon. Consequently, the Lodge failed to follow
the provisions of Section 240 R.D.
One who has been made a Mason occupies an entirely different position from one not yet initiated. He is entitled to certain rights and privileges, including the right to be advanced in the absence of sufficient
cause to the contrary. The cause assigned should of necessity be specific in nature, showing something done or omitted to be done by him,
which goes to his character or fitness. And when any such objection is
investigated, the cause assigned must of necessity, under Section 240
R.D .. be disclosed to the members of the Lodge before the vote on
whether such cause assigned is a valid and Masonic one. (Sec. 807 R.D.)
Hence, the vote of the Lodge was a nullity.

questions in our Lodges, and then I wonder if we do that, if we will
continue to have the peace and harmony, good will and good fellowship
which has characterized our existence for more than a hundred years.
I have always believed in the combined wisdom of many minds in
solving difficult problems. It has long been the policy of our people that
the collective wisdom of twelve men and women in a jury box is the
best means of determining controverted questions of fact which involve
human rights of life, liberty and property.
So I confidently leave to the wisdom of this great body the solution
of this problem, and of those growing out of our publications law which
I will now discuss with you.

40

RECOMMENDATION AND RULING No. 43-DiscussION oF
POLITICAL QUESTIONS IN LODGES
At the request of several Past Grand Masters I ruled that the referendum measure to appear on the ballot in California this fall exempting
private schools from taxation could be discussed in meetings of tiled
Lodges and at social meetings before and after such meetings; but that
no action of the Lodges endorsing or condemning this or any other measure was to be taken.
I think the best way to get this matter before you is to incorporate
as an appendix to this message a letter written to me by Most Worshipful Brother Charles Albert Adams, Past Grand Master, and my reply
thereto.
This ruling now comes before you. Indeed, it may well happen that
the whole subject of political action by California Masons will be at large
at this communication of Grand Lodge,· if certain amendments to our
laws are presented.
I took the action which I have reported to you with some misgivings,
for, as I see it, it is a departure from our ancient charges. Now, I think
it is for you to say how far we shall go, if at all.
I have been asked what my opinion is about it. This I will say: I
am not sure. Sometimes I think it would be a good idea to debate political

RECOMMENDATION AND RuuNG No. 44-PuBLICATIONS
I am sure that this will be the subject for considerable debate. If
correspondence and conversations with brethren which I have had almost every day for a whole year are any indication, it will.
Let's just briefly review the situation.
In 1951 Past Grand Master Paulsen appointed a committee to investigate complaints relative to the conduct of so-called Masonic pub~
lications. If you have not already done so, I suggest that you read the
report of the committee, which appears in the proceedings of last year's
communication of Grand Lodge.
That was the background of the legislation. Now let me bring you
up to date.
As an appendix to this portion of my message I add:
(a) The text of the publications law.
( b) The directive which I issued for its administration.
I hope each of you will please read the law again, and think it over
before you vote upon questions growing out of it. It is short.
To illustrate this part of my message, I want to read it now to you.
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of
any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body.
order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to mem~
bership."
So you see the law sets up two categories of publications:
First. Those published by our Lodges or by concordant organizations; and
Second. Those published as commercial enterprises.
I will comment upon each of these in order.
Publications published by our lodges, or by concordant organizations.
Reading the publications law and Section 127 of our ordinances to~
gether, it became apparent that all publications both of lodges and of

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

concor dant hodies were forbidden, unless, in his discretion, the

Grand
expres sly given
in Section 127, and implied I think in the publications law.
I declined to exercise this discretion as to any lodge or any organi
zation, for the following reason s:
I think Grand Lodge itself should determine whethe r Califor nia Masonry, or any concor dant organi zation may solicit person s other
than
Mason s for 6.nancial assista nce for the conduc t of the activities
or the
charities of such lodges or organiz ations. Soliciting adverti sing
from
non-M asons for a publication of a lodge or of a concor dant organi
zation does just that.
So it now falls to you to author ize or to decline to author ize busines
s
enterpr ises of this charac ter, either by our lodges or by concor dant
organiza tions.
If you think you should author ize such business enterprises, then
I
sugges t you give careful though t as to what portion of the money
paid
for adverti sing shall go to person s who solicit the adverti sing,
and
what portion of it shall go to the organiz ation. As we grow in numbe
rs
this sort of promotion becomes lucrative to individuals, and, improp
erly
carried on, a serious reflection upon our institution.
I have though t perhap s, if we really want to ask other people
to
help us, that such publications might be authorized, provid ing the
whole
net profit thereof, with no commissions to solicitors or promoters,
shall
go to the charity of the lodge or concor dant organiz ation. That, howev
er,
I leave to you.
Before leaving this division of this troublesome problem, may I
say
that I have had friendl y cooper ation from all of our constit uent
lodges
and from every concor dant body.
Commercial publications.
In comformity to the law several commercial publications have been
author ized to continue. Some have been refused .
In each case the action taken was based upon the researc h work and
recomm endatio n of the Committee on Publications.
The Grand Master 's action in each of these cases will be detaile
d,
togeth er with the reason s therefo r, in the report of the committee.
So
I see no need of recoun ting each one here.
The rules for these publications were worked out with the commi
ttee, and, likewise, will appear in the committee's report.
Some brethre n will I think presen t to you amend ments to our law
which will permit commercial publications to print trestle boards for
one
or for several lodges, and which will permit lodges, if they so
desire,
to pay for that service.
In applyin g the publications law and regulat ions to the body of our
Mason ic law, there seemed to be some questio n as to whethe r this
could
lawful ly be done. I ruled that in the presen t state of our law it could
not
~faster. should mak~ s~ciflc except ions. The power is

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

be done. It was my though t that if there were a discret ionary power
in
the Grand Maste r to permit it, that this too was a question for
Grand
Lodge to determine. So this too is for you to determine at this commu
nication of Grand Lodge. Person ally, I see no objection to such
an
amend ment.
Finally , leaving this particu lar subject, may I thank th~ chairma
.n
and the members of the Committee on Publications for carrym g on
this
difficult task. With the volume of correspondence, hearings, negotia
tions,
and researc h required, it would have been impossible for any
Grand
Maste r to have person ally admini stered the law.
CONCL USION

And so we come to the end of a perfect year. As Carrie Jacobs Bond
once so sweetl y sang, "to the end of a journe y too."
I think my year may be compa red with the year soon to be 6.nishe
d
by each one of you masters; with a year of remembrance by all
Pa~t
Grand Master s, and by all past master s everyw here. In a way doesn
t
that year resemble human life?
We start with high hopes and with great expectations; we do the
best we can: we don't do everyth ing we set out to do. But we do
our
best. Whate ver the record may be, I think each one of us may
justly
say to himself, "At least I tried."
St. Paul said it anothe r way when he came to the end of his day:
" ... the time of my depart ure is at hand. I have fought a good
fight,
I have 6.nished my course, I have kept the faith."
I shall never forget you. I have tried to be a kindly, friendl y Grand
Master . I hope I have succeeded.
I hope- I trust I will be so remembered: that you will see me so when
you think of me.
Think of me as I tried so hard to be,
As you would have wished me to do.
Our work was good for you and good for me,
And so I shall remember you.
Our journey was a precious thing and fair,
We wrought the very best we could.
We tried our work with level and with square,
In unity and brotherhood.

GRAND MASTER

44

PROCEEDINGS O'.P THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

APPEN DIX

tions, and laws of the particula r Grand Lodge, its by-laws and the
ancient charges. (Sec. 650, Edicts and Resolutio ns, Ross P. 273).
In our ancient charges of 1722 (Ross, P. 573) appears the following:
"Therefo re, no private piques or quarrels must be brought within the
door of the Lodge; far less any quarrels about religion, or nations, or
State policy, we being only as Masons, of the Catholic Religion above
mentione d; we are also of all nations, tongues, kindreds , and language s,
and are resolved against all politics, as what never yet conducte d to
the welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will."
So until Grand Lodge modifies or repeals it, we are forbidde n to
bring "within the door of the Lodge" quarrels about state policy, and
all politics.
In 1875 a report of the Jurisprud ence Committ ee was adopted by
Grand Lodge. The report was with reference to a circular letter expressing sympath y of Masons with the struggle f~r independen~~ of
the Cuban people. The following language appears m that report: · •
It is an inflexible rule of this Grand Lodge not to interfere or meddle
with political or religious matters, at home or abroad. Its members may
represen t all shades of political and religious opinion, but when they
are assemble d in subordin ate or Grand Lodge, they cannot so much as
discuss such opinions. Masonry has its own proper objects and purposes ,
and those must be consider ed by us to the absolute exclusion of all others,
and particula rly of such as would certainly arouse contentio n a~d confusion. Of religion we only desire to know that each one asking .a.dmission is a sincere believer in God and a future existence. Of politics
we only ask if the applican t is a good citizen."
I agree with you that it may well be said that this language i_s dictum. However , I am of the firm conviction that it is so rooted m. t.he
tradition s and law of this jurisdicti on as to be fundame ntal that politics
or discussio n of state question s in our Lodges are forbidde n, and that
political action by the Grand Lodge, or by subord~nat~ Lodg.es, or by
any officer of any such Lodges, in his official capacity, ts forbidden.
The ancient charges of 1722 are part of our written la.w. (Sec. 650,
p. 273, Ross). That law continue s in binding force until. repealed or
modified by Grand Lodge. (Sec. 656 Edicts and Resolutio ns, P. 280,
Ross).
At the conferen ce to which I have referred the argumen t was m~ d e
that Grand Lodge at its annual communication in 1920 too~ such. act10n
that our law was amended with respect to any matters which m~ght ~e
said to embody an attack upon the public school system of Caliform~:
and that. therefore , matters affecting the referend um measure here m
question do not come within the pr~hibitions ~hove set forth, at least
insofar as discussion of the measure m Lodges ts concerne d.
This argumen t comes to me with great appeal. not only beca~se of
the learning, ability, and sincerity of the brethren who presente d it, but

M. W. Chas. Albert Adams,
Past Grand Master of Masons in Californ ia,
San Francisc o, Californ ia
My Dear Bro. Adams:
Referenc e is made to a conferen ce with your good self and several
other Past Grand Masters of the Grand Lodge of Californ ia in San
Francisc o last May 23rd; also to the letter which you personal ly delivered to me at that time. It was my understa nding that you presente d
the matter of participa tion by Masons in Californ ia in the present campaign concerni ng the propositi on to exempt private schools from taxation to me as Grand Master for a formal ruling.
So I shall most cheerfull y put myself on record as fully and complete ly as I know how.
In 1951 the Californ ia legislatu re enacted legislatio n exemptin g private schools from taxation. Pursuan t to provisions in the Constitu tion
of the State of Californ ia that legislatio n was held up and referred to a
vote of the people, as to whether it shall or shall not take effect. So the
measure is now under consider ation by the people of this state, and will
be decided by them at the presiden tial election in Novemb er.
As the debate upon the proposed legislation has progress ed, serious
question s of Masonic law have been presente d to me.
Should the Masonic Order in Californ ia officially take a position
one way or the other and declare itself for or against the measure?
Should the Grand Master, or other officers of Grand Lodge officially
make a declarati on for or against the legislation? Should Masonic Lodges,
their Masters or other officers declare themselves for or against it?
Should Lodges, in commun ications on lodge letter heads, solicit funds
for campaig n purposes in connecti on with this legislatio n or present
argumen ts to their members for or against it? Should the measure be
discusse d in lodge meetings or at social affairs precedin g or following
such meetings?
So far during the campaig n many Masons, as individu als, have expressed themselves, contribu ted money for campaig n purposes , and
otherwis e endeavo red to present to the voters their views relative to
this legislation. I think I can confiden tly say that neither the Grand
Lodge nor the Grand Master ( in the recess between the annual communicati ons of Grand Lodge) may have anything to say relative to
such conduct. Masonry does not dictate to its members what any one
of them shall or shall not do or say in any political matter.
So we come to the question as to what we may do as Masons, not as
individu als; what our Lodges may do as Lodges; and what the Grand
Master may do as represen tative of the Grand Lodge.
The written law of Masonry consists of the Constitu tions, Regula-

45

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

because I feel that Grand Lodge in its wisdom may conclude that the
time has come to make exceptions to the old rule absolute ly forbidding
politics; that in modern times we should have a more modern Masonic
rule.
Therefor e I adopt the suggestio n of these brethren , and rule that
the referend um measure exemptin g private schools from taxation may
be discussed in meetings of tiled Lodges and at social meetings before
or after such meetings.
I do this because I think the time has come for Grand Lodge to re~
examine the whole question. I have been told that in some Lodges dis~
cussions of political measure s and even of political candidat es have
been had for years.
If I have gone too far, at its next annual communication Grand
Lodge can disappro ve the ruling. Or if Grand Lodge shall so determine,
the whole matter may be explored and other and different law enacted.
This ruling does not contemplate that discussil'.>ns may be had of
other measures which will appear upon the ballot, or of any candidat e
for political office.
Neither the Grand Master nor the Master of any Lodge shall, in
his official capacity , endorse or condemn this or any other measure on
the ballot. Nor may any Lodge adopt any resolution or take any other
action in favor of or against this or any other measure.
Nor shall any Mason circulate an official Masonic communication,
asking financial aid for or against this or any other measure, or seeking
political support for or against it. (Ordinan ces Sec. 126, p. 51 Ross).
Nor shall any Lodge roster be used for any other than a Masonic pur~
pose. (Sec. 732, Edicts and Resolutions, p. 339 Ross).
With sincere fraternal greetings. I am,
Very truly yours,
Lours C. DRAPEAU
Grand Master

IT IS ORDER ED that the foregoing ruling, together with the letter
from Past Grand Master Adams, be sent to all of the Grand Lodge
officers, Past Grand Masters, and Inspecto rs, and to the Masters of the
several subordin ate Lodges of this jurisdiction.
Dated this 29th day of May, 1952.
Lours

c. DRAPEAU

Grand Master
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

M. W. Louis C. Drapeau ,
Grand Master of Masons in California,

47
May 22, 1952

My Dear Grand Master:
I am taking the liberty of writing you with respect to what I under~
stand is your position with reference to the discussion of the proposed
tax exemption.
It is probably unnecess ary to remind you that (as Judge Lucien
Shaw once told me) a decision in a particula r case is controlling au~
thority in another only where the facts are the same-o r at least similar.
Now the facts in the matter with which we are now concerne d are so
radically different from those in both of the cases discussed in Sec. 815
and 816 of G. M. Ross' Digest that it seems to me those utterance s could
ibe entirely disregar ded-or in any event, distinguished, as they easily
can be.
The question of whether or not Grand Lodge should accede to a re~
quest to join with a Lodge in South America in using its influence to
induce the Spanish Governm ent to grant Cuba its independ ence is a
far cry from whether or not members of our Lodges should be permitted
to discuss proposed legislation materiall y affecting our public schools,
and encourag ed to do what they can as individuals in the arduous and
ominous campaign· to be waged: and the question of whether or not
membership in a particula r denomination, society, or sect is a valid
reason for denying advancem ent to an Entered Apprent ice is just about
as foreign.
Over a long period of years, I have given considerable thought to
what a Lodge should or should not do; and I am strongly of the opinion
that those reports of our Jurisprud ence Committee set forth in Sections
815 and 816 have not been as carefully considered as they should have
been.
In the first place it should be noted that in the Cuba matter what the
Jurisprud ence Committee really found objectionable was the request for
some action-s omethin g to be done by Grand Lodge. The phraseol ogy
concerning the inhibition against discussion was pure obiter dicta. This
is obtrusive ly apparen t from the language concluding the report.
"As individuals, doubtles s many of the members of this Grand Lodge
feel a deep interest in the success of the struggle for the independ ence
of Cuba, and would be very glad to do anything in their power to assist
in securing the establish ment and recognition of that independence; but
not one of them would be willing that Grand Lodge should in any way
interfere, or so much as entertain a proposition for interference. Your
Committ ee is of the opinion that the Grand Lodge should take no action
in the premises."

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In the other case it was the action taken in forbidding the advancement of the Entered Apprentice that the Grand Master and the Jurisprudence Committee found objectionable; and what was said about
''.discussion" was absolutely unnecessary to the decision, and was simply
lifted (almost the identical words) from the report made in 1875.
It is to be noted, too, that in that report it is said, "Masonry has its
own proper objects and purposes and these must be considered by us
to the absolute exclusion of all others, and particularly such as would
certainly arouse contention and confusion."
Here in these words is the crux of the matter. Both decisions of course
stem from the ancient charges with the tabu on "politicks." Now let us
look for a moment at the language of that inhibition. It is found in the
f,\ncien~ Charges approved in 1722, and in the paragraph concerning
Behavior After the Lodge is over and the brethren not gone." Here it is:
"We are resolved against all politicks as what never yet conduced
to the welfare of the Lodge nor ever will." But to understand and appreciate its real meaning, it should be read in connection with the words
immediately preceding that phrase. They furnish the reason; and you
know that when the reason fails, the rule fails: "Therefore, no private
piques or quarrels must be brought within the door of the Lodge, far
less any quarrels about religion, or nations, or State policy, we being
only as Masons of the Catholic Religion above men~ioned; we are also
of all nations, tongues, kindreds and languages.
In other words, the charge actuaily was against saying or doing
anything which might result in a quarrel among the members who would
have 'been "enjoying themselves, with innocent mirth, treating one another according to ability" and possibly "fired up" where they would
take offense at something which under different conditions would have
been unnoticed. For like reason they were also cautioned (in the same
paragraph) against "doing or saying anything offensive or that may
forbid an easy and free conversation; for that would blast our harmony
and defeat our laudable purpose"-or as was said by our Jurisprudence
Committee in 1875 "certainly arouse contention and confusion."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

in the observance, and forbids them from conferring degrees during that
week, that here in California, any movement carrying a threat to our
public schools may well be discussed in every Lodge in the Statenot only in the banquet room after the Lodge is closed-but within its
tiled doors as one of Masonry's "own proper objects and purposes"
referred to in the Cuba decision.
I have said nothing of the fact that Grand Lodge is also interested
as a tax payer, nor have I mentioned the message of the Grand Master
in 1920; and the report of the Committee to which it was referred. That
latter document would seem to make clear a distinction which would
seem to meet the situation. In short, the members should have an opportunity to become informed and advised of the situation and then permitted,-yes, encouraged-to proceed as individuals in the discharge
of a civic duty.
With my very kindest regards,
Sincerely and cordially yours,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
CAA:s
P. S. I am enclosing report of committee which was approved by the
Grand Lodge.

Report of Committee (1920)
Approved by Grand Lodge

Now is there any Mason who will hazard the opinion that the discussion of proposed legislation materiaily affecting our public schools
would "certainly arouse contention and confusion" or "blast the harmony
of the brethren of a Lodge"?

The Grand Master has sought to impress upon Masons throughout
the jurisdiction the importance of informing themselves, as individuals,
with reference to public affairs. He has urged them to a quicker interest
in the duties of citizenship. He has commended to them certain specific
subjects as especiaily deserving of their attention. The facilities of the
Institution have been employed to impart inspiration and enlightenment
to the individual, but with no intent that any individual should in tum
seek to commit the Institution to the formal support of persons or particular measures. The Grand Master has spoken in terms so clear and
explicit that misconception would appear to be weII nigh impossible:
and yet, the thought of some brethren has experienced confusion.

Masons everywhere, in every American jurisdiction profess their
great interest in, and their championship of. our public schools. Here
is an opportunity to make our practices square with our professions.
Whatever may be forbidden, or permitted elsewhere, it does seem to
me that here in California where Public Schools Week had its origin,
and where for more than thirty-two years it has been sponsored by
Grand Lodge which each year caIIs upon its constituent Lodges to join

(The Com. then makes references to a case of politics in the ordinary
acceptance of the term where there was a notice in a Lodge Builetin
headed "Masonic Judiciary" in which certain members of the Craft
were commended to the brethren for their suffrages ..••
. . . And to another case where a notice in a Lodge Bulletin called
attention to the fact that one of the candidates for the Judiciary was an
officer of the Lodge and asking members to "remember" him on election
day.)

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

June 6, 1952.
To Gran d Lodge Officers, Past Gran d Masters, Inspectors
and Masters.
Breth ren:
At the direction of the Gran d Mast er I am sending to you
herew ith,
in printe d form, copies of:
1. Lette r dated May 22nd, 1952, from Past Gran d
Maste r Chas.
Alber t Adam s addre ssed to the Grand Maste r, and
2. The reply of the Grand Maste r thereto.

Nove mber 6, 1951
To all Maso ns of this Jurisdiction:
The Grand Lodge at the Annu al Communication just
ended enact ed
a new law which reads as follows:
.
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge witho ut the expre
ss san~t~on of
G
d Lodge shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or prmt adver
tismg of
a:;nk ind in ~r for any medium or pu~licatio~, which
purpo rts to be
Maso nic in name or chara cter, or which IS published by
or for anrbo dy.
order or organ izatio n requir ing Maso nic affiliation
as a condition to
membership."
.
Since the violation of Maso nic law is a Maso nic off.ens
e which s~b­
jects the offender to the penalties of reprim and, suspen
s1.on or exp~ls1on, .
this notice is given you in order that -yo~ ~a~ ~e appris
ed of this new
legislation which is now the law of this 1ur1sd1ct10~.
.
.
It is enoug h to say that a Broth er will not know mgly violat
e Maso mc
law.
By order of Gran d Lodge.

SPECIA L INSTR UCTIO NS TO MASTE RS

The Grand Maste r reque sts that for your own inform ation
you carefully study all of the enclosed material, and that for the
inform ation of
all the members of your Lodge the following portio
n of the Grand Master's reply be read at two meetings, one of which
may be a Special
Meeti ng and one a State d Meeti ng:
GRAND MAST ER'S RULIN G

There fore, I adopt the sugge stion of these brethr en,
and rule that
the refere ndum measu re exem pting privat e schools from
taxati on may
be discussed in meetings of tiled Lodge s and at social
meeti ngs befor e
or after such meetings.
I do this because I think the time has come for Gran
d Lodg e to reexamine the whole question. I have been told that in
some Lodges discussions of political measures and even of political candi
dates have been
had for years .
If I have gone too far, at its next Annu al Communica
tion Gran d
Lodge can disap prove the ruling . Or, if Gran d Lodge
shall so determine,
the whole matte r may be explo red and other and differ
ent law enact ed.
This ruling does not conte mplat e that discussions may
be had of
other measu res which will appea r upon the ballot, or
of any candi date
for political office.
Neith er the Grand Mast er nor the Mast er of any Lodge
shall, in
his official capac ity, endor se or condemn this or any
other measu re on
the ballot. Nor may any Lodge adopt any resolution or
take other action
in favor of or again st this or any other measure.
Nor shall any Maso n circulate an official Maso nic comm
unication,
askin g flnancial aid for or again st this or any other measu
re, or seeking
political suppo rt for or again st it. (Ordi nance s Section
126, p. 51 Ross) .
Nor shall any Lodge roster be used for any other than
a Maso nic purpose. (Sec. 732, Edict s and Resolutions, p. 339 Ross)
.
It is the furthe r order of the Gran d Maste r that this
ruling be not
publis hed in any Lodge bulletin or otherw ise made public
.
There is no objec tion to the Mast er havin g as much
of these letters
read to the membership as he may desire, but it is mand
atory that the
ruling be read as set forth above.
By order of the Grand Maste r.
LLOYD E. WILS ON

Gran d Secretary

LLOYD

51

E. WILS ON

Gran d Secretary

Nove mber 30, 1951
To the Lodg es of this Jurisdiction;
and all other intere sted partie s:
At the 102nd Annu al Communication of the Gran d
Lodge, held in
San Franc isco, Octob er 8 to 12, 1951, the following
legislation was
adopt ed:
.
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, witho ut the expre ss
sancti on
of Gran d Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, pl~ce .or
prin~ adver tising of any kind in or for any medium or pubh.cab?n
, w~1ch purports to be Maso nic in name or chara cter, ~r which is
p~bhsh~d .by
or for any body. order or organ izatio n reqmr ing Maso
mc affiliation
as a condition to membership."
I now transm it to the following directive by the Grand
Maste r:
1. All solicitation, accep tance or publication of adver
tising in
Lodge publications (bulle tins ( etc.) shall cease.
.
.
2. No Lodge shall permit its trestle board to be publis
hed 1D any
publication other than its own Lodg e bulletin.
3. No adver tising in notices, progr ams, circu lars:
~oste~s,
dodge rs. napki ns, place cards , gifts, gadge ts and other
s1m1lar miscellaneous media shall be permitted.
4. The repor t of the Special Committee on Publication~
, submitted to me under date of Nove mber 21, 1951, is appro
ved m full,

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and it is directed that all applicants seeking the express sanction of
Grand Lodge, required under the new law, shall make the applica~
tion therein recommended and comply with all rules therein sug~
gested.

The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send greetings
to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.

5. Before any sanction is granted to any publication, it is di~
rected that all applications therefore shall be forwarded to the
Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, 25 Van
Ness Avenue, San Francisco 2, and shall be by him transmitted
to the Special Committee on Publications, which Committee shall
submit it to the Grand Master together with its recommendation
as to approval or disapproval.
This communication is to be read in Lodge at the Stated Meeting
next following its reception, and all parties will strictly observe its terms.
By order of the Grand Master.
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary
The Deputy Grand Master ref erred the message to the Committee
on Segregation, appointing the following members to serve thereon:
Earl B. Meyers, Lester S. McElwain, C. Earl Crane.

53

Messages of Congratulation*
Telegrams and messages of greetings were received from Past Grand
Masters Samuel E. Burke, James B. Gist, James T. Fraser and Leslie E.
Wood; C. A. Carlson, Jr., Past Grand Master of Nevada; Albert J.
Delange, Past Grand Master of Texas; and the International Order of
Jobs Daughters, State of California.

* Messages received at different times during the Communication
are all listed here for convenience of reference.

RESOLUTIONS
Resolutions received at different times during the Communication
are listed here for convenience of reference, the respective times of
presentation being as indicated.
The Grand Secretary read the following resolutions, all of which
were referred by the Grand Master of the Committees as noted:

RECOGNITION OF ITALY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California extend formal recog~
nition of the Grand Oriente Free and Accepted Masons of Italy of which
Brother Ugo Lenzi is the Grand Master, Brother Carlos Manelli is the
Grand Secretary, and the seat of which Grand Lodge is in the City of
Rome at No. 1 Via Giustiniani.
Restectfully submitted,
LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M.
Ref erred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

54

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

NORTHERN RESEARCH LODGE

TEHACHAPI TEMPLE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
By resolution adopted at the Stated Meeting of Research Lodge of
Northern California U.D. held on September 18, 1952, the Master and
Wardens thereof were authorized and directed to petition Grand Lodge
for a Charter for this Lodge; or its continuance in being otherwise,
under such conditions as may be provided.
We therefore present this communication as such petition with the
hope that it may be found proper to grant a Charter.
We respectfully request opportunity to present such information as
may be of assistance.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, the Temple, building, the furnishings and the equipment
therein, of Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 of Free and Accepted Masons,
located at Tehachapi, California, was destroyed by a violent earthquake
on the morning of July 21, 1952; and,

Respectfully submitted,
IRVING MAGNES, Master
ELBERT W. DAVIS, Senior Warden
HERBERT H. SCHULTZ, Junior Warden
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Charters.

SOUTHERN RESEARCH LODGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, the special dispensation under which Research Lodge of
Southern California currently operates will expire October 1, 1952; and
Whereas, the experience of Research Lodge of Southern California
in its brief history indicates that such an organization can serve well the
cause of Masonic education in this Grand Jurisdiction;
Therefore, be it resolved, that the members of Research Lodge of
Southern California respectfully request that a charter be granted to
said Lodge as soon as permanent legislation has been adopted authorizing Research Lodges in California; and
Be it further resolved, that to this end. the present Master and Wardens of this Lodge be empowered to make such representations before
the M. W. Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California as
may be necessary and proper.
Adopted unanimously by the members of Research Lodge of Southern California meeting in regular session in the Hollywood Masonic
Temple, Los Angeles, September 11, 1952.
Attest:
EDWARD H. RowINs, Secretary
RESEARCH LODGE OF So. CALIF.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Charters.

55

Whereas, the aforesaid Tehachapi Lodge is confronted with the
necessity of rebuilding and refurnishing its Temple and is financially
unable to do so; and,
. ·
Whereas, it is necessary to obtain the permission of this Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the State of California,
to allow Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California, to accept contributions from individual Masons and
Masonic Lodges of this jurisdiction for the purpose of helping to defray
the expenses of rebuilding and refurnishing the Temple of Tehachapi
Lodge; and,
Whereas, it is also necessary to obtain permission and authority from
the aforesaid duly assembled Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, for the
members of said Tehachapi Lodge to make gavels and other Masonic
ornaments from the timbers of said destroyed Temple building for the
purpose of selling the same to Masons and Masonic Lodges, in order
to raise funds to help defray the expenses of rebuilding and refurnishing said Temple; and
Whereas, it is felt that it is, or should be the duty of all Masons, as
a part of the tenets and principles of Masonry, to voluntarily assist
in such emergencies whenever possible,

Now, Therefore, be it Resolved, That Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 of
Free and Accepted Masons shall be permitted to accept contributions
from individual Masons and Masonic Lodges, and, also to make gavels
and other Masonic ornaments from the timbers of their destroyed
Temple, and to offer for sale and sell such articles to Masons and Masonic Lodges, and to apply the proceeds of the sale thereof and contributions received to defray costs of rebuilding and refurnishing the
Temple of Tehachapi Lodge, upon the adoption of this resolution.
Respectfully requested,
LAURENCE B. RuPPERS
Worshipful Master of Vermont Square
Lodge No. 515
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 127

ARTHUR P. STEWART, W.M., Poinsettia Lodge No. 633
ROBERT L. WILCOX, Master, Anacapa Lodge No. 710
MERWIN LEE, Master, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291
GEORGE W. HAUGHTON JR., Master, Oxnard Lodge No. 341
E. E. PERKINS, Master, Fillmore Lodge No. 379
JACK C. SLEATH, Master, Guadalupe No. 237
ROBERT W. CHILSON, Master, Lompoc No. 262
WILLARD L. EBERHARD, Master, Santa Ynez Valley No. 701
}ACK P. FRASER, Master, Hesperian Lodge No. 264
OTTO JOHN NEHF, Master, San Miguel No. 285
RAYMOND P. FARRINGTON, Master, Atascadero No. 493
F. K. MILHAM, Master, San Simeon No. 196
E. A. HUDSON, Master, Paso Robles No. 286
DAVID W. GLEASON, Master, King David's No. 209
SAMUEL BoRRADORI, Master, Estero U.D.
RICHARD H. STAINER, W.M., Bakersfield Lodge No. 224
JAMES L. KNUDSON, W.M., Caledonia Lodge No. 486
MORRIS R. WATSON, W.M., Libertas Lodge No. 466
RALPH EIKEMA, W.M., Oildale Lodge No. 688
GEO. M. BENNETT, W.M., Tehachapi Lodge No. 313
ORLOFF D. KIRBY, W.M., Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691
Loms C. TEDROW, W.M .. Security Lodge No. 581
A. DEWEY SPRAYBERRY, W.M., Meudell Lodge No. 695
THOMAS S. Moss, W.M., Wasco Lodge No. 583
WILLIAM J. HURLEY, W.M., Delano Lodge No. 309
JosEPH G. BARNES, W.M., Temblor Lodge No. 477
ROBERT A. SMITH, W.M., Midway Lodge No. 426
HAROLD D. CAWELTI, W.M .. Maricopa Lodge No. 434
ROLANDE. BuRBECK, W.M., Taft Lodge No. 516
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes and on P~blications.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, for many years prior to 1951 Section 127 of the ordinances
read as follows :
"A Lodge shall not sponsor, or by resolution or otherwise sanction, or permit the use of the name of the Lodge in connection with,
or for the purpose of furthering any collateral financial undertaking,
or commercial venture, whether for profit or not, which shall not
have been approved by the Grand Master, nor shall any member of
any Lodge be permitted to do so except in his individual capacity,
and without the use of the name of the Lodge," and
Whereas, in 1951, Section 127 was amended by adding the following
paragraph:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction
of Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by
or for any body, order or organization requiring affiliation as a condition to membership", and
Whereas, for over fifteen years prior to the 1951 Amendment of this
section, District and Area Publications have come into being and with
implied approval under this section, have rendered, in the opinion of
the Lodges and their members in the districts and areas served, a much
needed and worthwhile service without in any manner being detrimental
to the good name of Masonry in their area of circulation, and
Whereas, publication of Lodge Name and number, lists of Officers,
schedules of meetings and pertinent and lawful news items, a complete
Trestleboard, is the means through which these publications, in our
opinion, have been able to render a worthwhile Masonic service, and
Now Therefore be it Resolved, that Section 127 be further amended
by adding thereto a third paragraph, as follows:
"A Lodge or member of a Lodge, may insert its Trestleboard,
Notices of Meetings, News items or Advertising in a publication approved by Grand Lodge. or, by the Grand Master during the recess
of Grand Lodge, pay a reasonable sum for mailing and for that purpose mailing lists of Lodges may be used.
Respectfully submitted,

L. W. PINGREE, Master, La Cumbre No. 642
CHAS. B. WEAVER, Master, Magnolia No. 242

I. S. AUSTIN, Master, Santa Barbara No. 192
CHARLES CHUNN, Master, Carpinteria No. 444
M.ARTHUR WAITE, W.M., Ojai Lodge No. 663
WILLIAM L. MACOMBER, W.M., San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214

57

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 127
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved: That Section 127 of Ordinances as amended be amended
by adding at the end the following:
Provided, however, that under regulations prescribed by the Grand
Master, Master Masons may solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising in such publications issued officially by any body, order or
organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership.
ALDEN J. FULKERSON, Past Master
San Diego Lodge No. 35
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and
General Purposes.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

METHOD OF VOTING

MILEAGE FOR LODGE MAUI 472

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, it is required that proposed amendments to the constitution
or ordinances and business of all kinds be ref erred to a committee or
committees, which committees must report back to the Grand Lodge before any action is taken, and
Whereas, the vote of the Grand Lodge is frequently taken on the
committee report rather than on the amendment or business as originally
presented, and
Whereas, confusion frequently arises where it becomes necessary to
vote in the negative on a report to express approval on an issue, and
Whereas, this confusion can be eliminated merely by providing that
the vote shall always be on the amendment or business as originally
presented.
Now Therefore be it Resolved: that Section 26 of the Constitution
and Section 349 of the Ordinances be amended by adding to each Section the words: When the report of the committee, or committees, is
presented the vote shall be taken on the amendment.
Be it Further Resolved: that Section 69 of the Ordinances be amended
by adding thereto the words: When the report of the Committee, or
Committees, is presented the vote shall be taken upon the business as
originally presented.
Respectfully Submitted,
RALPH

c. HINE, P. M.

Magnolia Lodge No. 242
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.

AMENDME NT OF SECTION 290
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved: That Sec. 290 be amended by adding thereto the following:
"If the Junior Warden be the accused, or the information be against the
Junior Warden: the Master shall immediately ascertain if any of the information in the complaint be true: if so, the Master shall at once suspend the Junior Warden, appoint a Junior Warden in his stead, and
direct the new Junior Warden to prefer charges as per this section."
DAVIDE. BowRIN, Past Master,

Illinoistown No. 51
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.

59

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, Attending the annual communication of the Grand Lodge
F. & A. M. of California is an outstanding and never to be forgotten
event and experience in the life and work of a Master of a Lodge, and,
Whereas, A Master has not experienced all of the rewards of his
Masonic work until he has taken part as a member of the Grand Lodge,
and,
Whereas, During the years 1942, 1943, 1944 and 1945 war restrictions on travel from Hawaii to California and return prohibited Lodge
Maui No. 472, F. & A. M. sending their Master or Wardens or any
representative to the annual communications of Grand Lodge, and,
Whereas, Lodge Maui No. 472 F. & A. M. elected a member residing
in San Francisco as their 1943 representative and had no representative
in 1942, 1944 and 1945, and,
Whereas, The Grand Lodge of California, for the years 1942, 1943,
1944 and 1945 was saved the expenses of representatives from Lodge
Maui No. 472, F. & A. M .. and,
Whereas, Lodge Maui sincerely feels that their Wardens during the
years 1942, 1943, 1944 and 1945 were deprived of their just due and
great privilege of attending the annual communications of Grand Lodge
through no fault of their own, and,
Whereas, Lodge Maui No. 472 feels that by sending these now Past
Masters as their regular representatives at this or any other communication, they would be depriving their present Wardens of this great
privilege, and,
Whereas, Lodge Maui No. 472, F. & A. M. believes that these
worthy Masons are entitled to the privilege of attending an annual
communication of Grand Lodge, with the usual expenses paid by the
Grand Lodge.
Therefore, be is resolved by this Lodge, regularly convened at its
574th Stated Meeting, held this 10th day of September, 1952, that,
The Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California be, and is hereby
petitioned to authorize the paying of the usual travel expenses, by
said Grand Lodge, of Norman E. Weight, P.M .. Howard K. Scott,
P.M .. and Herbert S. Peterson, P.M. to attend a communication of
said Grand Lodge. These Past Masters being those deprived of that
great privilege during the years 1943, 1944 and 1945; Eugene P.
Jijine, P.M., year 1942, having been since appointed lnsp~cto~ of
382nd Masonic District and in attendance at the commumcation s
since 1949, be excluded from this petition, and,
Be it Further Resolved: That the Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California be requested to grant this authorization for any year each of the

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Past Master s named herein can conveni ently attend an annual com~
municat ion of said Grand Lodge.
Resolve d this 10th day of
Septem ber 1952, at the Hall
of Lodge Maui No. 472, F. & A. M.,
Kahului, Maui, Hawaii.
Attest:
N. E. WEIGHT, P. M .. No. 472
HENRY M. ANDERSON, Master, No. 472
ttees
Commi
to
Ref erred
on Policy and Genera l Purpose s and on
Finance .

MINIM UM DUES
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
. Whe~eas. W ~ the ~asters of the 558th Masoni c District , having
given serious cons1deratlon to the steady increase in the cost of operatin g
expense s of all Lodges, while revenue remains the same, and,
. Wherea s, Many attempt s to increase dues in Lodges have met with
failure, due to the fact that a vote to increase dues having brough t out
a record att~ndance of members who seldom attend Lodge, and appear
to care nothmg about the problem of increasi ng costs of operatio n ' the
Resolut ion was defeate d, and,
:Vherea s, Many members who attend for the purpose of voting
agamst the resoluti on to increase dues, change their votes in favor of
the propose d increase after facts are present ed to them.
.Now, Therefore, We the Master s of the 558th Masoni c District
believe tha~ the minimum dues in our Lodges should be increase d. W~
that thisb Grand Lodge can help the constitu ent Lodg es
believe
further
.
t .
mee mcreasm~ costs y its approva l of increasi ng revenue , and we
offer the followmg resoluti on:
Resolved: That the minimum dues in constitu ent Lodges of this
Grand Lodge be increase d to $15.00 per annum, and that the uniform
code of_By~Laws be amende d in accorda nce with this propose d increase.
Be it Further Resolved: That this resoluti on be turned over to the
prop.er ~ommittee or committees. with instruct ion to report at this com~
mumcat1on of Grand Lodge. and that, if adopted , the new minimum beA
come effective on January 1, 1953.
Respect fully submitt ed,
ADOLPH 0. ALTENBURGER, Master. Palestin e Lodge No. 351
CLAUD R. HoLT, Master. Euclid Lodge No. 519
}ACK L. ALLEN, Master, Ascot Lodge No. 538
BEND. BARRETT, Valley Forge Lodge No. 587
. Referre d to Commi ttees on Policy and Genera l Purpose s and on
Finance .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

REPEA L OF SECTI ON 501
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge of California:
RESOL VED: THAT SECTI ON 501 OF ROSS DIGES T BE
REPEA LED.
This section appears to erroneo usly hold that a Master may omit a
portion of the usual ceremo ny of opening and closing a Lodge and should
be repealed for the following reasons :
( 1 ) This Section is predica ted upon the report of a special com~
mittee of Grand Lodge which examin ed the record book of Tuolum ne
Lodge No. 8. Among a number of serious charges leveled against the
Master of the Lodge, Charles M. Radcliff who was Grand Master in
1853) was the charge that said Master on Jan. 20. 1861 " ......................... .
declare d his Lodge duly open and in order for busines s by the authori ty
in him vested. waiving all ceremo ny ................... .''. Said committee in the
narrativ e part of its report, but not as a part of the specific charges , nor
of the resolution, commen ted "A Master may. if he choose, omit a portion
of the usual ceremo ny of opening or closing a Lodge. but your com~
mittee is not acquain ted with the regulati on which authoriz es an entire
waiver of all these ceremonies." The subject before the committee was
"waivin g all ceremon ies" not waiving a portion of the ceremonies. The
commen t of the committee on waiving a part was, therefor e, surplusa ge.
or as the lawyers would call it, "pure dictum" .
In 1861 Grand Lodge was operatin g under the constitu tion, regula~
tions, by~laws and standin g resoluti ons of 1858, none of which contain ed
any authori ty to waive any portion of the opening and closing ceremonies. Certain ly there was no definition of what portion of said cere~
mony might be waived by the Master. If this were the law. and it definitely was not, each Master could determi ne the portion which he would
waive and indeed might waive the whole portion except "I declare the
Lodge open or closed.' ' This. of course. connote s the ability of the Mas~
ter to actually waive all such ceremonies. which would be repugna nt to
all Masoni c practice s at that, and previous, time. The constitu tion was
amende d by Grand Lodge in 1861, the actual year in which the foregoing report was made. Neither this constitu tion nor the previous one of
1858 made any provisio n for Grand Lecturer, Ritual Commit tee or in~
structio n in the work.
( 2) Since 1861 many changes have been made in our constitu tion
and regulati ons with respect to ritualistic matters and our current laws
respecti ng the ritual. which, of course. include s the opening and closing
ceremonies, are as follows:
a. "It shall be the duty of the Grand Lecture r: .................... to require
conform ity with the adopted ritual and work." ( 50 Ross Digest
1st.)

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

b. "It shall be the duty of each Assistant Grand Lecturer ................. .
to perform such other services as may be deemed necessary to insure proper instruction to the officers and strict compliance with
the adopted work." ( 51 Ross Digest.)
c. "The Grand Lecturer and the six Assistant Grand Lecturers shall
constitute the Ritual Committee and the Committee as so composed from time to time shall be the custodian of the Esoteric
work." ( 52 Ross Digest.)
d. "The Grand Lodge alone has power to authorize any changes in
the ritual for the purpose of having it remain as it was handed
down from time immemorial." ( 248 Ross Digest.)
Our Ritual Committee for decades has held, and it now holds, that
no part of the Esoteric work in the opening and closing ceremonies of our
Lodges can ever he waived by the Master or any other person.

DEDICATION OF PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, It has come to the attention of this Lodge that request has
been made that the Grand Lodge dedicate the new Public School building in this city, and,
Whereas, There is at this time no regular form or ritual of dedication
of Public School buildings by the Grand Lodge, and,
Whereas, This service is performed in other Grand Jurisdictions, and,
Whereas, The Masons of California have fostered and led the Annual Observance of Public Schools Week for over three decades,
Now, Therefore be it Resolved: That a committee be appointed to
author a Service of Dedication of Public Schools Buildings by the Grand
Lodge of California, that we as Masons might further the advance of
interest in the Public Schools when requested to perform this service
for any of the Public School Boards of California.

Respectfully submitted,

Attest:

RALPH K. PIERSON
Past Master of Anchor Lodge No. 273

Secretary

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Ritual.

MANDATORY ~ROFICIENCY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, Frequently, newly raised brethren are loathe to visit
Lodges other than their own through fear of inability to pass a satisfactory examination and as sojourners in other jurisdictions they are often
lost to Masonry, and,
Whereas, We now require proficiency in the lecture of the Entered
Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees before advancement, and,
Whereas, A brother's knowledge of Masonry is usually limited to
that which he is taught,

Therefore, be it Resolved: That before a receipt for dues may be
issued a candidate, he must have given satisfactory evidence, by strict
examination in open Lodge, that he is entirely proficient and well qualified in the candidates lecture of the Degree of Master Mason.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT L. WILCOX

Master, Anacapa Lodge No. 710
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Ritual.

63

DWIGHT E. WooD

By Special Resolution of Benicia
Lodge No. 5, F. & A. M., at their
Stated Meeting of October 1, 1952.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

MILEAGE FOR SECRETARIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I most respectfully present the following Resolution for your consideration:
Whereas, It is my most sincere judgement that the Secretaries of
Lodges of less than 200 membership should be in attendance at our Annual Communications, and,
Whereas, The majority of these Lodges are not financially able to
send their Secretaries, and,
Whereas, It is just as important and necessary for the Secretaries
of said smaller Lodges to receive first hand those valuable instructions
from our Grand Secretary as larger membership Lodges, thereby enabling them to more efficiently handle their duties, and,
Whereas, The Masters of Lodges are only in authority for one year,
and,
Whereas, The Secretaries, almost without exception, carry on year
after year giving their best to uphold the dignity of their office, to the
aid of the ever changing Masters and the welfare of their respective
Lodges, and,

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Whereas, By referring to Schedule A herewith attached, showing
the name and number of the Lodge, there is only 210 Lodges in this
Grand Jurisdiction of less than 200 membership as shown in Grand
Lodge report of 1951, and,
Whereas, As shown by Schedule B herewith attached only the sum
of $4,865.67 was paid as mileage to the attending Masters or Wardens
of these said 210 Lodges, and,
Whereas, As this represents the approximate additional amount
required of Grand Lodge to cover the mileage of Secretaries of said 21 O
Lodges of less than 200 membership, and,
Whereas, This amount would fluctuate according to Lodges meeting
this 200 quota in the year and also by the inability of Secretaries attendance owing to circumstances beyond their control:
Be it Therefore Resolved: That the Grand Lodge of California,
knowing the great benefit to small Lodges of this Grand Jurisdiction, by
having them get First Hand instructions from their Grand Secretary at
the Annual Communication, do hereby grant the same mileage to Secretaries, as is allowed to Masters and Wardens, of Lodges of less than 200
membership.
Fraternally submitted,
PERCY E. JOHNSON

P. M. & Secretary, Santa Maria Lodge
No. 580, F. & A. M., Ramona, California
Ref erred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

SIGN OF DISTRESS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Because we feel that Masonic Officers and Brothers under the California Grand Jurisdiction, as a whole, are lax or uninformed as to the
correct way of giving the Masonic Sign of Distress, and because of this
fact might not recognize the sign if a Brother in need should give it,
certainly not if the Brother gave it incorrectly. And since we feel that
this particular sign is one of our most important signs, that it might mean
life or Death for a Brother Master Mason, we resolve - That the
Masonic Sign of Distress and the words of Distress be included as a
part of the Third Degree Proficiency Examination.
ROBERT LEE HARPER

Senior \Varden
Crossroads Lodge No. 696
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Ritual.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

ENDOWMENT FUND FOR LODGE ASSISTANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Be it resolved, that in recognition of the fact that every building used
strictly for Masonic purposes and labeled as a "Masonic Lodge Hall" is
an advertisement and a visible manifestation of Masonry and of Masons
generally, and that in all cases such buildings are hist.orical .mon~ments
to pioneer Masons and/or of the Masonic movement m. Cah~orm~, and
further, that because of limited membership and/or financial distress
there is at times a need for outside financial assistance, it is the will of
this Grand Lodge that there be and hereby is established an EndowmentTrust Fund for the repair, maintenance, and/ or rehabilitation (but not
expansion) of buildings used for Masonic Lodge purposes in the State
of California.
Be it further resolved, that this fund shall be established by the levying of the sum of One Dollar ( $1.00) on each petition for th~ d~gr~e~ of
Masonry and for Affiliation when transferring from another Jurisd1c~1on,
from this date forward, together with such other funds donated to 1t or
otherwise set aside for it from such other sources as may appear in future.
Further, that only the interest derived from the investment of this
fund may be expended except that forty per cent ( 40% J of the principal
sum may be loaned to constituent Lodges to be repaid on a deferred
basis with interest where such loans are warranted and repayment can
be assured.
Further, that interest-earnings may be given as an outright grant or
may be loaned with interest as the needs and circumstances may warrant.
Further, that the principal sum of sixty per cent ( 60%) set asid~ for
investment purposes only, be invested by the same investment committee
of the Grand Lodge which handles other investment funds of the Grand
Lodge and that the interest rate charged the constituent Lodges be the
current rate of interest charged by banks for real estate loan.
Further, that it is the intent of this resolution, and at all times shall be
the intent, that a measure of relief be provided for such Lodges as upon
a proper showing may require such relief, that their bur~ens ~ay ?e
eased rather than increased, that the fraternity may share m their misfortune and "join in promoting each other's welfare" which is the true
and real objective of Masonry.
Further, that any constituent Lodge in need of financial assistance
for the purposes as set forth herein shall make application upon a suitable
form, to be provided, and
Be it finally resolved, that said application shall be forw~rded to t?e
Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Finance for final processing ~nd disposition under their rules of procedure and who shall have authority over

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the funds established by this resolution and their dispersal, accounting
for the same at each next annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.

teachings by administering relief to distressed Master Masons, their
widows and orphans. and maintain and support Masonic Homes for
both aged Masons and orphans of Masons; and.

0. J. WOHLGEMUTH, Jr. Warden, Alamo No. 122
W. RALPH ADERSON, P. M. Pittsburg No. 429
JoHN H. DEMARTINI, P. M .. Alamo No. 122
EDWIN R. BROOKS, P. M .• Alpha No. 431
PETER E. McELHENEY, P. M .. Sierra Valley 184
REX WALLACE, P. M .• Sierra Valley 184
M. OsTINI, P. M .. Sierra Valley 184
GEO W. LESLIS, P. M .• Sierra Valley 184
CLARENCE V. BATEMAN, P. M .. Sierra Valley 184
Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
Lodge Financing.

HYAM PORTRAIT
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, this is the 1OOth Anniversary of P.G.M. Benjamin D.
Hyam's year as Grand Master and,
Whereas, there is no portrait of Hyam on display with the others in
the Grand Lodge Temple,
Now, therefore be it resolved: that the Grand Lodge of California
commission an artist to paint a likeness of Hyam from the photograph
that is now in the hands of the Grand Lodge.
Attest:
DWIGHT E. Woon, Secretary
Benicia Lodge No. 5, F. &. A. M.
By Special Resolution of Benicia Lodge
No. 5, F. & A. M .. at their Stated Meeting
of July 2, 1951-A. L. 5952.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

TAX EXEMPTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, Freemasonry is founded upon doctrines and teachings of
brotherhood, morality. temperance, tolerance, justice, education, good
citizenship, loyalty to civil government. and freedom of ideas and expression, and requires of the individual Mason a dependency on and
belief in God; and,
Whereas, Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California
and its subordinate lodges, practice the aforementioned doctrines and

67

Whereas. Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California,
and its subordinate lodges was ruled, on November 18, 1940 and on
July 17, 1944. by Commissioner of Internal Revenue to be ex em pt from
income tax under Section 101, Subsection ( 3} of the Internal Revenue
Code; and,
Whereas, under provisions of Section 23, Subsection ( o) ( 5).
contributions. by an individual, during the taxable year, to or for the
use of a domestic fraternal society, order or association operating under
the lodge system, are deductible from income (subject to the present 20%
limitation) but only if such contributions or gifts are to be used exclusively for religious. charitable, scientific, literary or education] purposes,
or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals; and,
Whereas, no specific ruling has been requested or obtained by Grand
Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California and its subordinate
lodges, from Commissioner of Internal Revenue, that contributions made
to such domestic fraternal order are deductible by individuals from
income for the reason that the proceeds therefrom are used exclusively
to further the religious, charitable and educational purposes of such
order and for the prevention of cruelty to children;
Whereas, subordinate lodges are authorized to organize corporations under Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 1 of the Corporations Code of
the State of California for the primary purpose of acquiring real and
personal. property to erect, construct, equip and maintain Masonic
Temples for their uses, which corporations, upon proper application to
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, may be exempted from Federal
Income Taxes under provisions of Section 101, Subsection ( 14) of the
Internal Revenue Code; and,
Whereas, it appears that contributions to Grand Lodge, Free and
Accepted Masons of California or to any of its subordinate lodges, or
to any wholly owned and controlled building association thereof, do
come within the purview of Section 23, Subsection ( o} ( 5) of the
Internal Revenue Code, namely, the such contributions are used exclusively in the furtherance of Masonry in its efforts to promote religion,
charity, education and prevention of cruelty to children (see attached
Exhibit "A", containing references to Ross' Digest of Constitutions,
Ordinances, and Edicts and Resolutions); and,

Now therefore be it resolved: That Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted
Masons of California, take steps at its 103rd annual communication, to
be held October 13, 1952 to October 17, 1952, inclusive, to make full
and complete representation of the true and worthy nature of the purposes and activities of the Order of the Commissioner of Internal Reve-

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

nue, to the end that rulings be obtained that contributions to Grand
Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of California, and its subordinate
lodges, or to their wholly owned and controlled corporations, owning
and operating, or proposing to own and operate, Masonic Temples for
use of such Grand Lodge or subordinate lodges, are deductible from
income under Section 23, subsection ( o) ( 5) of the Internal Revenue
Code.

EDICTS AND RESOLUTIONS
Burial-Sections 434 - 442, and 605
Funds and Property of Lodges-Sections 591, 593, 597 - 599, 605, 609,
612 - 614, 617 and 637
Funeral Services-Sections 640 - 649
Masonic Homes-Sections 713 - 721 (a)
Relief-Sections 888 - 915
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was, upon motion duly
made and seconded, unanimously adopted by Ionic Lodge No. 520, Free
and Accepted Masons of California at its Stated Meeting, Monday,
September 8, 1952.
CLAUDE LENZ, P. M. and Secretary
Ionic Lodge N~. 520, F. & A. M.
EXHIBIT "A"

References to Sections of Constitution, Ordinances,
and Edicts and Resolutions in Ross' Digest,
Pertinent to Subject Matter of Resolution Adopted
by Ionic Lodge No. 520, Free and Accepted Masons of California,
at its Stated Meeting, Monday, September 8, 1952
Article III
Article VIII
Article IX

CONSTITUTION
Sections 6 and 7
Powers of The Grand Lodge
Section 21
Revenue of The Grand Lodge
Sections 22, 23, 24
Constituent Lodges

ORDINANCES-PART I-RELATIVE TO GRAND LODGE
Article III
Section 70
Standing Committees:
On Jurisprudence; on Policy
and General Purposes
Article IV
Sections 79 - 82
Trustees of Masonic Homes
Article V
Sections 83 - 90
Masonic Homes Endowment
Board
Article VI
Sections 91 - 96
Board of Control-Boards of
Relief and Employment
Bureaus
Article VII
Sections 97 - 100 (a)
Sources of Revenue (see, in
particular, Sections 100 and
100 [a])
ORDINANCES-PART II-RELATIVE TO CONSTITUENT LODGES
Article II
Sections 151 - 161
Funds and Property of Lodges
Article VI
Se_ctions 251 - 260
Dues to Members
Article VII
Sections 261 - 266
Relief

69

PLURAL MEMBERSIIlP
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas our ordinances encourage dual membership in different
Grand Jurisdictions but forbid membership in more than one Lodge in
this Jurisdiction, and
Whereas the distinction is not generally understood and clarification
is needed, and
Whereas no good reason appears why multiple membership cannot
be authorized under proper conditions either within or without this jurisdiction, substantially in the manner permitted by other Grand Lodges,
Now, therefore,
Be it resolved that Section 163 of the Ordinances be amended to read
as follows:
Multiple Membership. Sec. 163.
This Grand Lodge recognizes and authorizes membership in more
than one Lodge under the following conditions:
1. A member of a Lodge of this jurisdiction residing in the jurisdiction of another Grand Lodge which allows dual membership may affiliate
with a Lodge in that jurisdiction while retaining his membership in this
jurisdiction. He becomes a dual member.
2. A member of a Lodge of any other Grand Jurisdiction which
allows dual membership may, if residing in this jurisdiction, affiliate with
a Lodge under this Grand Lodge while retaining his membership in such
other jurisdiction. He becomes a dual member.
3. A member, in good standing, of a Lodge in this jurisdiction may
retain such membership and affiliate with any one or more other Lodges
under this Grand Lodge or join in the petition for a Dispensation for a
new Lodge and may present a paid up dues receipt in lieu of a demit or
demand for demit. Such a member becomes a plural member.
4. Upon the election of a plural member or the formation of a new
Lodge containing one or more plural members, the Secretary shall
immediately notify the Grand Secretary and also every other Lodge in
which the plural member holds membership.
S. A plural member shall pay all dues required by each Lodge

71

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

wherein membership is held and shall have all the rights and privileges
of membership in each of the Lodges except that he shall not be Master,
Warden or Secretary of more than one of such Lodges at the same time
and except that the burden of the relief of a plural member, his wife,
widow and orphans shall rest on the Lodges in which he holds membership in proportion to the length of membership in each.
6. Suspension for non-payment of dues or otherwise, or expulsion
of a plural member shall immediately, and of itself, terminate his membership in all Lodges in this jurisdiction and the Secretary of the Lodge
suspending or expelling such a member shall immediately notify the
Grand Secretary and also every other Lodge in which the plural member
holds membership. Like notice shall be given in case of reinstatement
and shall immediately and automatically restore him to membership in
each other Lodge.
7. Failure to sign the By-Laws within 30 days after election to
membership in another Lodge shall void such election and terminate
membership therein.
8. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent a plural
member from receiving a demit if otherwise entitled to the same.
9. The Grand Secretary shall keep a record of all brothers holding
plural membership and shall provide forms to cover this Section.

any stated period, nor in advance, except as herein provided.
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and
General Purposes.

70

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN H. FERGUSON, P. M.,
Long Beach Lodge No. 327, F. & A. M.
ARTHUR J. SrssoNs, P. M.,
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674, F. & A. M.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REVISION OF SECTION 255
Proposed by the Grand Secretary
A Lodge may annually remit the accrued dues of those of its members
who are unable to pay them.
.A Lodge may remit in advance the dues of those of its members who
have been members in good standing in a Lodge or Lodges of this Jurisdiction for a period of 40 years or more.
A Lodge may remit in advance the dues of those of its members over
the age of 75 years who have rendered special service to the Lodge and
who merit such remission.
Remission of dues in advance as herein provided must be by special
resolution, applicable only to the particular member or members, whose
dues are to be remitted.
A Lodge shall not remit the dues of its members, or any of them, for

REVISION OF SECTION 99
Proposed by the Grand Secretary
Each Lodge, whether chartered or under dispensation, shall pay with
its Annual Returns, the following Contributions:
1st: For every Degree it shall have conferred during the year
a sum of $1.00.
2nd: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July 31,
the sum of 50c.
3rd: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July 31,
such Per Capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for its
general activities.
4th: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July 31,
such Per Capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for the
support of Masonic Homes in California.
The Grand Lodge may levy, in addition to the above, such other Per
Capita sums as, in its judgment, may be required.
The Per Capita sums levied under 2, 3 and 4 herein shall not apply
to any of the following:
1 ) Master Masons whose accrued dues for the preceding 12 months
have been remitted by Lodge action at the July Stated Meeting.
2) Master Masons whose dues have been remitted in advance because of 40 years membership in good standing in this jurisdiction as provided for in Section 255.
3) Master Masons whose dues have been remitted in advance because of special service rendered to the Lodge, who are over 75
years of age, and merit such remission as provided for in Section
255.
4) Master Masons whose dues have been remitted because of
residence in the Masonic Home at Decoto .
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and
General Purposes.

DISCUSSION OF PUBLIC QUESTIONS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas: One of the highest duties devolving upon a Mason is the
duty he owes the State as a citizen; and it becomes increasingly evident
that the preservation of the Republic depends upon an intelligent electorate, and,

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Whereas: One of the historic methods in America of developing
and imparting factual information is by discussion and the presentation
of all sides of public questions in groups, churches, forums and similar
organizations; and for a Mason there is no better place than his Masonic
lodge to obtain that honest information, enlightenment and inspiration
which will better enable him to discharge his duty as a citizen, and,
Whereas: Not only in this jurisdiction, but in others, the Ancient
Charges and Regulations have been differently construed and inter~
preted at different times, it seems proper that Grand Lodge should now
construe and interpret them as they relate to a citizen'e duty today.
Now, therefore be it resolved: That none of the Ancient Charges or
Regulations ( specifkally including the Charge approved in 1722 with
respect to "Behavior After the Lodge is Closed and the Brethren Not
Gone" )-and no edict or decision of any Grand Master or any edict
or regulation, or other action of Grand Lodge heretofore given, made,
taken or adopted-shall be so construed or interpreted as to prevent a
free, full and open discussion in Grand Lodge, or in any constituent
Lodge, of any question directly or indirectly affecting Masonry, or any
object, purpose or activity of the Grand Lodge of California, or the
discussion of any public question to be submitted to the people, and
upon which Masons, as citizens, in the discharge of their civic duties
will be required to express an opinion: PROVIDED, HOWEVER
That there is to be no discussion of sectarianism, as such, or of
partisan politics, or of any particular candidate for public office; and no
pending or proposed legislation is to be endorsed or disapproved by the
adoption of a resolution, or any other action by the lodge.
And, be it further resolved that this resolution be adopted and
recorded among the standing resolutions of this Grand Lodge.
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
Past Grand Master
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

ENDOWMENT CONTRIBUTIO NS FROM
SEASIDE LODGE 504
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, Seaside Lodge No. 504 had in hand at the stated
meeting of July 6, 1952, sufficient contributions to the Endowment Fund
to place the Lodge on the honor roll but through a misunderstanding
did not transmit to the Grand Secretary the amount collected until
August 6th, 1952, a few days after the deadline of July 31st, and thereby
failed to make the honor roll although entitled to that distinction.
Now, therefore, be it resolved: That Seaside Lodge No. 504 be listed

73

with other Lodges on the 1952 honor roll as printed in the Proceedings
of this Communication and be issued the usual honor roll certificate.
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that I am the Secretary of Seaside Lodge No. 504,
F. & A. M. and that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of a
resolution duly proposed, seconded and unanimously adopted at the
Stated Meeting of said Lodge held on October 7th, 1952.
Witness my hand and the seal of said Lodge this 8th day of October,
1952.
GEO. A. DIAMOND
Secretary
Referred to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board.

ADDITIONAL LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, The regular attendance of our membership at the various
lodges is important to the continued well being of Masonry; and
WHEREAS, The Junior Wardens of the San Diego area have studied
the attendance records of several lodges; and
WHEREAS, These studies do disclose that the smaller lodges enjoy a
larger attendance at both regular and special meetings in relation to
total membership than do the larger lodges; and
WHEREAS, The area studied has twice doubled in population in the
last two or three decades with the addition of a single new lodge; and
WHEREAS, The membership of this Grand Jurisdiction is rapidly in~
creasing both by new members and by members of other Jurisdictions
attracted to California;
Now Therefore be is Resolved, That it is the consensus of opinion
of The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of The State of California that there is a need for additional lodges in
many communities and that every proper encouragement should be
afforded to the formation of new lodges.
A. D. HINCK, J. W .. La Mesa No. 407
W. H. GREENWELL, J. W., Chula Vista No. 626
A. C. HARRIS, J. W .. Coronado No. 441
I. W. BARNTHOUSE, S. W., Chula Vista No. 626
P. C. MmDLESTED, S. W., Normal Heights No. 632
FRED G. FRANK, J. W., EI Cajon No. 576
KENNETH L. WYLIE, S. W., EI Cajon No. 576
F. S. FIEKER, P. M., Crossroads No. 696
ROBERT L. HARPER, S. W .. Crossroads No. 696

74

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MARTIN E. EITEL, J. W., Crossroads No. 696
KARL J. BAUMAN, S. W., Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
WM. L. KUYKENDALL, J. W., Blackmer No. 442
EDGAR L. HENDERSON, J. W., Normal Heights No. 632
GEORGE K. PALMER, M., Blackmer No. 442
OSCAR H. NELSON, S. W., Blackmer No. 442
EARL HOLMES, M., La Mesa No. 407
W. A. McBRIDE, S. W., La Mesa No. 407
HENRY LAROSE, J. W., South Gate No. 296
T. E. ANDERSON, J. W., South West No. 283
T. L. WALSTON, S. W., Coronado No. 441
HOMER SAMUEL, J. W., East San Diego No. 561
R. P. McCLAMMY, S. W., East San Diego No. 561
HARRY C. PAUL, P. M., East San Diego No. 561
WAYNE G. MULLIS, S. W., La Jolla No. 518
W. S. McLus, P. M., Normal Heights No. 632
R. E. WHITING, J. W., S. W. Hackett No. 574
A. A. PORTEOUS, M., John D. Spreckels No. 657
VERNON R. DUCKETT, S. W., John D. Spreckels No. 657
CHARLES PADGETT, S. W., Point Loma No. 620
IRVING W. LEE, P. M., Point Loma No. 620
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

AMENDME NT SECTION 53-9TH
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved, That Section 53, 9th of the Ordinances be amended by
adding the words AS HE MAY DEEM NECESSARY immediately
following the word LODGE in line one, and deleting everything follow~
the word LAWS in line three.
GEO H. OLMSTED, P. M., Tehama Lodge No. 3
ARTHUR J. KAHN, P. M., Paul Revere No. 462
M. R. BERBOWER, P. M., Seaside No. 504
ORVILLE L. COBURN, P. M., Bakersfield No. 224
T. B. COPELAND, Northern Light No. 190
DoN G. CAMPBELL, P. M., Granada No. 608
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

75

AMENDME NT SECTION 202
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved, That Section 202 of the Ordinances be amended by adding
the following:
1st (a) To present to the Lodge at each June and December Stated
meeting, a statement of income and expenditures, assets and liabilities
and to submit a copy thereof to the Inspector of the District to which the
Lodge is assigned.
GEO. H. OLMSTED, P. M., Tehama Lodge No. 3
ARTHUR J. KAHN, P. M., Paul Revere No. 462
M. R. BERBOWER, P. M., Seaside No. 504
ORVILLE L. COBURN, P.M., Bakersfield No. 224
T. B. COPELAND, P. M., No. 190
DoN S. CAMPBELL, P. M., Granada No. 608
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

LIMITING SECTION 127
Resolved: That Section 127 of Ordinances be amended by striking
therefrom the following language:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of
any kind in or for any medium or publication which purports to be
Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body,
order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to
membership."
Proposed by
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE, Past Master,
HENRY S. ORME LODGE No. 458.
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Publications.

INTERPRET ATION OF SECTION 127
Resolved: That it be and is the determination of Grand Lodge that

a Lodge does not engage in a commercial enterprise by placing adver~
tising matter in any bulletin issued by it, provided that the revenue
derived from such advertising matter shall not materially exceed the
cost of publishing and distributing such bulletin; that a Lodge may
lawfully agree with the publisher of any publication that all or any
portion thereof shall constitute the official bulletin and calendar of such

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

lodge, and that the same may be distributed to the membership of such
Lodge by such publisher, using the roster of said Lodge for that purpose,
but for no other purpose, and that such Lodge may lawfully pay to the
publisher an agreed price for such publication and the distribution
thereof; that the matter provided by the Lodge for publication in such
bulletin may include the list of its officers, a calendar of its meetings, and
official statements by its officers.
That it be and is the determination of Grand Lodge that the foregoing are not prohibited by the provisions of Sections 126 and 127 of
the Ordinances or by Section 732 of the Edicts and Resolutions.
Proposed by
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE, Past Master,
HENRY S. ORME LoDGE No. 458.
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Publications.

PROPOSED NEW SECTION ON PUBLICATIONS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved: That a new section be added to the Ordinances of Grand
Lodge reading as follows:
The owner or owners of any publication, (other than bulletins issued
and distributed by Lodges to their members). devoted to the interests
of the Fraternity, may obtain the sanction of Grand Lodge to publish
and distribute any such publication subject to the following conditions:
I . The owner or owners thereof shall be Master Masons and members in good standing of a Lodge in this jurisdiction.
2. The owner or owners thereof shall not be incorporated.
3. No advertising therein shall be solicited by telephone.
4. Any solicitor of advertising employed by the owner or owners
shall be a Mason in good standing in his Lodge.
5. Any such solicitors shall not be compensated for their services
upon a commission basis.
6. Any such solicitors shall not knowingly make any untrue statements or misrepresentation of facts in connection with their
solicitation of advertising in any such publication.
7. The owner or owners thereof shall be solely and entirely responsible for any untrue statements or misrepresentation of facts
knowingly made by solicitors of advertising employed by them.
8. Each issue of such publication shall contain the name, business
address. residence address and telephone number (if any) of
the owner or owners thereof.
9. No owner or owners shall represent or shall agree that any
portion of the advertising charges .. subscriptions or profits of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

77

such publication will be donated to any Masonic activity, or
activity of any group requiring Masonic membership as a condition of membership therein.
I 0. The distribution of any such publication shall be made through
United States mail. addressed to the individual for whom it is
intended, except that copies may be forwarded to Lodges upon
their request therefor.

11. All such publications shall be published and distributed at the
same times and during the periods specified by them.
12. No advertising of a partisan political character, or in which
intoxicating liquor is featured, shall be printed in any such
publication.
The owner or owners of any such publication shall apply to the
Grand Secretary for a permit to publish and distribute such publication,
which application shall contain full information as to the title, periodicity
of issue, names and addresses of owners, publishers and editors and the
average number of copies circulated, together with a statement signed
by the owner or owners of such publication that he or they will comply
with the conditions hereinbefore set forth. Upon receipt of such application, the Grand Secretary shall forward to such owner or owners a
permit to publish and distribute such publication, subject to the conditions hereinbefore set forth.
Upon receipt of such a permit, the owner or owners shall print conspicuously in each issue of such publication the following statement:
"This publication is published and distributed pursuant to a
permit issued by the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California, and subject to certain conditions. Such
permit does not constitute this publication an official publication of
or for the Grand Lodge, and does not constitute an approval by the
Grand Lodge of any of the contents herein."
The violation of any of the conditions hereinbefore set forth or the
failure to print the foregoing statement in the manner herein provided
shall constitute ~ood cause for the revocation of said permit by the
Grand Master. The printing of said statement in any publication not
having a permit issued as above provided, or after such permit has been
revoked, shall constitute a Masonic offense, and the owner or owners
of such publication shall be proceeded against as provided in the Odinances of Grand Lodge.
Any lodge may publish any pertinent information it may desire in
any publication for which a permit has been issued as hereinbefore provided, and may pay for the same. Any lodgl!s not issuing bulletins of
their own may arrange with any permitted publication issued monthly
to carry a bulletin of the Lodge in such publication and for such publi-

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

cation to be distributed to the members of the lodge, at the expense
of the lodge.
Proposed by
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE, Past Master,
HENRY S. ORME LODGE No. 458.
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Publications.

ASSISTANC E FOR TEHACHAP I LODGE NO. 313
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, It has been the policy of Grand Lodge when a Lodge has
suffered material damage to its Temple by some unforeseen catastrophe
to assist such Lodge by outright grant in the rebuilding of its Temple,
and,
WHEREAS, By the earthquake on July 21, 1952, Tehachapi Lodge No.
313, suffered the entire destruction of its Temple by earthquake, and,
WHEREAS, The Lodge has on hand approximately $9,000.00 which
it can use towards the building of a new Temple, and,
WHEREAS, Many of the membership of the Lodge have suffered
material damage in the same earthquake and, therefore, little, if any, help
can be expected from its members, and,
WHEREAS, If at this time an appropriation by Grand Lodge is not
made to assist Techachapi Lodge in the building of a new Temple, that
the Lodge will not be able to have a home until a further session of
Grand Lodge.

Now, Therefore, be it Resolved: That Grand Lodge appropriate such
sum as may be found necessary to assist in the rebuilding of the new
Temple for Tehachapi Lodge with the understanding that no part thereof shall be paid to Tehachapi Lodge until the Lodge Financing Committee shall have approved plans and specifications for the new building,
and also until the incoming Grand Master, together with the incoming
Grand Treasurer, and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, shall
have approved the payment to the Lodge of the sum appropriated.
Fraternally submitted,
GEO. W. BENNETT, Master
EARLE. WHITNEY, Senior Warden
L. T. JENKINS, P. M.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

ASSISTANC E FOR MARICOPA LODGE NO. 434
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
WHEREAS, It has been the policy of Grand Lodge when a Lodge has
suffered material damage to its Temple by some unforeseen catastrophe
to assist such Lodge by outright grant in the rebuilding of its Temple,
and,
WHEREAS, By the earthquake of July 21. 1952, Maricopa Lodge No.
434, suffered the entire destruction of its Temple by earthquake, and,
WHEREAS, The Lodge has on hand approximately $8,000.00 which
it can use towards the building of a new Temple, and,
WHEREAS, Many of the membership of the Lodge have suffered
material damage in the same earthquake and, therefore, little, if any,
help can be expected from its members, and,
WHEREAS, If at this time any appropriation by Grand Lodge is not
made to assist Maricopa Lodge in the building of a new Temple, that
the Lodge will not be able to have a home until a further session of
Grand Lodge.

Now, Therefore, be it Resolved: That Grand Lodge appropriate such
sum as may be found necessary to assist in the rebuilding of the new
Temple for Maricopa Lodge with the understanding that no part thereof shall be paid to Maricopa Lodge until the Lodge Financing Committee shall have approved plans and specifications for the new building,
and also until the incoming Grand Master, together with the incoming
Grand Treasurer, and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, shall
have approved the payment to the Lodge of the sum appropriated.
Fraternally submitted,
HAROLD CAWELTI, Master
Maricopa No. 434
BERTRAM J. SNEDDEN, Sr. Warden,
Maricopa No. 434
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on
Finance.
See report of Grievance Committee for resolution introduced and
carried to express appreciation for the services rendered by Frank B.
Belcher.
At 12:43 Grand Lodge was called off until 2:00 p. m.

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 13, 1952

that it is a repetition of the admonition in the Grand Treasurer's Report
for the preceding fiscal year. It is believed that the Auditor's reports, by
reason of improvements therein made from time to time, may be analyzed
and reconciled without difficulty. As representatives of your lodges you
must be alert to your responsibilities. Your officers are presumed to perform their duties and our reports are submitted in the firm belief that they
have discharged their duties faithfully. However, we lay no claim to
infallibility. In the process of making investments, the members of the
Investment Committee meet with the authorized representative or representatives of Moody's the investment counsellors. Decisions are based
upon the recommendations made by the experts. These are thoroughly
analyzed and discussed, during which there is free expression of members of the Committee, and the Committee also has the benefit of the
opinions of those who have had investment experience. A somewhat
detailed report of the Investment Committee is submitted as an appendix
to this report.

At 2: 00 P .M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

The following visiting Grand Masters were received by the Grand
Master and were accorded Grand Honors:
M.".W.".Seymoure C. Pierce, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
M.'.W.'.Jared W. Summerhays, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
M.".W.".George G. Hoole, Grand Master of Masons in Montana.
M.".W.'.Lemuel W. Sims, Grand Master of Masons in Washington.
The following distinguished guests were received by the Grand
Master and were accorded the Public Grand Honors:
M.".W.".Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Oregon.
M.".W.".Asa H. Hankerson, P.G.M., Washington.
M.".W.".Theodore N. Engdahl, P.G.M., South Dakota.
M.".W.".Will Taylor, P.G.M., Philippine Islands.
W .".Alfred Lee, Philippine Islands, Past Grand Secretary, Grand
Lodge of China.
NOTE: Distinguished guests received at different times during the
Communication are listed above for convenience of reference.

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
For Fiscal Year Ending July 31, 1952
To the Brethren of Grand Lodge:
Again I emphasize that members of Grand Lodge should review the
several listings of securities which are set forth in the Auditor's reports
for the fiscal year last passed in Consolidated Statements of Assets
Owned or Under Control of Grand Lodge and Liabilities, and Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements from Funds
of or Controlled by Grand Lodge for the same period. There should be
two objectives,-to note, one-detail of receipts and disbursements and
cash items appearing in exhibits; increase in the Endowment Fund and
how accounted for; securities purchased and otherwise acquired and
securities redeemed, sold or otherwise disposed of; and the following,
pertinent to Masonic Homes, Balance Sheet, Statement of Revenue and
Expense and Direct and Detailed Operating Expenses of Decoto and
Covina; secondly, securities in the portfolio. The foregoing will indicate

81

We have entered upon our third year of investments under the
"Prudent Man" Rule. As of July 31st, the close of the fiscal year, the investment portfolio (excluding cash) amounted to $6,118,877.43. By
Ordinance, it is provided, in general terms, that at least 40% of funds
available for investment must be in cash; obligations of the United
States or those for which the faith and credit of the United States are
pledged; obligations for the State of California and its political subdivisions; and securities legal for California savings banks. The foregoing has been designated as "Group I" for convenience.
Up to 20% may be invested in certain preferred stocks and other
bonds, designated as "Group II".
Up to 40% may be invested in certain common stocks and shares
of investment trusts, with definite limits, designated as "Group III".
Following is an exhibit of the status of the three groups, Income and
Yield:

GRAND LODGE F. 81: A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
COMBINED PORTFOLIO-JULY 31, 1952
Summary
Per Cent
Annual
Amount
of Total
Income

Group I
cash
$ 406,ooo.oo•
U.S. Government.. 3,500,627.34
Railroad Equipment 299,981.06
Public Utility -------·
15,522.25
Total Group 1......$4,222,130.65

Return

$ 5,860.00 ..
76,522.50
8,875.00
479.00
64.5%

$91,736.50

2.17%

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Group II
Bonds
Municipal ........... .
Railroad Eqpt. ..
Public Utility ... .
Real Estate ....... .
Preferred Stocks
Public Utility ... .
Industrial ............

4,912.50
103,237.96 (Note A)
1,410.00
4,500.00

215.91
3,257.50

194,905.62
166,292.75

6,931.32
7,364.00

Total Group II..$ 475,258.83
Group III
Common Stocks
Public Utility .... 506,037.25
Industrial ............ 1,016.615.95
Finance............. ... 242,161.75
Real Estate ........
62,673.00
Total Group III..$1,827,487.95
GRAND TOTAL ......$6,524,877.43
•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7.3%

ities have been put into effect-in keeping with the policy to be constantly alert that securities and cash which should be in possession of
the Custodian are actually in possession.

250.00

$18,019.73

83

3.79%

I acknowledge with appreciation the faithful. meritorious and efficient service of Paul Pflueger with respect to Grand Lodge investments.
Again it is gratifying to express appreciation to the cooperation between
the office of the Grand Secretary and the Grand Treasurer, and the
diligent attention of our Auditor, Walter Parker, to auditing services.
Appended herewith is a report of the Investment Committee.
Respectfully submitted,

28.2%

28,396.22
55,289.20
11,019.10
3,908.75
$98,613.27

5.35%

100.0%

$208,369.50

3.19%

FRANCIS

v. KEESLING

Grand Treasurer

$113,000.00 Cash on hand
293,000.00 In Savings Accts.
$406,000.00

•• SavingsAccount s funds at 2%
Note A: Not including 50M C.R. I. & Pac. Eq.
.. and 50M L. & N. Eq. purchased but not paid for nor delivered until August.

The change in Group I from 92.4% to 64.5% has been brought
about by reinvestment in Group II and Group III securities. Group II
has increased from 1.7% to 7.3% and Group III from 5.9% to 28.2%.
That the maximum has not been reached in Group II and Group III is
due to investment policy owing to uncertainties exhibited by recent
market fluctuations. It might be described as defensive and includes
uninterrupted history of earnings and dividends and definite growth and
market probabilities.
Valuations at current market, July 31st, were $6,118,877.43. The
total cost of securities in portfolio, including book values of securities
received by gift, bequest and otherwise than by purchase, was $5,937,984.90, showing an increase in market value over cost of approximately
$181,000.00, (you know that stocks can also go down) which is referred
to merely as related to income. Income has increased from approximately
$120,000.00, November 30, 1950, to an amount as of July 31, 1952, in
excess of $200,000.00, or percentagewise from 1.97%. 11/30/50 to
3.19%, 7/31/52, including savings bank interest on $293,000.00 at 2%.
In the conference between the Grand Treasurer and the Auditor,
definite reS.nements of the current audit of sales and purchases of secur-

APPENDIX
INVESTME NT COMMITTE E
The Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer, the Assistant
Grand Treasurer, the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, the President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees or a Trustee of that board
designated by him, the Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board or a member of that board designated by him. Brother Past Master
Ralph H. Head was designated by the President of the Masonic Homes
Board as his representative, and Brother Past Master Charles E. Moore
was designated by the Chairman of the Endowment Board as his representative.
The tri-monthly meetings of the Committee were held on August 24,
1951, attended by a majority of the Committee and representativ~s of
Moody's Investors Service, at which meeting the Most Worshipful
Arthur Paulsen, Grand Master, was present; November 15, 1951, at
which meeting in addition to the regular representatives of Moody's
Investors Service, Charles C. Behrens, Vice President, was in attendance; February 14, 1952, at which meeting Charles M. Wollenberg,
President, Masonic Homes Board of Trustees, Brother Past Master
Byron Coleman, designated by the Chairman of the Endowment Bo~rd
to represent him in the absence of Brother Moore, absent from the city;
May 22, 1952, which meeting was also attended by Charles M. Wollenberg, President, Masonic Homes Board_ of Trus~ees; and August 14,
1952 at which meeting the Most Worshipful Loms C. Drapeau, Grand
Mas~er and Brother Past Master Leonard Gross, Vice President Masonic Homes Trustees, were in attendance. The practice of the Com-

UNITE D STATE S SAVIN GS BONDS
Detail of Maturi ty Series E-F-G
July 31, 19.52
Note: Maturi ty values shown in dollars
Illa

I

.,

Q

llN
Q

., 1111

a-.tw. ,.
Memo~

Q

-a--·-··--·-- ---·

.,

llM

.,.

Q

1157

1111
Q

Q

-........... ............

-··-·- -···· ············ .........~- -·····
ll.OOI 1,000 · - -·-·- --· IG.100 .........._ 1,800
S.000 ··-·--····· ........
labolanhl p l'lmcl........_______ -···-· -··-····· ·-·· ---···- ····Fllnt Jlualtr.-·-··---·-····-·· ······- ··-········ -·1.000 ...... -·········
42,000 ••·•···•
Plbat Truat Fuel......________ -··-· -···-·- 1.000 ...... 10.000
115,875 •···•··•
5,000
_____
l'lmd..______
•t
•dowme
30,500 --·· 17,200 ·••·•• 85,000 130.000 -···~ Fuel..........___ -··--·· ....... __ -........
1.000 ····- ·-····-·-

40,000 -··-

...... .,..cl________________________ --·- -······
'l'O!'AU. -·-·-········- ··-··-··· S,000

17.200 ··-- 110.IDO 217.171 1.800

lNl
Q

7'500 2.200
100,000 100,000 --··- 100.000 ......

•80,000

•·········•·

100.000

10.100
13,500

42,800
11.300

··-······- ··-····

ln.eoo 215.IOO

TOTALS

Q

I

.,

--··-·-· ..... _ ···········•

Q

170.000
211.SOO
---···
.....
1.000
···-- 52.100 41.800
43.100
····--·- ---- 141.s75
100,000 5.000 130,0DO l.Sl2.7DO
18.200
M.000

---- ·-·-

_ ·-····-·-- ---··- --·--·--- ------- -- - .........
--···- -- --·--· ·-··· -··---..-- --··-····

..- --·-· 18.200 ss.ooo -·-·-- ···-··-·- -··-··-- --··
-·---·
······ --···· ·-·- ........__ --··°'OHO ---· --·······- ..,...______ ·-...

41.SOO - -

1•
p

Q

10.000
IS.SOD

- - -- -·····- ...... -····-·

........ Fuel.__ _____ -

·-

30,000 -·103,500 ··-

............ ---·-·

-···--

,

-·- --- ---·-- -····-·· ----·
--- -·-·- 11.1111 --- ·-·- -

1. . . .
10.000 ......
l....
·-···-····
1.ou.- 100.000 s.ooo 111..n1 UIUll
lo.soo uoo ua.aoo _

-·--····-

·---· -··--

UNITE D STATES TREASURIES BY MATU RITIE S AND
SAVIN GS BONDS
July 31, 1952

Note: Maturi ty values shown in dollars
IM4

70-ll

72-87

IG-71

A-1185

1'11%

l\f2%

11/J'IG.

~"'

IVJ%

Wadlel9h F11nd ---···-- ------· -······-

...... Pucl ·····-···-··-····----······-···········-··-········
TOl'IU.I

I

F

-···

l.000

- ··

5,000

10,500

·-······-·
4,GOO
12.000

185,000

..... u.

ll0,000

722,000

............
10,000

10.000

............

171,000

14.SOO

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

1.000

11.000

115.000

G

Si&

17UOI
231,500
5,000
43.800
43,800

-232,500
20,500
15,700
189.175
1,711,700

1~%

llUGG

Cra.d Lod9e -·--··--· ·-·----·- ··-··············Nmonlc Home• -·--···-·- ·--···-···· ····--··-·· ··
lc:Jaolanh ip Fund ··-·--·--·-- ·-····-··-·- ··-···-·······
Fllat Amlultr -----····-- ····-··-···- -·-·-······· ·····
l"llat Trut ---··-- ·---·-· ··-·--· ·-·111.dowment Fund ---·~·--·----······•·­
Lackenbac h Fund - ·-··-·---·· ··-·····-··· ·-·-··-

l155

178.000

52,100
141,375
130,000
16,200

-·-

- .........

·-·-·-

............

1,512.700
36,000
10.000
10.000

1.000

lal,171

un.eoo

S.000

$2,200

20.000
20.000

....,,,,.

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mittee thus far has been to assemble at noon for lunch and conference
after approximately a half hour general conversation. The sessions have
occupied approximately two and a half hours additional.
In addition to routine recommendations and decisions, Mr. Langan
reported with respect to use of Moody's Service by lodges that forty had
requested Moody's services and that in response to Moody's inquiry,
twenty.-one had submitted portfolios for analysis and that Moody's had
replied with fifteen complete initial reports, the remaining six being in
the process of completion.
Since that time the number of lodges making inquiry has increased
to seventy-two, the number presenting portfolios for analysis to fiftyeight, the num'ber of original reports and analyses prepared to fl.ftyeight, and also number of lodges reporting to Moody's on action taken
were twenty-five, number of reviews subsequenf to initial reports
amounted to forty-two and the total dollar value of portfolios reviewed
·w as $2,105,900.00 approximately.
The mem•bers of the Investment Committee are well pleased with the
services of Moody's represented by Mr. Richard T. Langan, Pacific
Coast Manager, who has been faithful in attendance at meetings and
most cooperative at other times.
By FRANCIS V. KEESUNG

Grand Treasurer
Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Eleventh Annual
Report as your Grand Secretary.
WAYPARER LODGE

u. D.

Wayfarer Lodge U. D., located at Whittier, was instituted on July
1. 1952. only 30 days before the close of the fl.seal year. ~his Lodge did
not collect any dues during the year, and, at my suggestion, the Grand
Master directed that they be not required to pay the per capita tax. It
is respectfully requested that this 'be approved.

No: 659
In making a remittance to Grand Lodge La Habra Lo~ge No. 659
sent in $150.00 on a Masonic Homes Endowment Fund remittance form,
and the amount was credited to that Fund. T~is ~mount s~o~l~ .have
been for the Masonic Homes, representing contributions on six initiates.
The Grand Secretary requests authority to transfer $150.00 from the
Endowment Fund to the Masonic Homes of California to meet the
deficit in the payment due the Homes.
LA HABRA LoDGE

PHOTOSTATIC COPIES OF CHARTERS

We again call the attention of the Lodges to the wisdom of having
the Lodge charter photostated. There are still a great many which have
not availed 'themselves of this service, and we urge these Lodges to
protect.their charters by this method.
CENTENNIAL Boox

The volume commemorating the Centennial Celebration, authorized
by Grand Lodge, has been completed and a copy sent to each Lodge
and to others entitled to receive a copy of it.
MICROFILMING OF RECORDS

As authorized at the last Communication of Grand Lodge, microfilm
equipment was purchased. All· vital membership anq ftnanci~l records,
both of Grand Lodge and of the Masonic Homes, have been microfilmed,
indexed, placed in a steel cabinet and sto.red in the vault specially made
.
for the purpose in the Columbia Masonic Temple. .
Other valuable records will be stored there from time to time.
UNFINISHED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Revision of ceremonies for short form Opening.

88

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

2. Disposition of proceeds of Estate of Andrew W. Morton, de..
ceased.
3. Special Committee on Ceremonies re installation of Grand Lodge
Officers.
·
4. Report of Investment Committee re constituent Lodges.
5. Recognition of Grand Lodge of Italy.
6. Special committee to study trial procedures.
FIDELITY BoNDS

The Grand Secretary recommends that a blanket Fidelity Bond be
secured covering Officers of Grand Lodge, constituent Lodges, Masonic
Homes, Boards of Relief, Employment Bureaus and Masonic Club..
houses. with a provision for minimum coverage of $5.000.00 and maximum coverage as may be determined, the total premium therefor to be
paid by Grand Lodge. The detail of this proposal is covered in a special
report prepared by the Grand Secretary.
It is recommended that Section 666 be amended to properly provide
for the new program.
COMPENSATION INSURANCE

Every Lodge which has a payroll is required :by state law to have
workmen's compensation insurance. Recent rate changes have added
additional burdens to every policy holder. At the request of the Grand
Secretary a plan has been developed to cover all Lodges with compensation insurance, and, if carried by Grand Lodge, a very favorable rate can
be obtained. It is recommended that this coverage be provided for and
that Grand Lodge carry the expense thereof for the Lodges. The detail
of this proposal is covered in a special report prepared by the Grand
Secretary.
It is recommended that legislation similar to Section 666 be prepared
to authorize such a program.
SALARY OF loDGE ORGANIST

Many Lodges employ an organist and pay a salary for the services
performed. The Uniform Code of By-Laws, as now written, make no
provision for the payment of such a salary and Section 620 is adverse.
This appears to be a necessary expenditure for which there should be
positive authorization.
Ross DIGEST
The sixth edition, 1949, Ross Digest, is exhausted. Authorization is
requested to bring it up to date and print a seventh edition.
MEMBERSHIP

In presenting the membership totals I have made a comparison by
decades beginning with 1912. In the succeeding forty years we have

89

grown from 352 Lodges to 614, and the membership has increased from
48,315 to 207,832.
During the year just closed there were 301 more members initiated
than in the previous years. but there were 198 fewer raised. The net
gain was 5,332 contrasted with 5,700 in 1951.

1912
1922
1932
1942
1952
New Lodges Formed............
11
26
2
8,348
2,699
4,072
Initiated ......................... ............ ...... 3,266
9.252
8,510 3,018
3,697
8,961
Passed ........................ ..................... . 3,156
Raised .................................... 3,063
8,771
3,570
3,220
8,711
Affiliated ................................ 1,023
1,586
1,042
806
1.929
Gained by Error....................
76
10
6
210 .
91
284
Reinstated ...... .......... .......................
544
358
Withdrawn ..........................
1,481
923
862
1.171
1.497
Suspended for NonPayment of Dues ..............
474
467
3,173
1.341
832
Suspended or Expelled
for cause ............................
25
11
25
37
34
Loss by Error........................
10
136
11
609
1,901
2,235
I.OH
3,298
Died --········-·········----··············
Number of Members ............ 48,315 93,179 140,636 126,313 207,832
Dues Remitted ......................
2,562
639
3,566
1,786
Loss
.......... ----- --. --- --.........................
471
7,998
5,332
Gain ....... .......................................... 2,479
. 352
Number of Lodges............
581
613
H5
580
Statistics do n~t include Research Lodges.

-----

NEW LODGES

The following new Lodges have been formed during the year:
Belmont Shore Lodge U.D., located at Seal Beach. Dispensation
granted December 3, 1951 , The Lodge was instituted on January 7, 1952,
at Long Beach, Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, Grand Master,
oftlciating.
The charter membership is as follows: Francis Hudson Gentry, James
Davidson Herdman, Maurice Audrey Plumlee, Richard James Plummer,
John Lafayette Bury, Sr .. Nat Frank, William Harvey Andrews, George
Purvis Pross, Jr., Charles Howard Lewis. Harry Grattan Van Denburgh. Ernest August Hartman. Thomas Arthur Smith, Wilfred James
Garner, William Anthony McCarty, James Edward Derbyshire, Harvey Jay Rothschild, Morris Weiner, Allan Lloyd Arnegard, Ralph
Kensley Whyte, Benjamin Charles Lewis, Elmer Holmes Smith. Charles
M. DeTilla. Leverne Healey Raynesford, Chalmer Adolph Sonntag,
Milton Henry Silverberg, Warren Earl Higgins, Clyde Everett Thomp..
son, Harvey William Trueman, William Tunnell Dalessi, Marcel Fernand Lourtie, Walter Nash Gates, Charles William Wade, John David

90

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Walters, Duckett Champeny, Harold King Allen, Albert Altie King
Fra~k ~hilip McDonald, Fred McKamy, Arley James Walton, Robert
Leshe Ringler, George Arthur Driver, Ralph Lawrence Bostwick, George
Marcellus Catchpole, Jay Clifton Webster, John Lafayette Bury, Jr., and
Roy Wilbur Hanks.
Wayfarer Lodge U.D., located at Whittier. Dispensation granted
June 5, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on July 1, 1952, at Whittier,
Most Worshipful Louis ~· Drapeau, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Kenneth Barker, Eugene Raymond Conly, Norman Harley Holt, Harry Tsheppe, Floyd Vincent
Maltbie, Royal Thison Jumper, Robert Ernest Chambers, Joseph Ward
Faggard, Fran~
Sla~en. Russell Wilkinson Ball, Arthur Kingsbury
Lovatt, Jr., Wilham Fairfax Burrall, Ben Bradley Evans, Liles Leroy
Livingston. Hilmer Stigenstam, Henry Alfred Gustafson, Richard Dorrel~ ~illiams, Edwin Thomas Lam, Harry Cecil McNamara, George
Wilham Benson, Harry Donald Shaw, Raymond Frederick Klumpp,
Donald Ario Miller, William John Moore, Reese William Holder, Arvel
Clifford Box, Shirley Frederick Eyestone, Ernest Raymond Love, Burkhart Adolph Kleinhof~r. Raymond Chamberlin, Charles William Guy,
John Wesley Ellsworth, Wiliam Sidney James, Don L. Stevenson,
Arthur Frederick Eckel. Charles J. vonKampen, Daniel James Maclean, E. Richard Zielke, Richard Marks Lustig, Robert Howard Koontz,
Kenneth William Drury, Dale Paxton Moore, Kenneth Watkins Tharp,
Edwin Franklin Wilde, Henry John Johnson and David Bailey Acker, Jr.
Estero Lodge U.D., located at Cayucos. Dispensation. granted May
16, 195~. The Lodge was instituted on August 8, 1952, Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Anning Millard Alden, Paul
E~ward Andrew, Julius Victor Andrews, Wesley Eqward Alderman,
Virgil Frederick Ambrosia, Samuel Louis Borradori, Albert Leslie
Brewer, Lawrence David Boal. Earl Bryant, Raina Cass Burroughs,
Earle Bonnett Brown, Milton Morse Brown, Winfred Clair Brown,
George Ernest Canet, Roe Franklin Carter, Tillar Cavet, Jacob Howard
Davis, John Ernest Dunn, James Wendell Ellis, Ellis Fletcher Fry.
Harold Wilbur Gould, Jr.. William Howe Scott Farmer, Richard Oliver
Forsblad, Nelson Ray Graham, Howard Albert Hilton, Ralph Ch~rles
Horton, Donald Rothermal Judkins, George David Kelker, John Elvin
Marvin, Rod Joseph McDonald. Glen Bunting McFerren, Preston Gifford McKay, James Thomas Moore. Robert Neil Moorehead, Harry
Crossland Newbury, John Heaman Pearman, Charles Edward Peter,
Elmer Alfred Ricketts, Matthew William Rogallo, John Alvin Routzong, William Leslie Saxby, Winston Lavern Stafford, Oscar Carroll
Thomsen, Charles Jefferson Wagner, Benjamin Harrison Welch and
Ernest Franklin Wilson.

!'I·

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

91

San Lorenzo Valley Lodge U.D., located at Boulder Creek. Dispensation granted May 8, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on August 16,
1952, at Santa Cruz, Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Frank Gunther, Robert Hoyt
Ludlow. Ernest Leroy Smith, Llewellyn Weeks Blake. Jack Henry Diggins, Glenn Edward Coolidge, Carroll Speed Smith, Donald David
Spear, William Edward Frick, William Ewald Calmbach, John Jacob
Humbert, Harry Lawrence Worley, George Hazeleaf. Francis Peter
Will. Warren Henry Moulton, Lloyd Wesley Anderson, Charles Oscar
Barker, Lee Afred Joseph Norris, Levi Myron Braucht, William Wasarhaley. Charles Marcus LeValley, Edward Smith Hinmon, Charles
Thomas Gaynor, Alvin Herbert Lupton, John Elbert Carriger, Vincent
Dino Locatelli, John William Carriger, Ernest Henry Schoening, Carl
Daniel Stout. Carl Crist Holgard, George Loughemiller Cress, Ivan
Chester Buckner, Louie Ross Furlong. Walter Milton Bruce, Ashby
Steele, Monte Kirk, William Henry Tiffin. Merle Arthur Mead, Wayne
Woodring McGee, Arthur James Probert, Marfred Swenrg Hansen,
Alvin Amandus Brunhofer, Floyd Robert Eichelberger, Herbert Wray
Gregory. Alonzo Lewis Kennedy and Kenneth Raymond Gleason.
Home Lodge U.D .. located at North Hollywood. Dispensation granted August 7, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on August 23, 1952, at
North Hollywood. Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, Grand Master,
officiating. ·
The charter membership is as follows: Milton Heyman, Allyn Selwyn Abramson, Henry Howard Hartman, Seldon Baker, Nathan Jacoby. Sam Jacoby. Stephen Herzog. Harry Shapiro, Charles Karl
Bereny, David Kaufman, Joseph Samuel Schreiber, Herbert Thibault
Silverberg. Andrew Robert Bratter, Herbert Hyman, Harold Caro Kurson, Elliot Phillips, Joseph Kaufman, Emanuel Max Morri!I. Mendie
Saske. Abraham Feldman, Frank Gelfound, Phillip Ross, Benjamin
Green, Reuben Louis Kaufman. Robert LeRoy Scott, Albert Donath.
Hugh Leftkowitz, Albert R. Terr, Maurice Moses Grudd, Yale Rice,
Maxwell Joe Bristol. Herman Brotman, Frederick James Alexander.
Michael Horwitz, Maurice Lewis Friedman. Max Berman. Simmie
Wagner, Thurston von Ryndingsward, Michael Garner, Louis Dinsfriend, Samuel Crystal. Marius Thisted, William Henry Eyler, Morris
Friedman. Benjamin Weld. Marvin Bernard Shapiro, Edgar Levy, and
Julius Jacobson.
Mineral King Lodge U.D., located at Visalia. Dispensation granted
July 3, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on September 13, 1952, at Visalia, Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Lester James Baham, Berry
Wright Baley, James Charles Bell, John Henry Templeton, Kenneth

92

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

. George Cairns, Jack Christopher Christy, William Armstrong Collier,
Edward Ray Cox, Jr., Glen Dorah Crumal, Donald Frank Cramer, Arno
Louis Ehrgott, Brent Victor Ensign, Stephen Anderson Gerrard, Walter Charles Haight. Charles Lawrence Hamilton, Robert Emerson Haring, Cecil Eugene Hedrick, John Russell Hoehn, Hagop Budd Janigian,
Renold Arlene Johnston, Frank Harvey Jones, Bradford Irvin King,
Dean Gordon Lovenburg, J. Bernhard Luth, Arthur George Mackay,
Alvin Carlos Martin, Jack Richard Martin, Ellis McDonald, Robert
Wybern McKim, Henry Andrew Michels, Arthur Squires Oliver, Paul
Wesley Rich, Forrest Elmer Rich, Harold LeRoy Root, Anton Roger
Salsa, Clarence William Seeley, Forrest Harry Seely, Michael John
Serbu, Paul Raymond Sevier, Robert Meredith Speidel, Hugh Edmund
Staley, Clarence Theodore Swanson, LeRoy Robinson Talbott, James
Kilpatrick Turke, Harold Dale Wooten, Joseph Buster Wyatt, and
Merlin Derward Winter.
Research Lodge of Northern California U.D., located at San Francisco. Dispensation granted May 23, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on
May 26, 1952, at San Francisco, Right Worshipful Arthur M. Warren,
Deputy Grand Master, officiating.
The charter membership is as follows: Cyril Louis Weeks, Elbert
Willard Davis, George Dewey Gavin, Carl Uddo Zachrisson, David
Redick Lane, William Sylvester Armstrong, Clarence Allerger Severin,
John Henry Brooke, Ernest Appleton Allen, Paul Francis Balck, Joseph
Albert Pivernetz, Edward Wesley Long, Gene Cover Otwell, Charles
Herbert Adams, George Louis Jones, Henry Duncan Oliphant, Edward
Henry Siems, Jack California Butler, Donald James Mork, Laurence
Edward Dayton, Irving Magnes. Carl Radcliffe Moore, Alvin Arthur
Horwege, Paul Stewart Boren, Louis Harold Anderson, Byron Coleman, Arthur Melvin Warren, Arthur Horace Triggs, Mark Harry Nusbaum, Ralph Ernest Mott, Albert Charles Wollenberg. William Stanley
Davis, Irving Aaron Berliner, Andrew Burke, Henry Christian Clausen,
Donald Percy Hewlett, Raymond Keith Massingell, Frank Raymond
Killinger, Jr., Audrey Chambers Currie, Lloyd Earl Wilson, Earl Warren, Walter Arlie Henrichsen, Herbert Harris Schultz, Charles Arthur
Paulsen, Edwin Richard Brooks, Kenneth Harold McCutcheon, Frederick Rudolph DeBarrows, John Lowe Wixon, Arthur Saxe Crites, and
Leon Otto Whitsell.
Research Lodge of Southern California U.D., located at Los Angeles.
Dispensation granted May 23, 1952. The Lodge was instituted on May
26, 1952, at Los Angeles, Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, Grand
Master, officiating.
.
The charter membership is as follows: Claude Howard Morrison,
John Everett Houser, Samuel Steelman, Warren Edgar Libby, Edward
Holton Rowins, Leo Ellis Anderson, Ernest George Bashor, Daniel

93

Brower Erwin, Carl Elmer Gilbert, Leonard Gross, Harold Mills Harding, Frank Harwell, Jr., Ralph Crockett Hine, Henry Honaker, Dwayne
OSborn Larson, Theodoric Clay Linthicum, Leo Dotson Mathews, Ellsworth Meyer, Guy Boyd Mize, William Brayton Ogden, John Andrew
Owen, Ralph Kilpatrick Pierson, Gustaf Adolf Bernard Quick, Jay Don
Rinehart, Roy Lowey Sawyers, Robert Fletcher Shippee, Myron English Smith, Edgar Victor Stewart, Jr., and Fred Walker Waitman.
LIFE MEMBERSHIPS

The Grand Master approved resolutions providing for life memberships in the following Lodges:
Increasing fee: South Gate No. 320, to $350.00; San Pedro No. 332,
to $315.00: Fruitvale No. 336, to 335.00; Yerba Buena No. 403, to
$312.50: Charter Rock No. 410, to $500.00; Silver Trowel No. 415, to
$300.00:: Alexandria No. 531, to $312.50; Jonathan No. 545, to $325.00.
Fixing fee: Hartley No. 199, at $250.00.
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Tehama No.
3: Georgetown No. 25; El Dorado No. 26; Gold Hill No. 32: Sotoyome
No. 123: Hermann No. 127; Molino No. 150: Ferndale No. 193; Bakersfield No. 224: Surprise Valley No. 235: Loyalton No. 359: Huntington
Beach No. 380; Balder No. 393; Fairmount No. 435; Schofield No. 443:
East Bay No. 489; Benjamin Franklin No. 509: Mount Vernon No. 517:
Park Boulevard No. 568; Veritas No. 640: San Gorgonio No. 668:
Liberal Arts No. 677: St. Elmo No. 697: William D. Stevens No. 698:
Seafaring No. 708.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces without reference to a committee of investigation: Magnolia No.
242.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Elisal No. 321 (5): Redondo No. 328; Schofield No. 443; Signal No. 543: Livingston No. 658:
Carmel No. 680: Anacapa No. 71 O.
To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate
within twelve months: Meridian No. 667.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Snow
Mountain No. 271: Tehachapi No. 313: Maricopa No. 434: Diamond
No. 603: Menlo Park No. 651: Willow Glen No. 676.
Special permission for the conferring of a Third Degree: Mount
Shasta No. 281; Clovis No. 417: San Antonio No. 694; Ponderosa No.
700; Hunters Point Naval No. 706.

94

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
AMENDMENTS TO BY•LAWS

Increasing fees: Yount No. 12, to $125.00; Illinoistown No. 51, to
$60.00; Arcata No. 106 •.to $100.00; Alameda No. 167. to $75.00; An·
tioch No. 175, to $75.00; Mountain View No. 194, to $100.00; Eucalyp·
tus No. 243, to $99.00; Mosaic No. 218, to $75.00; Lompoc No. 262, to
$75.00; Fullerton No. 339, to $75.00; Gardena No. 372, to $105.00;
Yerba Buena No. 403, to $100.00; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $125.00;
Clovis No. 417, to $80.00; York No. 423, to $100.00: Lancaster No. 437, ·
to $75.00: Schofield No. 443, to $125.00; Torrance No. 447, to $110.00;
Van Nuys No. 450, to $125.00: Henry S. Orme No. 458, to $125.00;
Riverbank No. 459, to $75.00: Albert Pike No. 484, to $100.00; Euclid
No. 519, to $100.00; Bellflower No. 523, to $125.00: Azure No. 533, to
$75.00; Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $100.00; San Gabriel No. 546,
to $125.00: Arcadia No. 547, to $100.00: Hermosa No. 557, to $100.00:
Chateau Thierry No. 569. to $100.00: John Marshall No. 636, to $100.00;
Menlo Park No. 651. to $100.00; Fontana No. 653, to $75.00; Jordan
No. 654, to $100.00; Baldwin Park No. 660. to $65.00; Vista No. 687, to
$75.00.
Provision for fee for one or more Degrees: Alamo No. 122.
Increasing affiliation fee: Silver Trowel No. 415, to $10.00; Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $5.00: Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $10.00.
.
Fixing affiliation fee: Mountain View No. 194. at $5.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Lompoc No. 262°, to $1.00: Los Altos No.
712, to $5.00.
Increasing dues: Anchor No. 273, to $15.00; Madera No. 280, to
$15.00: Mount Jackson No. 295, to $18.00: South Gate No. 320, to
$15.00; Corona No. 324, to $15.00; Pacific Grove No. 331, to $15.00;
West Los Angeles No . .373, to $15.00: Parnassus No. 388, to $15.00;
Arlington No. 414, to $15.00; Acacia No. 438, to $18.00; Henry S.
Orme No. 458, to $15.00; Riverbank No. 459, to $15.00; Albert Pike
No. 484. to $15.00: Lebanon No. 495, to $18.00; Benjamin Franklin No.
509, to $15.00: Euclid No. 519, to $15.00; Sunrise No. 522, to $13.00:
Alexandria No. 531, to $15.00: Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $15.00: ·
North Hollywood No. 542, to $15.0b: Jonathan No. 545, to $15.00:
Park Boulevard No. 568, to $15.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $16.00:
Security No. 581, to $15.00; Angeles Mesa No. 625, to $15.00: Henry
Knox No. 662, to $15.00; Laguna Beach No. 672, to $15.00; Carmel No.
680, to $15.00; St. Elmo No. 697, to $15.00; Rim of the World No. 711,
to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Evening Star No. 186; Durant
No. 268: Bellflower No. 523.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Benjamin Franklin No. 509; Big
Bear No. 617.
Provision for legal holidays: Silver Gate No. 296; La Puente No.

95

446; Torrance No. 447: Azure No. 533; Francis K. Shattuck No. 571:
Poinsettia No. 633: Palisades No. 637; Laguna Beach No. 672.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Mountain Shade No. 18: San
Pedro No. 332; Silver Trowel No. 415; Belmont Shore U.D.: Wayfarer
U.D.; Estero U.D.; San Lorenzo Valley U.D.; Home U.D.: Mineral
King U.D.
.
Re Charity Committee: Sun Garden No. 530; Arcadia No. 547;
Menlo Park No. 651.
RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Claiborne No. 185; Callayomi
No. 282; Traver No. 294; Unity No. 368; Oceanside No. 381; Silver
Trowel No. 415; Euclid No. 519: Glendale No. 544: Glassell Park No.
605: Point Loma No. 620; Fontana No. 653: Malta No. 661: Meridian
No. 667.
TRIAL RECORDS

330-Petition for restoration. A member of San Pasqual Lodge
No. 452. Expelled September 4, 1922.
No. 680-Petition for restoration. A member of Sun Garden Lodge No.
530. Expelled February 2, 1931.
No. 840-Petition for restoration. A member of Long Beach Lodge No.
327. Expelled September 6, 1934.
No. 869-Petition for restoration. A member of Speranza Italiana
Lodge No. 219. Expelled November 7, 1935.
No. 918-Petition for restoration. A member of La Cumbre Lodge No.
642. Expelled April 5, 1937. .
No. 922-Petition for restoration. A member of Oak Grove Lodge
No. 215. Expelled September 1, 1937.
No. 1131-Petition for restoration. A member of Woodland Lodge No.
156. Expelled February 6, 1948.
No. 1203-(Retrial). A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Expelled October 2, 1951.
.
No. 1216--Petition for restoration. A member of Penrhyn Lodge No.
258. Expelled June 8, 1950.
No. 1227-A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Suspended
September 5, 1950. Restored by Lodge action August 5, 1952.
No. 1256--A member of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389. Acquitted September 4, 1952.
.
No. 1260-An Entered Apprentice of Liberty Lodge No. 299. Expelled
.
· September 7, 1951.
No. 1261-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted October
4. 1951. .
.
No. 1262-A Fellow Craft of Pajaro Lodge No. 110. Expelled October
. 4, 1951.
No.

97

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 1263-A member of Standard Lodge No. 440. Expelled September
.
8, 1951.
No. 1264-A member of Military Service Lodge No. 570. Expelled
November 2, 1951.
No. 1265-A Fellow Craft of Granada Lodge No. 608. Suspended November 7, 1951.
No. 1266-A member of Reading Lodge No. 254. Expelled December
5, 1951.
No. 1267-A member of Lexington Lodge No. 104. Expelled November
5, 1951.
No. 1268-A member of Alexandria Lodge No. 531. Expelled Decem•
ber 7, 1951.
No. 1269-A member of James Madison Lodge No. 572. Expelled December 6. 1951.
No. 1270-A member of Covenant Lodge No. 527. Reprimanded December 6, 1951.
No. 1271-A member of East Belt Lodge No. 391. Expelled January
4, 1952.
No. 1272-A member of Vallejo Lodge No. 487. Expelled January 2,
1952• .
No. 1273-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Acquitted December 4, 1951
·
No. 1274-A member of Porterville Lodge No. 303. Expelled January
.
10, 1952
No. 1275-A member of Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 .. Expelled February 6, 1952
No. 1276-A member of Perris Lodge No. 411. Expelled February 4,
1952.
.
No. 1277-A member of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212. Expelled
March 6, 1952.
No. 1278-A member of Amity Lodge No. 370. Expelled March 7, 1952.
No. 1279-A member of Antioch Lodge No. 175. Expelled March 7,
1952.
No. 1280-A member of Meridian Lodge No. 667. Reprimanded February 5, 1952
No. 1281-A Entered Apprentice of Burlingame Lodge No. 400. Suspended April l, 1952.
.
No. 1282-A member of Friendship Lodge No. 210. Expelled April 3,
1952.
No. 1283-A member of Sanger Lodge No. 316. Expelled April 1, 1952.
No. 1284..:_A member of Meridian Lodge No. 667. Acquitted November
28, 1951.

No. 1285-A member of a Lodge in Alabama. Expelled April 28, 1952.
No. 1286-A member of Seaside Lodge No. 504. Suspended May 6,
1952.
No. 1287-A member of Azusa Lodge No. 305. Acquitted February 14,
1952.
No. 1288-A member of Redwood City Lodge No. 168. Expelled May
l, 1952.
No. 1289-A member of Eureka Lodge No. 16. Expelled June 2, 1952.
No. 1290-A Fellow Craft of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Expelled
June 12, 1952.
.
No. 1291-A member of a Lodge in Colorado. Expelled January 7, 1952.
No. 1292-A member of a Lodge in Missouri. Acquitted June 4, 1952.
No. 1293-A member of Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579. Reprimanded February 7, 1952.
No. 1294-A member of Pasadena Lodge No. 272. Expelled July 7,
1952.
No. 1295-A member of Florence Lodge No. 649. Expelled July 3, 1952.
No. 1296-A member of Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415. Expelled August
6, 1952.
No. 1297-A member of Pohona Lodge No. 689. Expelled August 6,
1952.
.
No. 1298-A member of Alta Vista Lodge No. 464. Suspended July 3,
1952.
No. 1299-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled August
5, 1952.
No. 1300-A member of Henry Clay Lodge No. 95. Expelled July 10
1952.
•
No. 1301-A membel' of Oxnard Lodge No. 341. Suspended January
2, 1952.
No. 1302-A member of Visalia Lodge No. 128. Expelled August 14,
1952.
No. 1303-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247: Expelled September
12, 1952.
No. 1304-A member of Seal Rock No. 536. Expelled September 3,
1952.
No. 1305-A member of a Lodge in Michigan. Expelled September 18
1952.
.
•
No. 1306-A member of Lodge Maui No. 472. Expelled August 13,
1952.
No. 1307-A member of Tyrian Lodge No. 439. Expelled June 10, 1952.
No. 1308-A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Acquitted July 5, 1952.
No. 1309-A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319. Expelled September 2, 1952.

96

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FIFTY YEAR BUTIONS

NAM!! AND LODGE

NAME AND LODGE
Di'-TI! OF RAISING

Adamsen, David, Crockett Lodge No. 139............ ___:...- ...:..•-···--Auguat 20, 1902
Anderson, Chas. Alfred, Live Oak Lodge No. 61... ..................- .... 0ctober 28, 1901
Anderson, Chas. John, Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361...·-·····-·············December 14, 1895
Antrobus, Harry, Seaside Lodge No. 504..........·-·······-~·-·····-····July 6, 1900
Argall, William John, Sacramento Lodge No. 40...........................•December 17, 1901
.Baker, Gwyn Harvey, Bay View Lodge No. 401._··················-····December 10, 1901
Baldridge, Chas. Wilson, Consuelo Lodge No. 325.....·-·········-··,.September 18, 1899
Ballard, Thom Hill. Alturas Lodge No. 248:...............·- - - ········March 22, 1902
Bandy, George Lewis, Live Oak Lodge No. 61... .........................June 27, 1902
Baruh, Joseph Y.. West Gate Lodge No. 335..................................April 24, 1902
Beal. Eldon Marcus, Bakersfield Lodge No. 224..............................November 4, 1901
Beale, D. Grant, Los Gatos Lodge No. 292..............................:..... August 24, 1901
Belsley, Benjamin Wesley, Claremont Lodge No. 436.................. September 16, 1902
Benbrook, Charles Mallard, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202...·-········- ··August 19, 1902
Biehl, William Frederick, Bethlehem Lodge No. 453..................September 2, 1891
Bigelow, Frederick Maynard, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319_........-September 20, 1897
Blevins, Robert Edward, Tuscan Lodge No. 261............................ !\pril 4, 1902
Blevins, Wm. Joseph, Woodland Lodge No. 156............................ March 13, 1902
Block, Roy, Fidelity Lodge No. 120......·-··-······- ·····-·-···········-····-September 28, 1901
Bobbitt, James David, San Bernardino Lodge No. 348.................... March 26, 1902
Bone, Leon, Vista Lodge No. 687.........·-···················- ·············-······January 8, 1901
Booth, Franklin; Southern California Lodge No. 278.................... ~y 19, 1902
Bordwell, Fr~ Victor,_Oak Grove Lodge No. 215...................... uly 8, 1902
ember 16, 1901 .
Bowman, Reginald Hamilton, Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243,.............
Brandemann, Carlsten Otto, Crockett Lodge No. 139.................... November 5, 1902
Briggs, Willers Jacob, East Gate Lodge No. 290.- ......•.................. December 11, 1901
Bright, Joseph Shirley, Hillcrest Lodge No. 573.............................. September 29, 1902
Brill, Arthur Thaddeus, San Mateo Lodge No. 226....................- February 27, 1902
Brison, William W .. San Bernardino Lodge No. 348..................-March 6, 1902
Broughton, George Anthony, Oxnard Lodge No. 341..................April 21 , 1900
Brown, James Thomas, Rio Vista Lodge No. 208.... ·-······-·········--0ctober 2, 1901
Brown, Sylvester, Greenleaf Lodge No. 670....·-········-·······--··~Y 26, 1902
Brown, Willard Ed., Magnolia Lodge No. 242..............................April 3, 1902
Bryan, Mark H., Vista Lodge No. 687.............................................. September 23, 1890
Bullock, Frederick Wilson, Utopia Lodge No. 537........................ June 21, 1902 .
Burkhardt, Adolph, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42..............................June 27, 1902
Burris, Frank Marion, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57............................July 22, 1902
Campbell, Robert Vernon, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 ....................November 26, 1901
Cary, Harry Ellis, Rockridge Lodge No. 468......·-······················--April 23, 1902
Chisholm, Charles William, Van Nuys Lodge No. 450.................. November 3, 1898
Clapp. Ralph Bissel, Alhambra Lodge No. 322.......................·-·~-Augu:st 4, 1900
Cleveland, Earl Leroy, Gravel Range Lodge No. 9.L.......·-····-··September 27, 1902
Coburn, Martin Van Buren, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.- ········-········July 31, 1902
Cc>chran, George A., Hermosa Lodge No. 557....................- .......... September 12, 1901
Cockefair, Charles Parson, Alameda Lodge No. 167...........- .......- January 2, 1902
Coffey, Charles Walter, Oran)Je Grove Lodge No. 293................May 20, 1902
Combs, James Ennis, Visalia Lodge No. 128..................·-···-········June 27, 1902
Congdon, Joseph H., Pacific Lodge No. 136.................................... July 15, 1902
Cook, Charles H .. Palestine Lodge No. 351.................................... 0ctober 26, 1901
Cooper, Victor Roscoe, Monrovia Lodge No. 308........................December 4, 1901
Cottmire, William Lewis, Burlingame Lodge No. 400..................July 15, 1902
Crease, Fred John, Bakersfield Lodge No. 224........·-·····················- l\.farch 6, 1890
Crites, George Solomon, Bakersfield Lodge No. 224................____Ju]y 10, 1902
Crooks, John Chisholm, Palo Alto Lodge_ No. 346..·-····-···············May 13, 1893
Cross, Ralph Herbert, Hillcrest Lodge No. 573......·-··········-···--·Pebtuary 28, 1902

99
DAT!! OF RAISING

Dahl, John Martin, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30-·····--········-···July 15, 1902
Davis, Alva S~vester, Woodland Lodge No. 156·---···-·---0ctober 28, 1901
Davis, Burris ncaid, Starr King Lodge No. 344·-···-···-···-···-··September 15, 1902
Davis, David George, Durant Lodge No. 268·-···········-···--·-·-.January 31, 1902
Detjen, Henry Louis, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260•...·- -····- ···March 12, 1902
Dill, William A., Janesville Lodge No. 232....·-···-·····- ··-···-······.l)ecember 21, 1901
Doane, Frank Lewis, Vesper Lodge No. 84--·-·-···-·-----Auguat 14, 1902
Dobrowsky, Frank Reid, Readin~Lodge No. 254..·-·-··-·-·----.April 2, 1902
Dozier, Earnest, Rea~ Lod~ o. 254..........................................June 11, 1902
Drake, Robert Zale, R lands odge No. 300.................................. February 2, 1902
Dreher, Frederick Louis, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260....._.....August 7, 1901
Dwelly, Nelson Shil"lds, Mount Oso Lodge No. 460----·-···May 24, 1902
Dyer, George Sterling, Oroville Lodge No. 103___ ····- ····-··-····March 4, 1902
Easton, Daniel Elisha Foote, California Lodge No. L-··--·······-June 19, 1902
Eaves, Albert Thomas, Magnolia Lodge No. 2-i2...........-····--····March 15, 1902
Ecclestone, Charles Vollum, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.........- .... November 22, 1901
Eckhardt, Ernest Frank, Penrhyn Lodge No. 258... _.......................March 20, 1902
Ehlers, Peter W., Acacia Lodge No. -i38...........- ..··············- ·-- ····November 16, 1901
Eisenbach, Julian, Fidelity Lodge No. 120·-· -- ····--·--···--···November 14, 1901
Ellis, Edward Stephen, South Gate Lodge No. 320-·······-·;···-····November 20, 1901
English, Norris, Brooklyn Lod&e No. 225-·····-···-·-·--········--···-May 14, 1901
Ewing, William Samuel, East ate Lodge No. 290.................____JuJy 18, 1902
Ferrier, George Washington. Mission Lodge No. 169..·-······-·····-April 23, 1902
Fifield, Willard George, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481..............•...February 20, 1902
Fiscus, Marshall Ellsworth, So. California Lodge No. 278...... ___ June 25, 1902
Fisher, Frederick Wm., EI Dorado Lodge No. 26....................._... becember 17, 1901
Flint, William, Park Lodge No. 449----··---·········--··----0cto ber 16, 1901
····---··--- --May 29, 1902
Frank, Ludwig, Fidelity Lodge No.120-·Gable, Hayes Harvey, Woodland Lodge No. 156-···-·······-·-·~uary 11, 1902
Gale, Wallace Samuel, Petaluma Lodge No. 180.--······-······-··-·- uly 18, 1901
ember 19, 1896
Gann, James Wilson, BelIBower Lodge No. 523-····-··--·-·-···
Garrison, Noel Hunt, San Joaquin Lodge No. 19-- - --- 0ctober 4, 1901
Gaylord, Ralph Wright, Nevada Lodge No. 13-·-- ··------May 7, 1902
Gee, Frederick Wm., EI Dorado Lodge No. 26· -- - - ·---April 27, 1902
Gillogly, Matthew Lee, Eel River Lodge No. 147·--·-·- ---August 24, 1901
Gilmour, John Allan, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30· ---··--··-May 9 1902
Goldsmith, Joseph, West Gate Lodge No. 335•......- ..~·-·--·······---Januar-Y 23, 1902
Gompertz, Charles William, Occidental Lodge No. 22.·-·······-····March 1 1902
Graham, George Jarvis, Hollywood Lodge No. 355...·-·- - ··---FebruarY l, 1902
May 1, 1902
Grimes, Edward, Silver Trowel Lodge No. -t15
··-···July 9, 1901
Guild, Alexander, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336--···
Gyle, Sylvan Herman. Lakeshore Lodge No. 551__.______ March 22, 1902
Haley, John Virgil, Fraternity Lodge No. 399-····-···---·---0ctober 19, 1901
Hall, Percy Weller, Live Oak Lodge No. 61---------March 28, 1902
Hamel, William Charles, Athens Lodge No. 228--·- ··· - -- Pebruary 19 1902
Hansen, Casson C., Marin Lodge No. 191-- ··-··-···---February 30: 1902
Hansen, John Owen, Friendship Lodge No. 210-···- ····- · -··- ····September 13, 1901
Hapai, Henry Chase, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21-··--········-··---January 17, 1902
Hartnack, Albert Chas., Excelsior Lodge No. 166.'···········-----.Marc:h 13, 1902
Haskell, George P., Lodi Lodge No. 256.......................................... April 26, 1902
Hasman, Charles Joseph, Concord Lodge No. 117........................ 0ctober l, 1901
Heffner, Harry Landon, Hemet Lodge No. 615·-··-----···-~Y 22. 1902
Helms, George Joseph, Eden Lodge No. 113--·-····--·--·- anuary 11, 1902
Henderson, Marion Kinmon, Lindsay Lodge No. 416-···- -·-·· ay 15 1902
Henkes, Justes Henry, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677..•·-···-······--January' 24, 1902
Hicken, Ernest Edward, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 - -···-······-··--March 8, 1902
Higgins, Solomon Franklin, Oakland Lodge No. 188•••...~---May 7, 1902

PROCEEDINGS 01' TH~

100
NAME AND LODGE

101

GRAND LODG£ OF CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISIN(;

Hislop, Colin Bruce, Roseville Lodge No. 222........·--·--·---A prll 27, 1901
Hixon, Jared Ralph, Libertas Lodge No. 466................·-··-···---Sept ember 17, 1901
Holman, Francis Christopher, East Belt Lodge No. 391.....- .•....... September 9, 1902
Holmes, George Albert. Sr.. Sacramento Lodge No. 40·-··-········February 20, 1902
Horst, William, Jr., Liberty Lodge No. 299 ..............................- .... 0ctober 1, 1901
Horton, Samuel, Sotoyome Lodge No. 123....·-···············--- -··0ctober 19, 1901
Hunter, Thomas, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30................_______ July 1. 1902
. -July 19, 1902
Huth, Peter, Franklin Lodge No. 143.......................____
Inman, Thomas George, Mission Lodge No. 169.....·-····-·--·-Ja nuary 29, 1902
-----March 19, 1901
Ironside, William, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410.....
28. 1901
Jacobs, Jay Berthold, West Gate Lodge No. 335·---···-·- -···-August
Jeffrey, Edward John, Carquinez Lodge No. 337________ _ December H. 1901
Johansen, Walter E., Moneta Lodg_e No. 405...........·-··-·--····No vember 16, 1901
Johnson, Edward Chas., Live Oak Lodge No. 61...·--··-···- ·---March 24, 1902
Johnson, Murrey Levering. Live Oak Lodge No. 61... ..................... Septeml:>er 27, 1901
Jones, Frank Massie, Southern California Lodge No. 278............ September 17, 1902
Jones, George Danforth, Pasadena Lodge No. 272.......................... February 3, 1902
Jones, Thomas Washington, Henry Cl_ay Lodge No. 95-...-March 20, 1902
Jurs, Henry Fedderson, Carmel Lodge No. 680.............................. 0ctober 23, 1901
Kennedy, Clarence A., Long Beach Lodge No. 327.........·-··-···Febru ary 19, 1902
Kerney, Aden Grant. Fresno Lodge No. 247.........................._____ March 15, 1902
Kerney, Chas. Herman, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366..............___ July 20, 1901
Kight, David Morehead, Mission Lodge No. 169............................ May 31, 1902
.Killingbeck, Delorma J., Bell Lodge_ No. 483.................................... September 19, 1902
Knopf, Joseph F., Anchor Lodge No. 273........................................ Aug.ust 14; 1902
Kopperud, A.H., Brentwood Lodge No. 345.................................. April 21, 1902
Kohler, Henry Herman, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.......................... 0ctober 20, 1902
Koenigshofer, Leon Andrew, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215 .............. August 28, 1902
Lackmann, Ernest August, Occidental Lodge No. 22 ........•·-··-····February 15, 1902
LaFranchi, Massimino, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.............•.- ......... 0ctober 31. 1901
Lane, William Willis, Clay Lodge No. 101...............-·-··-----Ma rch 22. 1902
Langbein, Ernest Lelle, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42........-----···--·Febr uary 17, 1902
Leach, Abraham Powell, Live Oak Lodge No. 6L---············-····September 30, 1898
Leber, Henry, Live Oak Lodge No. 61.. .. ---·----···-··· -··-···Novem ber 25, 1901
Leet, Lewis Cass, Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403..........................- .... 0ctober 26, 1901
Legge, Robert Thomas, Henry Morse Stephens Lodge No. 541.... February 12, 1902
Levison, Harry, .Kil)g_ Solomon's Lodge No. 260... ·-·-·-···-···--J une 28, 1902
Levy, Isaac Oury, West Gate Lodge No. 335 ............._................. May 8, 1902
Lewis, Irving Cowhan, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225.......................... Augll.lt 30, 1901
Littlefield, Chas. D .. Lexington Lodge No. 104.-·····-- -········-November 29, 1901
Littlejohn, Herbert Edwin, Mount Oso Lodge No. 460-··-······-·· May 29, 1902
Loughridge, lames, Hawthorne Lodge No. 647..............----··-··-···Feb ruary 19, 1902
Lowe, John Hall, Crockett Lodge No. 139--··--· -·-----Ap rll 9, 1902
Lucas, Harry Clifford, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38..........•....- ••...... June 28, 1902
Lucot, George Washington, Amador Lodge No. 65......·-·--··-···Marc h 16, 1900
McGill, Andrew, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225·-············ ·-····--····-···M ay 18, 1901
McDonald, Thomas J., Palestine Lodge No. 351............•............... July 28, 1902
McKellips, Daniel Ozmon. Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568--... March 29, 1902
McLure, James Thomas, Oakland Lodge No. 188...........•- .......... September 21, 1901
Maggetti, Peter Lorenzo, King Davids Lodge No. 209..•·--·····-··-June 1, 1901
Maier, Bernhard, West Gate Lodge No. 335........................._....... 0ctober 11. 1901
Manning, George Patrick, Kin_g: Solomon's Lodge No. 260.......... May 19, 1902
Mannon, Charles McFerson, Abell Lodge No. 146........•.............................•..•......, 1902
Marbut, Edgar Hume, Wilmington Lodge No. 198..·---··········Ma rch 29, 1897
Martin, John Henry, Keith Lodge No. 187.......·--····················--December 12, 1901
Marx, William Thadius, Seafaring Lodge No. 708._................. July 17, 1901
Mason, William Bertie, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241--------- -July 25, 1902

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

MaughmJ er, Carl, Washington Lodge No. 20...·--··············· ·--0ctober 22, 1901 ·
M
May, Heph Jacob, Long Beach Lodge No. 327........................- .... December 19, 1901
ayo, armon Jeff. Anchor Lod1Je No. 273.....•.................:....- ..• Aprll 17, 1902
M
Ph <iJester, Gravel Range Lodge No. 59..................January 17, 1902
Merrlam\{?jj.
M~ri, ~ham fred, Lompoc Lodge No. 262.......................... June 1, 1901
rlstlan, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38............................ June 28, 1902
M ff e sen,
Mor::,tt,J.!t tw°::Jin Park Lodge No. 369.................................. February 19. 1902
and Lodge No. 156................·-··············-···-May 3, 1901
Mo s, W e •
Mui1e}; ~lliam, Mill Valley Lodge No. 356.....•·-·-·······:............ November 7, 1901
Murp Yj alph Everett, Marin Lodge No. 191.... _ ................ _September 19, 1901
yers, sador B., Fidelity Lodge No. 120.....·-·······-··················-···June 19, 1902
2, 1901
Neal, RobLeoert Waterman, Doric Lodge No. 216--···-·--···· ······--Novemb er1901
N evlns,
n Wesley, Searchlight Lodge No. 567...................__ Aprll 11,
Neyhart, Perry Herbert, Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192...........•....July 19, 1900
Noble, George Oscar, Southern California Lodge No. 278. ___ July 19, 1902
Nugent, Harry George, Chico Lodge No. 111...........................___ June 21, 1902
O'Malle~, Michel Arthur, All States Lodge No. 593..______.July 18, 1898
~on,E ichard Toppin, Oriental Lodge No. 144................._..•._May 13, 1902
en, Imo Nelson, Jubilee Lodge No. 60t.............·-···--······--A ugust 26, 1902
24, 1899
~~khurs~filliam Nash, Hemet Lodge No. 615...·-········-··········November
a senW, I ert Lincoln, Harbor Lodge No. 502.......................••...June 28, 1902
1902
P ayne, i liam Edward, Ontario Lodge No. 301.................- ........ Aprll 25,
1901
~eise, 1j\fld LE Greenleaf Lodge No. 670...·-·····························-···March7,11,
en li, Eden Lodge No. 113........·--····~---·-··-··-····April 1900
e ton,
~ersch~O~J., Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478............- ......... January 30, 1902
rnelius, Honolulu ~e No. 409............................ November 16, 1901
peters,
No. 244......................- .. Aprll 11, 1901
p etersj, ~eB Hansen, Alcatraz
petty, WP G rooklyn Lodge No. 22 ····-··-··--···-· ·---····----Jul y 29, 1902
oage, m. ustavis. Abell Lodge No. H6...- ...······-·····-···········April 9, 1902
Poulsen, Otto Alexander, McKinley Lodge No. 347-··-·····-·- -Aprli 28, 1902
Powell, William Harris, West Gate Lodge No. 335·-·-··---- August 16, 1902
Proctor,WGeorge L., Rio Vista Lodge No. 208................................ December 12, 1899
P roper,
illiam George, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206..•..- ............... June 11, 1902
Purdie, John Stewart, Excelsior Lodge No. 166................- ........... November 3, 1901
Quackenbush, Richard Orrie, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.... _______ May 24, 1898
Quigley, Willie Clarence, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57....·-··-···--Augu st 2, 1902

JI

ge

······-·······March 8, 1902
~ageth, i&hririan, Lodi Lodge No. 256..·-···········-···-···
..................................... July 12, 1901

atzer, (Rrl ., Acacia Lodge No. 438.... _
Reagan
egan), Edwin D., Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297................ August 29, 1901
Rechsreiner, Emil August, Starr King_ Lodge No. 344.................... March 19, 1902
::inger, ft'ichel. LaParfaite Union Lodge No. 17........................ November 1901
R wine iram G., Hollywood Lodge No. 355.....................-..... March 19. 1898
0tjo Frank, Service Lodge No. 594.................................... June 6, 1902
R eiden, A
is~n, JI red J., Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319......................... ......... 0ctober 10, 1899
Rouuins, ohn Lloyd McCullough, Suisun Lodge No. 55.............. August 17, 1901
Robertson, William Campbell, Unity Lodge No. 368.................... September 16, 1902
:o~ontrederick Thurston, Molino Lodge No. 150...................... February 27, 1902
J hrgCEdward, Corinthian Lodge No. 9............................ November 12, 1901
Ro
ohrs, Jo on harles, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410...................... May 8, 1900
Ro er, ames Baptist, Howard Lod__ge No. 37..........- ......- .... Aprll 16, 1902
:ol~r, M.R\f: Benjamin, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.~ ...................... June 14. 1902
R utl tod,J ed John, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30........................_February 13, 1902
u an , ames Bell, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.·--···-····· ····-·-···Novem ber 4, 1901
~amsol, ~Herbert. Olivet Lodge No. 205.................- ................ 0ctober 26, 1901
~~mue s,M ilkliam Martin, Ferndale Lodge No. 193...................... November 16, 1901
...wrt~, ar /Jvin, H~ Mq11e Stf!phe~ Lod9~ No. 5iL.... F~ 22! 1902

wt'

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAMB AND LODGE

103

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATB OP RAISING

Schiff, Ludwig, West Gate Lodge No. 335.......·-······-····-····-······-Iuly 25, 1901
Schreiber, Bernhard, Sequoia Lodge No. 349.·-··--··-······-··-··-·-·-be<:ember 6, 1899
Schultze, Albert Walter, South San Francisco Lodge No. 212..-.June,26, 1902
Schwarzschild, Juliua, Fidelity Lodge No. 120____________ August 14, 1902
Sebastian, John, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241..________________ June 29,1901
See, Marshall Marlon, Van Nuys Lodqe No. 450-········-··-·---Auguat 21, 1902
Sewell, Walter John, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478..•- ..........-0ctober 3, 1901 ·
Shafer, George H., Brentwood Lodge No. 345-·-·---····-----May 3, 1902
Shafer, John Booth, Eden Lodge No. 113....••-····-·-------~July 30, 1901
Shaug, Marcus Lucas, Live Oak Lodge No. 61..••.•.••.•--··-··--····-September 26, 1902
Shirreff, Chas. LeBaron, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366-···--···---·September 5, 1901
Shore, Richard Edward, Welcome Lodge No. 255...·--·---······-Auguat 10, 1901
Siebecker, Wm. Henry, Occidental Lodge No. 22-····-·····-····-June 10, 1902
Silman, Archibald Lewis, Yosemite Lodge No. 99-···-···--·-····---February 4, 1902
Slater, Percy, Santa Monica Lodge No. 307.....·--·····--········--···-luly 23, 1901
. Sloan, William Edward, Searchlight Lodge No. 567.........--.--November 13, 1901
Smith, Arthur Thomas, Valley Lodge No. 135.........•....________ July 5, 1902
Smith, George Spencer, Fresno Lodge No. 247-----·-··--···-~ebruary 15, 1902
Smith, LeRoy, Oakland Lodge No. 188..-----·········-·························-June 15, 1901
Smith, Robert Percy, Santa Paula Lodge No. 291.......................... April 12, 1902
Snowden, Isaac Wayne, Ferndale Lod_ge No. 193.......................... March 29, 1902
Snyder, Jesse Oglevee, Francis Drake Lodge No. 376.......·-·-·········--·····-·-·• 1897
· Soule, John, Howard Lodge No. 31-----···-··--····---·····-····-Feb ruary 13, 1902
Souter, John Henry, Oakland Lodge No. 188_.•.•....•.______-:---···July 26, 1901
Springer, Paul Eugene, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38-·-·-··-········--···December 14, 1901
Spuur, Chas. W., Mill Valley Lodge No. 356...·-····-····-···-····-luly 14, 1902
Stidger, Oliver Perry, Educator Lodge No. 554·-··-·······---Nc>vember 12, 1901
Stillwell, Arthur Marriott, Washington Lodge No. 20.....- ....... _June 13, 1901
Stocker, G. St. M~. A.F.E. Irwin Lodge_ No. 645..·-·········-·····-·--November 16, 1901
Stoll, Albert George, Oriental Lodge No. l+f.______________•• June 21, 1902
Stratheam, Robert, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202...............·-···-···--November 26, 1901
Strauss, Louis, Ionic Lodge No. 520......................................- .......... January 22, 1902
Stuart, Frank Hayden, Golden Gate Lodge No. 30........................ May 9, 1902
Stuparich, Nicola, Speranza ltallana Lodge No. 219-----····--·--:, 1899
Sturmer, Simon Chas., Tehama Lodge No. 3.................................... March 10, 1902
Sylvester, Harry Oman, Elysian Lodge No. 418..•__ __. ....-Jaly 11, 1902
Tade, John Edwin, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260...........- ..- ... March 24, 1902
Tanner, James Manning, Oceanside Lodge No. 381..·-···········----··April 30, 1902
Thomas, Henry Jerome, Mission Lodge No. 169_...........-··-··--·-June 24, 1902
Thomson, Allen Milo, Temple Lodge No. 14.......................-·····-·February 18, 1902
Thornton, Bruce Patrick, Occidental Lodge No. 22...·-·······-··-November 25, 1901
Thorup, Harold B.. Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243..·-·-·····---··-·May 24, 1902
Thurston, Eugene True, Live Oak Lodge No. 61...........-········---0ctober 28, 1901
Tibbitts, George Rush, Washington Lodge No. 20............---·········January 17, 1901
Tucker, Edwin Waite, Evergreen LodJJe No. 259....·--·······-:-----Pebruary 26, 1902
Tucker, William Motier, Las Palmas Lodge No. 366...........- -.. April 25, 1901
Tyler, Ben Champion, East Gate Lodge No. 290-······-···---··-July 11; 1902
Van Buskirk, Joseph Milton, Blackmer Lodge No. +t2............__ September 11, 1901
Vaughan, Marvin Thomas, Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57.........- ....•.. Pebruary 4, 1902
Vice, Thomas, Jr., Naval Lodge No. 87.....................- ................... May 8, 1902
Virden, Benjamin Soulard, Oxnard Lodge No. 341..-···········-····-November 25, 1899
Waldron, Patrick Sarchfleld, Oakland Lodge No. 188.................. 0ctober 1899
Wallace, Albert Ernest, Santa Ana Lodge No. 241........................ January 30, 1902
Ware, Webster Oden, West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373............ April 13, 1901
Warson, Starr A.. Lindsay Lodge No. 416...................................... 0ctober 31, 1901
Watt, Alex, Hemet Lodge No. 615.................................................. December 18, 1901
Weaver, Herman Bowman, Sacramento Lodge No. 40.................. February 28, 1902
Weber, Richard Franklin, Crockett Lodge No. 139---···-·---January 23, 1901

DATB OP .RAISING

NAME AND LODGE

Weisbach, Lewis Chas., Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 48L.. _______ April 10, 1902
~ells, Horace TaWr, Sr., Provident Lod_g_e No. 609.................... September 28, 1901
elsh, Frederick ., Bakersfield Lodge No. 224................ _........ May 25, 1899
~erry, William Clowes, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346........................ June 28, 1902
est, Ernest L., Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.................................... June 4, 1898
~est, Frederick Wm., Washington Lodge No. 20........................ April 15, 1901
est, Henry Hebard, East Gate Lodge No. 290............................ July 25, 1902
West, Hiram Fred, Searchlight Lodge No. 567.............................. June 4, 1901
White, Albert C .. Georgetown, Lodge No. 25................................ February 2, 1901
White, Archer Moresby, Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535...·-·····-··········· 1898
White, Fred A., Chino Valley Lodge No. 427..·--------···-------April 19, 1902
Whitley, Gerald Stover, Kin~ Solomon's Lodge No. 260.._______ March 31, 1902
Whitmore, Chas. Frederick, lbany Lodge No. 686...................... December 12,.1901
Williams, Frederick Thomas, Honolulu Lodge No. 409................ May 27, 1902
Williams, Warner Bryant, Orange Grove Lodge No. 293............ April 15, 1902
Williamson, Herbert Monroe, San Benito Lodge No. 21 L.......... September 25, 1902
Wochinsk}( Walter W., Granada Lodge No. 608......·-·-·····-·······March 21, 1902
Wolbach, arl, .Lincoln Lodt,No. 470............................................ July 3, 1901
Wood, John Francis, Naval dge No. 87...................................... June 13, 1901
Woodgates, Harry Vacher, Welcome Lodge No. 255.................... July 19, 1902
Woodhams, Henry Crane, Tuolumne Lodge No. 8........................ May 30, 1901
Wright, George Scott, le Progres de L"Oceanie Lodge No. 371.... June 25, 1901
Young, Sewell John; North Butte Lodge No. 230•.- .......•........•.•-November 23, 1901
Zehner, Harry S., Alamo Lodge No. 122..-·-·•···----·----······Decal:lb er 20, 1901

Respectfully submitted,

~~

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

104

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
Brethren:
Again is becomes my happy privilege to render to this Annual Communication a full and detailed account of the services of your Grand
Lecturer during the Masonic year now drawing to a dose, and to set
forth herein a report of the condition of the Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction, together with a short resume of the activities of the Ritual
Committee.
In preparing this report, I deem it necessary first to acquaint the
brethren with the fact that I have had to rely this year to a large extent
on the co-operation of the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the Inspectors
of the Several Masonic Districts. In the early Spring of this year I
suffered a slight heart attack, which kept me more or less inactive for a
period of four months, and was responsible for my absence at four of
the five Spring Conferences. Much of the information contained herein,
therefore has been gleaned from the Annual Reports of the Inspectors,
those fine Masons who give so much of their time and exceptional talents
in the interest of Masonry in California. Each of these Inspectors, now
numbering 145 within our Jurisdiction, has complied with the requirements of Section 53 of Ross Digest, and has given a complete and concise account of the condition of the Lodges in his particular District.
To them I desire to express my grateful appreciation.

Condition of Lodges
With only one exception, the Constituent Lodges within the State
are in a fair to excellent condition. Fewer degrees are being conferred
in most Lodges than has been the case in recent years, and more opporunity is being provided for programs of entertainment and educational
improvement for our members. With but very few exceptions the officers
advancing through the chairs of our Lodges are outstanding in their
respective communities, and are enthusiastically participating in their
Masonic duties. The one exception referred to above is Forest Lodge
No. 66, in the little mining town of Alleghany, where, "due to economic
and other conditions relating to the smaller gold mining communities,
and due primarily to the poor road conditions, the Lodge is not able
to conduct regular meetings for a lack of a quorum." The officers elected
for the year 1952 had not been installed at the writing of this report.
Officers' Coaches
Section 53 (3rd a) of the Ordinances, under the duties of the lnspee. tor, reads, "To appoint in each Lodge within his District an Officers'

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

105

Coach, who shall be a qualified Past Master of the Lodge, and who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Inspector. The Officers' Coach shall assist
in teaching t?e ritual to the Offic~~s of his Lodge, and assist in preparing
them to qualify for advancement. I find that in some cases the Inspector
has overlooked taking full advantage of this law. He has failed to see
the b~nefits both to hi.mself and to the Officers of his Lodges in first
selecti~g the best qualified Past Master available, and then thoroughly
preparing that Past Master for the important duties he has been selected
to discharge. An Officers' Coach, well prepared and zealous in his responsibilities, can be of inestimable assistance to the Inspector and tc
the Lodge Officers.
The Grand Secretary has recently caused to be printed a supply of
"Certificates of Appointment", in handy wallet form, to be issued by the
Inspector when making the appointment of the Officers' Coach. This
certificate is designed not only to make the recipient a little more conscious of his responsibility, but also to impress others with the imP<>rtance of the position. I would urge Inspectors to make full use of these
certificates.

Candidates' Coaches
In recent years I have had ample opportunity to view the work of the
Candidates' Coaches. Those with whom I have come in contact have
exhibited an excellent knowledge of the ritual, and a self-sacri.ftci~g inter~st in th~ newly made Mason. They work long and hard in preparing candidates, and never expect and seldom receive recognition for
their efforts. Let us occasionally reward them with a word of commendation.
District Officers' Associations
In all but twenty-four of our Masonic Districts, Officers' Associations
have been formed and are successfully functioning for the best interests
of our Fraternity. In some of the twenty-four Districts without associations, it is believed to be quite impossible, because of great distances
between Lodges, to successfully organize, and maintain interest in, an
Officers' Association. In other Districts, however, it seems evident that
with a little earnest effort by the Inspector and co-operation from the
Offi~ers of the District, such an association could be organized, and the
requirements of Section 53 (3rd) of the Ordinances complied with.
Degree Teams
It has repeatedly come to the attention of the Grand Lecturer that
the~e are degree teams -0perating in certain parts of the Jurisdiction
which are not c.onf~rming to the ritual prescribed by Grand Lodge, or
are not proceeding in accordance with the restrictions governing degree
teams.

106

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

It is generally agreed that degree teams, operating in strict accordance with the laws adopted by the Grand Lodge, have a definite place in
our fraternal life, and that their work, when performed in an exemplary
manner, tends to increase attendance at our meetings and serves to
promote good fellowship among the brethren.
Too often. however, we find that the brothers who temporarily fill the
various places and stations on degree teams disregard our rules an~
regulations (with which I believe most of them to be familiar), and stage
ritualistic travesties for the amusement of the side-lines, with little regard for the impression that we hope to make upon the candidate. This
condition must be corrected or the degree team will be outlawed in the
not too distant future. The regular otHcers and the personnel selected
to illustrate a portion of the ritual in our Lodges are taught by, and are
under the strict surveillance of the Inspector of their respective Districts.
They are required to conform strictly to our prescribed ritual and any
lesser conformity on the part of degree teams only serves to lessen the
dignity and authority of the Inspector. I have occaslonally heard the
remark made by the regular officers of Lodges: "They can get away
with it, why can't we?" The work of the degree team, therefore, should
be more, rather than less; efficient than the regular officers.
The Masters are reminded that they are responsible for conferring
all degrees in their Lodges: that they have the responsibility for inviting
only qualified brothers to participate in the work, and that all of the
degree work "shall be conducted in a dignified manner, consistent with
the high purposes of Masonry and the impression which the degree is
designed to create in the mind of the candidate." Any infractions of
the well established rules regarding degree teams in the future will be
reported to th Grand Master with the recommendation that the appropriate disciplinary action be taken.

d~n~ ~t those meetings. Assistant Grand Lecturers Clare B. Campbell,
DlVlsion 1: Mervyn E. Hanshaw, Division 2: Raymond G. Taylor, Division 4: Guy B. Mize, Division 5: and Angustus H. Allen, Division 6:
made all the arrangements for and personally supervised their respective
Conferences, and I am especially grateful to them for their efforts.
Brot~er ~loyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary,
at the direction of the Grand Master, was again present at each of the
Conference meetings and contributed immeasurably to the success of
each meeting by his addresses on Masonic Law and Custom. Brother
Wilso~, ':"'e of the Ritual Committee wish to express to you our sincere
appreciation for your many courtesies toward us and for your valuable
contribution to the success of the Inspectors' Spring Conferences.

Inspectors' Spring Conferences
Following the example of previous years, the Assistant Grand Lecturers have, in addition to their regular meetings, held special Schools of
Instruction for the benefit of the Inspectors of their respective Divisions
as follows:
Division 6--March 28, 29, 30, at Del Mar, San Diego County.
Division 5-April 18, 19, 20, Santa Barbara.
Division 3-May 9, 10, 11, Guerneville.
Division 4-May 23, 24, 25, Yosemite Valley.
Divisions 1 and 2-June 20, 21, 22, Lake Tahoe.
Your Grand Lecturer was privileged to be present at only one of these
schools, the Guerneville Spring Conference. Brother Elbert W. Davis,
Assistant Grand Lecturer and the Inspectors of Division 3 are to be
congratulated on the excellence of the work performed. Reports received
of the other Spring Conferences indicate that the same degree of proficiency and the same wholehearted interest in our work, were also evi-

107

Ritual Committee Meetings
November 10 and 11, 1951, and again on
Sunday,
On Saturday and
Saturday and Sunday, August 23 and 21, 1952, the Ritual Committee
met in S~n F~ancisco. The entire work of the three degrees, including
the Candidate s Lectures, was reviewed on each occasion. In addition to
the above, a Ritual Committee Meeting was held in conjunction with
the Spring Conference at Guerneville, where matters peculiar to the
work of the Ritual Committee were discussed.
Conclusion
In concluding this report, I again pay tribute to my associates ·on the
Ritual Committee and to the Inspectors of the entire Jurisdiction for
their whole-hearted co-operation and their kind thoughtfulness during
my recent illness. During this time I was compelled to forego the pleasure
of attending and participating in the many Grand Lodge affairs and Inspectors' meetings which it had been my privilege to enjoy so much in
past years. To the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, the Grand
Wardens, the other Grand Lodge Officers and to all of the brethren
who, through their good wishes and letters of encouragement contributed
so much to my happiness and my complete recovery, I wish to convey my
heart-£elt thanks.
To the Grand Secretary, Brother Lloyd E. Wilson: the Assistant
Grand Secretary, Brother Henry D. Oliphant: and to the personnel of
the Grand Secretary's office, who so graciously assisted me in carrying
out the duties which I had become temporarily unable to discharge, I
desire to convey my sincere appreciation.
And to the brethren of the Grand Lodge, for the privilege of again
serving as your Grand Lecturer during the year 1952, thank you alll
Fraternally submitted,

W. H. E. VON KoNSKY
Grand Lecturer
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

108

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A TIME FOR VISION
RALPH C. HINE, Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Sir-My Brethren All:
The privilege of serving during this Grand Lodge year has proven
to be, for me, an unique educational experience. While it has been necessary, as required, to do a great deal of talking, it has also afforded
the opportunity to be a good listener. Out of this opportunity comes
the challenge to picture for you the concern of the brethren of all ranks
for the influence, or lack of it, which Masonry in general and individual
Masons in particular have, or will have, during these troubled times.
Two experiences, vivid in my memory, seemed to illustrate that ever
present concern. While these experiences occurred in particular localities,
there can be little, if any, doubt that they could be duplicated under
similar conditions in every community in this Grand Jurisdiction.
Last Memorial Day our Grand Master placed wreaths upon the
graves of two Past Grand Masters. On that occasion the Lodges of the
Community also remembered, in like manner, their deceased Past Masters. As we trod that path of memory, starting with the oldest, brief
accounts were noted of their service to Masonry, the Community, the
State and the Nation. It was a thrilling experience until we reached a
period somewhere in the early thirties when it suddenly became apparent
that, with a few exceptions, little more could be said than that they had
been "good and true.'' Can it be possible that we have reached, even
passed, the point where it is deemed sufficient for a Master Mason,
particularly a Master or Past Master, just to be "good and true1"
On July 25th our Grand Master, after taking immediate steps to
ascertain ·the personal needs of our brethren following the earthquake
of the previous Monday, met with the Officers of our Lodges in Kern
County to survey the material damage suffered by Lodge properties.
The unity of thought, the universal expressions of eagerness to plan
and promote mutual assistance was worthy of our highest traditions.
Can it be possible that we have reached the point where it takes a disaster or a tragic emergency to bring out our latent capabilities1
Thoughtful ly considering these experiences, in the light of the concern so often expressed, these questions posed themselves.
Have we forgotten our heritage7
Have we lost the vision1
Last year the Grand Orator of this Grand Lodge stressed the phrase
"The Master Mason, more so than Other Men," and closed his address
with these thought provoking words"SEE ! THIS OUR FATHERS
DID FOR

us:·

.

109

In the light of all this it seems that this address, devoted to matters
appertaining to the Craft, should consider this our One Hundred Third
Annual Communication, as a TIME FOR VISION.
.
The short period of time, starting this morning and ending Friday
afternoon, should have a special meaning since it might well begin with
the miracle of looking backward into the past and it must end with the
uplift of looking forward to the future. Until now, really, we have lived
our year largely in the present, rarely thinking back beyond yesterday,
rarely farther ahead than tomorrow. Suddenly now, as by a special
blessing, we can see other days in crystal clarity. We see again, how
clearly, the faces that are gone and hear once more the sound of voices
long since stilled. It is aJmost as though the old days were back, and
the old scenes and the old hopes and presences, forming the framework
of our heritage and our vision. As these days pass, our thoughts and
actions ·might well be governed by what we should remember- there are
so many things for us to remember.
Directing our vision backward to the past should we not remind
ourselves, over and over again, that our Forefathers , men with the
Spirit of Masonry in their hearts, brought forth on this continent a new
Nation, "conceived in Liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all
men are created Free and Equal." That these men guided by their memory of the past and their vision for the future builded into the frame• ·
work of the government of this new Nation three great Corner Stones
which are the very essence of the Spirit of Masonry.
These Spirit of Masonry Corner Stones may be stated as folows:
That those who govern should receive their
just powers with the consent of the governed.
That all men have the right to worship God in
accordance with the dictates of their own conscience.
That free public education is a prime necessity
for a people who are to remain free and equal.
We should further remind ourselves that other men with the Spirit
of Masonry in their Hearts, carrying the Torch of this Vision, as pioneers. extended the frontiers of this new Nation westward, ever westward. until they spanned this great continent and were standing on the
shores of the vast Pacific. Some of these pioneers carried Warrants for
Masonic Lodges in their hands as well as the Spirit of Masonry in their
Hearts. They established Lodges wherever they settled, and so as Territorial and State Governmen ts were erected, Grand Lodges came into
being, thus giving assurance that the Spirit of Masonry would continually be impressed upon the minds and hearts of the coming generations
of men, thus ensuring that the Torch of our Forefathers Vision would

111

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

be forever held aloft and that they would guard and maintain the Foundation Walls of these great Corner Stones strong and secure.
.
We need but to look around us to be impressed by the almost miraculous development of this great Nation and this great State anc:t to re~
alize that we must be something more than just "good and true" if we
are to impress the spirit of Masonry upon the minds and hearts of other
men and encourage them to hold aloft and carry forward this Torch
of Vision.
. Our Brother Edwin Markham caught and projected this Vision when
he wrote:
"WE MEN OF EARTH HAVE HERE THE STUFF
OF PARADISE-WE HAVE ENOUGH!
WE NEED NO OTHER THING TO BUILD
THE STAIRS INTO THE UNFULFILLEDNO OTHER IVORY FOR THE DOORSNO OTHER MARBLE FOR THE FLOORSNO OTHER CEDAR FOR THE BEAM
AND DOME OF MAN'S IMMORTAL DREAM.
HERE ON THE PATHS OF EVERY DAYHERE ON THE COMMON HUMAN WAYIS ALL THE BUSY GODS WOULD TAKE
TO BUILD A HEAVEN, TO MOLD AND MAKE
NEW EDENS. OURS THE STUFF SUBLIME
TO BUILD ETERNITY IN . TIME."

"Freedom is that state of being in which a citizen is not conscious
that he is being governed.
"There must be government and there must be laws. Great
masses of men and women cannot live together without organization for the common good.
"That is Government.
"Great communities cannot exist if each individual does exactly
what he wants to do. The whole must be protected against
misconduct on the part of each of its members. Each must surrender to the whole some part of his right to do at all times
whatever he may want to do. This willingness to forego the
right to injure one another must be embodied in a set of
accepted rules of conduct.
"These rules are the law.
"The instant that Government steps over the line and meddles
with any right not ceded to it by the individual, there is an
impairment of Freedom. The instant a rule is enacted and becomes a part of the body of the Law which forbids a citizen
to do a thing which does not harm his neighbor, there is an
impairment of Freedom. The instant a law is enacted which
compels a citizen to do a thing which it is his natural right to
refrain from doing, there is an impairment of Freedom.
"Freedom then, is a state of existence in which a citizen lives
his life and carries on his affairs according to the dictates of
his own conscience, limited only by the necessity that all citizens must be protected against depredations of any one citizen
or group."
This seems deary to express the Vision of our Forefathers when
they builded this Corner Stone into the framework of constitutional
government for the Nation, this State and this Grand Lodge. How well
do we, as Masons, maintain the foundation wall of this Corner Stone?
The mounting complexities of our public, social and fraternal life
has been such through the years that we have, of necessity, delegated
some of our functions to appointed Boards, Commissiorts and Commit~
tees in violation of our traditions that formation of policy shall be dele~
gated only to the hands of elected officials. While theoretically these
committees, or whatever they may be, can only recommend, and their
recommendations have no binding force, still they may strongly influ~
ence opinion, for it seems only natural to assume that they have fairly
considered all of the evidence and reached impartial judgment. Too
often, however, such bodies tend to overstep their prerogatives in their
zeal to do what they consider good.
Since we should set the example, as well as just be "good.and true,"
we can best maintain and strengthen the foundation wall of this Corner
Stone by being very sure, during our deliberations, that this ever in-

110

.

As we carry on our deliberations during the coming days it should
be Vision as well as Reason which tells us that while all this is our heritage from the past, we are the custodians of the present and must be
the builders, who examine, maintain and, as necessary, strengthen the
Foundation Walls of these Spirit of Masonry Comer Stones that they
may be projected into the future bright and vivid with opportunity and
challenge for those who come after us.
While these Corner Stones, like all units of a trinity, are co-equal
in importance and, in the end, must be considered as one, it seems best
to start with the one first mentioned.
0

That those who govern should receive their
just powers with the consent of the governed.
Since we are, first of all, Free-Men and then Free-Masons, it may
be well for us to examine the foundation wall of this Comer Stone in
the light of our understanding of this thing called Freedom. The following. taken from a story by Clarence Buddington Kelland, is chosen as
a basis for our conslderation, and I _q uote:

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

creasing philosophy of government does not inffuence the law making
process by which we, as Masons, govern ourselves.
As we approach consideration of the second of these Comer Stones
we should walk softly, yet proudly, for it is the very stone of foundation
of the Spirit of Masonry.

There are actually three school systems: the public schools, which
carry out the original intention; parochial church schools, which emphasize a particular creed; and private schools, which emphasize economic
or social distinction. As a greater proportion of our youth are encouraged
to attend nonpublic schools, private or parochial, the greater the threat
to our democratic unity and principles.
Therefor, the danger in allowing the ever increasing criticism of
our public school system to go unchallenged. We must, it seem, so
familiarize ourselves with its Officials, its Teachers and their methods,
its courses and their aims, that we can as Citizens, as well as Masons,
challenge at any time and under any conditions hostile critics of our
public school system and make them "show their colors."
Therefore, we should unalterably oppose the diverson of tax funds,
by direct or indirect means, for the support of nonpublic schools, private
or parochial, since their major use would ultimately be to extend their
scope and facilities and thus help them to undermine and eventually
destroy the free public school.
Under the direction of this Grand Lodge we have, ov~r the years,
a proud record of support of our public school system through the observance of public school week. However, the time has come when it
is not enough to pay lip service to this great founding principle one week
a year. We must as individuals stand up and be counted, every day in
the year, especially during the days immediately ahead.
To examine, maintain and strengthen the foundation wall of this
Corner Stone is a vital necessity for, in the final analysis, the Free Public
School and the Masonic Fraternity are dedicated to a common objective.
That of teaching people HOW to think instead of WHAT to think.
Our Vision, turning to the future, must now tell us that these Corner
Stones are in fact the Spirit of Masonry and that they must be considered as one, for should any one of them be allowed to fail, those which
remain could no longer sustain the proud structures which they support.
Our vision might be stimulated by remembering the first" stanza of
an old, old hymn:
ONCE TO EVERY MAN AND NATION,
COMES THE MOMENT TO DECIDE.
IN THE STRIFE OF TRUTH AND FALSEHOOD,
FOR THE GOOD OR EVIL SIDE:
SOME GREAT CAUSE, GOD'S NEW MESSIAH,
OFFERING EACH THE BLOOM OR BLIGHT,
AND THE CHOICE IS GONE FOREVER,
TWIXT THAT DARKNESS AND THAT LIGHT.
Now it should be vision which tells us that when we examine the
foundation walls of these Spirit of Masonry Corner Stones we are ex-

That all men have the right to worship God in accordance with
· the dictates of their own conscience.
When our Forefathers, who were devoutly religious, God fearing
men, builded this Corner Stone into the framework of our constitutional
government, they did so as evidence of their distrust of the organized
religions, occasioned by their bitter experiences in both the new and
the old world. Their basic concept was not only complete separation
of Church and State, that there should be no State Religion, but as
well, that men should, as a matter of right, be allowed to worship, or
not, as they saw flt.
Masonry's concept has always been, always must be, that somewhere in the foundation of all organizations, public or private, which
are worthy to survive, will be found a mythical stone upon which, graven
there by the faith of its mem'bers. will be found the symbol, or the name,
of the Great Architect of the Universe. We need but to review, and
to remember, the ritualistic teachings of this Fraternity to realize that
this Stone of Foundation is present in all Masonic Lodges and through
them all Grand Lodges.
Here too, we must set the example as well as just be "good and
true." We can best do this by demonstrating in our lives and actions
the fact that while Masonry is indeed deeply religious, it is not, and
does not profess to be, a religion. Remembering, at all times and in all
places, that only these indispensable questions, concerning religion, are
ever asked in Masonry.
Do you believe in God and a future existence?
In whom do you put your trust?
To maintain and strengthen the foundation wall of this Comer Stone
should be our never ending aim for which reason, it should 'he, it must
be, our constant effort.
Since it may well be the means by which we are enabled to retain
all three, the last mentioned Corner Stone might be the greatest of all.
That free public education is a prime necessity
for a people who are to remain free and equal.
Are we sufficiently aware of the development of a dual system of
education in this country which is contrary to the founding principle
of this Corner Stone which contemplated a single public school system
which would serve all creeds?

113

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a.mining OURSELVES, for WE are the LIVING STONES .in these
foundation walls which need to be maintained, and, as need be strength- .
ened, if the principles which they represent are to be projected into the
future bright and vivid with opportunity and challenge for those who
come after us.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION

It should be vision which tells us that we must not be satisfied to
just be "good and true" if we are to be found worthy to impress the
Spirit of Masonry upon the m.inds and hearts of those with whom we
come in contact, especially those who approach our doors in search
of Light and Truth.
Therefor~. this challenge, again in the words of our Brother Edwin

Markham:
THERE'S A STONE THAT IS NEEDED FOR THE WALL
A MARBLE TO .H EIGHTEN THE BEAUTY OF ALL,
ONLY YOUR SOUL HAS THE . MAGIC TO GIVE IT
GRACE,
ONLY YOUR HANDS THE CUNNING TO PUT IT IN
PLACE.
YES, THE TASK THAT IS GIVEN TO ALL, NO OTHER
CAN DO,
SO THE ERRAND IS WAITING, IT HAS WAITED FOR
CENTURIES FOR YOU,
NOW YOU APPEAR, AND THE HUSHED ONES ARE
TURNING THEIR GAZE;
TO SEE WHAT YOU DO WITH YOUR CHANCE IN
THE CHAMBER OF DAYS.
Finally My Brethren, we, as the living stones in the foundation
walls of these Spirit of Masonry Corner Stones, have it within our power
to compel recorded history to change the closing lines of that poem to
read:
THEN WE APPEARED, AND THE HUSHED ONES
NODDED THEIR ·PRAISE,
AT WHAT WE DID WITH OUR CHANCE IN THE
CHAMBER OF DAYS.
The Deputy Grand Master moved that the Oration be printed and
distributed to the Lodges. The motion was unanimously carried by a
rising vote.

115

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Segregation to which has been referred the Annual Message of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, reports of the
Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer and various committees, submits the
following report:
·
We recommend that portions of the Grand Master's message be
referred to the committees indicated below:
To Jurisprudence and Charters
1. New Lodges Constituted.
2. New Lodges Instituted.
To Masonic History, Policy and General Purposes and Finance:
1. Grave Markers for Graves of Past Grand Masters.
To Necrology:
1. Deaths of Past Grand Masters and Grand Lodge Officers.
To Jurisprudence:
1. Recommendations and rulings:
both inclusive
5 to 15
17 to 27
29 to 33
35, 37, 39 to 42 "
To Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes:
1. Recommendations and Rulings:
1,2,3,36,38,43,44 .
2. No Further Courtesy Degrees
3. Chain Letters
To Policy and General Purposes and Lodge Financing:
1. Recommendation and Ruling No. 4
To Jurisprudence and Lodge Financing:
1. Recommendation and Ruluig No. 16
To Jurisprudence and Ritual:
1. Recommendations and Rulings:
28 and 34.
We commend the Grand Master in securing, in the style of an
Appellate Tribunal, the services of an accomplished lawyer to frame
his decisions for him. We submit that he has succeeded in being a
kindly, friendly Grand Master.

.
..

GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
As to the Grand Secretary's Report, we recommend the following
references:
To Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence:
1. Per Capita Tax, Wayfarer Lodge U.D.

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2. Transfer of Home Fees, La Habra Lodge No. 659
3. Salary of Lodge Organist
4. Refund of Dues to Widow of Deceased Brother
To Policy and General Purposes, Jurisprudence and Finance:
1. Fidelity Bonds
2. Compensation Insurance
To Jurisprudence and Charters:
1. New Lodges Instituted
2. New Lodges Constituted
To Finance:
1. Ross Digest, Seventh Edition Printing.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

As to the Grand Treasurer's Report, and the report of the Investment Committee attached thereto, we pass it along to Grand
Lodge for approval with fervent thanks that we have such capable men
to guide the fraternity, but recommend reference ·to the Finance Committee, along with the Auditor's Report.
COMMITTEE REPORTS

As to the various committee reports, we recommend the following
references:
To Policy and General Purposes, Ritual and Finance:
1. Masonic Information Report
To Policy and General Purposes, Jurisprudence and Finance:
1. Report of Committee on De Molay
2. Columbia Temple Restoration
3. Sojourners Committee
To Policy and General Purposes. Jurisprudence, Lodge Financing
and Finance:
1. Report of Special Committee on Earthquake Damage in the
vicinity of Bakersfield.
To Finance:
1. Report of Masonic Temple Association of California, Incorporated.
2. Trustees of Berkeley Club House
3; Directors of Los Angeles Club House
To Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence:
· ,
1. Report of Special Committee on Taxation.
Fraternally submitted,
EARL B. MYERS
LESTER

s. MCELWAIN

c. EARLE CRANE
Adopted.

GRAND LOJ)(';E Oil CALIFORNIA

117

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Sixtieth Annual Report, for the year ending July 31, 1952, together
with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes, and the financial
reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met on October 12, 1951, after the adjournment of Grand Lodge, for the purpose of organization. The election of
Arthur M. Warren, Deputy Grand Master, Frank Harwell, Jr., Senior
Grand Warden and Henry C. Clausen, Junior Grand Warden was formally reported to the Board and on motion duly made, seconded and
carried, they were elected members of the Board.
The Secretary reported the appointment by the Grand ·Master of
L. Harold Anderson and Ralph H. Head to the Board for a term of
three years each and on motion duly made, seconded and carried, they
were elected members of the Board.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Chas. Albert Adams...................... 1952............................ ~.Myron E. Smith
Charles M. Wollenberg ................1953................................Leonard Gross
L. Harold Anderson ......................1954•..••.••..•.•.,.....•.•.......Ralph H. Head
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Charles M. Wollenberg
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Leonard Gross was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtue of his office as Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling is
Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, F. &
A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secretary
of the Masonic Homes of California.
GENERAL

Superintendent James R. Eubanks of the Home for the Aged at
Decoto and Superintendent Robert M. Henry, of the Home for Children
at Covina have each prepared a detailed report and the Board urges all
members of the Fraternity to carefully read them.
Inflation and mounting costs play no favorites and your Board of
Trustees is faced with the constantly increasing costs of providing proper
care for the old people at Decoto and the children at Covina and in spite
of all reasonable economies which are practiced, the cost of providing
proper and adequate care continues to mount. The Board is of the opinion
that the Fraternity will want these Homes properly conducted, without
extravagances or frills, and ways must be found to meet these costs. The

118

119

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Board recommends to every member of Grand Lodge a study of the
audit which has been prepared.
There are some evidences that there may be a slight increase in the
number of applications for admission to the Home at Covina but the
total population is still far below the capacity of that Home with the
result that the per capita cost is high.
Applications continue to come in at about the usual annual rate.
Some years ago when the State Old Age Pension was increased and
Social Security was in its infancy it was thought that these two factors
might reduce the number of applications to the Home. This has not occurred, however, for the simple reason that mounting living costs make
it impossible for old people to live on the amount secured from these
sources and those fortunate enough to be eligible for the Home at Decato, naturally tum toward the Masonic Fraternity for assistance in
their declining years.

The entire facilities of the Palo Alto Clinic as a diagnostic unit have
been made available to the residents of the Home and the services of the
Palo Alto Clinic staff are available and utilized for any indicated hospitalization or operative procedure. Any patient needing hospital care,
not provided at Decato, uses the facilities of the Palo Alto Hospital.
This plan has worked out very satisfactorily since its inauguration,
January 1, 1952, for a year's trial.
It is hoped that it will !he possible for the plan to be continued ·in the
future as it has brought satisfaction to members of the Home as well
as the operating staff.

BUILDING 0PERATIONS-DECOTO

A number of improvements have been made to the Masonic Homes
property at Decato. ·
A sprinkling system has been approved for the hospital wing of the
Home at a cost of about $10,000.
.
Improvements to the water supply and steam supply have also been
authorized.
A superintendent's residence at Decato was approved early in June
and the work is well underway on this structure. It is located to the north
of the ramp leading to the nurses' residence and commands a dominating
view over the grounds and the valley.
The replacement of the passenger elevator in the south wing is to
he made as well as the modernization of the north and east elevators.
The structures as well as the grounds of both the Covina Home for
Children and the Decato Home for the Aged have been kept in a good
state of repair and are a credit to the Masons of the Jurisdiction.
BUILDING OPERATIONS-COVINA

The employees residence at Covina has been thoroughly modernized
during the year, providing additional apartments, sun porches, and
kitchen facilities. The expense of remodelling has been justified through
happier and more content personnel. A new and better type employee
has hen attracted 'by the improved housing arrangements.
MEDICAL ACTIVITIES FOR RESIDENTS OF THE DECOTO HOME

The Board entered into an agreement with the Palo Alto Clinic for
twenty-four hour medical coverage for any acute or emergency illness
at the Decato Home. In addition, regular office hours are held at the
Masonic Home daily, Monday through Friday, by a physician member
of the Palo Alto Clinic staff.

4-H PROGRAM-COVINA

Of special interest during Lodge visitations to Covina during the
year has been the 4-H farm program instituted by Superintendent Henry.
The benefits of the plan are well enough known to forego detailed description. However, the enthusiasm and interest with which the Covina
boys and girls have entered into the raising and care of domestic animals
have more than justified the relatively small expense. In many instances
the children have profited financialy through their efforts. Entering
animals in fairs and shows has !brought many prize ribbons and commendation to the Home children.
MOTION PICTURE

During the year a Special Committee ·on a motion picture of th~
Masonic Homes has approved a final script and made preliminary arrangements for production. Photographed in color with a background
of Masonic history, the picture promises to be outstanding in its field.
Members of the craft and their families, heretofore unable to visit both
Homes, will soon have an opportunity to become better acquainted with
the facilities. Present schedules provide that copies will be ready for
distribution to lodges during Endowment Month of 1953.
FINANCES

The funds of the Masonic Homes are divided into two categories.
The General Fund which is used for operations, general maintenance
and administration derives its income from per capita tax, the $25.00
Home contribution by initiates and the investment income from the Endowment Fund and Homes securities.
The year end figure as of July 31, 1952 discloses a surplus of $112,999 .95 after paying all expenses. The per capita for this period was
$1.00 per member. This gain added to savings over the past few years
has enabled the Homes to acquire a surplus of $444,356.00 as a rainy
day fund to be used in the event of a major catastrophe or in the event
that the Lodges themselves are unable to continue their per capita c;:ontribution. In the opinion of the Trustees it is deemed prudent to maintain
a reserve of approximately one year's operating costs.

120

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The per capita of 75c, a decrease of 25c over previous years, levied
last October and which has been collected for the coming year's operations, has produced the sum of $153,952.50. After estimating all other
income and providing for an advance of 10% in costs, the Homes will
end the next &seal year with an estimated gain of $5.952.50 for the
period. It is fortunate that the revenue from securities under the new
investment program has increased our income. A review of 8gures will
reveal that the cost of running both homes has increased from $242,884.00 in 1944 to $536,892.00 for the year just closed, an increase of
over 120%.
In the same period our income has advanced from $511,344.00 to
$649,892.00 an increase of about 27%. With a per capita income of only
75c for the coming year, our income will just about meet expenses.
· Relying upon the generosity of the craft to support the Endowment
Fund and with the realization that it may be necessary to ask for an
increase in future years, we recommend the continuation of the 75c per
capita to be collected as of July 31, 1953.
The Special Funds of the Homes are supported by bequests, gifts
and assignments and under our regulations cannot be used for ordinary
maintenance or general operations.
In 1946 the constitutional requirement for a 50c per capita for the
Building Fund was repealed. Since then all bequests not speci8cally
earmarked for the Endowment Fund have been added to our Building
Fund which is now called Reserve for Additions and Replacements. In
addition considera'ble sums have been received with a proviso that the
money be allocated to a specific Home.
We suggest that future contributions or bequests be made to either
the Masonic Homes of California or to the Endowment Fund as the
donor may desire and that no special mention be made of either the
Covina or Decoto Home.
The corporate title of the Homes is Masonic Homes of California
and it is to this corporation that bequests or gifts should be made.
The trustees have reviewed the various special and reserve funds and
have made adjustments which do not appear on the balance sheet as
of July 31. 1952.
·
We have transferred $150,000.00 from Unappropriated Reserves to
Reserve for Additions and Replacements. This will raise our building
reserve to approximately $525,000.00 which we feel is adequate for
our needs in the foreseeable future.
From the same fund we propose to transfer $35,000.00 to the Endowment Fund. Likewise, we plan to transfer $100,000.00 from the
Covina Special Fund and $65,000.00 from the Decoto Special Fund.
This will provide the Endowment Fund with an additional $200,000.00
which will swell its total to close to $5,000,000.00.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

121

We feel that there will be no criticism from the donors or membership as the money was bequeathed for Home purposes and the addition
to the Endowment Fund will perpetuate its use and in the end may
8nally reduce or eliminate the percapita provided the ravages of inflation or other economic evils can be stilled.
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG, President
LEONARD GROSS, Vice-President
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
RALPH H. HEAD
MYRON E. SMITH
ARTHUR M. WARREN

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
Brethren: It is again my duty and my privilege to submit to you this
my 12th annual report of the Masonic Home at Decato for the year ending July 31, 1952.
On August 1, 1951, the beginning of the fiscal year, 116 men and
172 women were enjoying the benefits of the Home, 29 women at an
average age of 75, and 28 men at the average age of 77.5 were admitted
during the year. During the same period 26 women, average 83.2, and
29 men, average age 87.9 passed to the great beyond, and 2 women were
withdrawn. Leaving us at the end of the year with 174 women and 114
men. Included are 9 married couples.
Age groups:
Men
Women
Between 60 and 70 y.urs....:..................... 13
15
"
70 and 80 yean.......................... 40
67
80 and 90 years.......................... 52
71
90 and over
.......................... 9
21
114
Average age ................................................ 78.2

174
70.8

73 or 25% of the population of the Home are being cared for in our
hospital and the east wing. Miss Bess Payne with her staff assistants
·are rendering an excellent service in that department.
For some time we were not entirely satisfied with the medical branch
of the hospital department. In an attempt to improve that service consideration was given many propositions. Finally, the service offered by
the Palo Alto Clinic through Dr. Lee was accepted. The doctors who
visit the Home daily are rendering a very satisfactory service and are
very popular with those whom they are serving. However, the service
is quite expensive.
Mrs. Mildred Harris, who was serving as matron of the Home when
our 1951 report was rendered, terminated her services with the H_ome
on November 1, 1951. Mrs. Esther Esseiva, Past Matron of Riverview
Chapter No. 336 O.E.S., was appointed and took over the responsible
duties of that very important office. During Mrs. Esseivais short tenure
she has proven herself to be capable, consciencious, loyal and a very
willing worker, and· is rapidly becoming very popular with the members
of the Home.
Mr. Paul Shipman, a member of Alameda Lodge No. 167, was ap-pointed Assistant Superintendent of the Masonic Home and entered
upon the duties of that office on February 1, 1952. Brother Shipman
was assigned the responsibilities of the outside work and during his
spare time he is familiarizing himself with the general operations of the
Home. We find him to be extremely interested in his duties, sincere in

123

his efforts, and kind and considerate of the residents of the Home. Our
Home will be, I am sure, greatly benefitted by his services.
Rev. Henchelwood who had been serving the Home as Chaplain
for some time was forced to resign, due to ill health, on December 1,
1951. The vacancy caused by his resignation was filled on February 1,
1952, by Rev. Howard Steward, Pastor of the Presbyterian Church of
Centerville. He is very understanding and by his counselling is bringing much comfort and happiness to those who call on him each day for
spiritual guidance.
With all the enthusiasm and new ideas supplied by the new members of our staff assisting our old dependables, Miss Payne, Superintendent of Nurses: Edward Hildebrand, Office Manager: Paul Reichert,
Purchasing Agent: Bill Emmal. Chef, and George Bettencourt, Farm
Manager, we should expect some where near 100% efficiency in every
department.
We are mindful of the fact that we mnst practice strict economy,
however, we know that economy at the expense of the residents is not
the brand of economy desired by the Trustees. Mounting cost of all supplies as well as labor costs makes it impossible to hold the lines, therefore, our operating costs continue to increase. The following figures may
be interesting to you. We served during the past 12 months 438,000
meals _average cost 27c.
Cost of provisions to serve those meals ... ............................... $101,457.70
Less cost of meats, fruits, vegetables, eggs, and
chickens supplied from our farm·················~······················
7,330.70
Cost of provisions ~-----~-~--·--···-······-~··········-·······$ 94,127.00
For many years our pasture land has been leased. On October 1, 1951
the lease was terminated. We are now grazing our own herd consisting
of 26 cows, 1 bull, and 20 calves. We are feeding 65 pigs in the new
pigery which we erected during the year. We also acquired abOut 500
laying hens from Brother Regan who was recently admitted to the Home.
From the above stock it is our hope that in the near future we will be
able to supply the Home .with all the eggs, beef, and pork we use. The
items used from the farm this year are as follows:
Eggs .. ···················· ··· ··· ······------ -------------·--------·--·-· -··----·-···--·$ 702.52
FRUITS-Fresh .. ............................................................ 178.80
Fresh Frozen .................................................. 270.00
Dried (Apricots) .......................................... 112.50
Hay ······································-·······························----------··· 420.00
MEAT-Beef, 6 carcasses, 3646 lbs ............................... 2,091.80
Chicken ............................................................ 415.38
Pork, 56 carcases, 10554 lbs ........................... 3,166.20
Vegetables ........................................................................ 400.50
$7.74.7.70

124

125

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Concrete for the foundation of the superintend ent's cottage was
poured on the last day of July. Fairly good progress has been made, as
the frame work is now up.
The numerous entertainme nts and visitations brought to the Home
during the year added greatly to the happiness of the residents.
I do feel, however, that Special mention should be made of two or
three programs which were really outstanding . On August 19th, Mrs.
Bernice Hanson, Chairman of the East Bay Matrons, accompanied with
about 600 members of the association delivered to the Home about
13,000 glasses of jams and jellies. After lunch, which was served in
our banquet dining room, a reception was held for Worthy Grand
Matron, Mrs. Louis B. Tamba in our auditorium at which time she and
her Grand Lodge Officers were introduced to the members of the Home.
Brother Paul Boren, President of the Ea's t Bay Masters and Wardens Association accompanied with about 200 members of the association made their annual visit to the Home, and enjoyed a barbecue which
was prepared for them. Following the festivities they presented a very
excellent program for the pleasure and entertainme nt of the folks at
the Home. Needless to say it was an enjoyable day for every one present.
On the evening of July 11th, the members of the Home held their
annual reception for the Grand Master and his wife. This year it was
a double feature, as the Trustees were holding one of their quarterly
meetings at the Home at the time, therefore, they participated in the
festivities.
·
During the evening Grand Master Louis Drap~au, his wife, and the
Board members, were all presented and introduced followed by a program presented by members of the Home for the entertainme nt of their
guests. At the close of the program ice cream and cake were served. A
delightful time was had by all.
Lodges from Sacramento to as far south as Los Angeles have brought
to the Home during the year 34 fine programs, and have exemplified
14 degrees in our Temple. Our visitors' register indicates that of the
2557 visitors who signed our visitors' register 51 were from foreign jurisdictions, the remaining number representing approximate ly 200 lodges
in this jurisdiction.
One or the other of the following Film Distribution companies of
San Francisco provides the Home with a complete program each week
through the year with a special program thrown in on Christmas or
New Years. These programs are appreciated and enjoyed by the Home
Folks. We are very grateful to RKO, Columbia, United Artists, Warner.
Bros., MGM and Twentieth Century Fox, and want to extend to the
members of those fine companies our sincere thankii for their conthn1~d
generosity.

Each Sunday through the year, devotional services are conducted
by a minister appointed by the Chaplain of the Home, reserving one
Sunday for himself.
Our library is well supplied with daily papers, periodicals, and fine
books. These books, magazines, and papers are enjoyed by many of the
members who enjoy good reading material.
To tne Board of Trustees of our Home, without whose timely advice
and willing assistance it would be difficult at times to carry on, we extend
our deep appreciation and grateful thanks. We are grateful indeed to
our staff for their loyalty and help, and to the large number of members
of the Home who have so willingly assisted, goes our sincere thanks.
Restpectfull y submitted,

J. R. EUBANKS,
Superintendent

126

127

PROCEEDINGS OP l'HB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Superintendent--Covina Home

Costa Counties. Tom Trebell, '52 and Patricia Achenbach, attended
stated meetings of Redondo Lodge No. 328, F. & A. M. and Progressive
Lodge No. 578, F. & A. M., respectively.

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is again with a feeling of gratitude and appreciation that I am
privileged to present the annual report of the Masonic Home for Children
at Covina: my fourth report as Superintendent and covering the fiscal
year ending July 31, 1952.
·
·
HOME MEMBERSHIP

The population of our Masonic Home Family, as of July 31, 1952,
numbers sixty-two children. Thirty-three boys and twenty-nine girls.
An increase of two children over the preceding year. Nine girls and
eleven boys have left us during the year. Nine by graduation from High
School: ten returning to re-established homes of their parents; and one
boy entering the U. S. Air Force. Eight of our graduates will continue
their education and one boy has selected entering the Armed Services.
The colleges enrolled in by the graduates include: Appointment to the
United States C~ast Guard Academy, New London, Connecticut, Chaffey Junior College, Long Beach City College, and Los Angeles City
College. During the fiscal year of 1951-52 ten boys and thirteen girls
were admitted to the Home, including one boy who was re-admitted.

Family Status
Children
Families
Orphans
5
3
H/0 Fathers Living
9
5
H/O Mothers Living
11
5
27
16
Both Parents Living
One Parent, one Stepparent
1O
7
Family relationship within the Home consists of the following: one
family of four children: three families of three children each; thirteen
families of two children each: twenty-three families of one child. Of the
sixty-two children, sixteen are in Covina High School: forty-six in Charter Oak Grammar School. Thirteen children, representing eight families,
are in the Home under membership of the grandparent. Total number
of Lodges having wards in the Home-thirty-eight from forty families.
HOME, SCHOOL, AND COMMUNITY ACTMTIES

The Home has, through the sponsorship of the American Legion
Auxiliary, Sunshine Unit No. 251, been represented at Girls' State by
Lorraine Bowman, '53. This is the third consecuf!ive year the Home has
sent representatives to Boys' or Girls' State. Our Girls' Sextette presented a program at the Installation of Officers Ceremony of Covina
Lodge No. 334, F. & A. M., Pomona Lodge No. 246, F. & A. M., and
Compass Lodge No. 590, F. & A. M. Laura Allison and Sue Burkhalter,
both of class '52, were guests on the "Covina Night" program of the
East Bay Masters nd Wardens Association of Alameda and Contra

Children of all ages participated in presenting a program to members of the Fraternity attending the Los Angeles Board of Relief Meeting in May. Our Home participated in the Covina Community Christmas
Parade with a float entirely decorated by members of the Masonic Pioneer 4-H Club. At the Annual Carnival of Charter Oak Grammar School
the 4-H Club boys and girls constructed a booth and sold ice cream as
a Home project. The children engaged in many phases of school activities, such as school social and service clubs, athletic competition, and
scholastic achievement. Sue Burkhalter, '52, graduated with the highest
scholastic honors of the entire graduating class. In addition, Sue and
Patricia Beard were the commencement speakers on this occasion. The
Home was well represented by class and school officers and had many
members in the honorary societies of "Esquire" and "Alcyonians.'' One
of our graduates. Tom Trebell, was installed Master Councillor of
George Washington Chapter, Order of DeMolay and two graduates,
Sue Burkhalter and Patricia Beard held the office of Honored Queen
of Bethel No. 98, Order of Job's Daughters. Swim parties, ·picnics, barbecues, dances, and many other forms of entertainment are encouraged
and afforded our children the opportunity of being host to children of
the community. The children of our Home Family attended Sunday
School and church and take active part in the activities pertaining thereto.
The children's spare time is occupied by participation in our all-round
athletic program: by performing small tasks in their dormitories: chores
on the farm if they are 4-H members: instruction in piano, group singing,
and ceramics; or recreation individually suitable for the various age
groups. It was again our good fortune to retain the Sportsmanship Trophy awarded for displaying the highest qualities in a track and field meet
with eight other homes of similar purpose.
'
IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM:

The renovation and refurnishing of the Employees' Cottage was
completed December 20, 1951. giving to the members of our domestic
and maintenance staff attractive apartments affording a maximum of
comfort and convenience. The parking space adjacent to the Barbecue
Area has been surfaced to provide a clean, convenient parking space for
our picnicing visitors. On our Athletic Field flood lights have been installed, thereby making possible night ball games and affording a wider
use of these facilities. The main kitchen has undergone complete renovation: a terrazzo floor was installed, new stainless steel range, griddle,
oven, toastmaster, and other equipment designed for efficiency and the
healthful preparation of food. A long range plan involving additional
picnic facilities, road resurfacing, farm buildings, and the reclaiming of

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

waste lands to permanent pasture, have been approved and should be
completed within the next year.
SUMMER PROGRAM

Five camping periods of two weeks' duration, affording each child a
vacation at Newport Beach under the supervision of a trained and competent staff, is being provided for the children of the Home. The youngsters are given free. play, specialization of interests appealing to their age
group, swimming, hiking, surf and deep sea fishing, overnight "sleepouts", boatrides, and excursion trips to nearby points of interest. For the
girls, additional avenues allowing for self-expression is made possible
by instruction in handicraft. The educational and inspirational inftuence
of such a program is shown by the normal growth and development of
our boys ·and girls-mentally, spiritually and physically. This year a
summer school was organized at the Home for the bene8f of students
who needed coaching in special subjects. This new project met with one
hundred percent cooperation of the children and therefore was an outstanding success.
HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM:

With the exception of childhood diseases, our children have enjoyed ·
especially good health this past year. Under the careful supervision of
Dr. W. P. Magan and his associates, they have been able to participate
to the fullest extent in school. community, and Home Family activities.
Our doctors made a complete physical examination of each child at
regular intervals, thereby making possible the maintaining of accurate
health progress records. This provides each child with an assurance
that everything possible will be done toward their maintaining the physically healthy body that promotes a greater learning capacity. Special
nourishment •. extra rest and a vitamin supplement were given when needed; dietary values were carefully analyzed, and menus planned for the
health and vigor of growing youth. We report eleven cases of measles,
eleven cases of chickenpox and one case of mumps. For surgery we re..
port one appendectomy, four tonsillectomies and one fracture. Dr. Ell..
wood Laine, our visiting dentist, examined each child twice during the
. year and gave one hundred thirty-five treatments in the Home Dental
Clinic. Eleven Children received orthodontia treatments from Dr. Town..
send Paul. Pasadena: one .h undred seven orthodontia treatments are also
recorded. Dr. Wayne D. Kuettel. Covina, continued opthalmic examinations and visual training treatments as part of our health plan. One
hundred fifty-three children were admitted to our Home hospital. with
a total of six hundred ninety-seven hospital days. Five thousand, eight
hundred thirty Home hospital clinic treatments were administered. We
are deeply grateful to our doctors and nurses for their untiring devotion
to the welfare of our boys and girls.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

FARM AND MASONIC PIONEERS' 4-H CLUB:

During this past fiscal year we have proceeded with our long-range
plan of improvement of farm and grounds. Where declining orange
groves once stood, we now have an excellent pasture for our livestock;
this pasture has been completely fenced. A Fish Pond providing a source
of reserve water for fl.re protection of the wooded section of the Home
property is nearing completion.
The Masonic Pioneers' 4-H Club, composed of our Intermediate
boys and girls, is part of our farm program and has enjoyed a very successful year. The efforts of the children in our 4-H Club were shown in
most gratifying results at the Twenty-first San Gabriel Valley 4-H Fair,
held at Ponoma, in which they received fifteen first premiums, nine
second premiums, and eight third premiums in beef, swine, sheep, and
food preparation classifications. At a Future Farmers of America-4-H
Fair, held in Puente, members of the Masonic Pioneers' 4-H Club were
· awarded one Champion premium, six first premiums, three second premiums, one third premium, and two fifth premiums. We anticipate entering a portion of our swine herd at six fairs throughout the state this
coming year. Our animal husbandry program is also based on a longrange plan and has for the past two years supplied the Home with practi;.
cally all the meat, ham and bacon consumed. The cattle at the Covina
Home are of the beef type and we now have a small registered Hereford
breeding herd. The Hereford breeding projects and some of the breeding
herd are owned by the children. The Home also maintains a small registered Duroc Jersey swine herd, whose production not only meets our
need of fresh pork, but also supplies our table with sugar cured ham,
bacon, and sausage. For this past fiscal year the Covina Home has produced and consumed, in live weight, 16,880 pounds of beef. 8,607 pounds
pork, 1,556 pounds lamb, 272 pounds chicken, I 06 pounds ducks, 589
pounds rabbit.
VISITATIONS:

The visitations of Lodges and affiliated Masonic organizations has
been a source of enjoyment to the children and staff of the Home. A
total of five thousand, two hundred seven guests has been recorded, to
whom we were proud to show our Home and the facilities it offers. This
represents a substantial increase over the previous year. The keen interest of members of the Craft in the welfare of the children is deeply
appreciated and is an inspiration to each one of us to strive for the perfection which is our goal. Donations such as Jams, Jellies, candy, play
and sports equipment, etc., brought to the Home by our visitors have
been greatly appreciated.
ENTERTAINMENT:

Our boys and girls were again special guests at the Annual Barbecue
Picnic, held at Lake Park by Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, F. &.A.

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M. Numerous fishing and beach trips have been enjoyed by the children
through the year. Movie Night continues to be outstanding in our entertainment program and we have been able, through the kindness of six
major motion picture studios, to show excellent feature and comedy pictures. To Columbia Pictures Corporation, Loew's Incorporated, RKO
Radio Pictures Incorporated, Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation,
Universal Film Exchanges Incorporated, and Warner Brothers Pictures
Incorporated, we are most sincerely grateful for their long continued
generosity in supplying our movie programs. We desire also to express
our thanks to Bliss Film Delivery, for delivery and pickup of the films
each week.
Festivities of the Christmas season began with a party held in the
dining room and given by Carmelita Lodge No. 599, F. & A. M. This
was followed by the Twenty-ninth Annual Christmas Party given by
Monrovia Lodge No. 308, F. & A. M. and Sojourner Lodge No. 607, F.
& A. M .. at the Masonic Temple in Monrovia and a Christmas Party at
the Masonic Temple in Hollywood given by Hollywood Lodge No. 355,
F. & A. M. Parties were also given by the children in their dormitories.
Our big "Family Christmas Party" climaxed the main holiday festivities
and we were again honored by the attendance of the Southern members
of the Board of Trustees and their families. Five groups of boys and girls
spent various weekends at Wrightwood Village, enjoying snow sports.
A~ in the past two years, our children were guests of the San Bernardino
Santa Fe Masonic Club at the National Orange Show at San Bernardino.
The Senior and Intermediate girls were special guests of The Westerners
Masonic Club of Twentieth Century-Fox Motion Picture Studio, when
they toured the studio and enjoyed lunch in the studio commissary.
Through the courtesy of the Rexall Drug Company (Los Angeles) all
our children witnessed a performance of the Los Angeles Police Vaudeville Show. On May 9, 1952, George Washington Chapter, Order of
DeMolay and Bethel No. 98, Order of Job's Daughters combined their
efforts to give a dance at the Masonic Home; the success of this occasion
was due to the musicians of Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, F. & A. M ..
who generously donated their musical talent.
ALUMNI OF THE COVINA HOME:

On Sunday, September 9, 1951, we welcomed more than two hundred
Covina Home Alumni and their families in observation of "Covina Home
Alumni Day". These children of yesteryear, to whom this day is dedicated, bring to the children of the Home, especially to those who will
soon be graduated, a realization that they too will one day embark upon
the new experience of starting out on the highway of life with a spirit
of confidence and faith in ultimately attaining the goals they have set.
The Covina Home Alumni Dinner, held in San Francisco October 6,
1951, was well attended. Mr. Charles A. Adams, Mr. Leonard Gross,
Mr. Myron Smith, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles Wollenberg were among

131

:e s~ecial guests on this occasion. An invitation to the Covina Home
eunio.n ~~s se?t to every Alumnus for whom we had an active address·
~lum;1 hv.mg m th~ San Francisco area received invitations to th~
an ~a?c1sco Reunion. A copy of Newsletter No. 26 was sent to all
Alumni m the United States and to those in the Armed Se v· . t
Lodges ~ponsoring. a child in the Home: and to Lodges or memb:r~c~~· tho
F raternity requesting a Newsletter.
e
. ~ay I again, as in former years, express the feeling of sincere apprec1at_1on to the member.s of the Fraternity for extending to me this opportuni~y to be of service to the children of our Brethren. My dee est
g~abtude to ~ach me~ber of the Board of Trustees for their inexhaus~ble
e art, council and gmdance that our Home Family may continue to be
~ou~~e of extr~me ~ride and satisfaction to the members of the Fraternit;
m t UI exemplification of a great Masonic principle.

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY,
Superintendent
Referred to Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

132

that less than 20% of our membership participated in the Endowment
Fund. It is now well over 30%. A quick picture shows the following:

REPORT OF
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board takes pleasure in presenting herewith its 20th Annual Report, covering the period from August 1,
1951, to July 31, 1952, inclusive.
Your Endowment Board was created by constitutional amendment
in 1933, and consists of fifteen members. Personnel of the present
Board is as follows:
1952
ORNO E. TYLER
HARRY A. NAUMAN, JR.
JOHN M. GORDON
OLEN T. TURNER
MARION A. LONG

1953
ERNEST G. BASHOR
CHARLES E. MOORE
IRA D. WHEELER
LESTER A. PRICE
NORBERT MIXTER

133

1954
EDMUND A. LOCKETT
CLOVIS J. ROBERT
BYRON COLEMAN
LEONARD R. AVILLA
RUEW. SIMS

The Officers of the Board are:
ERNEST G. BASHOR, Chairman
EDMUND A. LocKETT, Vice Chairman (South)
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice Chairman (North)
LLOYD E. WtLSON, Secretary
FRANK V. KEESLING, Treasurer
THE INVENTORY
Although the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund was created by
Grand Lodge in 1910, it was never considered a very active integral part
of Grand Lodge activities until the establishment of the Endowment
Board in 1933. When the Board started on its program, there was a
very definite educational pattern developed, namely. to enlighten the
Brethren regarding the work and needs of the Homes, and to afford an
opportunity for the Brethren to make special contributions for the support
of the Homes. In short, the purpose of the Board is "to study, devise and
carry out plans for securing an adequate endowment for the Masonic
Homes in California."
The first ten years showed approximately one million and a half
dollars in the Endowment Fund. but the participants were only a small
percentage of the members of the Craft. By the intense educational
program it is most satisfying to see the increase in individual participation. Let us just check the last few years, and we find until very recently

1~0

1~1

~~

49.233
60,801
64,040
Your Board feels that this is still entirely too low, but the percentage
growth is the encouraging factor.
Consistent with this individual contribution improvement is the
growth of the total amount through Lodge contributions, which reads
as follows:
1950
1951
1952
$194,328.62
$241,939.20
$267 .502.18
The result of the increase from all sources beiiig:
1950
1951
$237,360.15
$388,201.64
1950
1951
$237,360.15
$388,201.64

1952
$346,898.90
1952
$346.898.90

In connection with the above figures, your Board wishes to emphasize
that none of the funds included therein are us.ed for any other purpose
than investment. All expenditures for the account of Board operations
are from funds made available by Grand Lodge appropriations. The total
of such expenditures for the past year amounted to $6.613.55.
THE PROGRESS
Perhaps no better way to illustrate the progress could be mentioned
than by the increase of Honor Lodges. Your Board suggests an average
of $2.00 per member as being a reasonable contribution for an Honor
Lodge. Let us clarify this statement. Many members would not be
satisfied except by contributing many times this amount, while others in
the same Lodge might find themselves in no position to make any contribution. Thus, the over-all would average $2.0o or more per member.
With this thought in mind, Honor Roll Certificates have been given
to those Lodges obtaining this average amount. A few years ago, a comparatively small number of Lodges reached this goal. The number has·
taken a definite surge forward during the last few years. The past three
years show us the following:
1950
1951
1952
91 Lodges
137 Lodges
178 Lodges
There is only one logical conclusion when we review these figures,
namely. the Craft is becoming Endowment-conscious.
Your Board desires to give proper credit for this progress. The
Masters, and through them the Endowment Chairman and other interested members of the Lodges have made it their personal business to see

13i

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

that their membership was informed. The Inspectors, along with their
other busy schedules have given time and stressed the importance and
opportunity of this work.
In addition to the above, we are most grateful to the Most Worshipful Grand Master, who served for so many years as a valiant member of
the Board and carried throughout the Grand Jurisdiction such a strong
message that there has been a notable result-PROGRESS.
PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
Again, we extend our thanks for the wide distribution of pamphlets
which carry the story to the individual member. Never has there been
such a demand, and every effort has been made to meet it.
Our last edition of the Manual of Information was likewise well
received, and used freely by those charged with specific responsibility.
The Redistricting Program of the Board has proven a great benefactor and help to the Masters and Lodges by giving them a contact man
who has aided with their individual programs.
Every member of the Board feels rewarded for his efforts by the fine
response he has received. It is hoped and believed that such work will
yield even better results in another year. Consequently it is expected
that the Board will continue with similar plans and specifications.
We urge your serious and thoughtful consideration of the following
tabulated results. Our present inventory is satisfactory, our progress
encouraging. our plans and hopes for the future a challenge to all.
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

TESTIMENTARY GIFTS

Bequests have been received as follows, up to July 31, 1952:
Estate of:

·····-··········--······-····-····-········---.$ 300.00
J. w. Alexander---····--··-···-·····--······
Aadeforcl..••••.....______________..............·-·--·······-····--·········-- 1,000.00

Robert JOba
500.00
·
-·----·-·-..
Edward L. Campbell
Fred E. Ccirnllh...--·~--·-····-········---·-·-··------·---·- 4,551.52
Lena B. Earl--·--·-····-·-·····-······--·······---···-··---·····-·-~-····- 16,668.05
1.00
--.---··-····-···--···--········-· ·----····-··-...
Edward C. ~,
. ·--·-------.................-_.............·-·-·-··--··-··· 1,000.00
Colin R. McLade
500.00
Isaac MeodeJson---·--··---·-·-·- ····-····-·····-·-···-·----·---··· 794.78
Joy B. Rotblchfld._.:.______.•_ •....•·-·····--··-····-··-··-··---·-573.02
Bertha Sherwood...--··----·· ·-··--·-------------· - · · - - - - - - - - · · · - - - - - - 1,321.10
J. Boardmaa Sperry •
Rachel M. WtmbY-·------···--~--·---·-·····---·-··· 6,000.00
$33,209.47

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
MEMORIALS

Samuel Anderson
Alfred H. Bailey
Gerald Lewis Barbeau
Herbert Briggs
Charles J. Brw:a
William Bumgarten
Blanche Burris
Edward Casty
Mrs. John Casty
Arthur Chamberlin
Jeos P. Christiansen
Miss Mary F. Conner
J. H. Corwin
Wesley E. Dana
Edward S. Dobbin
John A. Duncan, M.D.
Bernard J. Fischer
William F. Foahery
Henry H. Freiermuth
Newton William Glaeser
E.C.Graham
Dr. George Hopkins Greear
Clive Adolph Handy
Mrs. Ray Harris
Earl S. Hartson
Charles Hayhurst
John Pratt Henderson
Dorts Henry
Mrs. Stetson G. Hindes
Arthur Harold Hobart
Sue Hurt
Fred Irving Hutchinson
J. D. Isaacs
W. H. Ireland
George B. Jackson
John J. Jacobsen
Evalyn M. Joly
Maurice Kann
Read Kendall
Mrll. Eva Koch
Edward P. Kysar
Miss Florence G. Leadlay
Onslow Levtnge
Charles W, Loftho~e

Thomas Richard Lloyd
Joel Marshall Luck
James H. McCarthy
Eleanore Manheim
James Melicker
Lawrence Mennes
Joseph J. Messenger
John J. Monzingo
Mrs. J. J. Moore
A. W. Morris
Ben Nordman
Willard Holmes ·Nutting
Samuel Orr
Henry Palmer
Leon A. Parker
Miss Anne Perkins
Senator and Mrs. George C. Perkins
Morris Prell
Mennotti J. Sarmano
Capt. Charles W. Saunders
Clifton Archibald Sause
R. J. Schrey
John W. Shadowens
Mrs. Mary Louise Shannon
Sholom S. Silverstone
Herbert W. Slandt
Earl Snyder
Fred G. Stone
Mrs. Mabel E. Stone
Victor Daniel Stuart
Alfred Sweet
Alfred J. Thibodeau
Mrs. George W. Turner
Maybelle and Karl F. Tuttle
Phillip H. Viner
Harold von Konsky
Mrs. Georgia Wade
Frederick Walthers
Gustav H. Wendt
Elsa Whitman
Charles H. Wieder
Dr. Frank C. Wood
Lol!Ls C. Youn9

135

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

HONORABLE MENTION

Lodges forwarding total contributions in excess of $2.00 per member.
(Such contributions were made by 178 Lodges) :
No.

Lodge

1 California

3
18
21
35
40
42
45
58
87
93
98

Members
551
· - - - - 781

· - - - - - - 48
-··Tehama · · · · - · - - ·
470
Mountain Shade •....,..•- • - - - - - - · - - - - Hawaiian -····------ ·----·-.--- ·---·--·-·- -·--- 1002
San Diego .............·----·---··-·- ·------------ -·----------· - 735
Sacramen to--------- --·----·--- ·-·-------- ---- 759
· - - - - - · - · - · - 183
Los Angeles----·-·---Crescent -·--·--··-- --·----·--- ---·------- ------ 726
1219
Union..
130
Naval ----·--·-- ·--·------ -·

------·-·--------·-·-----------·-·----·-=:=:=

St. Helena-·· -·-·-------- -

---------- ---

103

Hornltos -------- -------- -·--·---- ---- 556
120 Fidelity -·
571
128
114
Visalia
141 Grafton -·-----·--·-- --·---------- -138
·
143 Franklin
29 i
146 Abell ·--·---·------ --·-·
232
--·-·--149 Lassen ----·---·-·-·- - · - -·--------- ------·--- ---- 178
167
178
--------- ------------- --------192 Santa Barbara
- - · - - - · - - - - - - - _ : t 42
195 Buckeye -·
585
--·--·
198 Wilmingt on-------- -------·--· -·-·---··--- -:= 541
202 Pentalpha --·---------- ------·------ -432
207 Anaheim - - - - - - - - - - ·
---·------ 154
418
.......
---.........
208 Rio Vista------- ---·--·----·- ·-----------209 King David's - - - - - - - - - ·--------·-----·- --·------------- 164
211 San Benito --·----·---:-·---·-·-- ·-·- 401
214 San Buenaventura ---·-------'--··------·------·::::::::::::::::::~_:::::::::::: 574
161
______
..
_
..........
...........
:
220 Downey ......
221 Inyo -------·-·
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 804
224 Bakersfield ·-----·--- --------- --·------- -·-·- 505
226 .San Mateo ---------- -------····-- ------------ ·-----·- 168
237 Guadalupe
586
.
241 Santa
403
242 Magnolia - · - - - - - - '- - - - - · - - · - - - - - - - - 105
250 Adln --·--·
---------.---·--:-- ·- 359
264 Hesperian --·---·----- -·----. ---·-·--· --··-_:: 545
156
. 273 Anchor ···-·----- --------- -------274 Ano
- - - - 227
--------·-· --·-----:... 516
. ·
-·--·-277 s eI mayo-···--.
--·----------·
278 Southem Callfomia · - · · - - - - - - - - · - · - - · - - · - - 225
· - - - 92
279 Hanford .....
----·
·
281 Mount Shasta - - · - - - · - - - - - - · - - - - · - - · - 208
287 Wlnnedumah - - - · - · - - - - - - - · - - - - - - · - · - - 350
291 Santa Paula - - ·
- - - - - · - · - - - - 472
303 PortervUle
·----·-·-- --------- ·-·-··- 234
309 Delano -------------- --------- ·-- 204
313 Tehachapi
265
·-·-·---315 Norwalk - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - - - - - - 642
320 South Gate
·-·------ ------·-- --- 644
322 Alhambra - - - - - - - - - - - - ·
· - - - - - 356
326
125
~= 506
----=-~=
·------329 Needlesd
Vallee e F ranee--- ·------·-- ---· ' ·
332 San Pedro
------

-·------ ------- --·--=- ---·-

~i:,m~~

Ana--------·-------·----··-·-------------·-·-

m

Total
$1,108.00
1,747.75
135.00
967.40
2,025.00
1.558.00
1,871.00 .
370.00
1,453.00
2,448.00
341.04
232.05
1.325.99
1.279.60
232.50
44150
605.10
509.50
384.50
l,338.00
706.00
286.00
l,202.50
1,437.50
89250
312.00
850.15
383.60
1.035.47
1,193.00
336.00
1.635.00
l,487.00
500.00
1,522.50
1,120.56
225.00
818.50
1,500.00
318.25
504.25
1,816.50
453.00
200.00
455.41
842.60
l,027.50
532.00
450.00
538.10
1,502.50
1.366.05
831.75
275.25
l,028.51

333
334
335
341
343
346
351
352
357
367
368
371
377
378
379
383
387
390
392
394
402
405
406
408
409
414
415
418
420
424
437
438
444
450
452
457
458
461
462
467
469
470
472
482
485
493
495
501
506
512
515
519
520
524
528
529
531
535
530
.543
545
546
558

Alta-·--- --------- ··------·- ---·------ -- 3~~
Covina- --------- ----··--- ---·----- --- 1041
------ 385
Westgate - · - - - - - - - - - 535
Oxnard -----·--- ------·
San Fernando- -----·-·---- -·---·-·---- ----·---·--- 725
-------- - 598
Palo Alto - - · - - · - · - ·
388
Palestine ---------·--- ----·---·--Sunset ----------- --·-------- ----·--·--- -------·-· 223
---·- 582
·-·---·
Buena Park
South Pasadena --------- --------- --------- -· 628
- 701
Unity - - - - - - - - - · - · - · - - · 176
------le Progres de J'Oceanl
----------- ---------·- --· 440
Artesia -·--Mizpah-- ------·--·- -------·--- --·--·---·-· ---- 239
146
Fillmore---·---·
Orosi - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - · - · - - 393
------------ ---·-·----·-- ---------- 126
Coalinga
926
Imperial
616
West Lab ·
-·------- - 209
University
- · - - 709
Brawley - - - - - - - - - - Moneta ---------- ---------- ---·------ ------ 684
- - - - - 152
Burbank - - - - - ·
395
Sierra Madre
Honolulu -------------- -------------- -----·-------- --·---· 353
399
Arlington --·-·------ ----------· -·--------- ---·--- 456
Silver Trowe l------- ·-·----- ---·--116
-Elysian -----·--· -·---·--·- ·----·-·-215
-·
Kerman
Exeter -------- -------- ---·--·- -- 290
·----.- - - - - · - - - - 59
Lancaster -----·
Acacia -------- ·--·-·-·- --·-·---- ------ 119
·--·--·-- -·---- 791
Carpinteria - ·
500
Van Nuys --·----- -------- ·----·-·- ·-- 484
San Pasqual --------- ·--------- ---------· 687
·
Ramona
- - .- - 435
Henry S. Orme ..
Argona ut------ -----·-·- -·-·----· - .607
....... 355
Paul Revere
153
-·Culver City --------- ·Yorba Linda--- ---------- ·---·----- --------· 34i
____._:= 246
Lincoln
368
Maul - - - - - - - - - - 160
Clarence P. Smith - - · · - - - - - - - - · - 117
Chowchilla - -- - · - - ·
Atascade ro---·-·--· ----------- -·---....... .... 390
Lebanon ---------- ---------- -·---·--·- ·-- 271
- - -- -·---·-- 999
Westwoo d------·
Mount Olive - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - · - HJ
- - - - 539
Palms---- ·
391
Vermont Square
E u c l i d - - - - · - - · - - · - - - · - - - - - - - - - - 841
149
Ionic ----·----- -------··- ---·------ --·----- 520
Catalina Island ---- - - - 483
Beverly Hilb - - ·---·------ '·---·-·---- ---·--·-- 160
Loyalty
268
Alexandria
--··--·---- ---- 706
Alexander Hamilton
---------·---·-· ··---·-- 504
Utopia
201
Signal
444
Jonathan.._
368
San Gabriel -----··-·--- ----·------ "-Point PlrmJn

137
306.00
913.50
2,09i.15
886.76
1,160.50
1,690.97
1,204.00
90750
486.00
1,343.50
1,341.00
l,i61.10
400.00
1.44950
654.00
415.50
l,000.00
318.50
2,101.00
1,46450
541.50
1.472.00
1.441.30
323.00
942.00
739.50
1,181.00
968.06
24).00
473.50
600.00
128.00
30850
1.684.35
l,000.00
1.073.50
1,451.50
887.00
l,222.52
728.50
347.00
1.189.50
501.00
884.50
411.50
324.17
942.50
608.00
2,036.00
900.00
1,272.60
791.38
1,777.50
301.00
1,059.00
1,146.00
320.53
540.00
l,457.15
l,017.80
414.31
900.00
899.00

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

f
1~!:1~. c;-;a;i;I"::::::::::.::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::.·.·.:::::::::::::.·.·.:::::::::::::.·.:::::::: 301
232
575
169

562

566

576
577
578
583
585
589
595
596
598
599
600
603
604
614
616
622
623
627
628
629
633
636
637
641
642
646
650
659
662
665
672
677
678
679
681
684
685
686
689
690
691
693
694
695
696
699
700
701
702
703
706
709
710
711
712
713
714
715

Fort Crook ......................................................~ .....................................
El Cajon Valley ··············--······························································
Sunnyside ···-···············································································--·-······
Progressive ············-·-········································---····························
Wasco ................................................................................................... .
Manchester ..................................................................................... .
Kauai ......................................................................................................
Alexander G. Bell ........................................................................... .
Guardian ............................................................................................... .
Pearl Harbor ......................................................................................
Carmelita ·······-···················································································

Bi~';';'~t.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Jubilee ··········-······················································································
Larchmont ......................................................................................... .

~~~t1?ro~~-~~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Menorah ··················-········································-··································
Lamanda Park ................................................................................. .
Truth ....................................................................................................
Fairview ····················-·······································································
Poinsdtla ............................................................................................
John Marshall ................................................................................. .
Palisades ·································-····························-···········-·-··-·-···--··

tamC~r!1~~~~:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Metropolitan ................................................................................... .
La Brea ............................................................................................
La Habra···································-······················································
Henry Knox ....................................................................................... .
Kaweah ·······················--················-····-··············------·················----····
Laguna Beach ····················-··························-····································
Liberal Arts ·····················---································································
Altadena ····················-···············-················-········································
Canby Cross ..................................................................................... .
Dos Palos ........................................................................................... .
Trana ................................................................................................. .
San Marino ....................................................................................... .
Albany ············································-···················································
Pahona ..................•...............................................................................
San Carlos ···················-····················································-·················

.

r:~:~~i~s~~~~~;- _: _: _:_:_:_:_:_:_: _:_:_: : :.:_: : : :.:_:_:_: :_: _~:-~: : .: _:_: : :.:_:_: : _: : : .:_: : : : : :

Meudel ························-···············--·-····················································
Crossroads ······················--·····················-·-······························-···········

~~~bler~~o~~-~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
~~~~~!~~r~~~~~~.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Westchester ....................................................................................... .
Hunters Point Naval ····---·············--······-········································--·
Lorenzo ·····························-·················-················································
Anacapa ·············-'·············-····························-·-·······················-···········
Rim of the World··············-···············-·····························-·················
Los Altos ··························--············--······················----························

~h:!roLarea;1~:....::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Magnolia Park ····························-····················································

Referred to Committee on Finance.

278
468
511
301
366
125
272
838
571
335
391
290
338
405
202
371
816
260
246
271
623
284
382
242
251
138
262
175
435
118
175
309
445
136
115
127
308
196
65
240
262
138
132
115
192
182
166
66
78
173
114
115
82
71
61
78
66
71

607.50
700.00
338.50
608.00
966.00
1.052.00
630.50
762.00
444.50
651.00
1,779.50
1,299.06
739.50
799.50
581.10
680.00
820.00
412.50
848.00
2,439.75
576.50
563.50
735.00
1,250.00
597.50
792.00
502.75
856.75
297.00
535.00
389.75
890.00
298.80
396.00
708.50
900.50
336.50
235.00
260.75
737.50
412.00
139.00
499.50
707.00
296.50
405.00
297.00
400.20
395.00
393.50
149.50
157.00
354.29
241.50
248.50
311.14
229.00
161.00
170.50
143.00
383.50

139

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is the twenty-sixth ( 26) annual report of the Board of Control
to Grand Lodge. In this past quarter of a century, we have seen our
Boards of Relief operating efficiently and economically. Changing conditions of prosperity, depression, peace or war have not permitted them
any deviation from our established practices. A review of the rulings of
this Grand Lodge will show that relief as administered within the jurisdiction of California has kept to the spirit and intent which our ancient
Brethren so wisely and carefully established.
In 1862 the Jurisprudence Committee in refering to a communication
from Vacaville Lodge No. 134, reported to Grand Lodge that sojourning
Masons, their widows and orphans are entitled to relief (Ross Digest
No. 902 ).
In 1877 they reported, "The time when oue of our members needs
and applies for relief is not the time when a Lodge may stop to inquire
whether he has, in something or in many things, offended, and that he
must be presumed to be worthy until his unworthiness has been judicially
determined; and further that it is not the province of the Charity Committee of a lodge at anytime, to canvass or determine the question whether
or not a member of their lodge is worthy of Masonic consideration. Their
only duty is to ascertain if the member is in actual need, and if they find
that he is, they are to relieve him." (Ross Digest No. 896).
Grand Master Angellotti in 1899 decided that the right of relief is
absolute regardless of reimbursement. His decision reads in part, "While
it rests entirely with the Grand Lodge to determine what, if any, assistance shall be given by it to the various Boards of Relief to aid them in
their local work, I cannot believe that the Grand Lodge of California
will ever impose any penalty upon the Board of Relief or subordinate
lodge, simply because it has given necessary assistance to any Mason,
his widow or orphan in distress, within this jurisdiction, wherever he or
she may hail from, and whatever may be the attitude of the jurisdiction
from which he or she may come, as to reimbursement. If so, it will certainly be contrary to what we have hitherto been taught as to our duty
toward our distressed brother, his widow and orphans. The doctrine
that a Mason must, so far as he can relieve a distressed Brother Mason,
is an old as Masonry, and it is one of the foundation stones of the Institution. We cannot disregard it.... There are certain fundamental laws
that are part of 'The Body of Masonry' and that cannot be changed, and
this is one of them .... While we may justly claim that the jurisdiction
to which the distressed brother belongs should reimburse us, if able to
do so, its neglect to perform what we may consider its duty in no degree
lessens our duty to the distressed." (Ross Digest No. 898)

HO

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

..

The Jurisprudence Committee reported to Grand Lodge in 1894,
The duty of a lodge is to its members and to their families, without
regard to their place of residence, and the fact that one of its members
or the widow of a deceased member, has removed to some place beyond
its territorial jurisdiction, does not absolve the lodge from the performance of its well known and necessary duty. When Masons come to us
from abroad or from other States and are in need, we recognize our
duty to give them such assistance as their necessities require, and to
the end that such assistance may be given to those who ought to receive
it, and that our charity may be efficiently and properly bestowed, Boards
of Relief have been organized in our cities and provided with funds for
that purpose. . .. We recognize the duty to give relief whenever a
proper case is presented, and when that duty is performed we think it
only right to report each case to the Lodge of which the recipient is a
member, and to ask, as we should give, reimbursement, that we may have
a fund .w ith which to continue the good work.
"Some of our brethren of other jurisdictions tell us, 'Ttue, you relieved the distress of a member of our family, but you were bound by
your tenure to do that, and to do it without hope or expectation of reward or reimbursement, and to do it so unostentatiously and quietly that
even the left hand should not be advised of the kindly act done by the
right.' That kind of instruction sounds well, but is not, under the circumstances, at all satisfactory, because we have a very distinct belief
that every Masonic family ought to exercise some care over its own members, and make some provision to protect and care for such as need care
and protection.
"We do not think that the whole duty of a lodge consists in making
Masons and using them so long as they are healthy and strong, and
turning them adrift when by sickness or misfortune they are no longer
able to care for themselves .... A Lodge is an organized society, and we
insist that one of the first and most important purposes of its organization is that it shall protect and relieve its own members when they need
protection or relief, and that, except under extraordinary circumstances,
it is false to its trust when it fails to do its duty in that regard, and that
when another Lodge in the same or another Grand Jurisdiction has
furnished such relief. it may properly and of right present its claim for
reimbursement." (Ross Digest No. 892)
The decision of Grand Master Traylor ( 1880) established that the
family of a Mason who had taken his own life, if the Brother was in
good standing at the time of his death, has as much claim on the Lodge
for aid and protection as if his death had not resulted from his own act.
(Ross Digest No. 904).
In 1881 Janesville Lodge No. 232 wrote Grand Master Denson
"In conferring the third degree upon a candidate, and just as he wa~

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Hl

being instructed in the Guard and Sign, he was seized with a sudden
illness and had to be removed from the Lodge room and carried home.
There is little chance of his ever completing the work.'' The Grand
Master's decision was that he is a Master Mason and entitled to be so
considered for certain purposes, but not having been fully instructed,
he is not a member of the Lodge and cannot sit in a Master Mason's
Lodge. He is entitled as a Master Mason for all purposes of charity and
relief and is to be so considered and treated, and in case of his death is
entitled to Masonic burial. (Ross Digest No. 895).
Grand Master Lucas ( 1897) ruled, where there is no evidence of a
legal marriage, a woman claiming to be the widow of a deceased brothe~
Mason should not be recognized as such, and is not an object of a
Lodge's charity. (Ross Digest No. 908 ). He also ruled, after a request
had been made.. to use his power to compel a lodge to render assistance
to the widow of a deceased brother Mason, which he declined to do,
as there was no evidence that the lady was unable to support herself.
He did not consider that the Lodge was under any moral or Masonic
obligation to render her financial assistance. (Ross Digest No. 908).
One of the decisions of Grand Master Preston ( 1896) was "The
widow of a deceased brother Mason who was in good standing at the
time of his death, but whose lodge had subsequently surrendered its
t:harter, becomes a charge, if needy, upon the . charities of the lodge
within whose jurisdiction she resides." (Ross Digest No. 905).
The Jurisprudence Committee of 1897 reported to Grand Lodge "A
worthy distressed Mason who, at the time of his application for aid, is
in good standing in the order, is a just charge on Masonic charity, and
on the lodge within whose jurisdiction he resides, even though his application for membership may have been rejected by said lodge." (Ross
Digest No. 903).
Grand Master Filmer ( 1913) rules, "The son of a Master Mason,
after he has passed the age of majority, or the sister or mother of a
Master Mason is not entitle4 as a matter of right to Masonic charity,
but certain conditions may prevail where such son, sister or mother,
being helpless and incompetent to sustain themselves, and dependent
upon the brother for support, and the brother being unable to extend
relief to them, the lodge may, by extending relief to the son, sister, or
mother relieve the brother himself.'' (Ross Digest No. 900).
The report of the trustees of our Masonic Homes in 1928 called attention to the message of Grand Master Tinnin ( 1886), "When a
Master Mason's daughter marries, she severs her right in the order by
and through her father, and thence can only retain her rights therein by
and through her husband.'' They also noted Grand Master Belcher's
decision (' 1893), "The daughter of a Master Mason, whether of tender
years, or if unmarried, of mature years, is a member of his family and is,
if in need, entitled to ask for and receive assistance from Masons wher-

142

PROCEEDINGS OP THE ·

ever she may be." The report of the Trustees goes on to say that "Our
settled law with regard to widows is that if the widow of a Master
Mason remarries to one who is not a member of our fraternity, she is
not thereafter entitled to Masonic consideration." They conclude their
report with the resolution, "that the word 'orphan' wherever used in
the Constitution or in any regulation, shall hereafter be deemed to mean
the son or daughter under the age oftwenty-one years of a deceased
Master Mason; and no man or woman over twenty-one years shall be
entitled to relief as a matter of right as the son or daughter of a Master
Mason." (Ross Digest No. 901).
A decision of Grand Master Gist ( 1934) was that "A divorced wife
of a Mason is no longer a dependent relative." (Ross Digest No. 910).
The last decision concerning relief recorded in Ross Digest is that of
Grand Master Earl Warren in 1936 wherein he ruled, "The widow of
a Master Mason who was in good standing at the time of his death, is
entitled to all necessary assistance, so long as she remains. a widow."
(Ross Digest No. 907).
·
All of these decisions and reports have ·been adopted by Grand
Lodge.
The Ordinances of Grand Lodge at section 93 says in. part, "The
Board of Control shall make such rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary for the effective operation of the several Boards of Relief and
Employment Bureaus within the State ..." These rules and regulations
have been prepared by the Board of Control and are now being used by
our Boards of Relief as the pattern of their everyday operation. Article
XV of the Rules and Regulations includes all of the above decisions and ·
reports.
The Board of Control assures you that relief as admiµistered in this
jurisdiction conforms in every detail to our ancient and honored custom.
We continue to care for those of our needy as their circumstances may
require. Long practice in the administration of relief has permitted us to
develop businesslike methods without detracting from proper considerate understanding, and courteous attitude in the granting of relief. We
still emphasize the importance of placing the responsibility upon the
lodge in which our needy brother holds membership and we look to
them for reimbursement. Our method permits us to break relief problems into two sections, entirely separated from each other. First our
worthy distressed brother, his widow or orphans, are properly cared for
as their needs may require and second the question of reimbursement
is then only a matter to be discussed by the brother's lodge and our
Board of Relief. Thus, in this manner, we can follow the admonition
that the left hand shall not know of the action of the right.
·

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

143

BOARDS OF RELIEP

In this jurisdiction we maintain eighteen ( 18) Boards of Relief. All
of these Boards have placed on file with the Board of Control a complete
record of the activities of their offices for the Masonic year just closed,
as required by the Ordinances. These reports have been audited by
qualified accountants and have been carefully analyzed by the Board of
Control.
Their reports for the past year show as follows:
Advanced for relief..........................................................................$44.780
Funerals conducted ···-····························-·······-······················-··········
932
Total ·Calls made .............................................................................. 21,925
Sick Calls ·························································································· 6,719
Relief calls ........................................................................................ 6,080
Miscellaneous calls ·······················.··················································· 9, 126
Several of our Boards of Relief maintain Blood Banks for the benefit
of our Masonic brethren and their families. During the past year these
Boards have reported:
Units of blood donated .................................................................... 2,025
Units of blood withdrawn ................................................................ 1,463
Actual cost saved our Brethren ........................................................$35.900
EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

The application of the Masonic Board of Relief of Glendale to establish and maintain an employment bureau was approved by the Board
of Control and the Grand Master during their past year.
We now have eight employment bureaus within the State. They also
have filed their audited reports with the Board of Control as required.
Their records show:
Registered for employment .............................................................. 6,526
Male .............................................................................................. 4,643
Female ···········································•·············································· 1,883
Jobs secured ...................................................................................... 2,386
Positions offered by employers ........................................................ 8,896
No fees are charged by our employment bureaus either to the employer or to the employee. Were we to use the rates permitted commercial
a~ncies by the State of California, our offices would have eamed
--·-··-·············-··················•-..~---········································-$155,714.00
APPROPRIATIONS

To maintain our Employment Bureaus at their present high standard,
it has been customary for Grand Lodge to assist them financially by
means of appropriation.
The Board of Control has approved and recommends to this Grand
Lodge that the following appropriations be made to our eight employment bureaus:

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

East Bay·--··- ········-··················..·-····---......- .....:.. _____..........$ 2,500
295
Fresno ................................................................................•...........•...
440
··························-················
Glendale ·····················-··························
Long Beach ........................................................................................ 1,870
·Los Angeles ······=················-·······································-···················· 6,500
Sacramento .......................................................................................... 375
San Diego .......................................................................................... 2,464
San Francisco .................................................................................. 2,000
Total............·-····························-·········································$16,444
The above application for appropriation, together with the recommendation of the Board of Control, has been filed with the chairman of
the Finance Committee, as required by section No. 95 of the Ordinances.

to the Most Worshipful Arthur Crites for his generous hospitality and
·
.
to our Grand Orator, Ralph C. Hine.

REIMBURSEMENTS
Boards of Relief who are unable to secure reimbursement from the
lodge or Grand Lodge of a distressed brother, may request reimbursement from Grand Lodge by filing with the Board of Control a complete
and detailed record of the case in question, together with the reasons
why reimbursement is necessary.
The following application for reimbursement has been received:
A member of Hang Yang Lodge No. 1048, Seoul, Korea of the
Grand Jurisdiction of Scotland, being destitute applied to the Masonic
Board of Relief of Santa Monica Bay. Investigation established that he
was worthy, and in good standing. He is an experienced engineer, being
well educated and of good habits. Because he is a British subject, employment in his field of engineering was difficult. He had been trying
to support himself by working as a dishwasher and housecleaner. Relief
was granted in the amount of $50. No reimbursement has been received
from hfs lodge. We have recently received word that he is now employed
in the Philippine Islands.

For the past several years, the Board of Control has concentrated
on the problem of developing a Uniform Compact for the use of our
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. In 1951 our proposed
Uniform Compact was presented to the Most Worshipful Arthur Paulsen. Since receiving his approval the Compact has been signed by two
hundred eighty-two ( 282) or 100% of the masters whose lodges make
up our Boards of Relief. The Compact was made effective as of August
l, 1951 and since that date no single question has arisen as to its provisions or interpretation. We therefore attach a copy of the Uniform
Compact as a ~ortion of this report.
Our Boards of Relief now having completed a quarter of a century
under the authority of the Board of Control, we think it a logical time to
have our work, and the legislation affecting it, reviewed by an independent body. We therefore recommend that the Grand Master appoint a
special committee to work with the Board of Control. to study Relief
and Employment legislation, to clarify conflicting or misleading sections,
to prepare new legislation, where necessary, so as to be assured that
their functioning conforms to and reflects the true attitude of this Grand
Lodge; also to analyze all forms, instructions and regulations as prepared by the Board of Control for the use of the Boards of Relief and
Employment Bureaus such as are contained in the Uniform Compact,
the Standard Practice Bulletin and the Rules and Regulations for Boards
of Relief.
Fratenally submitted,
JACK C . BUTLER, Chairman
JOHN T. MARTIN
Guv A. TOLLE
HARRY F. WHITE
REGINALD M. MILLS, Secretary

The above request for reimbursement together with the recommendation of the Board of Control has been filed with the chairman of the
Finance Committee as required by Section No. 95 of the Ordinances.
BoARD OF CONTROL
The Board of Control has held three meetings during the past year.
In February we met for three days in Bakersfield with all of the Northern
California Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. In May we held a
three day meeting with the Southern California Boards of Relief and
Bureaus in Santa Barbara. We are meeting during this session of Grand
Lodge, having convened on last Saturday and continuing throughout
most of this week.
We are deeply indebted to the representatives of both Bakersfield
and Santa Barbara for their many courtesies. Especially we are indebted

145

Referred to Committee on Finance.
GRAND LoDGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
MASONIC BoARDS OF RELIEF
UNIFORM COMPACT
ARTICLE I-ORGANIZATION
Section 1. Pursuant to Section 264 of the Ordinances of the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California, this Uniform Compact is entered into by and between the signatory Lodges for the purpose

of maintaining in this community a Masonic Board of Relief under the
authority and supervision of the Board of Control of Grand Lodge.
Section 2. The Lodges shall indicate assent hereto by causing their
respective Worshipful Masters to sign this instrument in the name of
the Lodge, and after approval by the Board of Control shall be subject
to and governed by this Uniform Compact and the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Control until such time as their withdrawal shall
have been approved by the Board of Control.
Section 3. One original signed copy of this Uniform Compact shall
be kept and preserved in safekeeping by the Secretary of this Board ~f
Relief at such place as the Board of Relief shall designate, and one_duphcate signed copy furnished to the Board of Control. One copy with the
names of all signatory Lodges and dates of signing inscribed thereon
shall be furnished by the Secretary to all member Lodges and to all
members of the Board of Relief.
ARTICLE II-NAME

Section 1. The name of this Board of Relief shall be the Masonic
Board of Relief of ........................•
(community)
Section 2. If an Employment Bureau is established within this Board
of Relief it shall be known as the Masonic Employment Bureau of

..................................
(community)
ARTICLE Ill-FINANCES

Section 1. The necessary finances for the operation of this Board of
Relief shall be provided through assessments levied upon the m~mber
Lodges on a per capita basis, except such funds as may be contributed
by Grand Lodge toward the support of an Employment Bureau.
ARTICLE IV-AMENDMENTS

Section 1. This Uniform Compact is subject to amendment only by
the Board of Control with the approval of the Grand Master. .

* * * * * *
IN WITNESS WHEREOF our signatures are affixed below on
the dates indicated, it being understood that this Uniform Compact
supersedes any previous Compacts in force prior hereto.
--··--·_Lodge No....... F&AM Date ···-··········--...Lodge No.·-··· F&AM Date
Worshipful Master.

147

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

146

-----~········-·Lodge No....... F&AM Date -·-·-·-···-·-.Lodge No•...... F&AM Date
--··-·····w~~~hif;(ci·"M;~t~;····-···-·····

···············-w~~;fui·M;;;;·········--·--·

;._--······_Lodge No....... F&AM Date ···-······-···-···.Lodge No.....- F&AM Date
---··-·······w-;,;~hir;£ci-M·~-~t·;;····-···········

·············--w~;;hl;fui·i"&-;;·-·······-··-···

____.........-~dge No.·-··· F&AM Date ·····-··········-···.Lodge No....... F&AM Date
-·--····w-;,;~h"ir;£ci M;~t~;····-···-····

···············-w~;~w;fui·M~;t;;········--··--·

(Additional blank pages will be used for signatures of other Lodges.)
APPROVED:

APPROVED: BOARD OF CONTROL
Chairman

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON THIRTY-THIRD
ANNUAL OBSERVANCE OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This Com~ittee's annual report on the Observance of Public Schools
Week endeavors to wrap up in orie package, the inspiring evidence of
increased co-operative effort and results accomplished by local committees in the 33rd Annual Observance.
The added number of splendidly organized reports vividly portray
the co-operative hard work done at community level.
In districbl where unification of lodge efforts has been the practice,
several reports for this year could serve as educational models of professional organization in achieving teamwork, public co-operation and
interest.
Most reports were presented in such a manner that the Grand Lodge
. committee's burdens in reviewing them were greatly alleviated. It is
almost impossible for us to handle loose clippings just dropped into an
envelope. Thanks to the committees who took the time to paste their
clippings to sheets of paper.
We regret to state that all lodges excepting sixty have reported. We
hope that the Masters not reporting realize the necessity of complying
with the Grand Master's Proclamation.
The annual report of this committee. has been printed for the Proceedings of this communication, and advance copies are being distributed. Therefore, we ref er you to the report for details of our activities
rather than take your time to recite its content. Please have your committee review it. Many new ideas are presented.
All reports and materials received from the lodges are on display
in Polk Hall next door. You are invited to visit and study the work of

148

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

the many committees. Each report has been reviewed and studied by
our committee.
Many requests have been received to continue with the same type
of material furnished for the last two Observances. This has been
planned. The co.-operation of each lodge is required to see that the
material addressed to the Master is put in his hands and finally given
to his committee.
We are asked to send the material to you early. Our first letter to
the lodges is mailed in January. Information on your reports that "Grand
Lodge material was not received," reveals two major categories of explanation:
The past or present Master; or the Secretary has failed to pass the
material to the incoming Master or Public Schools Week chairman.
Or-the material was received, but not read.
Each year we receive inquiries regarding the date for next year.
Traditionally the Observance starts on the fourth Monday in April.
This avoids conflict with Easter.
•
The date, therefore, would be April 27th through May 2nd in 1953.
Public Schools Week as a statewide Observance originated within
the Masonic Fraternity for the purpose of arousing awareness of the
grave crises that threatened our public schools system at the close of
World War I.
The planning for the Observance was built on a flexible foundation
in order that local programs could be developed to fit community patterns and induce all citizens to make an annual personal appraisal of
their schools.
The program of public schools week, then, was the instrument forged
to implement the objectives. The functional efficiency of that instrument
has been tested by results achieved through its use for over a generation.
Here is a simple "objective" formula with which you may test the
eft'ectiveness of your current planning tools:
1. Will they aid in creating greater community interest in the needs,
the achievements or weakness of your schools?
2. What is the attitude of the school principal and faculty in your
community? Their co-operation is both vital and basic to the success
of the Observance.
3. Have Masonic committee plans been constructed and co-ordinated
to invite active participation by other community organizations and
leaders?
4. Are all brethren in your lodge clearly aware of the mounting and
vital importance of the Observance in relation to the many complex
problems and school shortages faced by most communities throughout
the nation and specifkally in our Jurisdiction?

As virtually every individual lodge report pointed out, without the ·
splendid support, patience and sustained work of all educational authorities-superintenden ts, principals, faculty and individual teachers, the
traditional success and growing importance of the Public Schools Week
Observance would be an impossibility.

149

We owe a debt of gratitude for the unparalleled and unselfish support of this event by individuals and members of the great organizations
which participated in the 33rd Annual Observance of Public Schools
Week.
Once more our thanks to each of you, your committees and all who
worked so hard and faithfully to make our annual Observance the success which your reports indicate it was.
We recommend the continuance of the Public Schools Week Committee and the appropriation of $3,300.00 for the use of the committee
during the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE D. GAVIN, Chairman
LowELL K. BAIN
PERRY BARRETI'
HARRY L. BUCKALEW
FORREST H. KECK
HERSHAL

J. LAy

}oHN M. LEE
ROBERT A. ODELL
RoY L. SAWYERS
RoBERT G. WoLL

Referred to Committee on Finance.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report o/ Committee
on
Thirty-third Annual Obaervance o/ Public School• Week

PROCLAMATIONS

150

San Franciaco, October 13, 1952
To the M. W. Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
This Committee's annual report on Public Schools Week Observance endeavors to capsule inspiring evidence of increased cooperative
effort and results accomplished by local committees in the 33rd Annual
Observance.
Lodge reports will be displayed during Grand Lodge, and will help
the brethren to understand why this committee's sincere effort fails to do
full justice, in individual credit, to each lodge and district accomplishment.
The care and effort expended in the preparation of so many more
report presentations, reveal justified pride in community Observance results over previous years. The added number of splendidly organized
reports vividly portray the cooperative hard work done at community
level.
Careful study and evaluation of reports from every lodge in the
jurisdiction reveals these signi8cant new trends and developments over
other years:
1. More lodges and even districts united in efforts, with unanimous report of more effective results.
a. In some cases where geographic distance prohibited joint
programs, Masters and Chairmen from several lodges held
meeting to exchange ideas.
b. In districts where unification of lodges has been the practice, several reports for this year could serve as educational
models of professional organization in achieving teamwork, public cooperation and interest.
2. A marked number of lodges reported success in evolving individual programs to meet peculiar or difficult local situations.
(Some cited under "Successful Examples.")
3. More general use of the State slogan and Scroll, though some
lodges used sub-slogans tailored to fit timely community situations.
4. More general recognition that the Grand Lodge objective is
to obtain community-wide participation.
5. Need to correct basic misconceptions revealed in many reports. Your Public Schools Week Committee attempts, in another section of this report to do so in a digest of material previously sent to the lodges.
Specific phases of the 33rd annual Observance of Public Schools
week are reported under captioned topics.

151

"The Public School - An American Heritage"
Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau Grand Master proclaimed:
"Education and the enlightenment and understanding that follow
in the path of education is fundamental in its importance to the successful operation of a government 'Of the people, by the people
and for the people.'
"More than three decades ago the Masonic Fraternity in this
jurisdiction, recognizing the importance of free education, founded
and sponsored an annual observance which they designated as PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK. The purpose of the Observance is to afford
a designated time for a periodic stocktaking of what our public
schools are doing and to enable the public to get acquainted with
the teachers and the students, to gain an understanding of their problems. Through the years, Public Schools Week has brought honor
to Masonry for its public service in advancing the interests of the
Public School."
Governor Earl Warren's proclamation emphasized the vital importance to all citizens of the basic objectives recognized and activated by
the Masonic Fraternity when it originated Public Schools Week in California. Governor Warren also said in part:
"One of the great and basic institutions upon which we rely for
the furtherance of our American ideals is our public school system.
It is the.birthright of every American to attend our public schools
and to there acquire the essentials for making ~ honorable living,
as well as an understanding of the reciprocal privileges and responsibilities of American citizenship, the advantages of our way of life,
and the place of our country in the world • • •
"Our school system can meet the objectives expected of it only
when there is widespread public understanding of our schools and
the type of education they provide. This kind of understanding can
best be developed by the intimate knowledge that comes from inspecting the school houses, knowing the teachers and seeing the
work of the pupils."
Our brethren in Hawaii, sparking the Observance in an acute school
facility problem, were instrumental in the issuance of an urgently worded
proclamation by Territorial Governor Oren E. Long.
Proclamations were issued by mayors of cities and towns throughout the state, including a few "firsts" by officials usually reluctant on
the matter of proclamations;
·
The three heads of the York Rite Bodies sent proclamations to the
subordinate bodies requesting no meetings be held during the Week

152

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

that would conBict with the Observance.
Official civic individuals and groups, industries, statewide and local
organizations recognized the Observance by formal resolutions.
Both Houses of the California Legislature formally recognized the
Observance by the following Resolution introduced in the Assembly by
Messrs. Dunn, Caldecott, Lincoln, Rumford, Grunsky and Maloney on
March 18, 1952, and adopted by the Assembly and Senate on March
21, 1952:

Assembly Concurrent Resolution No. 5--Relative to the observance of
P°ublic School Week in this the centennial year of the founding of public
schools in this State
WHEREAS, The week of April 28th through May 2d has been
designated as the 33d annual Public Schools Week to be observed
by the public schools throughout California: and
WHEREAS, The Legislature in 1852 made its first appropriation for the support of a state system of free education, thus
making this year's Public Schools Week the centennial observance of the founding of our present fine schools: and
WHEREAS, Some 700 citizen committees in as many communities throughout the State are joining with the school authorities
in arranging an observance of this event in their local schools to
demonstrate the work the schools are doing and their needs of the
present time: and
WHEREAS, Our pioneers in framing the Constitution of California in 1849 recognized that education is the foundation of a
democracy and made provision for our Public School System by
so authorizing it; and
WHEREAS, Today in the growing conflict between free people
everywhere and the slavemasters of the totalitarian states the
need for adequate training and preparation on the part of our
youth is greater than ever today: and
WHEREAS, The proper functioning of all our institutions is the
proper concern of all the people and one of the primary objects
of Public Schools Week is to encourage this concern on the part
of the people; and
WHEREAS, Both the citizen committees in charge and the
school authorities will urge individual visits to one or more local
schools: now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Assembl11 of the State of California, the
Senate thereof concurring, That all citizens of the State of California be urged to take notice of and participate in the events of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

153

Public Schools Week as a demonstration of the importance of
public education, and the part it has in safeguarding our American ideals and institutions.
The State Depart..nlent of Education, in addition to inclusion of
Public Schools Week in the official Calendar of Educational Meetings
and Events for 1952, in the Fall edition of the monthly Official Publication of the California State Department of Education, Roy E. Simpson,
State Superintendent of Public Instruction addressed the following message, quoted in part, to Californians. (March, 1952 issue.)

"The Public School-An American Heritage."
"The public schools of California will unite in observance of
the thirty-third annual Public Schools Week, April 28 through
May 2, 1952, to disseminate accurate information regarding all
phases of public education. Since public education is dedicated
to respect for the individual as a person and thus to the preservation of our American heritage of freedom for all. this year we
should emphasize the ways in which education preserves and
strengthens American free government.
"Public schools provide a foundation for a unified citizenry
that appreciates American ideals and places a high value upon
the privilege of making them operational. It was in the public
schools that the great body of our adult citizens acquired common
knowledge of the American heritage. And it was in the public
schools that our adult citizens acquired the skills essential to make
the Amedcan heritage a basis for a progressively improved American way of life. The public schools have thus operated as integral
parts of American government . . .
"The growth of population in California creates an ever increasing need for more classrooms and for teachers to conduct
classes in them . . .
"The public schools are your schools. They operate as indispensable parts of American government. You are urged, therefore, to visit them. especially during Public Schools Week and
to continue taking an active part in their development."

OTHER GRAND LODGE JURISDICTIONS
Last year we reported that the Grand Lodge of Texas had inaugurated an Observance patterned on the California program with the
wishes of all our lodges and members for its success.
Right Worshipful John McKee, Deputy Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Texas, who also served as Chairman of the Public Schools

154

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Week Committee, graciously sent this committee its 1951 and 1952
( Grand Lodge Proceedings) reports from which we quote these gener..
ous and interesting excerpts:
1951 : "The writer of this report wishes to give special thanks to
Brother George D. Gavin, who is Chairman of the Public Schools
Week Committee of the Grand Jurisdiction of California, for his
assistance and advice. It has been the pleasure of the writer to serve
as Chairman of the Committee on Public Schools Week ••• I close
this report with a reminder to you that our Public Schools Week
for 1952 will be March 2 through 8, and the slogan will be 'Texas
Public Schools-Democracy in Action.'"
1952: "The results that were attained this year were far greater than
the Committee anticipated and the participation was generally, state ..
wide, very, very good. We have to keep in mind the objective of
Public Schools Week •.. the objective, of course, is to interest citi ..
zens of this State in attending a public school at least once a year: our
ten..year objective is to have two million citizens annually attend our
public schools. This can be accomplished by continued hard work
and proper planning of each Lodge in their respective communities."

GRAND LODGE COMMITTEE
INFORMATIONAL ACTIVITIES
For

33RD ANNUAL OBSERVANCE, (1952)
1. January, 1952 Letter No. 1 to all Masters, 33rd Annual Public
Schools Week Observance, incorporating:
a. Historic objective.
b. Date.
c. State Slogan.
d. State Symbol.
e. Procedural guide digest.
f. Notification of new material in print, to come.
g. Grand Lodge Report requirements and WHY.
h. Suggested copy for Lodge Bulletin on separate sheet.
2. February 1, 1952, Letter No. 2: Memo for Chairman of Public
Schools Week Committee reviewing function and use of material
and accompanying Procedural Guide, "Here's How." (Mailed in
use..example Scroll envelope. )
3. March 12, 1952, two..page letter to Chairman of 33rd Annual

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

155

Public Schools Week Committees with reminder to trace through
the Master, previous month's mailing of "Here's How" and de..
lineating new material which accompanied this memo:
a. The Speaker's Manual-new issue.
b. Radio and Television Handbook by Gayle V. Grubb, vice..
President of the American Broadcasting Company forwarded
with a personal covering letter to all radio and television sta..
tions.
c. New Press Book with foreword and prepared releases.
d. Postmark Advertising: How to obtain it and samples of both
"slug" and metered mail, plus rubber stamp example.
5. Report on 33rd Annual Observance of Public Schools Week,
letter dated April 4, addressed to Masters of each lodge out..
lining fully the Grand Master's annual report requirements. ( Re ..
port Questionnaire form enclosed. )
6. May 20. 1952: Letter to all county, district and municipal super..
intendents of schools, thanking them for their cooperation and
giving advance information on the 31th Annual Public Schools
Week:
Date: April 27th through May 2, 1953.
Slogan-"The Public School-An American Heritage."
7. June 26, 1952: Letter to Master of each lodge, being a Report on
the 33rd Annual Observance of Public Schools Week, incorpo..
rating:
a. Appreciation and thanks to them and their Chairmen.
b. Informing them of point 6 above, (Information to Schools.)
c. Giving DATE (and why) of 34th Annual ObservanceApril 27 through May 2, 1953.
d. State Slogan for the 34th Observance.
e. Reminder that 33rd Annual Reports were overdue from some
lodges.
8. .July 15, 1952: Report Reminder to Masters where reports not
received. Followup report reminders on ·April 14 and June 26.
9. Continuous contact with State government, industrial: educa..
tional, service, labor and other organizations, to implement juris..
diction..wide, formal recognition and participation in our Annual
Observance.
10. Continuous specialized news releases for .wire services, national
magazines, radio..TV networks.

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

11. Preparation and distribution of informational kits for all publicity
sources, educational, government, citizen groups and organizations.
12. Letter sent to fraternal groups announcing Public Schools Week
Observance date and asked schedule cooperation to avoid conflicting activities.

TAILORED TO FIT!
( A.l•o •ee "Lodge Report Queriea-Mi•con ceptiona")
A new lodge in the jurisdiction, starting with first Observance this
year, was politely rejected by an able school superintendent who feared
a Masonic committee might interfere with his own well-planned program.
The Masonic committee, with extreme tact knowing local situation:
met again, developed a splendid program supplementing that of the
school superintendent, implemented action to bring in, for the first time,
community-wide participation and interest.
Both school official and our committee are making enthusiastic plans
for 1953 with the hearty endorsement of the once-reluctant superintendent.

"The people of this farming community are taking greater interest
in each Observance. The last few years they have visited schools
throughout the year. Now, (it took several years of missionary work
by our Masonic members) Public Schools Week Observance is really
a climax to a truly great -year-long enterprise."

Another small community where our local community first met resistance, reports:
"Extent of community participation may be Judged by the fact local
fire chief and his staff are on hand to take care of car parking problems
during Public School Open House."

" . . . Our Observances always have been outstandingly successful because our lodge maintains a year-round friendly relationship with
local teachers. Each year we hold a Ladies Night,' when teachers, along
with our families are our honored guests."
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

CONSTRUCTIV E SUGGESTIONS FROM 1952 REPORTS
•.. Set up committee, at least, of three lodge officers or Past Masters,
appoint in ample time to develop plans aad supply assistance to school
.
people.
"Grand Lodge Committee's Informational
of
digest
See
idea:
(Fine
Activities" and "Lodge Report Queries-Misconce ptions.")
. . . It would be helpful if Grand Lodge Committee would make available newspaper mats of official slogan and scroll symbol.
(Practical suggestion. However, several lodges which last year requested "slug" meter cancellations, Speaker's Manuals, etc., failed
to use suggested postcard order of new material. Mats or cuts will
be furnished on request.)
. . . We find most successful programs are those in which parents as
well as students participate and are much better than just open-house
programs or class visitations. Some schools are inclined to let a speaker
express adult view to the audience, rather than permit parents to see
more of actual student activities.
(See Grand Lodge Committee's report on trends and recommendations for last two years. Your analyses-this is a composite comment
of fifteen or more lodges-is fine. )
. • . My suggestion f'ar small communities would be a list of speakers
in different localities we could contact.
. (See abpve and also majority report on Speaker-based-prog rams
from both small and large communities. A speaker of local "name
value" as an opening adjunct to participation-planne d programs is
still of great help, but this is outside Grand Lodge Committee's jbrisdiction in view of last two years trend reports.)
. . . We think consideration should be given to enlisting statewide support of such organizations as the American Legion and the Elks Lodge
in sponsorship of the program.
(This is virtually the case. See "Acknowledgments " and "Grand
Lodge Committee Informational Activities.")
. . . Suggest art work on postage meter slugs be arranged by Grand
Lodge Committee so purchase of new one will not be necessary each
year.
(Splendid suggestion. This factor is under advisement of our Committee.)
. . . We have a geographic problem unlike other lodges in this district.
We think we should enlarge our Public Schools Committee for more
thorough coverage. Good foundation for future Observances was es-

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tablished this year and we anticipate a bigger and better program next
year.
(The Grand Lodge Committee fully appreciates reported problem.
Committee appointments are at the discretion of local lodges. See
"Lodge Report Misconceptions," also "Tailored to Fit!")
. Grand Lodge give an award to lodge submitting the best completed program. Have Grand Lodge give more emphasis through Assistant Grand Lecturers, Inspectors, etc.
(The Grand Lodge Committee has been considering the "Oscar"
phase of your suggestion. Our problem, highlighted by the reports
of this Observance poses a question in respect to "first" awards!
(There have been so many "model" reports of programs fitted to
varying situations, it would be virtually impossible to fairly judge
effort involved when consideration of local situations and di.fHculties
were included.
( On the second phase of your suggestion, a copy of all material on
Public Schools Week Observances is sent to these officers and we
feel confident they will advise and assist lodge committees.
. More TV programs should be arranged through Grand Lodge.
( See "Grand Lodge Committee Informational Activities," "Successful Examples," and "Lodge Report Queries-Misconceptions.")

159

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

•• .'Early r~ceipt of Grand Lodge material is of great help as. in your
informational letter May 20, 1952. Especial value since we appoi?t Public Schools Week Chairmen in December of e.a~~ year. ~t this same
time we appoint co.-chairmen with the responsi~ihty he will serve the
following year as chairman. This chain of continuity of program and
understanding of objective is to be continued ..• This method really
works and we ask the Grand Lodge Committee to stress its proved ad~
vantage.

OUTSTANDING EXAMPLES - 1952
This Committee has previously reported on the except!ona~ results
achieved by three lodges, which for several years. have un~ted. m areawide Observance efforts and the effectiveness of its organization. The
scope of their integrated effort can be fully recognized only by a. study
of their large volume report. (Again, on display at annual meeting of
Grand Lodge.)
Here are a few of the more unusual highlights of the twenty-five projects assigned for activation in the first phases of planning:

1. Up-to-date directory with names and ~~dr~sse~ of hofficers of 268
organizations brought into active participation m t e program.

• Group effort-first and third-year group effort reports of many
lodges-is especially successful. Our plans for similar work next year
includes..•. (There were several specific plans of which the following
quote is a typical example.)
(Have our General Committee Chairman contact district inspectors
and request an entire Officer's Association meeting to be devoted
to discussion of nothing but Public Schools Week business."
(Other similar comments under "Outstanding Examples, 1952.'')

2. Meticulous follow-up of letters of appreciation to anddfrom p~r­

. This year steps were taken to contact, not only service but local
ministerial associations. We were welcomed with wholehearted support.
Perhaps other committees might find same response from hitherto unexplored resources.
(Such, the Grand Lodge Committee has found to be the fact i_n
several report comments the last two years. )

U ·fled effort of two districts have been built up over several years.
u~mess,
t~imng b"
u in ob""
TheseDIlodges have been outstandingly success fl
P.retheir
of
mechamcs
The
participation.
group
religious
industry and
planning might well serve as a model for a medium-sized community.
The Grand Lodge Committee proposed to outline part of their pla~ as
informational material for the 1953 Observance. Th~se are some highlights of their concise IO-point program:

. We think, in view of schoolroom shortages the Observance should
be programmed twice a year.

J. Appointment of Masonic member "Observers" to follow through
on all school contacts and arrangements.

• . . It might be helpful for other lodges to know this: We arranged
our second annual "kick-off" meeting to bring principals and faculty
members of twelve schools in our area together with our lodge members
prior to Observance. It is the best idea we have developed in recent years.

2. Arrangements for a series of "kickoff" planning meetings•

ticipants; which at end of last year's pr?gram pave
wholehearted cooperation in the next year s effort.

way or

3. Sidewalk signs, street banners, lapel btagds bandflbadgeds, ~.cSh y~ai
developed in special use . and descri e
Devices" of this report.

rie y un er

pecia

3. A Masonic public relations dinner hosting educational officials,
faculty, etc.

160

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

i. This is followed by educational groups playing host to Masonic
Public School Committee Chairmen and committee members.
5. Religious group cooperation, dedication of church day and evening program on special subjects relating to the Observance.
An outstanding example of intense effort, "know how" and planning
of a single lodge was shown this year ·by a branching out of an aggressive committee to obtain community interest and support of civic leaders
in nearby areas where tl;ie Observance had no prior attention. Report
comment:
"Our 1952 program was the most aggressive and far-reaching, most
publicized and comprehensive in our lodge history. Interest and
visitor attendance at open-house phase of our fifteen local schools
was largest in history • . . Our local committee was largest in history ••• comment generally •.. it was best coordinated. We were
astonished at response of community interest and participation. Merchants, all publicizing sources, other service and fraternal clubs
joined in. A great job of 'selling' of the public schools system was
done with the general public and this Observance left many intangible factors to aid us in the years to come.''

Two lodges unified for the first time to "command" areawide participation.
"Our intense pre-planning secured the best all-time cooperation from
school authorities."
Some of the special devices used:
I. Student band downtown concert as first day "kickoff" for the
week.
2. Sound-trucks covered our entire area and we had all-out cooperation from other publicity sources.
3. Weeks of advance planning with educational schedules and merchants resulted in downtown window displays of student projects
specially designed and selected from intra-school competitions.
i. Intra-school poster contests with awards given winners during
the Week's special events.

Two lodges joined for the first time, both small communities. "FIFTY-FIVE" civic, fraternal,. religious and other groups actively participated. We have no local newspaper but our radio station gave 15 and
30 minute programs in addition to spot announcements. Observance here
declared by school officials as being best in attendance by the general
public as well as parents, than any previous years.''

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

161

A Masonic Officers' Association sparked an entire county's participation by promotion of a "Transportation Fair."
All schools carried on their individual program-as did each lodgebut the unifying gambit commanded national attention.
"All educational groups worked with our fraternity for months in
advance to obtain cooperation, not only of all local organizations,
trained veterans, etc., but all branches of the armed services-several
bases nearby-, transportation industries, civic authorities, etc., in
a score of surrounding communities to make it the 'finest event of its
kind in our school history.' "
Newspaper clippings variously reported from 53,000 to 60,000 attendance at the opening of the "Transportation Fair.''
"This was a big program but well worthwhile and we recommend
it to other communities of similar size and comparable industrial facilities.
"WHY WE STARTED IT: We wanted to reach thousands of
people in this area who, heretofore, have not been interested by conventional open-house programs at schools during the week of the
Observance. Incidental to our program, but definite in effect was influence on citizens in voting for tax increases or school bonds."
Several individual lodges and districts reported the effect of the above
described unified effort on their own programs. A brief composite:
"In our·small district 17,000 more visitors were registered at open
house than last year and our enrollment increase for that period was
only 5,000 ... Not one lodge in this wide area or schools in the same
districts was overlooked.''
Again, unified effort:
"Two lodges in our district got together. Joint committees take pleasure in reporting our 33rd annual Observance was ESPECIALLY
SUCESSFUL. We appreciate the wholehearted and enthusiastic
cooperation of press, radio, merchants, PT A, school officials and personnel, students and all our brethern."

ALL IN THE VIEWPOINT Tart and Sweet
Ninety per cent of the reports indicated in individual comment that
Grand Lodge Committee material was of value as a whole, or as adapted
to local programs. However, ·all viewpoints must be analyzed and this
topic is of especial value in relation to reports content summarized in
"Lodge Reptlrt Queries--Misconceptions," and "Successful Examples."

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

"Send us the same material again in the same liberal way. It is very
helpful to us in adapting to our own needs."

sent by Gi:and Lodge in their talks. It is the general feeling, in the
future there will be better cooperation between the groups."

"Our town is too small to use such material."

"We do not use your material as our elementary school always prepares and presents the entire program in cooperation with our lodge
and it is always attended by overflowing crowd."

"We are a small community but we used your material in a manner
to suit our needs."
"Your material very helpful to the new Master and was a godsend
to me, the new chairman."
"Material does not flt our situation."
"Keep our Master supplied with material as good as this year and
he will do another grand job. This year's program was tremendously
successful."

"Material from Grand Lodge Committee not helpful. I think for
rural areas such as this it is a waste of funds as Masons in small areas
like ours are very active in school. civic affairs and duties anyway."
(Last year's report from the same lodge recommended that the Grand
Lodge Committee "continue good work.")
"Material we got of great value and in demand by other organiza..
tions providing speakers. Our local press and radio needed all this
material and used it."
"Your 'Speakers' Manual' used by high school class for their speaking programs. Press and radio books used by local publicity agencies.
Please continue with more of this material."
"There wasn't much cooperation this year between lodges and
schools. On the weekend of the Observance the high school teachers had their monthly meeting. The Master and Secretary of our
lodge were invited to that meeting. They used much of the material

"Your assistance material is such it provided the urge for our local
committee that will now get in and do something."
·•'Here's How' made our work much easier. We do not have a local
radio or press but we used your material in other ways."
This from a group of lodges unified in effort, with splendid organi·
zation and original material of their own:
"'Here's How' and other material was most helpful to us in our
planning and is greatly appreciated."
"Your material is reason why three of our lodges worked together,
though each of us carried through our own program. Thank you for
excellent job of furnishing information and assistance."
"We are a small committee but your material helpful in assistance
in planning. As all committees are different in size, local appointees
should study it and adapt it to local situations."

Local lodge reporting on a three-district-participation liked by all
others because of exceptional sucess:
" ••• In an area of this size a joint venture looses interest in local
membership. A committee was set up from all lodges and from there
on they do the work and the membership receives notices and that
is all that happens. Keep it at the local lodge level."
"Grand Lodge Committee material of great help to us ( 12.500 population) but can see where it could easily overwhelm a chairman in
small community. Prepare streamlined version for use in small com-

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

munity for small committees. (See "Lodge Report-Misconceptions"
and "Grand Lodge Informational Activities.")
"We feel the old habit of bodies of Masons visiting rural schools
should be revived."
"Let's ch~nge the script and get the message over to 'Badge Masons'
_
as well as those who attend lodge.")
(Most reports on the efforts of majority of lodges throughout
the State should be inspirational counteraction of the experience
that created this reaction.)

SPECIAL DEVICES
New Angles on Value-Proved Ideas
..• High school public address system installed in a jeep and dri~en
throughout downtown area on eve of opening of the Week, inviting
everyone to attend and visit public schools.
. . • Sound "trailers" run in all four local theatres the Week prior and
during the Week of Observance.
. . . Boy Scouts, as public service, distributed 4,000 door-to-door handbills.
. . . (In five various communities) . City and County Officials permitted and cooperated with installation of cross-street-banners.
. . • Fifty-thousand booklet invitations, artistically executed and containing brief, pungent facts re local public school needs an~ .ac~omplish­
ments. These distributed with counted return of 45,000 v1s1tations.
.Windshield stickers-5x3-"Public Schools Week (date)
Visit your Public Schools
School Name and address
Local f eatu res and dates.
Panel or Quiz Forums. Five variations developed to fit local situations.
. . . Postage Meters. See "Grand Lodge Committee Informational Activities." Lodges which ordered and used these obtained community c~­
operation and such mail meter messages were use~ by many l~rge bus~­
ness organizations in their communities a week pnor and dunng Public
Schools Week Observance.
.
One firm made one million impressions in a single community.

GRAND LODGE OF·CALIFORNIA

165

Rubber Stamp "Public Schools Week" with dates obtained by
small communities. One lodge placed it for use by local Chamber of
Commerce on all outgoing mail three weeks prior to and during Public
Schools Week Observance.
. Tape Recordings used by lodges and districts in many ways:
1. Recordings of instrumental. vocal and band music of schools,
announcements, official educational discussions-were recorded
at schools by specially trained crews and used prior and during
Public Schools Week for broadcasts.
2. Masonic Chairmen arranged for recordings of programs at service and civic club meetings. These were released on both radio
and TV programs.
3. Student Body in Action-recorded and broadcast or televised
later. .. Tractor Rodeo drew crowds from metropolitan areas far in excess
of local expe<;tations.
. . . "Rural Day" has been a developing feature in one small community started four years ago. This year, everyone from government officials to every citizen had a part, not only during the week but by "contest" devices, all through the year.
First day "kickoff" parade was climaxed with contest awards for
a great diversity of year-long projects, such as:
Posters . . . Facts . . . Baked Goods-contests.
Seed. Tool. Breed, Feed, Weed-identification.
. Public participation and recognition had been nil in this community
a few years previous, until_:_
A Masonic business man who directed the economic factors of the
community's centralized shopping area, sparked and implemented the
following idea with far-reaching plans:
·
It was arranged for students to "take over" operation of all phases
of all types of business, thus making every citizen aware of and a
participant in the Observance. The human interest developed into
so many photogenic situations, dramatized by all sectors of the press
in communities far beyond the confines of the program area.
. Music: Festivals-Bands-Parades-Bugle Corps-OrchestrasChoirs. Music in all phases and types of programs was not specifically
mentioned in many reports-we le~med it from press clippings-because
such features have become a traditional success over the years in many
communities.
Musk features, tailored to fit community situations were used as
diawing cards in towns from 100 population, with a county-wide buildup
throughout the yeat-to features used in our largest cities.
Composite Example:

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

"We had a musical program in the civic auditorium. participants
ranged from rhythm kindergarten groups to senior high school band
numbers. We had to have two shows nightly as crowds were too
large for one showing in our auditorium."
• • • Spelling Bees. This device, differently handled in various communities obtained parent, public and governmental participation. It was
used with great success in a small community with no local newspaper
and with equal interest in a metropolitan area where a service club provided contest prizes .
·
• • • Window Displays-Look What's Happened/
Three lodges combining for the first time in effort, reported how window
display effort paid off. Each committee chairman triumphantly reported
that due to months of pre-planned student work, window exhibits commanded such interest that merchants previously indifferent asked to be
put on "the reserve list for a display next year."
(From a medium size community) "Window displays in the downtown area were handled differently this year. Instead of our school~
displaying work in the twenty-five downtown windows as previously,
we obtained one vacant store building. Display space was allocated on
the basis of enrollments to elementary. junior and high schools. Each
level of education cooperated to make total displays by far most outstanding of any year previous."

"Previously we had to ask for window displays. Committee working
the last two years have been so successful with school projects planned
in advance, it was necessary to change schedule. We obtained a large
all-window store corner in the center of the business section. It was
background decorated to dramatize "live" student demonstration of skills
in all classes from elementary through high school. "Live" displays were
in action several hours each afternoon during the week."
..Electronic display by Junior College in local utility office window
commanded area-wide attention for it was timely with Civil Defense
consciousness."

• • . Back-to-School Parent Participation.
Lest we forget, here is composite of scores of lodges on parent-student-school participation ideas:
"Climax of the Week was open meeting at our high school, with
all who attended, participating in an old-fashioned spelling bee. The
'old-fashioned school' theme was hi9hli9hted by a satire on 'Mothers'

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

167

Teas: produced by the football squad. Double performances in jampacked auditorium was the result."

•.• New Lodge Achievement.
"Our first Observance and we used 'back-to-school for parents' theme.
All service, fraternal and civic organizations foined us, with all members,
whether or not they had children in the school."
"We had the largest crowd this year than ever before and believe
it was because we had PTA meeting in conjunction with Masonic meeting. Parents got more information on school activities ••• Each grade
had special program for parents and friends."
"Our community is very public school minded and there is keen competition among different classes to win cup furnished by the lodges for
the class having the most registered parents visiting."
"We are a very small community. We decided to have classes for
parents who could select from seven different subjects to have teaching
methods demonstrated. It was necessary to have three sessions on each
subject."
"Back-t;,..school was emphasized in several phases ••• School at
homes ..• Special events trips to schools for exhibits and demonstrations
of special school services."

"This was the first year our lodge scheduled school visitations. Response was exceptional. Teachers and visitors felt they had mutual understanding of programming and purpose in a personal and conclusive
fashion, Next year we plan to carry it out on a much broader scale."
Father-Son, Mother-Daughter, Teacher-Parent programs also were
most successful in many districts.
"Public and parents seem to have taken a greater interest this year.
Committeemen were all impressed with the number of people who visited
dift'erent schools. We think it is possibly due _to programs including
parent and student participation.

168

169

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

"Because of crowded conditions in our schools we decided on open
house observance, with interesting but REGULAR school activities carried on in classrooms. No special programs. Five or more adult chairs
were placed about the room. Visitors came all week. This in an area
where both mother and father work in vegetable paclcing-around the
clock. We had 503 parent visitors out of a school enrollment of 900."

from citizens, officials and businessmen:
Huge easel shaped poster: standard sized billboards in best locations
~f the city ~nd its approaches: large poster signs on buildings and
m construction zones where signs are usually prohibited: full school
display in Chamber of Commerce Building and the County Sheriff's
quarters.

From a Superintendent of Schools to a Lodge Master:
"You might be interested to know that through the cooperation of
the Education Committee of the Chamber of Commerce, we are having a number of business and industrial leaders visit our schools,
not for the traditional few minutes but to spend several hours at
each school actually seeing what we are attempting to do in our
teaching."
The overall parent percentage of such leaders is being figured with
interest by school administrators.

. . . County Masonic Officers held a meeting for all representatives of
all lodge~. It V:~s de~ided the Association would conduct an essay contest. Subject: Public Schools Are Guarantee of American Freedom."
First prize-$50 savings bond; Second-$25 bond: and for three
best papers of each grade, a Certificate of Honorable Mention.
~~s project is being co~tinued for 1953 and public city and county
administrators formally notified of the Association's action.
"This was our first experiment and results were far beyond our expectations since we started late. We plan this unified action for 1953
Observance."

Some especially interesting devices used by three lodges which have
had successful Observances of their own in previous years, this time
combined "interests" and exchanged ideas:
One group chairman obtained portrait pictures of all teachers in the
area, in advance, and planted them with brief "biogs" with local
press. Other specialties:
• • • Printed Courtesy Card invitations from students to friends
of parents, especially those who had no children in school.
, .. Current Month Calendar printed by high school printing
shop on blotter handed out to all visitors. Comments from the
public were received for weeks afterward.
. . • Advertisements Keyed to Public Schools Week by community businesses.
. . . Sidewalk Stencil "Public Schools Week, Date, etc.," of
course, required special official permission and execution.
. . . New Lodge in Small Community had 750 lapel badges printed with "Visit Your Schools."
"This brought amazing community recognition."
. • . Specially Printed Envelopes with name of this very small
community. These envelopes were used for inter-community business correspondence. Art work and slogan on left-hand side of
envelope, "It's Back to School for You, May!."
One medium sized community, geographically isolated from an
urban standpoint obtained all types of billboard and sign cooperation

. · · Outstanding Citizenship Award by the Masonic Fraternity. This
plus Honorable Mention Award "in recognition of high record of citizenship."
Press ~eport on this award: Student winners are not selected by
the Masomc Lodge, but by school officials through the use of a grading
system followed for some time in the public schools of this area.
. . : P~stet' Awards: Certificates and prizes for posters given by our
lodges m a number of communities.
. · . Perpetual School Trophy for public speaking contest conducted
among elementary schools, with climax scheduled so district winner is
awarded prize during Public Schools Week.
. . . Plaque Trophy-as with cups in other areas--designed with space
arranged to engrave name of winner and his school, each year it is won.
· · · Public Speaking Contests. Top students in public speaking class
this Observance Week were scheduled and spoke before TWENTYFIVE fraternal and service clubs.
. · · Radio F_oru.m conducted by Junior College students from scripts
prepared earlier m the year. Local press used this in part, with Grand
Lodge Material. to start publicizing Observance three weeks prior to
and during the Week.
"Programs showed much thought and ingenuity in preparation. (Ou~
Lodge starting :work in January with a 23-man committee did all ground
work but comnuttee members tactfully indicated work was done by other
community organizations in order to obtain community-wide participation.")

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

• • • Panel Forums was the device used by our lodges in a district whe~e
a traditional, week-long, community celebration cooincided with Public
Schools Week dates this year. It was also a project that involved coo~
eration of public schools students and faculty.
Our committee members and district inspector arranged for panel
discussion of local school problems to be the climaxing feature of the
local celebration.
Lodge members were assigned as moderators and responsible for
scheduling panel features. (Repeat performances were asked.)
Panels consisted of a member of the PTA-the parents viewpoint:
outstanding civic leader represented the general public: top educational
official or personality presented school needs and accomplishments.
• • • Public Schools Week Song written especially for the school. This
was one of several unusual devices used by this particular lodge. Its other
activities:
1. Masonic Committee letter to 150 local organizations.
2. Special cards to all Chamber of Commerc~ members:
3. Joint Citizens' Planning Committee appointed and included all
civic, educational, fraternal and business organizations membership.

This section of the Grand Lodge Committee Report, directed especially to the attention of Masters and Chairmen endeavors to serve in
that respect.
The following are composites of similar queries or misconceptions
indicated in ten or more reports:

170

• • • Many people made their tlrst visit to schools this year and were
much impressed by classroom work done by students. Most visitors admitted they had accepted their schools as something necessary and
coming to them, not knowing who the teachers were or how the sch~l
was helping promote welfare of their children. This was first Publu:
Schools Week here in which fraternity and parents had taken part.

••• A "Creative Writing Competition for students has become a tradition in a large metropolitan area. The local Advertising Club sponsors
the competition and awards prizes to the winners at ~eir meeting ~s­
pecially dedicated to public schools efforts and achievements dur~ng
Public Schools Week. Poster Art Competition awards are made during
the same program.

LODGE REPORT QUERIES

Milconc eptiom !
Sugguti om!
Omil1ion1l
With more than six hundred lodges in the jurisdiction, your Committee finds it impossible to clarify questions and correct misconceptions
revealed in comments of each individual report.

171

The Date
Traditio nal date for the Observan ce of Public Schools Week,
evolved by trial and error through the years as being the best time for
the greatest number of all concerned lodges, school authorities and school
schedules, the avoidance of the moving Easter date, etc.--as reported
in all Grand Lodge Committee Informational material Starts with the fourth Monday. NOT the fourth week in April.

Start Earlier
The following comments may be found in about 50% of the reports:
"Give us date and slogan earlier."
"It is necessary to give school authorities the date earlier so they
can arrange their schedules."
Grand Lodge Committee letter of October 2, 1951, Committee report in 1951 Grand Lodge Proceedings and January, 1952 Letter No. 1 ·
to all masters gave date and slogan of the 1952 Observance.
Immedite effort was made at the close of this year's Observance,
to better the 1951 timing, as note:
June 26•. 1952. in letter to Masters, announced date and slogan for
1953, 34th Annual Observance:
April 27 through May 2, 1953-'Th e Public School-A n American
Heritage.'
"Grand Lodge Committee should contact State educational authorities to obtain cooperation of the school people at local level."
May 20. 1952 Grand Lodge Committee sent such information, quoted
in part below, to all School Officials throughou t the jurisdiction:
"We have received numerous inquiries about dates of next year's
event. Many schools apparently desire to make early provision for it
in their school calendar.
"Public Schools Week starts on the fourth Monday of April-no t
the fourth week. THIS WOULD MAKE THE 34th ANNUA L PUBLIC SCHOOL S WEEK APRIL 27 THROUG H MAY 2,, 1953.
"The slogan will be, "The Public School-A n American Heritage.• "
By May 26, 1952 the Grand Lodge Committ ee had appreciative
Kknowledgment of this early information from several school district
ofllcials.

172

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Grand Lodge Committee /umdiction
1. "Grand Lodge Committee should arrange to appoint local committee chairmen earlier."
2. "Set up local committees of three lodge officers and past Master."
3. "Suggest Grand Lodge Committee contact school authorities
statewide and receive their suggestions of Masonic assitance and
the~ give a directed program. Statewide programs must be controlled to be effective:·
Answers to 1 and 2:
The Grand Lodge Committee's function is to act in an advisory
capacity to local lodges. Committee and Chairman appointments are at
the pleasure of the local Master. Timing for start of program work is
also decided at local level.
The Grand Lodge Committee advises in all material sent out and
stresses in each annual report the benefits of an early start on planning
for the Observance as far in advance, as is consistent with local situations.

Answer to3:
See "Grand Lodge Informational Activities, 1952," of this report
and also "Proclamations."
The Grand Lodge Committee immediately after close of Observance,
starts contact at State level, to obtain and be assured of caoperative
action by State officials. Educational authorities and chairmen of all
Statewide organizations, press, radio and TV networks.
To ask for and accept wholly directed program of school authorities
alone would not be in the tradition, nor would it point to the objective
for which this Masonic project was originated.

"Material Not Received"
Individual study of reports that "Grand Lodge informational material
not received," reveals two major categories of explanation:
1. Past or Presiding Master, or Secretary fails to pass it on to incoming Master or Chairman.
2. Material was received but not read.
The Grand Lodge Committee, throughout the year attempts to correct

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

173

either or both situations through:
1. Sending letters announcing mailing dates of current and future
material, with analyses of such materials, its use or adaptability
to current, local situations.
2. Follow-up letters of inquiry about receipt of material, with suggestion that postcard orders be placed with Grand Lodge Committee if additional copies are desired.

Confl.ictiom and Counter-Attraction•
Some reports this year criticized conftiction of events held -by other
groups.
In one case this occurred due to misunderstanding when another
fraternity had an event on the closing Friday evening of the Week. (It
was assumed that Public Schools Week Observance ended with the close
of the weekend school day.)
The Grand Lodge Committee, prior to February, 1952, had replies
from other groups with formal copies of instructions, edicts, or proclamations asking subordinate groups to cooperate by holding no meetings
or conBicting programs during the Observance.

Reason• For Reporta
The following is a composite of the major terse comments on questionnaire· reports from a great many lodges, many of which no doubt
did fine work, but because of report failures will have no permanent
record in the Grand Lodge proceedings report:
"Does not seem necessary to keep Bies."
"Fine press support."
"Fine program.'
And under query of other service organizations participating, no
comment. Many report queries left blank.
There were still a great many questionnaire reports sent in with
loose, unmounted clippings and other program material clipped or loose
in large envelopes, though less than in previous years.
On the other hand, there was a tremendous number of lodges and
districts whose reports were models of organization and which showed
great pride ip. lodge accomplishment.

17i

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

The Grand Lodge Committee has checked paragraphs in the following copy of letter sent to all Masters, April 4, 1952, which were more
prevalent in inquiry in the final reports for the 1952 Observance. (Again
evidence that material sent out often is not read.)
Letter dated April 4, 1952:
"The Grand Master requires Annual report from the General Committee of Grand Lodge on Public Schools Week Observance, showing
the participation of each Lodge. In our 8rst letter to you announcing
the program, your attention was called to this requirement. We enclose
a questionnaire which will assist you in the preparation of your report.
"If you will give particular attention to the following items you can
greatly alleviate the work of our Committee:

*a. Send your report to us promptly, but in any event by May 31st.
*b. Paste all clippings to sheets (8Yzx11) as it is impossible for the
committee to handle to advantage the thousands of loose clippings
received.
c. Include proclamations issued by Mayors or others, together with
copies of programs. pictures of displays, copies of special letterheads, quarter cards, samples of envelopes with postage meter
cancellations, newspaper advertisements that include mention of
the Observance, etc.
d. Share your successful ideas with others. Tell us what was done
and how. Furnish samples of any badges or other prepared features that were used.
*e. State very frankly whether or not the materials we furnished
were of assistance. We r~lize that all items cannot 8t the need
of over 600 communities.
f. Tell us what we can do to make a better Observance next year.
Your suggestions will be carefully weighed and greatly appreciated.
*g. IF YOUR LODGE JOINED WITH OTHERS IN THE OBSERVANCE, YOU MAY SUBMIT ONE COMPLETE REPORT OF CLIPPINGS, PROGRAMS, ETC., BUT STATE
ON YOUR QUESTIONNAIRE THAT THIS HAS BEEN
DONE. A questionnaire, however, is required from each Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

175

Extra blank copies can be secu~ed by sending a post card request
to the undersigned.
h. Mail your completed questionnaire to:
George D. Gavin,
79 New Montgomery Street,
San Francisco 20, Calif.
*j, Keep a file for next year's Committee including "'Here's How'
and other materials sent you by our Committee."

ACKNOWLEDGEM ENTS!
As virtually every individual lodge report pointed out, without the
splendid support, patience and sustained work of all educational authorities-superintendents, principals, faculty and individual teachers, the
traditional success and growing ~mportance of Public Schools Week
Observance would be an impossibility.
The Grand Lodge of California owes a debt of gratitude for the
unparalleled and unsel8sh support of this event by individuals and members of the great organizations which participated in the 33rd Annual
Observance of Public Schools Week.

·New•papera, Magasinea, Radio, Television
Entire editions, editorial, cartoons, columns and news space were
devoted to the event in papers of every size, from weeklies to great
metropolitan dailies.
Radio and television were generous in time, all the way from spot
announcements to fifteen minute and half hour shows. Both mediums
in some locations broadcasted and televised school programs.
Religious, fraternal, industrial, educational and labor bulletins, magazines and house organs were equally cooperative.
AU lodges were unanimous in reporting this cooperation and in most
cases expressed appreciation to these media in local area.

Government ••• BruineH ••• lndrutry
Acknowledgment to government, business and industrial organizations is as inadequate as to thank a participating partner for devotion

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to a selfless project. This year, more than ever, both small and metropolitans areas, all-out support, in facilities and individual effort was extended
by Chambers of Commerce, Labor Organizations, Bu.sinessmen's and
Merchants' Associations, local and State governmental bodies and officials.

IN GRAND LODGE

176

Fraternal ••• Religious ••• Civic and Service Organization s
Reports from lodges throughout the jurisdiction have asked that
formal credit be accorded-liter ally thousands of groups-for exceptional effort and support of the O\>servance this year. Space limitations
of this report does not permit listing of all organizations tallied in the
overall study. Your committee has been forced by tally of the greatest
number of community support to make this PARTIAL LIST OF
APPRECIAT IVE ACKNOWLE DGMENT. regretful it cannot encompass all those groups which gave of their time so unselfishly:
PTA, Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis; American and Auxiliary Legion, Veteran's of Foreign Wars, various members and divisions ol th_e military
armed forces: grange organizations such as 4...:H, Future Farmers, Farm
Bureaus, etc.; Women's business and improvement clubs; 20-30, Elks,
Eagles, Odd Fellows, Optimists, Soroptimists and many other clubs.
The Boy Scouts of America-as indicated in other sections of this report. Eastern Star, Job's Daughters, Rainbow for Girls and De Molay.
The incompleteness of this listed acknowledgme nt of appreciation
is realized. The Grand Lodge Committee depends on local lodge acknowledgment to correct this defect.
In closing, your committee recognizes this printed report cannot fully
indicate the resurgence of effort and outstanding results of the 33rd
Annual Observance revealed by an overall study of reports of more
than six hundred lodges in the jurisdicticin.
At 4:45 P. M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 A.M. Tuesday morning.

177

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1952
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M .. the Grand Master presid.ing.
The "Grand Chaplain opened the session with the following prayer,
taken from the fly-leaf of the Bible on which George Washington was
obligated when he became a member of Fredericksburg Lodge No. 4.
"O God, Divine Architect of the Universe, we come with
gratiude to Thy Omnipotence. We acknowledge Thee as the
Creator and Preserver of all things. We thank Thee for Thy
daily blessings conferred on us in all our undertakings. More
particularly. 0 God, we crave Thy blessing at this meetiing. Do
Thou preside over us in the spirit of Peace, Love and Charity,
and to Thy Holy Name be Power and Dominion forever."
Amen.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday,
October 13, were read and approved.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON
RESEARCH LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge the following
Edict and Resolution was adopted:
"The the Grand Master be and he is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue Special Dispensations to create not to exceed
two Research Lodges under such rules and regulations as he may
·
adopt, and
"That such Dispensation or Dispensations shall terminate in
accord with the provisions of Section 109 of Ordinances on October 1, 1952, and
"That the Jurisprudence Committee shall submit legislation,
to perpetuate and make permanent said Research Lodges and
others which may be created, at the next Annual Com~unication."
Shortly thereafter the Grand Master appointed a special committee
to assist in the preparation of the rules and regulations and to help
organize one research lodge in the San Francisco Bay area and one in
the Los Angeles area. This was done, and .on the evening of May 26,
1952, the two lodges were instituted simultaneously: that in the South
by the Grand Master, and that in the North by the Deputy Grand
Master.
The reports of the Grand.Master, the Jurisprudence Committee and
the Charters Committee will provide practically all the information
needed by the members of this Grand Lodge to pass upon subjects

178

179

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

dealing with research lodges. This committee wishes however to c~ll
your attention, briefly, to several matters that will not be discussed in
those reports.
.
In the selection of Charter Members it was decided to limit such
initial membership to Past Masters of California lodges and generally
to those living in the San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles ~eas. It
was felt that men with a wide Masonic experience were needed during
the formative period of organization and that demands should not be
made at that time on hard-working officers of constituent lodges or on
those living at a great distance from those areas.
It is hoped that the legislation adopted at this communication will
make it possible for many &ne and talented Masons in all parts of the
state to become members.
The two lodges are engaged in pioneer work at this time as there
are no California precedents to follow; and the experience in other Grand
Jurisdictions, while helpful, does not always apply in a jurisdiction of
this magnitude.
The two lodges are proceeding slowly and with great care to avoid
mistakes. The quality of the present membership assures us of success
if Grand Lodge continues its support of the program. We con8dently
predict that in due time and with proper encouragement these lodges
will make a great contribution to California Masonry.
Fraternally submitted,

of dispensating and chartering a lodge or lodges to work in the Spanish
language."
Pursuant to such resolution, the Grand Master appointed the special
committee which now makes its report.
It has been said that there is no real demand or need for Spanish
speaking lodges, that our foreign language lodges now chartered exist
for historical reasons, and that there is no reason to expand foreign
language lodges in this jurisdiction.
Five foreign language lodges are chartered by our Grand Lodge:
two work in French, two in German and one in Italian. Reviewing the
history of the formation of these lodges, we find that an actual necessity
dictated their creation, that of imparting the principles of Freemasonry
to good men and true in a language with which they were familiar, and
by which they could learn the purposes of the craft without confusion
or obscurity. The earliest of these lodges was chartered in 1852. the
second twenty years later, and the last about forty years ago. Their
continued existence would seem to indicate that they still serve the useful
purpose for which they were instituted, and continue to attract members
within the walls of their lodge rooms. After all, language is only a vehicle
by which ideas are conveyed, and if the conveyance is better made by
the use of one vehicle rather than by another, the form of that vehicle is
relatively unimportant if it serves its purpose efficiently and well.
Your Committee &nds that there is a real demand and need for a
lodge or lodges working in the Spanish language, and that such demand
and need are as legitimate as the existence of the present foreign language lodges. The matter has been discussed with members of the Craft
who are of Spanish ancestry and who are members of California lodges,
and with Spanish speaking Masons who are members of lodges belonging to jurisdictions recognized by us, as well as with other brothers who
are interested in the subject. The reaction has been favorable and enthusiastic, and the reasons advanced for the creation of a lodge or lodges
to work in the Spanish language seem to your Committee to be sound
and logical.
For many years the problem of clandestine or irregular Mexican
lodges operating mainly in Southern California has engaged our attention. The reports of the late Committee on Clandestine Masonry made
to Grand Lodge over the years show that while not numerous, they are .
persistent. The fact that such lodges exist would seem to indicate that
Masonry is attractive to those speaking the Spanish language. Of necessity, those knowing little or no English and being unaware of the irregular character of the lodges will solicit the degrees of Masonry where
they can &nd them, confident that they are affiliating with the great body
of Masonry. Considering the number of men of Spanish ·language
background that reside in California, a mere handful are members of

ARTHUR PAULSEN
J. EVERETT HOUSER
EDWARD H. RowiNs
CYRIL L. WEEKS
CARL U. ZACHRISSON
JoHNA.OwEN

Referred to the committees on Policy and General Purposes ~nd on
Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMfl IEE ON
SPANISH SPEAKING LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At its 1951 Communication, Grand Lodge adopted the following
resolution:
"Resolved, that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special c??1mittee for the purpose of considering and reporting upon the advisability

180

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

regular California lodges. This may be due to the natural reluctance of
such men to apply to regular lodges for fear of rejection by reason of
their Mexican or other Spanish derivation, and then again they may be
deterred by the difficulty of language. A lodge working in a language
best understood by them would appeal to them, and would overcome the
diffidence that comes from being in an unfamiliar environment. Opinions
have been expressed to your Committee that the creation of a regular
Spanish speaking lodge would bring to its doors many of the members
of the present clandestine lodges. who would become aware of their
present illegitimate status. and in time the problem of irregular Mexican
lodges would solve itself. It is not to be thought that the membership of
these clandestine lodges is of a low class or character. On the contrary.
it compares favorably with the class and character of our own regular
lodges. The only difference seems to be that we are regular, and they
,are not.
But another reason having nothing to do with legitimacy of membership presents itself. This Grand Lodge recognizes as regular and is
in fraternal relations with twenty-one Grand Lodges that work in the
Spanish language. Seven of them are situated in the Republic of Mexico,
and the remainder are in Central and South America, and in Cuba,
Puerto Rico and the Philippine Islands. We have omitted the nine
Grand Lodges in Brazil, which we understand do their work in Portuguese. The State of California has a Spanish tradition and background
of which it is justifiably proud, and endeavors to retain and perpetuate
the memories of those days of a little over a century ago. before the gold
rush made our state predominantly English speaking. Masons from
Spanish speaking jurisdictions visit California on business and for
pleasure. Yet nowhere in this great state is there a Masonic center to
which they can resort, and partake of Masonic fraternity in a language
they can understand. Many of them who come to make their homes here
undoubtedly would be ready and willing to transfer their Masonic
allegiance to a lodge of their place of residence, but cannot do so because
of their ignorance of English. Such men, generally of high class and
caliber, are lost to Masonry because of their inability to make contact
with a lodge using their native tongue, and California is the poorer on
that account.
A group of Masons in California. we are informed, belonging to
lodges in regular foreign jurisdictions, and speaking the Spanish language. have formed an organization for the purpose of establishing
contact with other regular Masons whose native tongue is Spanish.
for the purpose of maintaining the interest of those brothers in things
Masonic, and to encourage their visitations to California lodges. One
of the main purposes of this organization is to prevent the association
of these brothers with the irregular or clandestine Mexican lodges, and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

181

to keep their Masonic regularity intact. Such a group might well be the
nucleus for a Spanish speaking loqge.
Some of the Spanish speaking members of California lodges have
expressed their willingness to dimit from their present lodges to a Spanish speaking lodge in order to get it started; This would be of great
advantage, and would give a solid California foundation to such a lodge.
No great practical difficulties would be experienced in starting and
continuing such a lodge. The work as done in the German lodges and
the Italian lodge is a literal translation of the work as performed in
English speaking lodges into the German and Italian languages. The
French lodges confer the second and third degrees in a literal translation of the ritual of those degrees from English into French. The translation of the work from English into Spanish would be comparatively
easy. The only difficulty your Committee sees is in connection with an
Inspector to oversee the lodge. Your Committee does not know of any
Past Master familiar with the work in English who could translate it
into Spanish and impart it in that language. and who would be willing
to undertake the task. If no other solution could be found, a lodge could
be dispensated to work in the English language. until a Past Master of
that lodge could be had who would have the ability to handle the work
in Spanish. at which time the lodge could be granted authority to do its
work in that language.
We are taught that Masonry unites men of every country. sect and
opinion. and causes true friendship to exist among those who might
otherwise nave remained at a perpetual distance. Applying this lesson
to the present problem. your Committee sees no reason why this Grand
Lodge should not open still another door into its stronghold, and permit
good men and true to enter into the Craft of ancient Freemasonry, using
a language with which they are most familiar to acquaint themselves
with our ideals and our purposes, our precepts and our examples.
Your Committee therefore recommends:
That Grand Lodge adopt and approve the policy. in proper cas~.
of dispensating and chartering a lodge or lodges to work in the Spanish
language.
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE, Chairman
Because of the fact that the investigation upon which this report is
based was not participated in by us. we feel that we are unable to sign
the report, but we do join in the recommendation.
CHARLES A. THOMASSET
KARL L RATZER
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purpose.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY

1874-GEORGE C. PERKINS: Plot 27, Lots 9 and 10, Mountain View
Cemetery, Oakland.
1875-76-77-78-JoHN M. BROWNE: Arlington Cemetery, Washington,
D.C.
1879--WILLIAM W. TRAYLOR: Old Masonic Cemetery, San Francisco;
believed removed to Colma.
1880-SAMUEL C. DENSON: "Ames" Lot 224, Section D, Cypress Lawn
Cemetery, Colma.
1881-82-CLAY W. TAYLOR: Lot 36, Section E. Cypress Lawn Cemetery, Colma.
1883-84-JoNATHAN D. H1NES: Plot 29, Lot 20, Old Ventura City
Cemetery, Ventura.
1885--WiLEY J. TINNIN:Lot 2, Block 20~. Masonic Section, Mountain
View Cemetery, Fresno.
1886-EDMUND C. ATKINSON: Masonic Lawn Cemetery, Sacramento.
1887-HiRAM N. RucKERS: Plot 40, Lot 62, Mountain View Cemetery,
Oakland.
1888-89--MoRRIS M. ESTEE: Sarcophagus No. 6, South Transept Catacombs. Cypress Lawn, Colma.
1890-ALVAH R. CONKLIN: Lot 160, Section E. Cypress Lawn Cemetery. Colma.
1891-WILLIAM JOHNSTON: Pioneer Plot. City Cemetery. Sacramento.
1892-CHARLES R. GRITMAN: Lot 24, Tier A. Toulocay Cemetery,
Napa.
1893-HENRY S. ORME: Space 9, Lot 107, Section C, Forest Lawn
Memorial Park, Glendale.
1894-JAMis B. STEVENS: Niche 534. Room A. Olivet Memorial Park
Columbarium, Colma.
1895--EDWARD M. PRESTON: Masonic Section. Masonic-Odd Fellows
Cemetery. Nevada City.
1896-WiLLIAM T. LucAs: Tier East 2. No. 10 Niche, Chapel of the
Chimes. Oakland.
1897-THOMAS FLINT, JR.: Grave 9. Lot 55, Section B. Sycamore Plot.
Olivet Memorial Park, Colma.
1898-FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI: Section 3. Division 3. Lot 12. Mt. Tamalpais Cemetery, San Rafael.
1899--CHARLES L. PATTONS Lot 413, Section E. Woodlawn Cemetery,
Colma.
1900-JAMES A. FOSHAY: Foshay Family Plot, Union Cemetery, Carmel. Putnam County, New York.
1901-WILLIAM S. WELLS: Plot 12, Lot 103, Mountain View Cemetery, Oakland.
1902-0RRIN S. HENDERSON: Lot 48, Block 11, Stockton Rural Ceme..
tery. Stockton.

182

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the request of the Grand Master, your Committee on Masonic
History has completed a full list of the resting places of the California
Past Grand Masters who have passed away.
This list has been compiled and incorporated in this report that a
permanent record may be filed in the archives of Grand Lodge.
Your committee moves that the History Committee be continued for
the ensuing Masonic year.
Fraternally submitted.
LEON 0. WHITSELL
CHARLES R. INGRAM
WILSON E. NEWLON
SAMUEL STEELMAN
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH
ARTHUR H. TRIGGS
Adopted.
1850-CoL. JONATHAN D. STEVENSON: Vault 1648, Laurel Hill Mound,
Cypress Lawn Cemetery. Colma.
1851-JoHN A. TuTT: City Cemetery, Sacramento.
1852-BENJAMIN D. HYAM: Congressional Cemetery, Washington,
D.C.
1853-CHARLES M. RADCLIFF: "Occidental" Plot, Lot 8, Section E.
Woodlawn Cemetery, Colma.
1854-55-56-WILLIAM H. HOWARD: Old Cemetery, Virginia City,
Nevada.
1857-58-59-60-NATHANIEL G. CURTIS: Masonic Lawn Cemetery, Sacramento.
1861-JAMES L. ENGLISH: City Cemetery. Sacramento.
1862-63-64-WILLIAM C. BELCHER: Lot 36, Section E. Woodlawn
Cemetery. Colma.
1865-66-GILBERT C. CLAIBORNE: Park View Mausoleum, Stockton.
1867-WILLIAM A. DAVIES: Niche 116. Tier 5, Section H. Cypress
Lawn Columbarium, Colma.
1868-CHARLES MARSH: Vault 3, Laurel Hill Mound, Cypress Lawn
Cemetery, Colma.
1869-70-71-72-LEONIDAS E. PRATT: Lot 347, Section E. Woodlawn
Cemetery, Colma.
1873-lsAAc S. T1rus: Lot 7, Block 20, Stockton Rural Cemetery, Stockton.

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1903-CHARLES W. NUTTING: Row G, Block 4 South, Lot 2. Grave 5,
Masonic Section, Etna Cemetery, Etna.
1904-GEORGE W. HUNTER: Lot 60, Masonic Plot, Myrtle Grove Cemetery. Eureka.
1905-MoTLEY H. FLINT: Crypt H54, Sanctuary of Hope, Forest Lawn
Mausoleum, Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale.
1906-EDWARD H. HART: San Francisco Memorial Columbarium, San
Francisco.
1907-GEORGE M. PERINE! Lot 355, Section G, Woodlawn Cemetery, .
Colma.
1909-W. FRANK PIERCE: Plot 15, Lot 67, Mountain View Cemetery,
Oakland.
1910-DANA R. WELLER: Niche 20318, Columbarium of Memory, Forest Lawn Mausoleum-Columbarium, Forest Lawn Memorial
Park, Glendale.
1911-ALONZA J. MONROE: Lot 7, Masonic Plot, Myrtle Grove Cemetery, Eureka.
1912-WILLIAM P. FILMER: Niche 1112 Hope, Woodlawn Columbarium, Woodlawn Cemetery, Colma.
1913-JoHN D. MURPHY: Garden of Serenity, North 2, No. 4, Chapel
of the Chimes, Oakland.
·
1914-BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE: Crypt 7973, Gardenia Corridor, Forest
Lawn Mausoleum. Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale.
1915--ALBERT G. BURNETT: East Lawn Cemetery, Sacramento.
1918-BRADFORD WEBSTER: Plot 12, Lot 208, Mountain View Cemetery, Oakland.
1920-GEORGE F. RODDEN: Section A, Division 4, Road 12, Lot 4, Mt.
Tamalpais Cemetery, San Rafael.
1922-WILLIAM A. SHERMAN: Mountain Cemetery, Sonoma.
1924-DAVID J. REESE: Plot A. Lot 188-lOB, Ivy Lawn Cemetery,
Ventura.
1925-ALBERT E. BOYNTON: Section F, Row 12, Lot 26 West Half,
Boynton Family Plot, Oroville Cemetery, Oroville.
1928-GusTAV A. HUTAFF: Palm D, Row 5, Grave 42, Sunset View
Cemetery, El Cerrito.
1930-JoHN S. Ross: Space 9, Lot 1872, Whispering Pines Section,
Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale.
1932-FRANK W. MIXTER: Pogue Lot, Woodlake Cemetery, Woodlake.
1934-RANOOLPH V. WHITING: Sanctuary of Memories, Woodlawn
Mausoleum, Woodlawn Cemetery, Colma.
1941-FRANK M. SMITH: Westwood Crematory Vault, Los Angeles.
1944-GILBERT C. DEFOREST: Grave 2, Lot 5, Block 13, N.W. J.4.
Masonic Section, Redding Cemetery, Redding.
1945--LAwRENCE C,. KELLEY: Lot 346, LaSol Section, Inglewood Memorial Park, Inglewood.

REQUEST FOR HONOR ROLL RECOGNITION

184

185

Re the Resolution of Seaside Lodge No. 504, which has been referred to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, we beg to report as
follows:
1 ) The question involved has been satisfactorily handled to the
complete satisfaction of Seaside Lodge by action of the Endowment
Board as of October 11, 1952, which action in substance is as follows:
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board agreed that it should be their
policy to give an honor roll certificate, or gold star, to any Lodge that
had raised sufficient sum of money during the fiscal year which entitled
them to the same, providing application for such certificate, or gold star,
be made accompanied by a certified statement signed by the Master, or
Secretary, stating that sufficient money had been raised during the fiscal
year, and giving the definite amount of such money.
2) It is understood that the issuing of such honor roll certificate, or
gold star, is entirely an action of the Endowment Board, and in no way
suggests the changing of the official records, or the designated amount
raised by the official auditor's report.
3) Any Lodge receiving such an honor roll certificate, or gold star,
would not be entitled to the same during the next fiscal year, unless
sufficient monies had been raised to place them on the preferred list.
4) This action by the Endowment Board was not to be interpreted
as to set a p1ecedent, or be binding for subsequent years.
ERNEST G. BASHOR
Chairman
Adopted.

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GEORGE WASHINGTON AND MASONRY

take over the superintendence and education of five children. She must
have done a wonderful job! The schools in those days did not have the
variety of subjects nor the educational facilities of today and Washington's schooling was sporadic. Washington educated himself, evidenced
a great interest in surveying and became a recognized surveyor July 20,
1749. at the age of 17. After several years of frontier fighting against
the French and Indians. in which he displayed great courage and resourcefulness, he was placed in command of the troops of Virginia at the
age of 23.
He was elected to the Colonial Assembly of Virginia in 1758, and
the following year was married to a widow named Martha Custis, who
had two children. Washington never had any children of his own and
it is clear from his writings that his stepchildren were treated with all
the love and consideration that his own children would have received.
The Lodges may not have been as strict about age in the early days
as they are now and probably with good reason. In those days men
matured and accepted the responsibilities of life at a much earlier age
than we do now. I find that Washington applied for membership in
Fredericksburg Lodge in 1752, was initiated November 4th of that year,
passed to the Degree of Fellowcraft March 3, 1753. and was made a
Master Mason August 4, 1753. You will note that Brother Washington
was actually only 20 years of age when he was initiated but legally he
was 21. When the new calendar was adopted in England the British
Parliament ordained that any man whose birthday fell within certain
weeks of 1732 could legally consider himself a year older than he might
otherwise have been.
The records of Lodges in those days are meager and of course his
Lodge had no reason to particularly note the activities of its young
member. We must accordingly wait until the later years to flnd records
of the Masonic activities of George Washington.
Those of us who have studied American history will recall the
gradual deterioration of the relationship between the Colonies and
England during the period from 1758 to 1776. We find that during this
period there was considerable growth in the membership of Masonic
Lodges. During the French and Indian War warrants had been granted
by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts for the formation of Lodges in
the army and it ·became a custom to establish Masonic Lodges in the
army camps. The Lodge in Washington's army was called American
Union Lodge and available records show that Washington visited this
Lodge on frequent occasions.
When the Revolutionary War started in 1776 all of the Grand
Lodges in the Colonies were under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
of England but commencing in the spring of 1777 the various Colonial
Grand Lodges began to declare their independence and set themselves
up as Colonial Grand Lodges. The Masons of Virgina offered George

An Address Delivered by

w ...LEO E. ANDERSON

Past Master, Hollywood Lodge No. 355
George Washington. first President of these United States, flrst
Master of Alexandria Lodge No. 22 under the Grand Lodge of Virginia,
flrst in war, flrst in peace and first in the hearts of his countrymen.
We all know that George Washington was a Mason. Many of us
have, hanging on the wall of our lodge room, that famous picture of
Brother Washington presiding over his Lodge. But how many of us
know anything about the Masonic history of Brother George Washington?
This coming November 4th will be the 200th anniversary of the initiation of George Washington in Fredericksburg Lodge No. 4 at Fredericksburg, Virginia. During that month Masons all over the world will
join in celebrating that event. The Grand Master has proclaimed the
week of November 3rd to November 8th as George Washington Bicentennial Week in the jurisdiction of California. I hope that what I have
to say will increase your interest in the program outlined in the Grand
Master's proclamation and assist you in carrying it out.
There have been many great men in history but George Washington
is the man of destiny in modern civilization. Listen to the words of Joseph
Fort Newton: "A great and simple man-modest, quiet, gentle, wisein whom patriotism was a passion and a prophecy: Freemasonry a fragrance. a fellowship and a philosophy: great enough to refuse a crown
and live a life of private nobility and public service: picking his way
where no path was, amid wild passions and perils: leading his people to
victory, peace and ordered honor: leaving his labor as a legacy of inspiration to mankind, and his character as a consecration to his country."
To talk about George Washington and Masonry is to talk about
the early history of Masonry and Masonic Lodges in these United
States. Washington was born about the same time that lodges were
formed in the Colonies with authority to act. His date of birth was
February 22, 1732. According to the old calendar, which was then in
use, Washington was born on February 11, but when the new calendar
was adopted and the dates adjusted. his birth date becomes February 22.
Little is known of his early life. Washington's father died when he was
eleven years old but prior to that time must have instilled in young
George some of the characteristics which have made him famous. The
cherry tree story, with which you are all familiar, was supposed to have
happened when George was about six years old and even though it may
only be a story, is an indication of his early training and a tribute to
his character. Washington's mother, at her husband's death, had to

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

Washington the position of Grand Master, but he declined because he
had held no official position in Masonry up to that time and felt that
without such background he should not accept this high office. He also
felt that his army duties would require his entire time.
We should recall, first, that a span of 126 years covered the founding
of the 13 Colonies-from the Virginia Colony in 1607 to the founding
of the Colony of Georgia under General Oglethorpe in 1733. The
nationality, motives and aims of the people who landed on the eastern
shore of North America during that century and a quarter were just
about as widely separated as the years which intervened between the
first and the last.
Without attempting to labor the point, it is sufficient to say that,
with all the divergent interests which made up their climatic, economic,
social and political environments, Washington faced a tremendous task
when he took command of the Continental Army at Cambridge, Mass.,
on July 3, 1775.
Most of the men who joined his army were raw, colonial militia,
poorly armed, jealous of sectional rights, partial to their local officers
and reluctant to leave their farms and firesides apparently unguarded.
They enlisted for short and limited terms, often leaving to return home
to plant and harvest food crops, receiving little, if any, pay and that
in a paper currency which had no metallic base or stable purchasing
power.
The story of the war for independence is filled with stories of
Masonic activities. About 52 of Washington's generals were Masons.
Masons played most important parts in the Boston Tea Party, the
signing of the Declaration of Independence, the writing and adoption of
the Constitution and the other great events of those days. Brother
George Washington is well known to all of us as the presiding officer
at the constitutional convention.
We find that the Lodges of those days celebrated the Festival of
St. John the Evangelist in December and also celebrated the Festival
of St. John the Baptist in June, as many of our Lodges do today. It was
quite common for Lodges to adjourn their meetings and proceed in a
body to a church for services and our records show that W a~hington
often joined in these occasions. An interesting record of such an occasion
relates to a meeting in December 1778 in Philadelphia. The Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania was celebrating the Festival of St. John the
Evangelist and Washington was present. Following the lodge meeting
more than 300 brethren proceeded to Christ Church in procession where
ia sermon for the benefit of the poor was preached by the Reverend
William Smith, the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania. At the close of the service more than four hundred pounds-a
large sum in those days--were collected for the relief of the poor and
distressed. Records show that Brother Washington attended Lodges

GRAND LODGB OF CALIFORNIA

189

at various places during his travels and often attended the celebrations in honor of St. John the Baptist and St. Jcihn the Evangelist.
In 1780 a meeting was called in Philadelphia to consider the propriety
of appointing a General Grand Master over all the Grand Lodges in
the United States. You will recall that there is one Grand Master for
all Lodges of England. This meeting was under the auspices of the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania and at the close of the session a communication was addressed to other Grand Lodges recommending such
an office and also recommending that George Washington be the General Grand Master. The various Grand Lodges were not well acquainted
with each other and records were not available in the several jurisdictions to permit quick action on this proposal and it apparently died
through inaction and due to the fact that there was no occasion whereby
the various Grand Lodges could get together and determine the powers
and duties of such an office. This recommendation was again made in
1780 but failed for similar reasons.
.
There are numerous records in the writings of Washington and
others of Lodges in both the English and American armies. There are
records of ten Lodges in the American army and there are also records
of the existence of Lodges in the English army since the records and
property of such Lodges were captured by American troops on various
occasions, but Washington always insisted upon these records and
properties being segregated and returned to their rightful owne~s. Th~re
is one record of a chest containing masonic records and clothmg being
captured and returned to the British under a £.lag of truce with a. guard
of honor at the direct order of General Washington. The masonic sash
and apron 'thus returned were the property of Serg.eant Kelly who p~e­
sented them to Montgomery Lodge in New York wtth an accompanying
letter covering the occasion.
At the close of the war the army established a general headquarters
and General Washington caused a building to be constructed in such a
manner that it would serve as a Lodge Hall as well as a meeting place
for various groups and to this hall the members of the Army Lodges
repaired after their exacting duties.
.
Following the end of hostilities, things gradually quieted down and
on December 23, 1783, Washington resigned his commission and returned to Mt. Vernon.
Alexandria Lodge had been established at Alexandria, Virg~nia, a
short time before Washington returned to Mt. Vernon and Washmgton
was immediately invited to join with this group. He accepted the invitation and visited with this Lodge on several occasions. In 1784 General
Lafayette returned to America and visited Washin~ton at Mt. Ve~non.
you students of history will recall his great part m the war for. independence and the close friendship which developed between W ashmgton
and Lafayette. While I have found no records to substantiate the fact,
it has 'been generally assumed that Lafayette was a member of the fra-

190

J91

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ternity. Of one thing we are certain. Preceding this visit to Mt. Vernon,
Madam Lafayette with her own hands made a beautiful masonic apron
of white satin with the emblems of masonry delicately delineated with
needlework of colored silk. This apron, with some other masonic ornaments, was placed in a highly finished rosewood box. also covered with
masonic emblems, and given to George Washington in August 1784.
This apron was later presented to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
In April of 1788 Alexandria Lodge Number 39, under dispensation
from the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, was changed to Alexandria
Lodge Number 22 under the Grand Lodge of Virginia and George
Washington was the first Master of the Lodge under this new jurisdiction. He was unanimously re-elected Master December 20, 1788. That
same year he was elected President of the United States by the unanimous vote of the representatives of the Colonies.
In those days the Capitol of the United States was in New York
and the inauguration of Brother Washington, as the ftrst President,
was set for April 30, J789. Masonry played a very prominent part in
this ceremony. General Jacob Morton, Master of St. John's Lodge in
New York and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of New York,
was the Marshal of the day, and Robert Livingston, Chancellor of the
State of New York and Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New York,
administered the oath of office to George Washing ton on a Bible which
was brought from St John's Lodge for the purpose. This Bible is indeed
a treasured possession of St. John's Lodge. Brother Washington continued as Master of his Lodge until December J789.
It is not my purpose to cover the events of the two terms of Brother
Washington as President of these United States. The problems were
many and this nation was fortunate in having a man of Washington's
character and ability at its head during this formative period. He never
made any attempt to hide his connection with the fraternity but, on
the contrary, continued his masonic activities and was generally regarded in Europe as the head of Masons in the United States.
All four members of his cabinet were Masons. Thomas Jefferson
was Secretary of State. General Henry Know was Secretary of War.
Alexander Hamilton was Secretary of Treasury and Edmond Randolph,
who had been Grand Master of Virginia when Alexandria Lodge No. 22
was chartered with brother Washington as its first Master, was Attorney
General.
But let Washington himself testify in his own words to the Masonic
in8uence in his life: "If it has pleased the Supreme Architect of the
universe to make me an humble instrument to promote the welfare and
happiness of my fellow man, my exertions have been abundently recompensed by the kind partiality with which they have been received;
and the assurance you give me of your belief that I have acted upon
the Square in my public capacity, will be among my principal enjoyments
in this Terrestrial Lodge." And again, in these words from his pen:

"Being persuaded that a just application of the principles on which the
Masonic Fraternity is founded must be promotive of private virtue and
public prosperity, I shall be happy to advance the interest of the society,
and to be considered :b y them as a deserving brother."
One of the great ceremonies of those days took place on September
J8, 1793, when the cornerstone of the Capitol of the United States was
laid. The cornerstone was placed at the Southeast corner of the building as was then the custom. The records of the day show that the cere. mony was conducted by the Grand Lodge of Maryland with Washington' s Lodge. Alexandria Number 22, participating. A tremendous procession formed the morning of September J8th and marched to the location of the building. In this procession were the officers and members
of several Lodges, public officials. companies of artillery, workmen, and
others. George Washington marched with the Grand Master pro tem
of the Grand Lodge of Maryland and the Master of Alexandria Lodge
Number 22 and these three distinguished brethren performed the ceremony of laying the cornerstone, Brother Washington acting as Grand
Master. Differing from these ceremonies of today, the artillery discharged volleys every few minutes during the address given by the
Grand Master pro tem of Maryland and this seems to have been the plan
of the day. The ceremony seems to have been almost identical with our
present day ceremony, including the pouring of corn, wine and oil ·upon
the cornerstone. You may be interested in a portion of the published
account of that ceremony. It reads as follows:
"The procession marched two abreast, in the greatest solemn dignity,
with music playing, drums beating, colors flying, and spectators rejoicing, from the President's Square to the Capitol of the City of Washington, where the Grand Marshal ordered a halt, and directed each file in
the procession to incline two steps. one to the right and one to the left,
and face each other, which formed a hollow oblong square, through
which the Grand Sword-Bearer led the van, followed by the Grand
Master P. T. on the left, the President of the United States in the centre,
and the Worshipful Master of .No. 22 Virginia on the right; All the
other orders that composed the procession advanced in the reverse of
their order of march from the President's Square to the Southeast corner
of the Capitol, and the artillery filed off to a destined ground to display
their manoeuvres and discharge their cannon; the President of the
United States, the Grand Master P. T .• and the Worshipful Master of
No. 22 taking their stand to the East of a large stone. and all the craft
forming a circle westward, stood a short time in awful order. (This
means beautiful order).
"The artillery discharged a volley. The Grand Marshal delivered
the commissioners a large silver plate with an inscription thereon, which
the commissioners ordered to be read. and was as follows:
" 'This southeast ·comer-stone of the Capitol of the United
States of America, in the City of Washington, was laid on the J8th

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

day of September, 1793, in the thirteenth year of American independence, in the first year of the second term of the Presidency of
George Washington, whose virtues in the civil administration of his
country have been as conspicuous and beneficial as his military valor
and prudence have been useful in establishing her liberties, and in
the year of Masonry, 5793, by the President of the United States,
in concert with the Grand Lodge of Maryland several Lodges under
its jurisdiction, and Lodge No. 22 from Alexandria, Virginia.
"'Thomas Johnson, David Steuart, and Daniel Carroll, commissioners; Joseph Clarke, R.W.G.M., P.T.; James Hoban and Stephen
Hallate, Architects; Collin Williamson, M. Mason.'
"The artillery discharged a volley. The plate was then delivered to
the President, who. attended by the Grand Master P.T., and three most
Worshipful Masters, descended to the Cavazion Trench and deposed
the plate, and laid it on the corner-stone of the Capitol of the United
States of America, on which was deposed corn, wine, and oil. when the
whole congregation joined in reverential prayer, which was succeeded
by Masonic chanting honors, and a volley from the artillery.
"The President of the United States and his attendant Brethren
ascended from the Cavazion to the East of the corner-stone; and there
the Grand Master P.T .. elevated on a triple rostrum, delivered an oration fitting the occasion, which was received with brotherly love and
commendation. At intervals, during the delivery of the oration, several
volleys were discharged by the artillery. The ceremony ended in prayer,
Masonic chanting honors, and a 15-volley from the artillery.
"The whole company retired to an extensive booth, where an ox of
500 lbs. weight was barbecued, of which the company generally partook,
with every abundance of other recreation. The festival concluded with
fifteen successive volleys from the artillery, whose military discipline
and manoeuvres merit every commendation. Before dark the whole
company departed with joyful hopes of the production of their labor.''
At the conclusion of his second term. Washington determined to
retire to private life and delivered his farewell address, which is recognized as one of the American Masterpieces. He returned to Mt. Vernon
and again assumed the duties of managing his estate, frequently visiting
his Lodge at Alexandria. Friends and acquaintances were always welcome and it was seldom that the Washington family sat down to dinner
alone. Many are the stories of hospitality, kindness and consideration for
others which come from those days.
In these days when old standards of conduct, honesty and reverence
for God seem to have been laid aside by such a large proportion of our
'people, it is essential that emphasis be placed on the life of George
Washington and the part his home life, church and fraternity had in
making him the great man he was. Washington's home life showed
him a lpver of the fireside, a domestic-minded householder, a man care-

193

ful of his property, but generous with his servants, a devoted husband·
a father whose loving kindness was no less in view of the fact that th '
relationship was not of blood; a man who loved the outdoors the earthe
the growing grain, the wild game; a hospitable man who ~ffered th~
best he had in the happiness that there were many who enjoyed breaking bread with him; a man to whom church and divine worship were a
part of life.

In December, 1799, Washington became suddenly ill with a very
bad cold and, in spite of all that could be done, he died December 14,
1!99 at the age of 68. Alexandria Lodge handled the arrangements for
his funeral and conducted the Masonic service as part of the occasion.
. Thus ended a great and glorious life, to which Lord Byron paid this
tribute:
"Where may the wearied eyes repose
When gazing on the great
Where neither guilty glory glows
Nor despicable state?
Y es--<>ne, the first, the best,
The Cincinnatus of the West
Whom envy dared not hate
Bequeathed the name of Washington
To make men blush there was but one.''
Thus passed from active participation in the affairs of this country
a man who has been well described as the Father of his Country, but who
m~y also be described as the Masonic leader of his day-first in the
hearts of his t:ountrymen and first and always in the hearts of his
brethren.

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT ON GEORGE W ASl-ilNGTO N MASONIC
NATIONAL MEMORIAL

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON PUBLICATI ONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

I.

This Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in 1947 fixed its
proportion of the full cost of the Memorial including the endowment
$..63,553.35
f t
tereoa:
h
Less contributions as follows:
To and including 1947.............................-.$171.467.30
1948-$1.00 per new member....................
1,255.00
1948- 15 levy fund _............................
.00
1949- 1:00 per new member....................
6,40~.~
1949- .15 levy fund.............................. S0,~ ·
1950- 1 00 per new member ..................
9,9 ·
1950- '15 levy fund.............................. 31,153.75
1951- 1°00 per new member..................
9,248.00
1951- 'is levy fund .............................. 29,144.10
1952- 1'00 per new member.................... 9,021.00
1952- :1 s levy fund ............................ 29,994.30

8 00

347,640... 5
Remaining uncontributed balance, Oct. 1952 $115,912.90
Grand Lodge has on hand, which has been collected since the last
Annual Communication, the following sums:
_SO
From the 15c levy ........................................$30,7~·
From the $1.00 per new member.................. 9,30 ·
Total
40,093.50

00

I therefore offer the following Resolution:
.
Resolved: That the per capita levy of 1Sc per member be continued
during the current Grand Lodge year and that the pr~eeds t~efro~
dded to the Fund known as the George W ashmgton
ason1c
~a~onal Memorial Fund, and that the funds on hand from the 1Sc
le and the $1.00 per new member fund be re1?it!ed to the G_eorge
W~shington Masonic National Memorial Association at or pnor to
its Forty-third Annual Convention on February 22, 1953.
Fraternally submitted,
JoHN R. MooRE _

State Chairman of this
Grand Jurisdiction
Referred to the Committee on Finance.

195

At the last Annual Communication, Grand Lodge enacted new law,
which is now a part of Section 127 of Ross Digest, reading as follows:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print
advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication, which
purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by or for any body, order or organization requiring
Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership."
Your committee prepared an application form, a copy of which is
attached, under which individual Masons might meet the requirements
of the Grand Master respecting the solicitation and publishing of advertising in pursuance of the law above quc:>ted. This form was approved
by the Grand Master on November 30, 1951. in language as follows:
"The report of the Special Committee on Publications, submitted to me under date of November 21, 1951, is approved in full,
and it is directed that all applicants seeking the express sanction
of Grand Lodge, required under the new law, shall make the
application therein recommended and comply with all rules therein
suggested.
"Before any sanction is granted to any publication, it is directed that all applications therefor shall be forwarded to the Grand
Secretary, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, 25 Van Ness
Avenue, San Francisco 2, and shall be by him transmitted to the
Special Committee on Publications which Committee shall submit
it to the Grand Master, together with its recommendation as to
approval or disapproval."
Applications on the form provided, which required the applicant,
under oath, to agree to abide by certain conditions therein, were submitted by the publications indicated below and approved by this committee. In addition to the conditions embodied in the application, this
committee, in view of the directive of the Grand Master dated November 30, 1951. with the consent and approval of the Grand Master, impressed other conditions, to which the applicant agreed, reading as
follows :
"1. That no part of any trestle board of any Lodge or District
Officers Association, including list of Lodge officers, calendar of
Lodge meetings, or official statements by Lodge officers. be carried
in the publication.
"2. That no use be made of any Lodge roster or official membership list.

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"3. That no money be accepted from any Lodge for subscriptions or any other purpose whatsoever."
Said application form contained a statement, which the Grand Master signed and the Grand Secretary attested after the application had
been executed in duplicate by the appllcant, reading as follows:
" .............................. (Name of publication) ......................................
an Official Publication of Grand Lodge and is not sponnot
Is
sored, authorized nor controlled by Grand Lodge nor by any
constituent Lodge. However, a strict compliance with the requisite
specifications, on the part of this publication, will meet the requirements of the Grand Master respecting the solicitation and publishing of advertising in this publication. The Grand Master
reserves the right to revoke this statement at any time.".
APPLICATIONS WHICH WERE APPROVED
DATE oF APPROVAL
LocATION
PUBLICATION
BY CoMMI'ITEE
1126 Santa Barbara St.
& PUBLISHER
Jan. 7, 1952
Santa Barbara
1. Channel Counties
Mason and Eastern Star
Cecil Lee Loomis
Member: Magnolia 242
On its masthead this publication carried a statement in bold-face
type reading as follows: "Express Sanction of Grand Lodge is Granted
this Publication." The Grand Master granted this publication permission only to solicit and publish advertising . under certain specified conditions.
This publication continues to carry Lodge trestle boards, lists of
Lodge officers, calendars of Lodge meetings and official statements of
Lodge officers, albeit the name of the Lodge and titles of the officers are
withheld, but the number of the Lodge is boxed, emphasized and enlarged.
Jan. 7, 1952
Box 128
2. San Louis ObisPo
Cambria
Mason and Eastern Star
Marcus L. Waltz
Member: San Simeon
196
This publication carries a copy of our law and statements of the
Grand Master respecting advertising, both augmented by insertions of
the publisher who has ignored all correspondence from this committee.
This publication continues to carry Lodge trestle boards, lists of
Lodge officers, calendars of Lodge meetings, and official statements of
Lodge officers.

3. Kern County Mason
and Eastern Star
Mike S. Oldershaw
Member: Bakersfield
224

401 11th St.
Box 371
Bakersfield

197
Jan. 7, 1952

On its masthead this publication carries a statement in bold-face

~e read.ing_as !.ollows: "Express Sanction of Grand Lodge is Granted

this Publication. The Grand Master granted this publication permission
only to solicit and publish advertising under certain specifk conditions.
This publication continues to carry Lodge trestle boards, lists of
Lodge officers, calendars of Lodge meetings, and official statements of
Lodge officers, albeit the name of the Lodge and titles of the officers are
withheld, but the number of the Lodge is boxed, emphasized and enlarged.
4. &g Area Mason
427 N. Canyon Dr.
Jan. 7, 1952
and Eastern Star
Beverly Hills
Calvin J. Carey
Member: So. Calif.
278
This publication continues to carry Lodge trestle boards, lists of
Lodge officers, calendars of Lodge meetings, and official statements of
Lodge officers, albeit the name of the Lodge and titles of the officers are
Withheld, but the number of the Lodge is boxed, emphasized and enlarged.
S. Square and Compass
1862 - 261st St.
Jan. 7, 19S2
Gordon Chambers
Lomita
Member: San Pedro
332
The publisher conformed his publication to the requirements of
Grand Lodge and the Grand Master.
6. Seaboard MtUon and
Eastern Star
Charles F. De Coudres. Member: Long
Beach 327

S3S Locust Ave.
Long Beach

Feb. 9, 19S2

G This publication has now been conformed to the requirements of the
rand Master and Grand Lodge.
7. Orange County
Masonic Bulletin
Clifford W. Peale
Member: Silver Cord

sos

417 Broadway
Santa Ana

Feb. 9, l 9S2

198

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

While the application of this publication was granted, the publisher
refused to accept the three conditions, impressed by the Grand Master,
quoted on page 1 hereof. He suspended his publication.
8.Southern California 1335 N . Saltana Ave.
Feb. 9, 1952
Masonic Journal
Ontario
Henry C. Englar
Member: Ontario 301
Brother Englar promptly conformed his publication to the requirements of Grand Lodge and the Grand Mas~er.
9. Masonic News
3041 Gage Ave.
Mar. 4, 1952
Margaret Pray
~untington Park
In its masthead this publication carries a statement reading as follows:
"This is express sanction" pin-pointed by asterisk to same words in
our law which is quotes. The Grand Master granted permission only to
solicit and publish
advertising under certain specified
conditions.
.
'

sonable demands, we have no alternative except to change the
character of this publication. .. .
"Inasmuch as it would be impossible for us to operate under
the conditions set forth in the application submitted to us, we are
therefore, not completing the application for permission to carry
advertising."
Subsequently, publisher changed the name of his publication from
Masonic Star to Fraternal Star (formerly Masonic Star), but its character remained the same. After the change in name the publication, in
its first issue, carried a scathing article and a similar editorial both
maligning and traducing Masonry, this Grand Lodge, and the officers"
thereof.
On February 7, this publication, under its new name, sent a mimeographed letter to the Master of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479 requesting
pictures of officers, bulletins, and activities of the Lodge; also program
of the Lodge from March 15 through June 15. The letter stated also
that the last issue of the publication was December 15 under the name of
Masonic Star. This letter further stated:
"This publication has now been enlarged to include all high class
fraternal organizations in addition to the Masonic and affiliated bodies."
On April 16, 1952, upon advice of counsel, publisher submitted to the
Grand Master an application-altered to conform to his desires. This
application was processed by this committee and was rejected on June
7, 1952.

.

APPLICATIONS WHICH WERE REJECTEO
PUBLICATION & PUBLISHER

I. The Masonic Citizen

l..oCATION

9735 Los Feliz Station
Los Angeles 27

Frank Thomas
Member: America 475-1951
This publication was rejected on January 7, 1952, and after rehearing was again rejected on February 9, 1952. This publication was
published at irregular periods and was at best but an advertising medium.
The publisher has been soliciting advertising in the name of his publication, through solicitors, for his autumn issue.
2. Hirams Masonic Journal
427Yi N. Canon Dr.
John H. Hovick
Beverly Hills
Member: Hollenbeck 319
This publication was suspended by the publisher in November, 1951,
and it has not been revived.
An application filed later was rejected on March 25, 1952. After rehearing the application was again rejected on July 15, 1952.
3. Masonic Star-Founded 1947
Suite 419, 318 Geary St.
Glenn M. Whitfield
San Francisco 2 Member: Presidio Lodge
No. 354-1948
After receipt of the application form, the publisher, on January 14,
1952, wrote the Grand Master in part as follows:
. "In view of the impossibility of complying with these unrea-

PUBLICATIONS WHICH HAVE NoT PRESENTED APPLICATIONS
PUBLICATION 6 PUBLISHER

1. Masonic World
James Adam
Member: Durant 268

l..oCATION

Flood Building
San Francisco

This publisher has apparently elected to ignore or defy Grand Lodge
and the Grand Master, for he continues to solicit advertising under the
name of Masonic World.
2. The Trestle Board and
83 McAllister St.
East Bay Masonic News
Rm. 214
M. S. Brown
San Francisco
Member: Standard 873, Chicago
The name of this publication in the February issue was Masonic
Trestle Board and East Bay Masonic News; in the April and June issues,
"The Trestle Board"; and in the July issue the name was changed to
"The Trestle Board and East Bay Masonic News." The publication
still carries advertising, although its character has not changed. In the
June issue it carried an ad reading: "Compliments of Most Worshipful

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Son of Light Grand Lodge F. & A. M. Inc." In the April issue it carried
a scathing editorial charging dictatorship on the part of our Grand Lodge.
3. The Masonic News, San Diego
Herbert Wetzell
Member: Checotah 86, Okla.

3922 Fourth Ave.
San Diego

The name of this publication was, on April 1, 1952, changed to
The Fraternal News, and its character appears to be Eastern Star. The
September issue carries a statement reading as ,follows: "This magazine
is not Masonic in name or character, nor does it purport to be."

' 4. Masonic Review Digest
Ben Morrison
Member: Crescent 895, Chicago

4230 Melrose Ave.
Los Angeles 29

This publication has made no change whatever. The publisher has
paid no attention to this committee, to Grand Lodge law, nor to edicts
of the Grand Master.
He failed to answer correspondence.
.

.

5. Hirams Masonic World
F. A. Barman
Member: Mt. Olive 506

Box 763
Beverly Hills

This publication voluntarily suspended in October, 1951. Only one
issue was ever published.

6. Masonic Directory and
Eastern Star News
Clarence E. Nelson
Member: Unknown

1645 N. La Brea Ave.
Los Angeles 28
Phones: GL-9679 &
HU-2-8803

This ·publication has made no change whatever. The publisher has
paid n<;> attention to this committee, to Grand Lodge, nor to edicts of the
Grand Master. He failed to answer correspondence, but solicitation of
advertising has continued.
7. The Masonic Veteran
Box 736, Station H
C. E. Anderson
Los Angeles 44
Member: Mystic Tie 398,
Indianapolis, Ind.
This publication voluntarily suspended in November, 1951.

II.
On November 30, 1951, the Grand Master issued a directive which
was sent to all Lodges, reading in part as follows:

"1. All solicitation, acceptance or publication of advertising
in Lodge publications (bulletins, etc.) shall cease.

201

·:2. No Lodge shall permit its trestle board to be published in
any publication other than its own Lodge bulletin.
"3. No advertising in ·notices, programs, circulars, rosters,
dodgers, napkins, place cards, gifts, gadgets, and other similar
miscellaneous media shall be permitted."
The foregoing directive of the Grand Master merely emphasized
and brought to attention long-standing Masonic law (Sec. 127 Ross
Digest) forbidding commercial ventures, which law had been long
ignored.
On December 5, 1951, the Grand Master held that the foregoing
directive applied to all Bodies requiring affiliation as a condition to
membership. Applications were received from numerous Bodies and
some Lodges seeking sanction; but none was processed, because the
directive of the Grand Master quoted above forbade advertising by
Bodies and Lodges in their own publications. It is pleasing to report
that most all Lodges and most Bodies requiring Masonic affiliation as
a condition to membership have strictly complied with the Grand
Master's directive.
As evidence of compliance with the Grand Master's directive by
some Lodges, it must be reported that the Masters of Naval, Solano,
and Vallejo Lodges, by their joint efforts, have created the Vallejo
Masonic Bulletin, which serves the three Lodges by carrying their
respective trestle boards and the necessary information to their members, without advertising of any kind or chartcter. This bulletin is a
credit to the Masters, their Lodges and this Grand Lodge. The whole
structure of Masonry was founded upon a self-supporting basis. It
was never the purpose of Masonry to make money through commercial
ventures. This Vallejo Masonic Bulletin is a monument to true Masonic
purposes, for it is self-sustained by the three Lodges.
Most of the state heads of other Bodies have issued directives or
bulletins commanding their subordinate Bodies to cooperate with the
Grand Lodge and comply with all ·Grand Lodge law and edicts of the
Grand Master.
In January of this year, a bulletin directing compliance with the
Grand Master's directive was sent by the Supreme Scribe by order of
George R. Wishart, Pharaoh of the Supreme Pyramid of Sciots, to all
constituent Bodies. On June 11, 1952, the Grand High Priest of Royal
Arch Masons, the Grand Master of the Council of Royal and Select
Masters, and the Grand Commander of Knights Templar sent a joint
bulletin to their constituent Bodies directing strict compliance with the
edict of the Grand Master.
On February 3, 1952, the Grand Matron of Eastern Star sent a
letter to all chapters quoting the Grand Master's directive and directing
compliance therewith.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Honorable William R. McKay, past Grand Master of the Grand
Council of the Order of De Molay, is in sympathy with forthright compliance with the Grand Master's directive by the Order of De Molay.
The cooperation of these other. Bodies has been praiseworthy.

earnestly to acquaint all brothers, Lodges, and Bodies with our law
and regulations concerning the subject of advertising in the name of
Masonry-in the belief that informed brothers will adhere to our law.

202

III.
After much study and deliberation by the committee, it compiled
a set of "Questions and Answers about Publications." This was
approved by the Grand Master and attested by the Grand Secretary.
It was then mailed to the following:
1. All Grand Lodge officers.
2. All past Grand Masters.
3. All chairmen of committees.
4. All state heads of Bodies requiring Masonic affiliation as a eondition to membership.
5. All publishers to whom so-called sanction has been granted and
to all publishers of so-called Masonic publications in this state.
5. All Inspectors, with directions as follows:
a. Read and discuss same at next Officers Association meeting.
b. Actively Investigate in their respective District to determine
whether or not any Lodges or Bodies or any publications,
which are published in or delivered into their Districts, are
violating the law or edict and report all infractions to this
committee.
7. All Masters, with directions to announce receipt of same at the
next Stated Meeting and file with the Secretary.
A copy of said questions and answers and answers is attached to this
report and made a part hereof.

IV
It should be definitely understood and remembered that freedom of
the press or expression is not on trial here. No effort has been made to
limit either in any fashion. Our great problem requiring solution is advertising or commercialism in the name of Masonry or under the color
of Masonry. This problem should be resolved in favor of the many and
not the few who seek personal gain.
Your committee desires to commend Past Grand Master Paulsen for
accenting the subject of commercialism in Masonry and to applaud our
present Grand Master, the Honorable Louis C. Drapeau, who has so
faithfully, forthrightly. and fraternally fostered the solution. Progress
has been made during the year in reducing advertising in the name of
Masonry and eradication is hoped for in the near future.
This Masonic year may be called the year of education, for the
Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, and this committee have striven

203

Fraternally submitted,
ARTHUR S. CRITES
ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
NEWCOMB CONDEE
JAMES F . DOUGAN
JoHN R. MOORE, Chairman
Ordered filed for record.

Questions and Answers About Publications
Many questions have been addressed to the Special Committee on
Masonic Publications. The following answers give an explanation to
many of the questions propounded:
Question No. 1: Why is a Lodge not permitted to sell advertising in its
monthly bulletin?
Answer: Because every Lodge in California is prohibited from going
into business in any way, nor can a Lodge solicit pecuniary
assistance. (Ross Digest 126 and 127) In accord with our
long standing law the Grand Master on November 30, 1951,
issued an edict reading as follows:
" ( 1 ) All solicitation, acceptance or publication of advertising
in Lodge publications ( bulletins, etc.) shall cease.
"(2) No Lodge shall permit its trestle board to be published
in any publication other than its own Lodge bulletin.
" ( 3) No advertising in notices, programs, circulars, rosters,
dodgers, napkins, place cards, gifts, gadgets and other similar
miscellaneous media shall be permitted."
On December 5, 1951, the Grand Master held that this edict applied
to all Bodies requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership.
Question No. 2: Why do these restrictions apply to Bodies requiring
Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership?
Answer: Because a group of Masons cannot organize to do what their
Lodge is forbidden to do. Under the American system of jurisdiction, all collateral Masonic Bodies recognize the supremacy
of their respective Grand Lodges, and other organizations
which require Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership-although in no way recognized by Grand Lodge-must
obey the Masonic law of the jurisdiction in which they operate.
Question No. 3: Was this prohibition against advertising in Lodge publications changed in any way by the legislation concerning pub-

205

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

lications adopted at the annual communication of Grand Lodge
in 1951?
Answer: No. This violation of Masonic law had grown gradually (and
had been tolerated) until the edict by the Grand Master on
November 30, 1951.
Question No. 4: What was the extent of the legislation adopted at the
annual communication of Grand Lodge in 1951?
Answer: The legislation adopted reads as follows:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or
print advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be Masonic in name or character, or
which is published by or for any body, order or organization
requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership."
Question No. 5: .Who may apply for sanction of Grand Lodge to solidt,
print or publish advertising in a publication which purports
to be Masonic in name or character?
•
·
Answer: An individual Mason or several Masons acting as individuals
but who are not acting as the representative of any Lodge or
other Body.
Question No. 6: Why cannot Lodges, Bodies or organizations such as
Officers' Associations. etc .• apply for such sanction?
Answer: For the reason stated in the answers to Questions 1 and 2.
While the wording of the 1951 legislation on publications
would seem to imply the possibility of giving Grand Lodge
sanction to publications issued by Lodges, etc., the Grand
Master has ruled that the other well-established Masonic law,
against commercial enterprises and soliciting donations, prevents granting Lodges or Bodies such a sanction.
Question No. 7: How can qualified persons obtain the sanction of Grand
Lodge to print advertising. etc.?
Answer: By the vote of Grand Lodge when it is in session, and when it
is not in session its powers are exercised by the Grand Master.
Question No. 8: Will the Grand Master grant such a sanction? .
Answer: No. But when a qualified person files an application (in duplicate) on the form provided by the Grand Secretary, requesting
permission to carry advertising in a so-called Masonic publication, the Grand Master may, in his best judgment issue a
statement, attested by the Grand Secretary, in words as
follows:

Lodge. However, a strict compliance with the requisite specifications, on the part of this publication, will m'e et the requirements
of the Grand Master respecting the solicitation and publishing of
advertising in this publication. The Grand Master reserves the
right to revoke this statement at any time.
"Dated in duplicate at San Francisco on the ......day of...... , 19.....

204

" ............ (Name of publication) ........... .IS NOT AN OFFICIAL
PUBLICATION OF GRAND LODGE and is not sponsored,
authorized nor controlled by Grand Lodge nor by any constituent

"GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND ACCEPTED
MASONS OF CALIFORNIA
By................................................:.................................. .
Grand Master.''
"Attest:
Grand Secretary."

Question No. 9: What are the specifications required from the applicant
before such a statement will be issued?
Answer: Among other things, the applicant must certify and agree in
writing as follows:
1. That no part of any trestle board of any Lodge or District
Officers Association, including list of Lodge Officers, calendar
of Lodge meetings, or official statements by Lodge officers, will
be carried in the publication.
2. That no use will be made of any Lodge roster or official mem~rship list.
3. That no money will be accepted from any Lodge for subscriptions or any other purpose whatsoever.
The applicant also must under oath agree to abide by and strictly
comply with the following conditions and specifications:
a. Advertising will not be solicited or accepted upon a commission basis by agents, employees, or otherwise.
b. No person except a member in good standing of a Lodge in
this jurisdiction will be permitted to solicit or accept advertising for this publication.
c. No advertisements of beer, wines or liquors will be solicited,
accepted or printed.
d. No political advertising of any kind will be solicited, accepted
or printed.
e. No patent medicine advertising will be solicited, accepted or
printed.
f. This publication is a commercial venture, operated for the personal. private gain of the owner and publisher.

206

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THI!.

g. No representation will be made to advertisers or prospective
advertisers, directly or by iµiplication, that any advantage or
benefit will accrue to Masons, Masonry or Masonic organizations or bodies from the revenue derived from advertisements,
subscriptions or otherwise.
h. This publication is not an official publication of and is not
sponsored, authorized, or controlled by Masonry, Lodge or
Lodges of Masons nor the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of California, and no representation will be made,
directly or by implication, to the contrary.
i. This publication will be published and issued........................... .
(DAILY, WEEKL.Y OR MONTHLY)

and each issue will be dated.
j. No Lodge or Grand Lodge roster or list of members will be
used by or for this publication to solicit advertising or subscriptions, or otherwise.
k. No office of this publication will be located in a Masonic
Temple or Lodge hall, and no business will be conducted
therein.
]. No issue of this publication will be sent or delivered to the
premises of any Masonic Temple or Lodge hall except by U.
S. Mail.
m. No picture, portrait or photograph of any Lodge or Grand
Lodge officer will be published by this publication without his
written consent.
n. This publication will not solicit or accept or permit any of its
agents or employees to solicit or accept donations for charitable
purposes of any nature on behalf of any Lodge of Masons, the
Grand Lodge, or any Masonic body or organization of any
kind, including those which require Masonic affiliation as a
condition to membership.
o. This publication is not a corporation and will not become or be
incorporated while using in its title the words "Mason," "Masons," "Masonic" or "Masonry."

Question No. 10: What protection does this statement by the Grand
Master afford those who solicit, spansor, insert. place or print
advertising in the so-called Masonic publication to which the
statement has been issued?
Answer: The statement says. "a strict compliance with the requisite
specifications, on the part of this publication. will meet the requirements of the Grand Master respecting the solicitation
and publishing of advertising in this publication." This would
appear to provide immunity from discipline, provided of course
the publication strictly complies with all of said specifications

207

and conditions. It must be understood that the Grand Master
can at any time impress additional restrictions.

Question No. 11: How long will the sanction implied by the Grand Master's statement continue?
Answer: Until revoked by the Grand Master or Grand Lodge.
Question No. 12: Can a Lodge or Body requiring Masonic affiliation as
a condition to membership receive, permit or accept rosters
provided by a party or organization which prints its advertisements in or on the cover of the roster? _
Answer: No. This is forbidden by the answer under Question No. 1
above.

Question No. 13: Why is a Lodge forbidden to publish its trestle board
in any publication other than its own publication?
Answer: Because the material in a trestle board is for the use of its own
members and for such other individual members as the Lodge
may permit to receive it. The trestle board's contents should
not be exposed to the general public. The trestle board of a
Lodge includes a full or partial list of its officers with their
addresses, a calendar of Lodge events and a list of the projected meetings with commentaries thereon.

Question No. 14: Would it be improper for a Lodge to permit a news
item concerning one of its officers or one of its meetings. which
is to be held, to be published in a so-called Masonic Publication?
Answer: Apparently this would not be a trestle board, and if the information would not violate some other Masonic rule, such a
n~ws item would not be improper.

Question No. 15: Would it be proper for a Lodge to insert in a nonMasonic newspaper a publicity item announcing a meeting?
Answer: This would in no way contravene the legislation re publications
adopted at the last session of Grand Lodge, for that legislation
applied only to advertisements in publications "which purport
to be Masonic in name or 1;:haracter." Thus, if it were otherwise
proper, a Lodge could even place a paid advertisement in a
newspaper of general circulation which was in no way Masonic in character. While a Lodge may insert in such a newspaper a publicity item announcing one meeting, it may not
insert a list of meetings for the entire month, because this
would take on the aspect of a trestle board.

Question No. 16: May a Lodge pay money to assist a so-called Masonic publication?
Answer: No. This would be an unlawful use of Lodge funds. This is a
subject which the Lodge would have to consider in connection

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
with placing a paid advertisement in a non-Masonic newspaper.

Question No. 17: Why are certain parties permitted to violate the legislation concerning advertising in so-called Masonic publications?
Answer: No such violations are permitted. The party who violates,
directly or indirectly, assumes the burdens. Masonic law clearly specifies the method for dealing with Masonic offenses.
Most Masons are anxious to obey Masonic regulations. A few
through ignorance, misinformation or subterfuge, have continued to publish advertising in so-called Masonic publications
which have not been approved or for which no application has
has even been filed. Some through ignorance, misinformation
or subterfuge have not complied with the Grand Master's
edicts. The heads of ·most other bodies and organizations have
directed compliance with the Grand Lodge legislation and the
Grand Master's edict. Their cooperation is praiseworthy.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATIONS
By: JOHN R. MOORE
Chairman
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
ARTHUR S. CRITES
ARTHUR w. BROUILLET
}AMES F. DOUGAN.
Approved:
Loms C. DRAPEAU, Grand Master
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary
Application for Permission To Carry Advertising
(Must be filed in duplicate)
To the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California:
I hereby apply to the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of California for permission to solicit, sell, accept and print advertising
in the publication named below, which is owned by me, and I agree to
abide by and strictly comply with all the conditions, agreements and
specifications hereinafter contained.
1. Name of publication:

2. Place of publication (complete address and phone number) :
3. Interval of Publication (daily, weekly, monthly):

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

4. Names, addresses, phone numbers and Lodge membership of
owners:
5. Names, addresses, phone numbers and Lodge membership of
editors:
6. Names, addresses, phone numbers and Lodge membership of
sponsors:
7. Names, addresses and Lodge membership of all employees:
8. Character of publication (copy attached).
9. Date of last publication:
Number of copies printed:
Number of paid subscribers:
Number of non-paying subscribers:
Subscription list was obtained from sources as follows (in detail) :
Subscription price:
Distribution was effected as follows (in detail) :
Advertising rates:
10. In consideration of the statement below, executed by the Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California, I agree as follows:
a. Advertising will not be solicited or accepted upon a commission
·
basis by agents, employees, or otherwise.
b. No person except a member in good standing of a Lodge in this
jurisdiction will be permitted to solicit or accept advertising for this
publication.
c. No advertisements of beer, wines or liquors will be solicited,
accepted or printed.
d. No political advertising of any kind will be solicited, accepted or
_printed.
e. No patent medicine advertising will be solicited, accepted or
printed .
. f. This publication is a commercial venture, operated for the personal,
private gain of the owner and publisher.
~· No representation will be made to advertisers or prospective advertisers, directly or by implication, that any advantage or benefit will
accrue to Masons, Masonry or Masonic organizations or bodies from the
revenue derived from advertisements, subscriptions or otherwise.
h. This puhlication is not an official publication of and is not sponsored, authorized, or controlled by Masonry, Lodge or Lodges of Masons
n_or the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California, and
no :representation will be made, directly or by implication, to the contrary.
i. This publication will be published and issued·-················•·················
and each issue will be dated.
(DAILY, WEEKLY ~R MONTHLY)

f• No Lodge or Grand Lodge roster or list of members will be used

210

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

by or for this publication to solicit advertising or subscriptions, or otherwise.
k. No office of this publication will be located in a Masonic Temple
or Lodge hall, and no business will be conducted therein.
1. No issue of this publication will be sent or delivered to the premises
of any Masonic Temple or Lodge hall except by U.S. Mail.
m. No picture, portrait or photograph of any Lodge or Grand Lodge
officer will be published by this publication without his written consent.
n. This publication will not solicit or accept or permit any of its
agents or employees to solicit or accept donations for charitable purposes
of any nature on behalf of any Lodge of Masons, the Grand Lodge, or
any Masonic body or organization of any kind, including those which require Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership.
o. The law of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
California respecting advertising is as follows:
"No Lodge or member of a Lodge, without the express sanction of
Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of
any kind in or for any medium or publication, which purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is · published by or for any body.
order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to
·
membership."
p. Masonry abhors the use of its good name for commercial purposes.
q. This publication is not a corporation and will not become or be
incorporated while using in its title the words "Mason," "Masons,"
"Masonic" or "Masonry."
r. This publication will publish in every issue facts concerning its
last previous issue as follows:
Date of publication.
Number of copies printed.
Number of paid subscribers.
Number on non-paying subscribers.
Subscription price.
Advertising rates.
Method of distribution.
s. This publication will publish in every issue the exact street address and phone number of its business office and the names, street addresses and phone numbers of its owners, publishers and editors.
11. This publication will publish, on the second sheet of every issue,
the first sentence of paragraph l 0 above, together with subparagraphs
a. g. n, o, and r, therein, and immediately thereunder will publish the
name of the owner and the statement of Grand Lodge set out below.
12. This publication will print, on the front of all advertising orders,
bills, statements and receipts, the exact street address and phone number

of its business office and the name of its owner, and on the back thereof
the contents of subparagraphs h and n of paragraph 10 above.

211

Signed and dated in duplicate at..-----·············--·-----···-·--···----·:...............
on the ..~----·--·---·-·-·····-day of ···:··-·······--··-·-·········-···-·····---·-·--·-····--·· 19...... .

)
ST ATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES )
SS:

h;i~~--fi;~~~d~i;·;;~~~-.--d~~~~----------~~d·-~;~---------·~h;t·::::h~~~~~--h~---.-.-.--~~-~d-~-h-;
foregoing application and know.... the contents thereof and that the same
is true of ............................ own knowledge.

Subscribed and sworn to before me
this .......... day of ................ , 19.......
Notary Public
.......................... County, California.
. STATEMENT

................ (Name of publication) .............. ,. IS NOT AN OFFICIAL
PUBLICATION OF GRAND LODGE and is not sponsored, authorized nor controlled by Grand Lodge nor by any constituent Lodge.
However, a strict compliance with the requisite specifications, on the part
of this publication, will meet the requirements of the Grand Master respecting the solicitation and publishing of advertising in this publication.
The Grand Master reserves the right to revoke this statement at any time.
Dated in duplicate at San Francisco on the ................ day of .............. ,

19.............
GRAND LODGE OF FREE AND ACCEPTED
MASONS OF CALIFORNIA
By .................................................................................... ·
Grand Master
Attest:
Grand Secretary

212

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES

No. 1281- An Entered Apprentice of Burlingame Lodge No. 400.
Suspended April 1. 1952.
No. 1282-A member of Friendship Lodge No. 210. Expelled April 3,
1952.
No. 1283--A member of Sanger Lodge No. 316. Expelled April 1,
1952.
No. 1284-A member of Meridian Lodge No. 667. Acquitted November 28. 1951.
No. 1287-A member of Azusa Lodge No. 305. Acquitted February 14,
1952.
No. 1288-A member of Redwood City Lodge No. 168. Expelled
May 1, 1952.
No. 1289-A member of Eureka Lodge No. 16. Expelled June 2, 1952.
No. 1290-A Fellow Craft of Sun Garden Lodge No. 530. Expelled
June 12, 1952.
No. 1291-A member of a Lodge in Colorado. Expelled January 7,
1952.
No. 1292-A member of a Lodge in Missouri. Acquitted June 4, 1952.
No. 1293-A member of Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579. Reprimanded February 7. 1952.
No. 1294-A member of Pasadena Lodge No. 272. Expelled July 7,
1952.
No. 1295---A member of Florence Lodge No. 694. Expelled July 3, 1952.
No. 1296---A member of Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415. Expelled August 6, 1952.
·
'
No. 1297-A member of Pohona Lodge N<;>. 689. Expelled August 6,
1952.
No. 1299-A member of Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Expelled August
5. 1952.
....
No. 1302-A member of Visalia Lodge No. 128. Expelled August 14.
1952.
No. 1303-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled September
12, 1952.
No. 1304-A member of Seal Rock No. 536. Expelled September 3,
1952.
No. 1306---A member of Lodge Maui No. 472. Expelled August 13,
1952.
No. 1307-A member of Tyrian Lodge No. 439. Expelled June 10, 1952.
No . .1308-A member of Yount Lodge No. 12. Acquitted July 5, 1952.
No. 1309-A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319. Expelled September 2, 1952.
In each of the foregoing matters. your Committee has carefully
reviewed the record.
We find therein no errors of a character which resulted in a miscarriage of justice. In each of them the procedure has substantially

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There has been referred to the Committee on Grievances a total of 61
records. This report to the Grand Lodge by your Committiee will deal
with 40 of these records. The remaining 21 records will be covered by
separate reports due to the fact that they involve appeals. petitions for
restoration, or some other situation which, in the opinion of your Committee, require them to be separately considered.
Your Committee proposes to recommend to Grand Lodge the affirmance of the result reflected in the file of each of the following trial
records:
No. 1203-(Retrial). A member of Temple City Lodge No. 612. Expelled October 2. 1951.
No. 1260-An Entered Apprentice of Liberty Lodge No. 299. Expelled
September 7, 1951.
No. 1261-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Acquitted October 4, 1951.
No. 1263-A member of Standard Lodge No. 440. Expelled September 8, 1951.
No. 1264-A member of Military Service Lodge No. 570. Expelled
November 2, 1951.
No. 1266---A member of Reading Lodge No. 254. Expelled December 5, 1951.
No. 1267-A member of Lexington Lodge No. 1M. Expelled November 5, 1951.
No. 1268-A member of Alexandria Lodge No. 531. Expelled December 7, 1951.
No. 1271-Amember of East Belt Lodge No. 391. Expelled January 4,
1952.
No. 1272-A member of Vallejo Lodge No. 487. Expelled January 2,
1952.
.
No. 1274-A member of Porterville Lodge No. 303. Expelled January
10, 1952.
No. 1275-A member of Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415. Expelled February 6, 1952.
No. 1276---A member of Perris Lodge No. 411. Expelled February 4,
1952.
No. 1277-A member of South San Francisco Lodge No. 212. Expelled March 6, 1952.
No. 1278-A member of Amity Lodge No. 370. Expelled March 7.
1952.
No. 1279-A member of Antioch Lodge No. 175. Expelled March 7,
1952.
No. 1280-A member of Meridian Lodge No. 667. Reprimanded February 5, 1952.

214

215

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

conformed to the requirements of our Ordinances. In all cases of automatic expulsion, we find that the requirements of Section 332 of our
Ordinances has been substantially followed. In each of the matters in
which a trial was had, the result has the support of substantial evidence
in the record, and in those instances in which the accused has suffered
either reprimand, suspension, or expulsion, we feel that the finding of
Guilty has been adequately supported and that the penalty imposed
is in reasonable accord with the character of the offense committed.

"I know that I have atoned for the mistake I made 31 y~ars
ago by my subsequent actions. I will admit that when I was convicted I was somewhat bitter, but now as I look back, I am very
grateful that I was stopped at one mistake and not allowed to
continue on a path that might have ruined my life permanently.
I was taught, the hard way, that law and order must be preserved
at the expense of the individual. and for 30 years have conducted
myself accordingly and feel that I have paid for my error and
rebuilt my ]ife to follow the standards that good society demands.
... I wish to state that although I have not been allowed to sit
in a Masonic lodge over 30 years, I have always considered myself a Mason in good standing and have kept inviolate all of these
years the secrets intrusted to me when I received my degrees long,
long ago."
Good letters of recommendation accompany the petition. San Pasqual
Lodge appointed an investigating committee and took a vote at a stated
meeting on the petition for restoration. Sixty members were present and
they voted -unanimously in favor of his restoration.

We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
Be it resolved that in each of the foregoing enumerated trial records
the action of the Lodge in cases of automatic expulsion and the finding
and determination of the Trial Commissions and the penalty imposed,
be and the same hereby are ratified, affirmed, and approved.
FRANK B. BELCHER
JoE L. SHELL
RALPH E. HOYT

F. LESLIE MANKER
KEITH HAMNER
ALBERT F. Ross
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 330
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of C. F. 0. for
restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry begs leave to report
as follows:
The accused was expelled by San Pasqual Lodge in 1922 on the
charge that he had committeed grand larceny and had been sentenced to
State Prison. He now filed his petition for restoration and has given the
required notice thereof to San Pasqual Lodge.
The petitioner states that the State Prison Board set his sentence at
five years. He served about one year and seven months in the prison and
at an honor camp in Northern California. He was paroled in December
of 1923 and went to Boston, Mass. where he finished his parole and
worked until 1927. At that time he returned to California and has been
continuously employed with one company in various capacities for over
21 years.
His reasons for seeking restoration are so well stated that we are
taking the liberty of quoting them verbatim:

We feel that the petitioner has sustained the burden of showing that
he has made a complete atonement for his error and therefore deserves _
favorable consideration. In recommending restoration, however, we feel
it encumbent to point out to Grand Lodge a matter of policy. In 1875
Grand Lodge established the rule as set forth in Section 875 of Ross
Digest; that a petition for degrees could not be received from one who
had served it term in state prison. In 1918 a resolution to put this rule
into statutory language by amending Section 208 of the Ordinances
failed to pass, which could be construed as a decision of Grand Lodge
that this policy should not be a part of our law, at least in statutory form.
The matter was thoroughly reviewed in 1951 on the recommendation of
the Grand Master that Section 875 be set aside and disapprQved. The
matter was presented to Grand Lodge in majority and minority reports
of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. Grand Lodge adopted
the majority report which disapproved the Grand Masters suggestion
and thus the principle of Section 875 was re-~ffirmed and a Lodge cannot accept the petition of a former felon. In other words, under the
present law a former inmate of state prison is forever disqualified from
petitioning a Masonic Lodge. Does that same disqualification attach to
a member who is expelled for conviction of a felony and imprisoned in
pursuance thereof so as to bar his restoration? Section 875 does not
apply because it specifically refers to petitions for degrees and not to
restoration. Section 314 of the Ordinances provides that Grand Lodge
may, if good cause therefor be shown and proof of notice is given, restore to the rights and privileges of Masonry any Mason who has been
suspended or expelled within its jurisdiction. In 1951 and at almost
every previous annual communication, restoration has been granted to

GRAND LODGE OP CALiPORNIA

216

217

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

expelled Masons who have been guilty of unmasonic conduct consisting
of the commission of a felony and for which they have served a term in
state prison. Because of the emphasis placed upon the question of imprisonment for a felony given last year, we have dwelt upon the matter
here at length. We want Grand Lo4ge to realize that if you adopt the
resolution ·to be offered in this case you determine as a matter of policy
that imprisonment for a felony for which a member is expelled does not
in and of itself bar him from seeking restoration.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of C. F. D. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 680
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of L. W. N. for
restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry begs leave to report
as follows:
The accused, formerly the Secretary of Sun Garden Lodge, was
expelled in 1931 for misappropriating the sum of $4,045.25 from the
funds of the Lodge. In his petition for . restoration the accused states
that restitution in full has been made to the Lodge over five years ago.
The petition is supported by one letter of recommendation signed by
three Past Masters of another lodge. Neither the petition nor the letter
of recommendation contains the detail in connection with the petitioner's
occupation since his expulsion. The petitioner's residence is merely given
as a post office box .number. The showing, therefore, of the petitioner is
at this time insufficient. We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of L. W. N. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied without
prejudice.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 840
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred-the petition of E. M. R. for
restoration to the rights and privileges to Masonry, begs leave to report
as follows:
The petitioner, E. M. R. was expelled on September 6, 1934, for unmasonic conduct based upon two specifications: First that he had deserted, neglected and wilfully failed for a period of two years to provide
for his four minor daughters, then of the ages of 16, 14, 13 and 5, all of

whom were dependent upon him for support, and second, that he was a
fugitive from justice, a warrant for his arrest having been issued under
Section 270 of the Penal Code of the State of California charging failure
to provide for his minor children.
It appeared at the trial that a reasonable effort to locate the accused
had been made and the trial proceeded even though there was no evidence that the accused had really received a copy of the summons and
charges. The evidence at the trial showed that the wife of the accused
had obtained a divorce from the accused and had custody of the minor
children. She testified that he had failed to support them and that she
.
was living upon relief provided by the county.
In 1949 the accused filed a petition for restoration. That petition was
denied without prejudice because of the fact that there was no evidence
as to what effort the petitioner had made to support his children since
he was expelled. The report denying the petition suggested "that the
petitioner be advised to present evidence as to his support of his minor
children since 1934 or his reason for not doing so".
The petitioner has flled under date of July 5, 1952, a further petition
covering in detail his occupation, activities and earnings since 1930. As
set forth in the petition, he was working as a salesman on a commission
basis and his earnings were insufficient to meet the payments as ordered
by the court. Finally in 1940 he went on active duty with the Army as a
1st lieutenant and has been with the Army ever since. At the present
time he is a Master Sergeant and is stationed in Europe. Since the time
he went on active duty with the Army he has made payments on account
of the payment ordered by the court. He has submitted cancelled checks
for the sum pf approximately $800.00 to evidence these payments. His
original petition for restoration is supported by good letters of recom.
mendation and proper notice has been given to the Lodge.
We feel that the petitioner has established that he is entitled to
favorable consideration on his petition. We therefore offer the following
resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of E. M. R. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 869
-To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which Trial Record No. 869 was
.
ref erred, reports as follows:
A petition for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry has
been filed by A.F., a former member of Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219,
which Lodge has been duly notified of the filing of said petition.
Petitioner was expelled from all rights and privileges of Masonry
by Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219 following his trial and conviction

218

PROCEEDINGS OP THR

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

by that Lodge on September 19, 1935, on charges that he had been convicted of the crime of attempted arson in San Mateo County in January,
1935, and that he had been sentenced to serve six months in the county
jail as constituting unmasonic conduct.
The petition is supported by five letters from men who have known
petitioner for many years. all of whom recommend his restoration. Petitioner, who is 82 years of age and now engaged in the used car business,
appeared personally before your committee.
From the evidence presented in support of this petition, your committee feels that petitioner has been rehabilitated and is entitled to be
restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved that the petition of A. F. for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Masonry be, and the same is, hereby granted.

his intention so to do at least sixty days before the annual communication
at which his petition is to be presented. Under Section 929 of Ross
Digest the sixty day notice is computed from the stated meeting following receipt of the notice. The notice in this case was therefore insufficient.
·We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of G. W. I. N. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and the same is hereby denied
without prejudice.

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 918
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the petition of G. W. I. N.
for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, begs leave to
report as follows:
· The accused was expelled in 1937 after a trial. He was found guilty
of numerous specifications of intoxication involving the use of abusive
language to his family and dispute over possession of the community
property. The accused is a veterinarian by profession and moved from
Santa Barbara to Stockton approximately ten years ago and has resided
in Stockton ever since.
The accused has made several attempts to file petitions for restoration during the past several years. The present petition is in letter form
and is dated August 5, 1952. It has attached to it a carbon copy of a
letter also dated August 5, 1952 sent from Stockton, addressed to the
Secretary of La Cumbre Lodge at Santa Barbara, giving notice of the
filing of the petition and enclosing copy thereof. The letter to La Cumbre
Lodge at Santa Barbara could possibly have been received on the same
day it was sent, August 5th, but probably it was the following day. The
letterhead of La Cumbre Lodge shows that the stated meeting is held on
the first Monday in each month. The stated meeting for August, 1952,
was held on August 4th. The notice of the filing of the petition for
restoration was therefore received after the stated meeting in August.
The first notice of the Lodge to the matter would be at the September
stated meeting held on September 1st which is less than sixty days before
this communication.
Section 346 requires an expelled Mason who desires to petition
Grand Lodge for restoration to notify the Lodge which expelled him of

219

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 922
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition of

H. W. R. of Oak Grove Lodge No. 215 for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry, reports as follows:
Petitioner was expelled in 1937 for unmasonk conduct, the gist of the
specifications being that as the Mayor of the City of Alameda he had
committed the crime of conspiracy to commit petty theft and had entered
a plea of "guilty" to said charge.
In his petition for restoration petitioner refers to his Superior Court
conviction as a "conviction comparable to a traffic violation," although
the offense of which he was convicted is one involving moral turpitude.
The petition is accompanied by only two letters of recommendation.
Neither of these letters afford much light upon the question of his present rehabilitation.
There being no adequate showing of rehabilitation your Committee
is of the opinion that the petition for restoration· should be denied without prejudice.
We therefore offer and move the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved: That the petition of H. W. R. for restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masonry be and it is hereby denied without prejudice.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1131
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was submitted trial Record
No. 1131 reports as follows:
.
G. T. C. having been duly tried and convicted by Woodland Lodge
No. 156 of unmasonic conduct, in violation of Section No. 210 of the
Ordinances, was expelled February _6. 1948 which findings were adopted
by Grand Lodge at its 99th Annual Communication.
G. T. C. now having sold his liquor business and being in no way
connected with the same, humbly requests restoration, and said lodge

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

having requested Grand Lodge to restore G. T. C. to a11 the rights and
privileges of Masonry.
We, therefore, offer the fo11owing resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved that the request of G. T. C. to be restored to all the rights
and privileges of Masonry be granted.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1216
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California: ·
Your Committee on Grievances, to which Trial Record No. 1216
was referred, reports as follows:
A petition for restitution to the rights and privileges of Masonry has
been Bled by A.D.P., a former member and Past Master of Penrhyn
Lodge No. 258, of which petition Penhryn Lodge has been duly notified.
Petitioner was automatically expelled by Penrhyn Lodge No. 258
on June 10, 1950, because of his conviction in a Federal Court on February 14, 1950. of a violation of Section 145 ( b) of the Internal Revenue
Code, a felony, which offense involved the filing of a false and fraudulent income tax return, to which charge he pleaded guilty and was
sentenced to imprisonment for a term of eighteen months. The action
of Penrhyn Lodge-in expelling the member was approved at the 101 st
Communication of Grand Lodge:
In his petition for restoration, petitioner states that he was paroled
after serving a minimum sentence of six months. The record does not
disclose whether he has satisfactorily completed his parole, but it is
presumed that he has. The petition is accompanied by three letters of
recommendation by men who have known him for many years. These
letters deal more with petitioner's general·good character and reputation
throughout the years rather than the specific question of his rehabilitation following his offense and expulsion, which is now the important
consideration.
At a Stated Meeting of Penrhyn Lodge No. 258 held on June 12,
1952, of which meeting the membership had been notified, a vote was
taken upon petitioner's petition directly to his own lodge for restoration.
. The vote was 27 for restoration and 9 against restoration.
In view of the short period of time elapsing since the expulsion of the
petitioner, the lack of adequate evidence of rehabilitation, and the lack
of greater unanimity in his former lodge, the committee believes that the
petition should be denied without prejudice at this time.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its ~doption:
Resolved that the petition of A.D.P. for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Masonry be denied without prejudice.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

221

Trial Record No. 1227
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The proceedings reflected by Trial Record No. 1227 from Angeles
Mesa Lodge, No. 625, show the restoration by that Lodge on August 5,
1952 of D. R. H., a member of that Lodge. who was suspended by it on
Sept. 5, 1950. Under Section 343 of our Ordinances such right of restoration rests with the Lodge which decreed the suspension of its member in
the first instance. AU proceedings were regular.
We, therefore, offer the following Resolution, and move its adoption:
Resolved: That the action of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625 in restoring D.R. H. be and the same hereby is ratified, affirmed and approved.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1256
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances is divided as to the disposition which
should be made in the matter presented by Trial Record No. 1256 from
Palos Verdes Lodge No. '389. A basic question of Masonic policy is
involved.
The facts are these: T. M. C. is a member of Palos Verdes Lodge
No. 389. He resides at Scottsbluff, Nebraska, and is president of T. C.,
Inc., a corporation. This corporation, under his management, operates
a liquor store pursuant to a properly issued license by the State of
Nebraska. Tpe license is of the so-called "off-sale" variety: liquor is
not consumed on the prel'.!lises.
The Grand Jurisdiction of Nebraska has made it a Masonic offense
for a Mason to engage in the sale of intoxicating liquor. The actions
of T. M. C. are therefore a violation of the Masonic law of Nebraska.
By proceedings duly and regularly done and had before a Nebraska
Trial Commission the accused was ordered expelled from Palos Verdes
Lodge No. 389. No appeal was _taken and this action has now become
final in the Grand Lodge of Nebraska. Such action was beyond the
jurisdiction of Nebraska Masonry. It had no authority to expel a California Mason from a California Lodge. Only a California Lodge by
and with the approval of this Grand Lodge may properly take such
action. However, the Grand Lodge of Nebraska could expel a Mason
resident there from all the rights and privileges of Masonry in Nebraska.
We regard the action of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska as doing this and
nothing more.
The record of the Nebraska proceedings was filed with this Grand
Lodge and received its attention in 1951. At that time your Committee
on Grievances recommended by a divided vote of five to two that no
action be taken on the matter here, basing such recommendation upon the

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

fact that conducting a liquor store is not a Masonic ~ffense in California. Grand Lodge declined to approve this recommendation and
ordered the matter referred to Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, pursuant
to the provisions of Section 331 of our Ordinances which reads as
follows:

"Every Freemason is amenable to the laws and regulations of the
Masonic Jurisdiction in which he resides."
The majority of our Committee answers that a Mason should only
be expelled in his home Lodge and Grand Lodge for offenses which are
there declared to be the basis for expulsion: that, in this case, the accused
has been rendered amenable to the "laws and regulations" of Nebraska
by being expelled from the rights and privileges of Masonry in that
Grand Jurisdiction; that more should not be taken from him; and that
to forfeit his California Lodge membership for an act which is not
punishable in California is obviously unfair. ·
You have the question, my brethren. If you agree with the minority,
your action should be to reverse the action of the Trial Commission in
finding the accused not guilty of unmasonic conduct and in acquitting
the accused and by finding the accused guilty of unmasonic conduct and
&xing the penalty at expulsion.
If, on the other hand, you agree with the majority of the Committee,
you should adopt the following Resolution which I now offer and move
its adoption:
Be It Resolved that the action of the Trial Commission of
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 in finding the accused not guilty of
Unmasonic conduct and in acquitting the accused be, and the
same hereby is, ratified, affirmed and approved.
Adopted.
On reconsideration, the accused was found guilty of unmasonic conduct, and tlte penalty fixed at expulsion.
See report of Committee on Jurisprudence for action.

"Whenever it shall appear by the record of conviction from
another Masonic jurisdiction, recognized by us, that a member
of one of our Lodges. resident in such jurisdiction, has been suspended or expelled for unmasonic conduct in such jurisdiction
while a resident thereof. it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden
of the Lodge in this jurisdiction of which he is a member to prefer
charges against him for the acts and conduct alleged in the
charges preferred in the foreign jurisdiction and of which he was
there convicted, and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had
as in ordinary cases; provided that the record of conviction of the
foreign jurisdiction shall be received on the trial as prima facie
evidence of the guilt of the brother of such acts and conduct."
Pursuant to this action of Grand Lodge, charges were flied in Palos
Verdes Lodge charging T. M. C. with unmasonic conduct based on a
specification setting forth that the accused had engaged in the sale of
intoxicating liquor in Nebraska. A trial was had in due and proper
order. The _accused was found guilty of the speci.6cation but not guilty
of unmasomc conduct and was, therefore, acquitted. The matter is now
before you for final disposition.
Section 210 of our Ordinances prohibits a Mason in California from
engaging in the saloon business or as a barkeeper except in connection
with, and as a part of. the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant.
It is not a Masonic offense in California for a Mason to operate a liquor
store where liquor is not consumed on the premises. It will be observed
that, in this respect, our Masonic law differs from that of Nebraska.
The question is, therefore, squarely presented: Should the Grand Lodge
of California expel a Mason from a California Lodge when such Mason
has been expelled in a foreign jurisdiction for conduct which is unmasonic in such foreign jurisdiction but is not unmasonic in California?
A majority, four of this Committee, recommend that the action of
the Trial Commission of Palos Verdes Lodge acquitting the accused
be affirmed. Three members of the Committee feel the accused should
be expelled.
The minority argues that a sojourning Mason should conform to the
Masonic regulations of the jurisdiction in which he resides and for a
violation thereof should forfeit his rights and privileges of Masonry
everywhere, including in his own Lodge.· They assert the matter is covered by Landmark Seventeenth (p. 567 Ross Digest) which reads:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances. to which was submitted Trial Record
No. 1262. reports as follows:
Accused, P. M. B.. was a Fellowcraft of Pajaro Lodge No. 110 at
Watsonville. He was charged with being a bartender. Personal service
was made on him and he appeared at the trial before the commissioners
and admitted the charges and said that he intended to continue to tend
bar as it was a way to make a living. The only question raised by the
accused was why it took so long to set the date of trial.
The record of the trial then shows "that the commissioners proceeded to deliberate* * *and the accused was found guilty by unanimous
vote." It does not show any separate vote on the specifications or on the
charge of unmasonic conduct, nor any vote on the penalty. The minutes
of the next stated meeting of the lodge state that accused was found
guilty of all speci&cations and of the charge and had been sentenced to
expulsion.

224

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The admissions of the accused prove the truth of the specifications
and, of course, this constitutes unmasonic conduct and requires. expulsion under Section 210 of the Ordinances of this Grand Lodge.
We therefore recommend that Grand Lodge supply to the record
of this case a finding of guilt of all specifications and of unmasonie conduct, and that it also supply to said record the fixing of the penalty at
expulsion, and that the action of the lodge, as shown by its minutes, in
expelling said accused be approved.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That in Trial Record No. 1262, a finding of guilt of all
specifications and of unmasonic conduct be supplied, and that a fixing of
the penalty at expulsion be also supplied; and that the action of Pajaro
Lodge No. 110 in expelling P. M. B. from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry be and the same is hereby ratified. affirmed and approved.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1265
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of the State of California:
Your Committee to which was referred Trial Record No. 1265 reports as follows:
A properly attested copy of a judgment of the United States District
Court for the Southern District of California, shows that the accused
F.L.L.N. was on July 23rd, 1951, convicted, on his pleas of guilty in said
court of the offenses of stealing certain goods which were parts of an
interstate shipment, and in excess of the value of $100.00, as set out in
·
three separate counts of the indictment.
Believing. apparently, that 'such conviction did not constitute a felony
and that automatic expulsion was not available to proceed against the
accused, charges were filed in his lodge, accusing him of unmasonic
conduct ·b ased on the following specifications:
· . First; That about March 8, 1951, the accused stole 106 dozen pairs
of nylon hosiery, of a value in excess of $100.00, from a loading platform
of the Santa Fe Railway Company:
Second: That about April 21, 1951, at the same place, he stole 21
lamp shades, of a value not in excess of $100.00;
Third: That about May 15, 1951, at the same place, the accused
stole 181 pairs of Ladies "Argo Knit" Pants, of a value in excess of
$100.00.
All proceedings taken in this trial were regular and in order. The
accused was present at the trial and was represented by counsel. He
admitted his guilt and offered no evidence of extenuating circumstances,
and asked for lenient treatment. The trial commission found the accused
guilty but fixed the penalty at suspension. With the finding of guilt

225

your committee concurs, but we are of the opinion that Grand Lodge
should fix the penalty of expulsion.
We arrive at this conclusion after an examination of the action of
Grand Lodge in a number of cases involving theft, and which action
definitely fixes the policy of Grand Lodge at requiring expulsion therefor.
These cases we cite as follows : 1940 Proceedings, p 179: 1947 Proceedings, p. 234, Trial Record No. 1105; and 1944 Proceedings, p. 158,
Trial Record No. 1044.
Your Committee does not wish to be misunderstood as over emphasizing the gravity of that specification against the accused in which he is
charged with a "panty raid". Indulgence in such conduct by boys of
college age for the purpose of displaying either skill of courage, if that
be the purpose. differs somewhat from the conduct of the accused here,
in that the theft of 181 pairs of Ladies pants is not merely a playful prank.
Here the accused on three separate dates, March 8, April 21 and May
15. 1951, covering a period of two months, committed these three offenses, each of which constitutes an act involving moral turpitude.
Your Committee therefore offers the follo~ing resolution and moves
its adoption•.
Resolved: That the action of Granada Lodge No. 608, in finding the
accused F. L. L. N. guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed, but that the
penalty thereon be and the same hereby is fixed at expulsion.
Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1269
The charge~ against accused, A. M. H., a member of James Madison
Lodge No. 572, are very loosely drawn. The first speciftcation alleges
that the accused falsely stated in his application for the degrees that he
knew of no legal or moral reason why he should not become a Mason
when. as a matter of fact, he had several past criminal convictions against
him, one being a felony case which resulted in a prison term. The
second specification lumps together the arrest and conviction of accused
for assault with a deadly weapon in Superior Court of Los Angeles
County in 1951 and a subsequent arrest and conviction for disturbing
the peace in Beverly Hills City Court.
As we have pointed out year after year, the arrest and conviction
for crime does not constitute a Masonic offense, but it is the law violation
itself which is the Masonic offense, and it should be so pleaded in the
charges. Upon the Masonic trial, the judgments of conviction in the
state courts are prima facie evidence of guilt of the offense charged.
Grand Lodge in 1951 adopted the policy that "the failure to disclose
prior criminal convictions in response to Question 12 of the Application",
standing alone, does not constitute a Masonic offense. However, in
this case, the a<!cused did falsly answer the questions as to. occupation

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

227

Trial Record No. 1273
and residence during the preceding ten years by omitting reference to his
prison term. His application is dated in 1947 and his prison term was
from 1932 to 1939.
Accused was found guilty of both specifications and of unmasonic
conduct and expelled.
However, it appears t~at the summons and charges were mailed to
accused in Los Angeles just ten days before the trail. A person residing
within the jurisdiction of the lodge must be served personally by the
tiler· or some other person designated by the Master. If residing elsewhere in the state service may be made by mail but must be at least
thirty days before the trial. There is nothing in this record to show that
accused ever received the charges and he did not appear at the trial. For
this reason, the expulsion must be reversed, and the matter returned to
the lodge for retrial. Amended charges should be prepared alleging the
falsity of the application for degrees as to occupation and residence, and
alleging the commission of the felony and misdemeanor covered by the
second specification in the present charges.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That the action of James Madison Lodge No. 572, in expelling A. M. H., be and the same is vacated and set aside and_ the matter
returned to the lodge for filing amended charges, and for trial thereon
after proper service on the accused.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1270

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Accused, E. H. C., a member of Covenant Lodge No. 527, was
charged with unmasonic conduct. It was alleged that ac~used .wrot~ a
letter to the Grand Master asking an investigation of certam anti-Jewish
propaganda he had read (some of which he quoted) ~nd si~ulta.neously
he mailed printed copies of his letter to every lodge m California. The
letter contained a postscript that it should be read at the next stated
meeting of each lodge.
.
Accused was found guilty and the penalty fixed at reprimand.
The unauthorized circulation of the Masonic lodges of the jurisdiction was a Masonic offense, particularly when it involved a matter of
religious prejudice which might seriously impair the peace and harmony
of the craft. We feel that the penalty imposed in this case was not
sufficient.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved that the action of Covenant Lodge No. 527 in finding
E. H. C. guilty of the charges against him is affirmed and approved but
that the penalty be fixed at suspension and that said E. H. C. be, and
he is hereby. suspended from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1273 reports as follows:
Accused R. P. R. was charged with unmasonic conduct in two specifications: First, that he had been convicted of conspiracy to defraud the
United States Government in violation of Section 80, Title 18, of the
United States Code; Second, that the violation of this Statute is a felony
with a maximum penalty of ten years or $10,000.00 fine.
The Commissioners found the Accused "guilty" of the first specifica·
tion and "not guilty of unmasonic conduct."
While the specifications are not well drawn, from ·the evidence it
appears that the gist of the charge was that the Accused conspired to
defraud the Government by using a veteran's preference to purchase
war surplus property when, in fact, the property was not being purchased
for the veteran. The property consisted of a crane which the Government sold to the veteran for $4,520.25. Accused furnished the money
for the cashier's check which the veteran presented to the Government
for the crane and, in addition, paid the veteran $220.50. Accused admitted that the crane was not bought for the veteran but wa!> bought
for Accused's partner in the purchase and sale of war surplus materials.
The evidence clearly indicates a deliberate, intentional fraud practiced
upon the United States Government.
Under these circumstances your Committee is of the opinion that the
finding of "not guilty of unmasonic conduct" is unwarranted and should
be set aside, 'and that Grand Lodge should supply a findl.ng of "guilty
of unmasonic conduct" and that the penalty should be fixed at expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That the Trial Commission's finding in Trial Record No.
1273 that R. P.R. is guilty of the specification be approved and affirmed;
that the finding that he is not guilty of unmasonic conduct be disapproved
and supplied; and that said R. P. R. be and he is hereby expelled from all
the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1285
Trial Record No. 1285, referred to the Grievance Committee, involves one L. L. M., a member of Dwight Lodge No. 550, Alabama City,
Alabama.
The accused was convicted in the Superior Court of Solano County
of four violations of Section 288 of the Penal Code of California. The
accused made an application to the Superior Court to be examined by a
psychiatrist under the provisions of Section 5500, et seq. of the Welfare
and Institutions Code of California to determine whether or not he could

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

be classified as a sexual psychopath. Pursuant to such application, the
accused was examined but the court denied his application to be classified as a sexual psychopath, and thereupon sentenced the accused to
the State Prison at San Quentin.
Pursuant to Section 333 of our Ordinances, the Grand Secretary
duly and regularly gave notice to the accused, advising him of ~is conviction and that unless he elected within sixty days to have a trial by a
Masodic Lodge within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California,
he would stand expelled from all rights and privileges of Masonry. The
accused did not elect to have such a trial. As a result, he stood automatically expelled sixty days following February 5, 1952, the date of the
notice by the Grand Secretary.
Your Committee offers and moves the adoption of the following resolution:
Be it resolved that the expulsion of L. L. M. from all the rights and
privileges of Masonry be and the same hereby is ratified, affirmed, and
approved:
Be it further resolved that the Grand Secreta17 be, and he h~eby is,
authorized, empowered, and instructed to transmit a copy of this report
to the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Alabama, together with a report of the
action taken by Grand Lodge on this resolution.
'

Ing that the accused was on November 26th, 1951 adjudicated guilty
of each of the ten counts set forth in the information, was adjudicated to
be a sexual psychopath and was committed for an indefinite· period to
the Norwalk State Hospital.
The trial commissioners found the accused guilty of each of the ten
specifications and guilty of unmasonic conduct: but upon the question
of the penalty to be imposed voted two for expulsion and seven against,
and voted unanimously to fix the penalty at suspension: this despite
the fact that there is no evidence in the record of any circumstances in
mitigation of the ten offenses.
Your Committee is in an agreement with the findings of guilt in this
case, and believe that such findings should be affirmed: but we cannot
agree that the penalty of suspension is an appropriate one. Each of the
ten separate offenses specified charges conduct involving moral turpitude. If the penalty for these acts be only suspension, the Lodge would
be in a position to restore the accused to membership at any time, and
Grand Lodge would, by approving that penalty, be in effect abdicating
its right to review the question as to whether one convicted of an act
or acts involving moral turpitude has become rehabilitated before restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry. This right is one that Grand
Lodge has reserved to itself in cases where the wrongdoer has been expelled. and we think with good reason.
(See Sec. 343, Constitution and Ordinances)
(Trial Record No. 1157, 1949 Proceedings. p. 254)
(Trial Record No. 1045. 1946 Proceedings, p. 140)
(Trial Record No. 1048, 1946 Proceedings, p. 142)
Your Committee therefore offers the foJJowing Resolution:
Resolved: That the findings of guilt of the specifications and the
charge in Trial Record No. 1286, be and the same are affirmed: and that
the penalty therein be and the same hereby is. by action of this Grand
Lodge fixed at expulsion.
Adopted.

228

Adopted.

Trial Record No. 1286
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
. Your Committee to which was referred trial record No. 1286. begs
leave to report as follows:
The accused, C. M. B., was charged by the Junior Warden of his
Lodge with unmasonic conduct, based upon ten specifications, eac~ of
which alleged a separate sex offense with a minor child on dates specified
from September 18th, 1950 to December 6th, 1950.
Date for trial was set for April 22nd, 1952, and service of summons,
together with a certified copy of the charge and specifications was made
by forwarding by registered mail on March 3, I ~2. ~ddres~ed to t.he
accused at Norwalk State Hospital, Norwalk, Cahfomia, which service
we find to have been in accordance with the provisions of Sec: 308, C~n­
stitution and Ordinances. The accused did not ap~ear at the ti.me trial.
The record in this case shows that there was introduced m evidence
a certified copy of an information filed against. the. accused in the S~perior
Court of Los Angeles County, charging him m ten count.s .with the
felonious commission of ten separate acts of lewd and lascivious conduct with two different girls, each of the age of 12 years, each one of
these counts corresponding with the ten specifications of the charge Bled
by the Junior Warden in this case. There is also in evidence a certi8td
copy of the Judgment of the Superior Court of Los Angeles County show-

o!

229

Trial Record No. 1298
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to which was referred Trial Record No. 1298, begs
leave to report as foJJows:
Steps were taken toward automatic expulsion of the accused foJJowing his conviction in the Superior Court of San Mateo County, of a
felony, namely, abortion. He demanded a trial by his Lodge and accordingly a charge of unmasonic conduct based upon a specification of the
commission of the offense of abortion was filed by die Junior Warden.
The accused was present at the trial and pleaded not guilty.
Certified copies of the judgment of conviction in the Superior Court
and of the probation order were introduced in evidence. The statements

230

231

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the accused before the trial commission are tantamount to an admission of his complicity in the commission of abortions on at least two different occasions, by procuring drugs for that purpose from a physician
friend whom he did not name. He also admitted having advised the manner of effective application of the drugs procured by him, while denying
that he himself administered the drugs.
He also admitted having received $200.00 for his services on one
occasion, hut stated that he returned $150.00 thereof.
The trial commissioners found the accused guilty of the charge and
of the specification, hut fixed the penalty at suspension.
We believe that the penalty for the offense of abortion should be
expulsion and, therefore, offer the following resolution.
Resolved: That the findings of the trial commission that the accused,
J. H. V., is guilty of unmasonic conduct he affirmed, but that the penalty,
therefore, be by this Grand Lodge, fixed ·at expulsion.

he admitted assaulting the woman involved and cutting her clothing,
and other evidence corroborated this. The pandering charge was dismissed when the woman witness hid out after telling the officers she was
.
afraid to prosecute accused.
The facts of both the first and second specifications plainly constituted unmasonic conduct. As to the third specification, it might be that
accµsed did give the name of the past master to the police as a reference
and not with intention of classifying him as an associate.
As the Commissioners did not make a finding of unmasonic conduct
but did find the accused guilty of the specifications, Grand Lodge can
and should supply &aid finding, and the sentence of expulsion should
he affirmed.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that in Trial Record No. 1300, the finding of guilt of the
specifications he approved and that a finding of guilt of unmasonic conduct he supplied, and that thereupon the action of Henry Clay Lodge
No. 95 in expelling E. E. B. from all the rights and privileges of Masonry
·be and the same is hereby ratified, affirmed and approved.

Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1300
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1300, reports as follows:
Accused, E. E. B.. a member of Henry Clay Lodge No. 95, was
charged in three specifications, first, that he had acted as a dealer or
house-man in various gambling games for profit, second, that in a quarrel
with a woman in Los Angeles he had assaulted her and had cut and
slashed her clothing with a razor blade, and third, that on his arrest in
connection with the second specification he had given on the police
report the name of a respected member and past master of Henry Clay
Lodge as one of his associates.
Accused, being out of the state, was given proper ninety-day notice
by mail and did not appear at the trial, hut wrote a letter in the nature
of an answer, admitted the facts of the first specification, denying the
second, although admitting that he had been arrested on that occasion,
and stating, as to the third specification, that he had given the name of
the Mason as a friend, and not as an associate, when asked by the police
to give the name of some friend or acquaintance.
After one hearing the trial was continued for a couple of months to
get two police officers from Los Angeles to give testimony, and ·at the
conclusion of the trial the accused was found guilty of all three specifications and sentenced to expulsion. There was no vote on the matter of
guilt of unmasonic conduct.
It was proved on ·the trial that accused did act as a dealer or houseman in public gambling houses, and he had admitted that fact. It was
proved that, when arrested in Los Angeles on a charge of pandering,

Adopted.
Trial Record No. 1301
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 1301, reports as follows:
Accused, J. S. A., a member of Oxnard Lodge No. 341, was charged
with unmasonic conduct based upon his conviction in the Los Angeles
Superior Court of one count of abortion and one count of conspiracy to
commit abortions for which he was placed on ten years probation.
The Commissioners found Accused guilty of the specification and of
unmasonic conduct and fixed the penalty at suspension.
The findings of guilty of the specification and of unmasonic conduct
are amply supported by the evidence and your committee concurs in these
findings. Your committee, however, is of the opinion that the penalty of
suspension is inappropriate in a case such as this which involves a
serious felony, and that the penalty should he raised to expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That the Trial Commission's finding in Trial Record No.
1301 that J. S. A. is guilty of the specification and of unmasonic conduct
he and it is hereby affirmed and approved: that the sentence imposed by
the Trial Commission suspending J. S. A. from the rights and privileges
of Masonry he and the same is hereby set aside and disapproved; and
that, by action of Grand Lodge, the said J. S. A. he and he is hereby
expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

232

233

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Trial Record 1305

RETIREMENT OF CHAIRMAN BELCHER

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
J.M. P., a member of Manistee Lodge No. 228, Manistee, Michigan,
plead guilty to the crime of Grand Theft. a crime classified as a felony,
before the Superior Court of the State of California in and for the
County of Fresno, and was sentenced to confinmement for a period of
one year.

In concluding his portion of the report of the Committee on Grievances, Chairman Frank B. Belcher pointed out that this terminated 23
years of service by him on the Committee; he also announced that he
had advised the Deputy Grand Master of his desire not to be reappointed
on the Committee.

Pursuant to Section 333 of our Ordinances, the Grand Secretary
duly and regularly gave notice to the accused advising him of his conviction, and that unless he elected within sixty days to have a trial by a
Masonic Lodge within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, he would stand expelled from all rights and privileges of
Masonry. The accused did not elect to have such a trial. As a result,
he stood automatically expelled sixty days following July 8, 1952, the
date of the notice by the Grand ~ecretary.
Your Committee on Grievances offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Be It Resolved that the expulsion of J. M. P. from all the
rights and privileges of Masonry be, and the same hereby is,
ratified, affirmed and approved.
Be It Further Resolved that the Grand Secretary be, and he
hereby is, authorized, empowered and instructed to transmit a
copy of this report to the Grand Lodge Free and Accepted
Masons of Michigan, together with a report of the action taken
by Grand Lodge on this resolution.
Adopted.

In thanking Chairman Belcher for his faithful and capable service,
the Grand Master expressed the appreciation of Grand Lodge, emphasized that Brother Belcher had acted as Chairman of the Committee for
the past 15 years. and expressed the hope .that Brother Belcher would
continue to serve Grand Lodge in other capacities in the future.

RESOLUTION OF APPRECIATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

All of the members of your Committee on Grievances but its Chairman, concur in this report.
For 23 years, Frank B. Belcher, has given of his extraordinary talents
~s a member of this Committee and for 1.5 of those 23 years, has served

as Chairman thereof. Of the total number of trial records passed upon
by this Grand Lodge since its organization, Grand Lodge has in more
than one-half thereof had the benefit of the study and judgment of this
devoted brother at great sacrifice of his own personal interest. These
services could never have been paid for, and were rendered from completely unselfish motives.
We offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved: That this Grand Lodge is most grateful to Brother Frank
B. Belcher for his labors and devotion to this Grand Jurisdiction during
23 years of service.

Dated: October 14, 1952.
JoE L. SHELL
ALBERT F. Ross
RALPH E. HoYT
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
KEITH HAMNER
LESLIE MANKER

Adopted.
At 12: 15 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1: 30 P .M.

234

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AFTER NOON SESSIO N-Tues day, October 14, 1952

only two of them have any outstand ing indebtedness. All the rest are
owned free and clear by the lodges.
One of the importan t duties of your Committee on lodge financing
is to see to it that no Masonic lodge embarks upon a building program
so ambitious as to hazard the organiza tion and its members. There are
too many examples of misguided optimism and enthusia sm in the form
of monumental temples in Californ ia which have been built and lost,
with a conseque nt reflection on our cherishe d fraternity . It is pleasing
to report that your Committee on lodge financing has enjoyed the fullest
cooperation from all the constitue nt lodges involved, in carrying out
this policy.
This report would not be complete if it did not pay tribute to the
builders of nearly forty new Masonic temples in our golden state during
the past six or seven years. Theirs has been an outstand ing contribu tion
to Masonry , not only in their own communities, but in Californ ia and
througho ut the world as well.
Masonic temples are built today only by overcoming superior odds
and every possible obstacle. It requires vision and faith-fa ith not
without works-a s well as intelligence and courage. One may never
know what practical Masonry is until he labors in the vineyard s, either
in the building of a new temple or serving on a committee, such as your
committee on lodge financing. Few ever realize just how much men will
sacrifice for this great ideal which we call Masonry . And one's profound
belief in the Divine Creator is strength ened every time he observes his
brethren building these temples with their own hands, and as he contemplates the handiwo rk of the Great Architec t of the Universe as He
guides, protects, and sustains the workmen. As evidence of this protection, it may be interestin g for the members of Grand Lodge to learn
that, although most of the voluntee r labor employed on these temples is
inexperi enced-m any wielding a hammer and saw for the first timenot one single serious accident has occurred to mar their glorious accomplishments.
Masons generally and those in Californ ia particularly, owe a nreat
deal to these workers on the temples. They are to be commended and
congratu lated by all of us.
As in previous years, after your committee has acted upon an application, a complete file on each case, including all the details of the request, necessar y resolutions, financial statemen ts, comments by committee members, together with copy of written consent, is filed in the
Grand Secretar y's Office as a part of the records of the Grand Lodge.
Your committee on lodge financing has, during this Masonic year,
granted permission to commence construc tion on six new Masonic temples in Californ ia, and these temples are now in various stages of completion. Financin g of the buildings will require no fixed debt, aside from
the non-inte rest bearing loan made by the lodge to its own temple asso-

Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 P.M .. the Grand Master
presiding.

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON LODGE FINAN CING
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Lodge Financin g runs its busy course and the
volume of work continues apace with that of the past several years. ~he
work of the Committee, although calling for the sacrifice of much time
and effort on the part of its members, is ever interestin g, intriguin g and
challenging.
Scores of communications in respect to lodge financing problems continue to pour in upon your Committee, and the paper work has become
an· ever increasing burden. In order to help decrease this burd~n, your
Committee on lodge financing plans to prepare a handboo k which proposes to answer all of the question s generally raised as to pro~edures,
policies and requirem ents of the Grand Lodge and the Committee o.n
Lodge Financin g, concerni ng lodge financing problems. A copy of this
handboo k will be submitte d to the Grand Master for his opinion as to
the feasibility and propriety of its use.
Your Committee on lodge financing met in official session at the new
Angeles Mesa Masonic Temple in Los Angeles, Saturday, February 23,
1952, with only one member absent. The represen tatives of seven lodges
and temple associations presente d themselves and their lodge financing
problems and obtained Committee action. The meeting was most successful and profitable. Followin g the session, which lasted all day, members of the Committ ee journeye d to the new Greenlea f Masonic Temple
in Whittier and were the guests of Greenlea f Lodge at a delicious dinner.
Your Committee is greatly indebted to Angeles Mesa Lodge for the
generous use of its new lodge home and to Greenlea f Lodge for its fine
hospitality.
Early in 1952 the Grand Master appointe d two new members .pro
tem to your Committee on lodge financing, one from the San Francisc o
Bay area and another from the Los Angeles area, wh.ere. a large percentage of lodge financing activity originate s, to assist m the work.
These two brethren have performe d yeoman service and their efforts
are greatly apprecia ted.
During the Masonic year just ending. 11 beautiful new Masonic
Temples were dedicate d in Californ ia by .the Grand Master a?d the
Grand Lodge. This is an unpreced ented number of new Masonic temples to be dedicate d within one year, but the amazing fact is that all of
them were built by members of the Craft with their own hands, and

235

237

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ciation. Consent has been granted to commence construction of these
new Masonic temples with the stipulation that no liabilities be incurred
beyond those currently approved by your committee. Where consent to
begin construction has been granted, cooperation of the respective Masonic inspectors has been sought and letters from them. certifying that
proposed Lodge rooms are suitable for proper tiling, have been requested.
Experience gained over the past several years demonstrates that
building new Masonic temples is contagious. Your committee on lodge
financing has granted consent to six lodges during the past year to purchase six building sites upon which it is proposed to build new Masonic
temples in the very near future. Your committee has also granted consent
to the incorporation of many new Masonic temple associations this year.
and has approved the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of these
organizations which have for their purpose the acquisition and operation of new lodge homes.
A resume of the activities of your committee on lodge financing during the past year follows:
El Sereno Lodge No. 588 granted permission to invest $7.000.00
from lodge general funds in regular memberships of the El Sereno Masonic Temple Association. and consent granted to the temple association
to commence construction of a new Masonic Temple in El Sereno.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373 and the 373 Builders' Club, Inc.
granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic temple in
West Los Angeles.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 and Monte Vista Masonic Temple Association granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic
temple in North Long Beach.
Warren G. Harding Lodge No. 579 granted permission to loan
$2500 from lodge general funds and secured by a promissory note, to
the North Sacramento Masonic Temple Association, the money to be
used to make necessary repairs to the temple building.
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 and A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645 each
granted permission to invest $8.000.00 from lodge general funds in
regular memberships of the new San Pedro Masonic Temple Association.
Liberty Lodge No. 299 granted consent to form the Masonic Hall
Corporation of Santa Clara and received approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.
West Gate Lodge No. 355 granted consent to transfer $4.000.00
from the general funds of the Lodge to West Gate Building Corporation
for the purpose of making needed repairs to the West Gate Masonic
Temple. The transfer of funds was evidenced by promissory notes.
The Gardens Lodge No. 621 granted permission to invest $2,500.00
from general funds of the lodge in regular memberships of the East Los
Angeles Masonic Temple Association.
Fontana Lodge No. 653 granted permission to invest $2.500.00 from

general funds of the lodge in additional regular memberships of the
Fontana New Masonic Temple Association.
Point Loma Lodge No. 620 granted consent to purchase an additional
$6,000.00 worth of regular memberships in the Point Loma Masonic
Temple Association.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207 granted permission to purchase three shares
of stock of the Anaheim Masonic Temple Association at $50.00 per
share.
Hermosa Lodge No. 557 received approval of a five year lease for
lodge quarters in the City of Hermosa Beach.
Point Loma Masonic Temple Association, Inc. granted permission
to borrow $8,000.00 at 5% interest on an unsecured note, the money to
be used to repay debts incurred in completing the new Point Loma Masonic Temple.
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 and Silver Gate Masonic Temple Association granted permission to expend not to exceed $10,000.00 for the
installation of an elevator in the Masonic Temple, located at Utah and
Wightman Streets in the City of San Diego.
North Butter Lodge No. 230 granted permission to incorporate the
North Butte Masonic Temple Association and for approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws. North Butte Masonic Temple Association granted permission to purchase a certain improved property
in the City of Gridley and grants consent to the rehabilitation of the
property on the basis of estimates contained in the applicatioi;i and with
the use of donated labor. ·
Whittier'Masonic Temple Association granted permission to expend
an additional $3,000.00 to complete payments on repairs and additions
made to the Masonic Temple in Whittier.
Petaluma Lodge No. 180 granted permission to loan the Petaluma
Masonic Temple Association $2.500.00 secured by a promissory note
bearing interest at the rate of 2Yl per cent per annum, and the association granted permission to expend approximately $7,000.00 to erect a
steel stairway ordered by · the fire marshal of Petaluma as a safety
measure.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, Sun Garden Lodge No. 530, Fresno
Center Lodge No. 465 and Fresno Lodge No. 247 granted consent to
incorporate the Fresno Masonic Temple Association and received approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws.
Citro} Lodge No. 656 and Brea Masonic Temple Association granted
consent to commence construction of a new Masonic Temple in Brea,
California.
Callayomi Lodge No. 282 granted permission to invest $250.00 from
general funds of the lodge in regular membership of the Masonic Temple Association of Middletown.

236

238

239

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lomita Lodge No. 644 granted permission to invest $8,000.00 from
lodge general funds in regular memberships of the Lomita Masonic
Temple Association and consent was also granted to the Lomita Masonic Temple Association to commence construction of a new Masonic
Temple in Lomita.
Monte Vista Lodge No. 655 granted permission to purchase, from
general funds of the lodge, $10,000.00 worth of regular memberships of
the Monte Vista Masonic Temple Association, and also granted permission to transfer title of a lot on South Street to the said association.
Florence Lodge No. 649 and Florence Masonic Temple Association
denied permission to grant a deed of trust in the amount of more than
$25,000.00 on its temple building in lieu of an unsecured note held by a
member of the lodge.
Catalina Island Lodge No. 524 granted consent to incorporate the
Catalina Island Masonic Temple Association and received approval of
the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws. The lodge was also granted
permission to invest $100.00 from lodge general funds in a regular membership of the temple association.
Valley Lodge No. 135 granted consent to form the Valley Masonic
Temple Association and received approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and was granted permission to invest $100.00 in regular
memberships of the temple association.
Crossroads Lodge No. 696 granted permission to form the Crossroads Masonic Temple Association and received approval of the Articles
of Incorporation and By-laws and received permission to invest $100.00
in regular memberships of the temple association.
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542 granted consent to purchase an
additional $4.500.00 worth of regular memberships, the money to be
used to stucco the exterior of the new Masonic Temple in North Hollywood and to pave adjoining parking lot.
North tlollywood Lodge No. 542 and North Hollywood Masonic
Temple Association granted consent to transfer promissory note in the
amount of $20,000.00 from Mr. Forrest W. Hicks to Mr. Fred Wedding~~
.
Barstow Lodge No. 682 granted permission to incorporate th~ Barstow Masonic Building Association, Inc., received approval of the
Articles and By-laws and granted consent to purchase a regular membership in the building association.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576 and El Cajon Valley Masonic Temple Association granted permission to purchase a future temple building
site for the sum of $1,200.00.
Ionic Lodge No. 520 granted permission to form the Ionic Building
Association. The Articles of Incorporation and By-laws were approved
and permission granted to purchase a regular membership in the building association.

Ocean Park Lodge No. 369 received permission to loan $5,000.00
from general lodge funds to the Masonic Temple Association of Ocean
Park and the temple association was granted consent to borrow an additional $5,000.00 from a member of Ocean Park Lodge to be repaid at
the rate of $100.00 per month and interest at 3% per annum. The money
was used to renovate a portion of the temple in order to accommodate a
branch of the United States Post Office.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373 and 373 Builders' Club, Inc.
granted consent to commence construction of a new Masonic temple in
West Los Angeles. Amendments to the Articles of Incorporation and
By-laws of the 373 Builders' Club, Inc. to conform to Section 152 of the
Constitution and Ordinances of Grand Lodge, were also approved.
Masonic Hall Association of San Jose granted permission to purchase
an unimproved property adjoining the temple building in San Jose, to
be used for parking purposes for the sum of $90,000.00.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 granted permission to loan $9,000.00
from lodge general funds to the Masonic Temple Association. The temple association received permission to purchase an improved property
adjoining the Masonic temple for $9,000.00.
Ashlar Lodge No. 306 received approval of a five year lease for lodge
quarters in the City of Colton at a monthly rate of $115.00.
Liberty Lodge No. 299 received permission to transfer title of a lot
in Santa Clara and nearly $1,400.00 in cash to the Masonic Hall Corporation of Santa Clara and accepted in exchange an equal amount in
value of regular memberships in the hall corporation.
Palms Lodge No. 512 granted consent to loan on a promissory note,
$3,250.00 from general funds of the lodge to the Palms Masonic Temple
Association, the money to be used for the purpose of paying off an indebtedness on the temple building.
San Marino Lodge No. 685 and San Marino Foundation, Inc. received permission to purchase a temple building site near San Marino
for the sum of $28,000.00.
Suisun Lodge No. 55 and Suisun Masonic Temple Association granted permission to purchase a temple building site in the City of Fairfield
for the sum of $1.585.00, plus·$120.00 survey fees and $75.00 for title
insurance.
San Pedro Masonic Temple Association received permission to purchase a temple building site in the City of San Pedro for the sum of
$13,000.00.
Laurel Lodge No. 245 granted consent to purchase five shares of
stock of the Willows Masonic Temple Association, par value $500.00,
for the sum of $400.00.
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632 granted permission to purchase from
general lodge funds $15,000.00 worth of regular memberships in the
Normal Heights Masonic Temple Association.

240

241

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373 received permission to invest
$6,000.00 from general funds of the lodge in regular memberships in the
373 Builders' Club, Inc.. the money to be used to help complete the new
temple in West Los Angeles.
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258 received .consent to the investment of
$2,000.00 from general funds of the lodge in regular memberships of the
Penrhyn Masonic Temple Association, and the Temple association received permission to purchase the Masonic temple in Penrhyn for a sum
not to exceed $10,000.00.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600 granted permission to loan to the Lynwood
Masonic Temple, Inc. $3.500.00 from lodge general funds on a noninterest bearing note payable over a period of four years at the rate of
$500.00 every six months.
Belvedere Lodge No. 539 and Belvedere Masonic Temple Association received consent to purchase a future temple building site in the
City of Monterey Park for a sum not to exceed $7,000.00.
Salinas Lodge No. 204 granted consent to invest $5,000.00 from
lodge general funds in stock of the Salinas Masonic Hall Association,
the money to be used to retire a promissory note on which the hall association is paying interest at the rate of 5%.
Torrance Lodge No. 447 and Torrance Masonic Temple Association
granted permission to purchase a temple building site in Torrance for
a sum not to exceed $9,000.00.
Normal Heights Lodge No. 632 and Normal Heights Masonic Temple Association granted consent to purchase a temple building site in the
City of San Diego for the sum of $15,125.00.
Crescent City Lodge No. 45 granted consent to purchase a temple
building site in Crescent City for $2.500.00. Consent was also granted
to purchase an additional amount of land offered to the lodge for
$2.500.00, provided a resolution is adopted by the lodge, authorizing the
purchase.
Suisun Lodge No. 55 granted consent to incorporate the Suisun Masonic Temple Association and received approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws. Consent was also granted to the lodge to purchase from general funds $3.500.00 worth of regular memberships in
the temple association.
Wasco Lodge No. 583 granted consent to form the Wasco Masonic
Building Association and received approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws. Permission was given to the lodge to purchase a
regular membership in the association.
Lorenzo Lodge No. 709 granted consent to incorporate the Lorenzo
Masonic Building Association and received approval of the Articles of
Incorporation and By-laws. Permission was granted to the lodge to purchase a regular membership in the building association.

Castro Valley Lodge No. 713 granted consent to form the Castro
Valley Masonic Temple Association and received approval of the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws. Permission was granted the lodge
to purchase a regular membership in the association.
Several other applications are in the process of receiving committee
action. Many communications from lodges in respect to proposed new
temple buildings have been received, indicating real interest and enthusiasm in new lodge home programs.
Your committee recommends that an appropriation of $1.000.00 be
made to cover necessary expense for the ensuing Masonic year.
Your committee has, as usual. received the fullest cooperation from
the Masters and officers of the several lodges which have applied to it
during the past year. The members of the committee are particularly
appreciative of the help and fine cooperation received from all the inspectors of the Masonic districts involved in its work during the year
just ending. Without this help and cooperation the duties of your committee would be most difficult of accomplishment.
The members of your committee on lodge flnancing are grateful for
the opportunity to serve on this important committee, and are eager to
continue to work for Masonry, in whatever ~apacity to which they may
be called.
Fraternally submitted,

E. J. BLICKPELDT
W. J. PYBON
R. A. STEVES
c. T. DUPPY
D. R. PURCELL
M.A. GREEN

E. H. PHILLIPS
W . H. HARRIS
R. N. RICHARDS
Referred to Committee on Finance.

242

243

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

They have all their needed paraphernalia and a net worth of over
$2,000. The future prospects for this Lodge, located in one of California's fastest growing areas are indeed fair, dear and bright. We,
therefore, recommend that a Charter be granted to Wayfarer Lodge
No. 717 in the County of Los Angeles.
The four other Lodges which were instituted in August and September are making encouraging progress, but we do not believe they are
yet ready for Charters. This belief is bolstered by the fact that three of
them have requested the continuance of their dispensations. We, therefore, recommend that Estero Lodge, U . D.: San Lorenzo VaUey Lodge,
U. D.; Home Lodge. U. D. and Mineral King Lodge. U. D. be continued under dispensation.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Califor'!ia:
Your committee on Charters respectfully submits its report.
During the past twelve months the Grand Master issued dispensa. tions and instituted the following Lodges:
Belmont Shore at Seal Beach-January 7, 1952.
·Wayfarer at Whittier-July 1, 1952.
Estero at Cayucos-August 8, 1952.
San Lorenzo Valley at Boulder Creek-August 16, 1952.
Home at North Hollywood-August 23, 1952.
Mineral King at Visalia-September 13, 1952.
And in addition issued special dispensations to Research Lodges
of Northern and Southern California, which were instituted simultaneously on May 26, 1952.
The work, proceedings and records of all these Lodges have been
examined and found to be in order.
RESEARCH loDGES

These two Lodges have applied to ·Grand Lodge for Charters and
their petitions have been referred to this Committee.
The · distinguished Masons who have already become members of
these Lodges, and the valuable and interesting programs already given
and contemplated, assures us all that this new venture will result in
substantial benefit to the craft in general and California Masonry in
particular. A more comprehensive report on these Lodges has been
submitted by the Special Committee on Research Lodges.
However, no recommendation can be made by this Committee pending enactment of appropriate legislation.
This Lodge temporarily meets in the town of Seal Beach and is
named for, and draws its members from, that part of Long Beach adjoining Seal Beach and fronting on the ocean. Since its institution it has
gained 25 members, 12 by affiliation and 13 by Raising, and now has a
membership of 71 . Sixty-nine degrees have been conferred and there
is a backlog of fifty-one degrees. Their financial position is sound with
a cash balance of over $5,300. Your committee is impressed with the
ability and decorum with which the affairs of the Lodge are conducted,
and the Masonic interest and enthusiasm which prevails. We, therefore,
recommend that a Charter be granted to Belmont Shore Lodge No. 716
in the county of Orange.
WAYFARER loDGE

u. D.

Wayfarer Lodge meets in the Greenleaf Masonic Temple in the City
of Whittier. During its relative short existence, its membership has
increased to 51 and it has many applicants waiting for their degrees.

Fraternally submitted,
GLENN

c. HOLMES

WM. R. HERVEY, JR.
WM. J. WILLIAMS
HAROLD A. MEYER
RALPH

w. COLLINS

NATHAN GARTNER
CHARLES E. BRADLEY

By a separate motion for each item, the two charters were ordered
issued. The entire report was adopted.
See record of Friday session for additional report of Charters Committee with reference to Reasearch Lodges.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws have carefuUy examined the 111
Amendments to By-Laws submitted for approval during the past year.
This number indicates that Masters have given careful attention to the
Lodge By-Laws.
·
One of the strong foundations of Masonry is its continuous endeavor
to have uniformity of procedure. In keeping with this thought, we have
our Uniform Code of By-Laws in California. Ross Digest, page 54, tells
us it was made obligatory in October 1898, and as amended to October
1939, and reaffirmed in 1948. Legislation enacted by Grand Lodge is
binding, of course, on all constituent Lodges. Some of it may require
changes in the Lodge By-Laws, the same as Lodge action that changes
the amount of your fees for degrees, yearly dues, etc. Other matters do
not need to be included in the Lodge By-Laws. If the Lodge desires to
use the alternative meeting date provision for stated meetings that fau on
a holiday, the By-Laws should be amended to so provide. If the Lodge

241

245

PROCBBDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

desires to apply the legislation passed in 1951 as to the applicant who
does not complete his second and third degree, the Lodge may do so
and it is not necessary to include it in the Lodge By-Laws. That legislation is an Ordinance of Grand Lodge. When in doubt as to the necessity
of including something in the Lodge By-Laws, write the Grand Secretary's Office and the matter will be properly considered or referred and
in due time a complete answer will. be sent you. Amendment forms and
form for certifying of the amendment by the Lodge Secretary are available and you will find our Grand Secretary one hundred per cent cooperative in advising and guiding you through the proper procedure.
Some difficulty has been experienced in filling out the portion of the
By-Laws section regarding the affiliation fee. We urge that no blanks
be left unfilled. If no affiliation fee is charged, use the word "no" or
"nil." and strike out unnecessary words. Some Lodges have well covered
it with these words "and for affiliation the sum of $5.00," or "and for
affiliation there shall be no charge." As to the provision for an alternative
meeting date if the stated meeting falls on a holiday and the Lodge does
not desire to use that portion of the section, simply so state, and strike
out extra words. One Lodge stated as follows: "except in any month
when the regular meeting date shall fall on no exceptions or......................
legal holidays. the stated meeting shall be holden the............................of
·-·-----····-·······-·-··-··month at................m. ••
This is not necessary: the two words "no exceptions" would have
been sufficient. Where the intent is clear, we have raised no question,
even though the surplus words have made it cumbersome.
At this Communication, thirty-six Lodges increased fees, thirty increased dues and the others appertain to changes of affiliation fees changing date and time of stated meetings, change of place of meeting
place, etc.
These amendments are all set forth in the Grand Secretary's report,
and incorporated herein, as follows:

to $125.00; Arcadia No. 547, to $100.00: Hermosa No. 557, to $100.00;
Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $100.00; John Marshall No. 636,to $100.00;
Menlo Park No. 651, to $100.00; Fontana No. 653, to $75.00; Jordan
No. 654, to $100.00; Baldwin Park No. 660, to $65.00; Vista No. 687, to
$75.00.
Provision for fee for one or more Degrees: Alamo No. 122.
Increasing affiliation fee : Silver Trowel No. 415, to $10.00; Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $5.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $10.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Mountain View No. 194, at $5.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Lompoc No. 262, to $1.00: Los Altos No.
712. to $5.00.
Increasing dues: Anchor No. 273, to $15.00: Madera No. 280, to
$15.00; Mount Jackson No. 295, to $18.00; South Gate No. 320, to
$15.00: Corona No. 324, to $15.00: Pacific Grove No. 331, to $15.00:
West Los Angeles No. 373, to $15.00: Parnassus No. 388. to $15.00:
Arlington No. 414, to $15.00: Acacia No. 438, to $18.00: Henry S.
Orme No. 458, to $15.00: Riverbank No. 459, to $15.00; Albert Pike
No. 484, to $15.00: Lebanon No. 495, to $18.00: Benjamin Franklin No.
509, to $15.00: Euclid No. 519. to $15.00: Sunrise No. 522, to $13.00;
Alexandria No. 531, to $15.00: Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $15.00:
North Hollywood No. 542, to $15.00; Jonathan No. 545, to $15.00:
Park Boulevard No. 568, to $15.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $16.00:
Security No. 581, to $15.00: Angeles Mesa No. 625, to $15.00; Henry_
Knox No. 662, to $15.00: Laguna Beach No. 672, to $15.00; Carmel No.
680, to 15.00: St. Elmo No. 697, to $15.00: Rim of the World No. 711,
to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Evening Star No. 186: Durant
No. 268; Bellflower No. 523.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Benjamin Franklin No. 509; Big
Bear No. 617.
Provision for legal holidays: Silver Gate No. 296; La Puente No.
446; Torrance No. 447; Azure No. 533; Francis K. Shattuck No. 571:
Poinsettia No. 633; Palisades No. 637; Laguna Beach No. 672.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Mountain Shade No. 18; San
Pedro No. 332: Silver Trowel No. 415: Belmont Shore U.D.: Wayfarer
U.D.; Estero U.D.: San Lorenzo Valley U.D.: Home U.D.: Mineral
KingU.D.
Re Charity Committee: Sun Garden No. 530; Arcadia No. 547;
Menlo Park No. 651.

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Yount No. 12, to $125.00: lllinoistown No. 51, to
$60.00: Arcata No. 106, to $100.00: Alameda No. 167, to $75.00: Antioch No. 175, to $75.00: Mountain View No. 194, to $100.00; Eucalyptus No. 243, to $99.00: Mosaic No. 218, to $75.00; Lompoc No. 262, to
$75.00; Fullerton No. 339, to $75.00; Gardena No. 372, to $105.00:
Yerba Buena No. 403, to $100,00; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $125.00;
Clovis No. 417, to $80.00: York No. 423, to $100.00: Lancaster No. 437,
to $75.00; Schofield No. 443, to $125.00; Torrance No. 447, to $110.00;
Van Nuys No. 450, to $125.00; Henry S. Orme No. 458, to $125.00:
Riverbank No. 459, to $75.00: Albert Pike No. 484, to $100.00; Euclid
No. 519, to $100.00: Bellflower No. 523, to $125.00; Azure No. 533, to
$75.00; Alexander Hamilton No. 535, to $100.00; San Gabriel No. 546,

RESOLUTIONS

Providing for change of meeting place: Claiborne No. 185: Callayomi
No. 282: Traver No. 294: Unity No. 368: Oceanside No. 381; Silver
Trowel No. 415: Euclid No. 519; Glendale No. 544; Glassell Park No.
605; Point Loma No. 620; Fontana No. 653; Malta No. 661; Meridian
No. 667.

246

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Considerab1e care and thought has been given by the Masters, the
Secretaries and those Brothers who heJped compose these amendments.
It is p]easing to state an amendments submitted this year have been
approved by the Grand Master and Grand Secretary, and our Committee
after carefu] examination of same, have concurred in approving them.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of this report approving the
amendments set forth herein.
·
OAKLEY K. MORTON, Chairman
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY
WILLIAM W. McKEE
ROBERT C. PEYTON
LEET. MULLEN
WAYNE GLEASON
WALTER G. HERMAN
Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS .
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Credentials makes the report that of 611 chartered lodges, 590 lodges are represented; that an 6 of the lodges under
dispensation are represented, and the total registration is 2,035.
Fratemany submitted,
Loms SUTTER, Chairman
WILBUR D. CROSBY
C. STANLEY CHAPMAN
THOMAS F. MASON .
CARROLL A. TREPTS
OTIS G. PRUSSELL
CARL WALTER
The Most Worshipful George G. Hoole, Grand Master of Masons
in Montana, Seymoure C. Pierce, Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
and Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M.• Grand Secretary of Oregon, in responce to the separate invitations of the Grand Master, each favored
the Grand Lodge with an address.
·
At 4:00 P.M. Grand Lodge was caned off until 10:00 A.M. Wednesday morning.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

247

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1952
Grand Lodge was ca11ed on at 10:00 A.M., the Grand Master
presiding.
The Very Reverend Grand Chap1ain offered the morning prayer.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon session of Tuesday,
October 14 were read and approved.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Marshall to escort Edward
G. Dodge to the a]tar, and the Grand Master on beha1f of Grand Lodge
congratu1ated Brother Dodge on the comp]etion of 67 years as a Master
Mason, emphasizing that for 62 years he has been a Past Master of
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON REPRESENTATIVES'
MILEAGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lxlge of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the fo11owing report
· covering the 103rd Annua] Communication of Grand Lodge:
Those entit1ed to compensation are: the du]y accredited Representatives of each Lodge, Inspectors, Past Grand Masters, Officers of the
Grand Lodge, and the Chairmen and Members of Committees enumerated in Section 68 of the Ordinances, who are actua11y in attendance at
Grand Lodge.

Compe~sation of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one-way first class railway fare, plus Punman Sleeper. where necessary. As has been the custom for many years. no compensation is
allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or
where the prescribed compensation does not exceed $1.00.
Transportation rates have been computed from an points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. We have checked the payroll
with the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on
Credentials. The amount required to meet the transportation costs for
the 1952 Convocation is as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers ......;.••••..- .•- ..- ...............$ 879.25
495.82
Past Grand Masters ............................................
Committees ............,............................................. 1,108.10
Inspectors ............................................................ 4,193.73
Representatives ···························-··········-··:········ 18,426.32
Total ···········-····-····-··-···-·-···-··-··················$25,103.22
Thanks is again due to Past Master Louis Sutter, and the Anglo-

248

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

California National Bank. for making the necessary arrangements so
that members may cash their checks in this building at the close of the
Grand Lodge session. Checks will be ready for distribution following
the election of the Junior Grand Warden, Friday morning at the Registration desk, Polk Hall. Checks not called for will be mailed by the
Grand Secretary.
Fraternally submitted,

MEMORIAL SERVICE

.

KEITH W. SCHLAEGEL
PHILIP M. HEISCH
LLOYD C. CAMPBELL
JOHN V. BACIGALUPI

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Most Worshipful Jared W. Summerhays, Grand Master of
Masons in Oregon and Asa H. Hankerson, P.G.M. of Washington. in
response to the separate invitations of the Grand Master, each favored
the Grand Lodge with an address.

249

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Wednesday. October 15, 1952
Song: "God Be Merciful" (First Performance) ............... Anderson
Carl Hooper: Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Invocation .........:.................................:.-..............._.....Grand Chaplain
Report of Committee on Necrology..........Roy C. Bryan. Chairman
Song: ''Elegie'' .................................- ............................_...M~
Eulogy for Gilbert C. DeForest..................Arthur P~ulsen, P.G.M.
Organ Solo: "Abendlied" (Evening Song) ~.....................Schumann
Eulogy for Randolph V . Whiting ........Francis V. Keesling. P.G.M.
Song: "My Prayer" ........................................:...........•.•Humpluegs
Eulogy for John Stewart Ross....................John R. Moore, P.G.M.
Memorial Song: "Taps" ...........................................•..........Ca.tance

11.

Benediction ·········--··-···········-·-·········-············,······Grand' Chaplain

1.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Death, the great leveler of mankind, is never idle. He strikes with
the tedious monotony of the tick of a metronome. He considers neither
age, position. wealth or need. He will take the most learned and brilliant
mind with the same reckless abandon that he will call the most ignorant
savage. He will beckon the babe cooing at its mother's breast as quickly
as he will call the one who has passed three score years and ten. His
workings are an eternal mystery to mankind, for at times he can be
exceedingly cruel and at others he can be exceedingly kind. In his cruel
nature he demands the youth, the young man who has established a
family and has every expectancy f!)r a long and happy life. He will take
the bread-winner and leave a family helpless. He will call the young
mother. thus depriving the children oi one of life's greatest blessings.
In his more considerate moments he will lay his soothing hand upon
the brow of the incurable. the aged. the infirm and the helpless.
While we do not understand the dual nature of death we accept it
as part of God's perfect plan. and agree with the poet Norton, who said:
"For death and life, in ceaseless strife
Beat wild on this world's shore,
And all our calm is in that balm.
Not lost, but gone before."
Since the 1951 Communication of the Grand Lodge of California 319
Masters and Past Masters of this jurisdiction have answered the final
call. Of this number 31 had been members of the Fraternity for half
a century or more: 201 were members for more than 25 years, 38 were
affiliate Past Masters. having occupied the Oriental Chair in other
jurisdictions. We have lost three Past Grand Masters: Gilbert C.

250

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DeForest of Redding: Randolph V. Whiting of San Francisco, and
John Stewart Ross of Los Angeles. Later in this Memorial Service Past
Grand Master Arthur Paulsen will deliver a special eulogy to the memory of Gilbert C. DeForest: Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master,
will give the memorial for Randolph V. Whiting, and John R. Moore,
Past Grand Master, will pay a tribute to the honor of John Stewart Ross.

.glory, shortly after noon, a rather fitting tribute to his favorite and oftquoted passage of our ritual.
Brother Logsdon's Masonic career was his true life's history. His
devotion to Masonry formed the pattern of his life. He received his
third degree in San Bernardino Lodge No. 348 on May 22, 1919, and
served as Master during 1927. His devotion and ability were rewarded
by the Grand Lodge by his appointment to the office of Inspector of the
then 104th Masonic district in 1937, which office he held until his retirement in 1950.
His enthusiasm for Masonry took him into many of its dependent
organizations. He became a life member of the Consistory at Los
Angeles, a member of the Order of Eastern Star where he served as
the Worthy Patron of Gate City Chapter in the year 1921, and he was
a charter member of the order of Sciots at San Bernardino, being chosen
as its Toparch in 1924. He served as captain of the Sciots' drill team
for several years and carried them to many successful competitions.

RALPH H. LOGSDON
(By William T. Hunter, Jr., Past Master No. 348.)
In seeking a descriptive passage that might in some way portray the
principles and character of our beloved Ralph H. Logsdon we might
recall these lines:
Be strong!
It matters not how deep entrenched the wrong,
How hard the battle goes, the day how long:
Faint not-fight on! Tomorrow comes the song. (Babcock)
Ralph H. Logsdon was born at Tustin, California, October 12, 1888,
the ~on of William and Gertrude Logsdon, early settlers of that beautiful
inland valley near the sun-bathed shores of Southern California.
The following year the Logsdon family•moved to San Bernardino.
There Ralph grew to manhood and acquired those admirable traits of
character which endeared him to the hearts of his many friends.
He was a man of great capacity, of wide experience and practical
knowledge. "He was the warrior that came forth when all other champions held back." He was respected, and his advice and comfort were
sought by men in all stations of life. His was a great moral strength,
founded on the principle that truth and right are the only considerations.
After graduating from San Bernardino High School he completed a
course in the Sturgis Business College, where he became interested in
advertising, and in 1910 he moved to San Francisco and entered the
advertising field.
Opportunity required Ralph Logsdon, in 1911, to travel south to San
Diego. Here, nearer to his former home he became associated with the
Spreckels Theater Company, and it was here that he met Ruby Pierson
who was to become the constant companion and inspiration of his life.
They were married September 17, 1913. In 1915 Ralph and Ruby moved
to San Bernardino. There they suffered the loss of their infant son,
·
William Frank Logsdon.
Ralph purchased the C. G. Peck Paint Store in 1920, where he had
been employed since his arrival in San Bernardino, and which he operated until ill health forced his retirement in 1949. The Logsdons then
took up their residence in an apartment of their court at Santa Barbara,
California. There Ralph found the rest and contentment that he felt
would restore his tired body. The Great Architect summoned Brother
Logsdon on September 13, 1951 while the sun was still in its greatest

251

Notable among the Masonic accomplishments of Past Master Ralph
Logsdon was his planning and directing of -the laying of the cornerstone of the High School at Barstow, California. This job brought to
Ralph special praise from the Grand Master and resulted in their mutual
cooperation in the chartering of Barstow Lodge in 1940, and in a lifelong friendship.
Even as his first official duty as Inspector had been the cornerstone
laying at Barstow, so his final official act was the planning and direction
of the layins of the corner-stone of the Hall of Justice at San Bernardino
in 1949.
It is known that Ralph Logsdon attended each Grand Session from
1925 until his ill health required that 1949 be the final year. During his
time as Inspector Rim O' the World Lodge No. 711 was instituted and
Ralph devoted much time to the original formation of this Lodge. San
Bernardino and Barstow Lodges will long remember that Ralph Logsdon
so capably conducted their installation ceremonies year after year as
long as he was physically able. It was with great reluctance that he
gave up the tradition of installing Barstow Lodge officers, which custom
he and the then Grand Master Wm. B. Ogden had instituted. Ralph H.
Logsdon gave much to Masonry. He gave of himself, all that he had.
This thought must have been a great satisfaction to him as he approached
the Anal hour and surely there were no regrets, but with this thought 'he
faced the Supreme Grand Master:
Yes, I have had, dear Lord, the day:
When at Thy call I have the night,
Brief be the twilight as I pass
From light to dark, from dark to light. (Mitchell)

252

253

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

JAMES LEO WARD

Masonic Board of Relief in 1927, where he served with honor and
distinction until his death.
Initiated in University Lodge No. 394 of Los Angeles October 21,
1912, Passed November 4, and Raised November 25 the same year.
Earl immediately became an earnest and enthusiastic member of the
Fraternity. November 24, 1920 he affiliated with Garvanza Lodge No.
492 of Los Angeles, and was elected Master for the year 1925. He was
secretary of the Lodge in 1926-1927. He was elected treasurer in 1929
and filled that office for 22 years. He held the 32nd Degree in the Ancient
and Accepted Scottish Rite, being a member of the class graduating
September 13, 1913. He was also a member of the Eastern Star and of
Al Malaikah Temple Ancient Arabic Order Nobles of the Mystic Shrine.
The year 1925 was an unusual and exceptional one in Masonic circles in Los Angeles. The Masters of the various lodges recognizing
that changes and improvements could and should be made, organized
themselves into a group with the title of "Quarter Century Club." The
services of the Club cannot be over-estimated. Earl Thaxter was its
secretary. The ravages of time have decimated its ranks, and while
the club does not now function, its accomplishments are easily recognized by those who were familiar with the situation that existed more
than a quarter of a century ago.
Brother Thaxter was especially endowed by the Great Architect of
the Universe for his position on the Board of Relief. He had a sympathy and understanding for those in distress which inspired immediate
hope and confidence. His help and advice led many to a safe haven in
a troubled world. He restored self confidence in many to whom the
burden of existence seemed too heavy to bear. At the same time he was
quick to discern the imposter, the lazy and the deadbeat. He was anathema to those who would defraud the Order.
Earl was devoted to his religion, and was a founding member of the
Highland Park Christian Church, and for many years was an elder and
treasurer.
Brother Thaxter was married December 24, 1914, to Miss Martha
May Corn. Of this union one son was born, Norman Thaxter, now a
resident of Alhambra, California.
The funeral services were held in his beloved Church amid a profusion of floral offerings. Past Grand Master Ellsworth Meyer officiated,
assisted by Fred L. Norh, Past Master of Garvanza Lodge as Chaplain.
Earl's deep-seated ideals came alive through his personality, and his
spirit and influence will be with us for years to come.

In 1950 Grand Master Arthur .Paulsen appointed James Leo Ward
of Crescent City a member of the Committee on Pay of Members.
Brother Ward served faithfully and was reappointed by the present
Grand Master. Death overtook him at Ashland, Oregon, thus cutting
short a splendid Masonic career.
Leo was born March 9, 1892 in Gualala, Mendocino County, California. When six years of age the family moved to Crescent City, and
he spent the balance of his life in that community. Leo was educated
in the public schools of Del Norte County, and shortly after graduation
from high school he married Katheryn Maris. Three children were
born of this union-Maris, Chester and Margaret.
His business career began as an employee of the Hobbs-Wall Lumber Co. of Crescent City. He later becam.e a distributor of automobiles,
and upon the sale of the agency became agent and distributor of the
products of the General Petroleum Corporation. At the time of his death
he was associated with his son, Maris, in Ward's Propane and Gas
Service.
For many years Brother Ward took an active interest in civic and
community affairs. His especial interest was the public school, and as
trustee of the Del Norte County High School his efficient work will
long be remembered. He was Past Commander of the American Legion
Post No. 175, a member of its affiliate, the Past Commander Club, and
a member of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks. As Past
Master of Crescent Lodge No. 45, two months before his passing, he
installed his son Maris as Master.
He was buried in the Mason.ic Cemetery according to th~ ritualistic
ceremony, mourned not only by his brethren but by the host of friends
which so good and kind a man had made over a long life of right, just,
and helpful living.
Leo is survived by his wife, his three children, two sisters, a brother,
five grandchildren,· and a number of nephews and nieces.
EARL THAXTER

After~ long period of ill health Earl Thaxter, Executive Secretary

of the Los Angeles Board of Relief, passed away December 23, 1951.
Born in Los Angeles May 19, 1889, Earl lived his life in this State.
After graduating from the city schools he entered Woodbury Business
College, graduating as a bookkeeper and auditor. He entered the employ
of the Holmes Produce Company. which later became the firm of Richardson, Holmes and Lamb. In 1913 this firm transferred him to the
El Centro office where he worked until 1915, when he became auditor
for the Vessey Produce Co. · The latter firm in 1918 promoted him to
the main office at the Terminal Market in Los Angeles. He co~tinued in
this office until he became Executive Secretary of the Los Angeles

FRANK GRAVES FALLOON

For 22 years Frank Falloon occupied the important office of Inspector
of the 75th District. He was appointed by Grand Master Albert Boynton
October.21, 1925 and served until ill health forced his resignation December 31, 1947.

254

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Frank began the ascent of the Masonic ladder by being initiated
March 1i. 1916 in Sunset Lodge No. 352 in Los Angeles. He was so
proficient in memorizing the monitorial and esoteric work that one week
later he received the Second Degree, and two weeks after his initiation
was made a Master Mason. September 8, 1916 he was elected to receive
the degrees of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Los Angeles,
and graduated with the Spring Class June 1, 1917.
Born November 28, 1887, at Hiawatha, Kansas. Brother Falloon
received his early education in that city. He later attended the University of Kansas at Lawrence. and graduated as an engineer. Coming
to Los Angeles his ambition changed and he began the study of law.
Successfully passing the bar examination he was admitted to practice
May 15, 191 7.
April 6. 1917. the United States entered the First World War, and
the following August 24th Frank enlisted in the Signal Corps, U. S.
Army. He soon achieved the rank of First Sergeant. His knowledge of
engineering stood him in good stead and he was recommended for the
Signal Officers' Training School. being commissioned a Second Lieutenant April 28, 1918. Five months later he was promoted to First
Lieutenant. Shortly after the termination of hostilities Frank was mustered out of the service, but the call of the Army was strong in his blood,
and on April 20, 1920 he entered the Signal Corps Reserve with the
rank of Captain.
' Veterans' affairs were of especial interest to him, and on June 15
1920, he was elected Commander Los Angeles City Inter-Post Council.
American Legion. September 22, 1922 he was elected State Executive
Committeeman, American Legion. December 7, 1927 he became Commander Sunshine Post No. 251, American Legion.
Frank's military career interrupted his Masonic work, and upon
entering the Army he resigned as Senior Deacon of Sunset Lodge. In
1920 a dispensation was issued to a group of Veterans of World War I
who had organized a lodge. naming it Clarence F. Smith in honor of a
Captain of that name who was a member of the Ninety-First Division
of the American Expeditionary Forces lost his life in the battle of the
Argonne Forest. Frank was a charter member of this lodge: conferred
the first degree in the new lodge. and became its Master in 1922. He
was a member of Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine, and for 19 years
was Secretary of the Southern California Past Masters Association.
Frank Falloon died September 19. 1952. The services were conducted by Clarence F. Smith Lodge, P. H. Montgomery, Past Master
and Secretary, officiating. Interment was in beautiful Inglewood Park
Cemetery
He is survived by a nephew, Donald Falloon.
Frank took an active, serious and able interest in everything that
pertained to Freemasonry. He gave much to the Masonic Homes. Until
we meet again in our Father's House we bid him farewell.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

255

JAY A. POWERS

The passing of any member of the Grand Lodge is a shock to all of
us. but when Death points her icy finger at a member of our official
family the hurt strikes doubly deep. Such a wound came to us September 24, 1952 when Jay A. Powers, Grand Pursuivant, died at his home
at 1803 Wellington Road, Los Angeles.
Born in Tacoma, Washington, May 22, 1893, he was five years of
age when his family moved to California. He spent the balance of his
life in the Los Angeles area, devoting much of his time to civic affairs.
Among other activities he was President of the Los Angeles Chamber
of Commerce, Building and Safety Committee, President of the local
chapter of the Masons and Contractors Exchange, a member of the
City Board of Building and Safety Commissioners. and President of
the seventh annual Construction Industries Exposition and Home Show.
Jay. an ardent and enthusiastic Mason, was raised in San Pedro
Lodge No. 332. As soon as the statutes permitted he joined all bodies
of the York Rite at San Pedro.
The unprecedented increase in population in the southern section of
Los Angeles in the nineteen-twenties impressed upon him the necessity
for another lodge in that area. In 1926 he, with others of like mind,
held several meetings to discuss the matter.. The result of these meetings
was the foundation of Jordan Lodge No. 654, of which Brother Powers
was a charter member, and was its Master in 1930. He was the architect and builder of Jordan Temple, donating his time. knowledge, experience and labor to the completion of that splendid edifice.
At the One Hundred Second Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge of California Jay Powers was appointed Grand Pursuivant. The
Most Worshipful Louis C. Drapeau, who made the appointment, officiated at the last rites, a~ly assisted by the Reverend Thomas Grice,
Grand Chaplain. Interment was in Inglewood Park Cemetery.
Jay Powers was in ill health for some time and was not unmindful
that the end might come at any time, and he frequently expressed a
thought that was concisely put by the poet Edward Young, who over
two centuries ago wrote:
"We see time's furrows on another's brow,
And death entrench' d, preparing his assault:
How few themselves in that just mirror see."

*

*

*

*

The philosophers through the ages have told us that all pleasure
is tinged with pain, and it is on such occasions as this Memorial Service
that this truth is thrust deep into our consciousness.
Our departed brethren have been of divergent religious and political
beliefs, but they have shared with us the knowledge of the ancient mysteries: they have given us of their time, their experience, their substance,
and their friendship. They have shared with us the fundamental truths

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of existence. They have believed with us in the fatherhood of God and
its corollary, the brotherhood of man. They have believed with us in
the immortality of the soul. the nature of the immortality being known
only to God.
The pleasure of their association is now a happy memory, their
passing leaves the tinge of pain. We question not our Father's right to
call them, neither will we question His wisdom when He calls us, for we
believe that all things are for the best for him who trusteth in the Lord.
The omnipresence of God was their comfort, and it is ours. The poet
Cartwright has said:
"The Lord, the high and holy One,
Is present everywhere;
Go to the regions of the sun,
And thou Wilt find him there.
"Go to the hidden ocean caves,
Where man hath never trod,
And there beneath the flashing waves
Will be thy maker, God.
"Fly swiftly on the morning's wing,
To distant realms of earth;
Wher'er young birds with sweetness sing,
And warble forth their mirth.
"Wher'er the lion makes his lair,
Or reindeer bound unseen;
Thou'lt find His ready presence there,
And know where God has been.
"All nature speaks of Him who made
The earth and air and sky;
The fruit that falls, the leaves that fade,
The flowers that bloom and die.
"The lofty mountain's lonely vale,
And mighty forest trees,
The rocks that battle with the gale,
The ever-rolling seas.
"All tell the omnipresent Lord,
The God of boundless might,
By angels loved, by saints adored,
Whose dwelling is the light."
Roy C. BRYAN
Ross K. RoPER
FRANK EVERETI'
LYMAN V. VINUM
GILBERT ELMER CHRISTIANSON

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

257

EULOGY
GILBERT

c. DEFOREST

By ARTHUR PAULSEN, Past Grand Master
No sadder task can be allotted to any man than that of paying the
final tribute to a great friend and great Mason. But when that man is a
friend whose record speaks eloquently of his character and achievements,
it is a privilege to pay that tribute.
Gilbert C. DeForest, the 78th Grand Master of Masons in California, was born in New Lancaster, Miami County, Kansas, September 18,
1889. In his early youth he moved to Redding, California. He first
attended the schools of that city and later completed his education at the
College of Commerce in Stockton, California.
After his return to Redding he engaged actively in business and in
due time became the owner-manager of Redding Laundries, Inc., and
was so engaged until the time of his passing in January of this year.
~ng before the commencement of his Masonic career, he became an
outstanding leader in civic affairs,-<>ne distinguished by his wise counsel. his courage and his high ideals. For many years he served as a trustee
of Shasta Union High School and later of Shasta College and it may
truly be said that his zeal in support of the public schools of his county
equalled his devotion to Masonry.
'In 1911 he was united in marriage to Miss Meda Everhardt. This
marriage was blessed with the birth of two sons, Stanley and Russell
DeForest, who, with seven grandchildren survive him.
"Gil." as he was affectionately known among his many friends, was
raised in Reading Lodge No. 254 on January 17, 1922; was appointed
Senior Deacon the following year and served as Master of his lodge
during the fourth year of his Masonic career. He was a member of the
York Rite Bodies of Redding and the Scottish Rite Bodies and the Shrine
in Sacramento. At the meeting of the Supreme Council of the Thirty..
third Degree, held in Washington, D. C. in October, 1945, he was
elected to the rank and dignity of Knight Commander of the Court of
Honor.
Brother DeForest was a natural ritualist. While serving as Senior
Warden of his lodge and at a time when he had been a Master Mason
for only three years, the then Grand Lecturer commenced to prepare
him for the office of Inspector and shortly after he became a Past Master
that appointment was made. He served in that capacity until August
1936, at which time he was appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer. He held
that office until he was elected Junior Grand Warden in October, 1941.
After proceeding thru the intermediate offices he was installed as Grand
Master in October, 1944.
While he was widely and favorably known as a Ritualist among the
leaders of Craft Masonry circumstances later prevented him from becom-

258

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ing equally well known as a Grand Master. He toiled unceasingly during
most of his Masonic life to bring ritualistic perfection to the lodges and
brethren within his district and elsewhere. For years he was a valued
member of the Ritual Committee of Grand Lodge and even among the
most proficient members of that group he spoke with the voice of
authority.
During his year as Grand Master he had the privilege of installing
his son, Stanley, as Master of his lodge and later on conferring the three
degrees upon his younger son, Russell.
But if he enjoyed those privileges while Grand Master he was denied
most others. He entered upon his duties in that high office during the
darkest hours of the Second World War. Gasoline was rationed, travel
restricted, hotel accommodations denied and all but the smallest m.eetings
prohibited. For Gil DeForest there was no trip to a ~rand Ma~ter s Conference in Washington; no journey to the Islands. Little remamed but to
stay at home and attend to the burdens of administration that beset all
Grand Masters. The Annual Communication was limited to one day.a day of work.
•
And here begins the story of an enforced slackening of Masonic
effort and the substitution of another great and increased service of love
and devotion to an invalid wife. No amount of public or fraternal work
had ever caused Gil DeForest to neglect his obligations to home or family.
He had always been a loving and considerate father, a devoted husband.
About this time Mrs. DeForest suffered a stroke and for the next &ve
years became increasingly dependent upon her husband's care and
attention. During that long and trying ordeal every resource and every
moment at his command were devoted to her need and comfort. Reluctantly, but willingly, he resigned from his office as Assistant Grand
Lecturer, which he had resumed after retiring as Grand Master, so that
he might devote his time unstintingly to her. Her passing on October 8,
1950 left him a lonesome and sorrowing man with little desire to go on
alone. For a short time subsequent to her death, he wa·s induced to
resume his duties as Assistant Grand Lecturer but he soon asked to be
relieved. His heart had crossed the great divide with the companion he
had chosen for all time.
On the evening of January 24, 1952 he installed the officers of Mount
Shasta Lodge No. 281 and appeared to be in good health and of cheerful
spirit. Early the next morning he was found sitting beside the window of
his bedroom where death had overtaken him.
Past Grand Master DeForest will long be remembered as a great
ritualist. Those of us who knew him best will remember him as a &ne
citizen; as a sympathetic, kind and loyal friend; as a fearless, practical
exponent and practitioner of the principles of Masonry--a steadfast
believer in the doctrine that Masonry must be lived as well as taught.
We shall miss his sage advice and skilled direction but we need not

mourn because he feared to go. So &rmly did he believe in the teachings
of Masonry that when the summons came he was prepared and eager to
join the devoted loved one already gone to take up her abode in that
mansion not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
The lonely vigils at the bedroom window have ceased and our brother
is now happy in his Father's house.

259

EULOGY
RANDOLPH VIRGINIUS WHITING

By FRANCIS V. KEESLING, Past Grand Master, Grand Treasurer
It was my privilege to have shared the very deep friendship of Randolph Whiting, and a personal tribute in a measure may be reflected in
this memorial.
The poets, Whittier, Markham and Foss sang of mountains and the
man, contemplating, we may well imagine the magnificence of mountains,
their ruggedness, tbeir natural resources including sustenance of life,
their influence on climate, and their impact on humanity. Foss appealed" Bring me men to match my mountains." Such a man was Randolph
Virginius Whiting, a grand man. Reared and living through early youth
in the region of the most wonderful mountains, verily he was a rugged
youth and ruggedness characterized his manhood.
His early education in the public schools at Quincy was followed by
studies preparatory to admission to the University of California. While
so occupied bis early initiative and determination were manifested as he
completed courses essential to admission which were in addition to those
available at the academy he attended, where he also taught at the time.
In due course he was admitted to the University and, again devoting part
time to teaching as well as participating in athletics, he was graduated
with the Bachelor's degree. Thereafter, having matriculated at Hastings
College of the Law, he graduated with the degree of L.L.B. in 1895. He
immediately engaged in the practice of law in San Francisco where he
continued with great success until his final illness. He was indeed a lawyer. The post of Reporter of California law reports is a distinguished
one. From 1897 and several years thereafter, he was Editor of California
Decisions and California Appellate Decisions, being advance sheets of
California Reports. Thereafter in 1915 he was appointed Assistant
Reporter and in 1918 Reporter, which he held until 1940.
Instinctively he was interested in public affairs. His early affiliations resulted in his being appointed Assistant District Attorney by the
Hon. Lewis F. Byington, which office under such excellent administration
was noted for its conduct. He remained until 1906, meanwhile engaged
in some investigati~n of flagrant corruption in the existing municipal
government.

261

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

During World War I he devotedly served on Draft Board No. 12
in San Francisco. He was President of the Bar Association of San Francisco, 1930-:32 and· it was he who proposed and inaugurated the permanent quarters of the Association. Early in 1930 the San Francisco
Committee on Charter Revision came into being and, at the organization
meeting, he was elected Chairman of that very representative committee
of public spirited citizens. This committee in the midst of its activities
was frustrated by opposition of some of the groups which sponsored it.
However, the need for a new charter had been impressed on the public
and there followed an election of freeholders who drafted the existing
charter. These are but a few specific instances of his public activities.
He was always to be found aligned in the cause of better government, and
was recognized as one of San Francisco's outstanding citizens.
He demonstrates his wise concept of sound government as he speaks
again from his address as Grand Master-"The spirit and genius of
America, which were developed by our revolutionary fathers, insuring
religious liberty: free speech, free press and freedom of individual action
as far as is consistent with the rights of others, have been embodied in
our Constitution, and we should cherish and jealously guard it. It has
survived the stress and strain of civil and foreign wars, internal disturbances and the attacks of foes within and without our gates. The statesmen of the world have proclaimed our instrument of government to be
the greatest that the mind of man has yet conceived, and that those who
conceived and framed it were the greatest group of statesmen that ever
gathered together at one time." * * * "Our Constitution provides a
method for orderly and deliberate change when circumstances require
it," ·a s he excoriates Communism based upon the record developed by
Congressional investigation (in 1931 ) amply quoted. He manifested
perspicacity as he warns in those days far away-"There is reason to
believe this organization has insidiously infiltrated our higher educational
institutions, public schools, civic organizations, public offices, and even
to some extent churches, the Army and Navy and other government
departments." He demands that "As Masonry has had such an initial
part in giving to us our great government,. so should it stand guard to see
that its rich gift shall not be impaired by the subversive influence of
enemies within or without the borders of our country."
He practiced out of the Lodge those great moral duties inculcated in
it. He also naturally and to the extent of human ability set a guard over
his thoughts, thereby preventing the approach of every unworthy
thought. He worshipped as an Episcopalian, and for a while was a
member of the Chapter of Grace Cathedral.
He enjoyed golfing at San Francisco Golf Club and his membership
in the Bohemian Club, with its congenial fellowship, entertaining programs at the club and ceremonials and festivities amidst the beautiful
redwoods at the Club's wonderful grove.

. His mason!c career is an extensive and distinguished one-Master,
King Solomons Lodge 260, 1909, and membership California Chapter
No. ~ R.A.'M" California Commandery No. 1 K.T., Islam Temple,
Mystic Shrine, San Francisco Bodies Scottish Rite, in which he served
as Orator during the years 1936-37, K.C.C.H., October 19, 1937. He
served on the Grand Lodge Committee on Appeals and Grievances for
many years and as chairman of the Committee on By-Laws, 1929-32,
when he was elected Junior Grand Warden, and was elevated successively until elected Grand Master, October 1934. He served from
February 1935 for one year as Chairman, Conference of Grand Masters
of Masons of the United States, Washington, D. C.
He came by his Masonic leaning very naturally. His uncle, Hon.
George C. Whiting, who had been Acting Secretary of the Interior, was
Grand Master of Masons in the District of Columbia at the time of his
death in 1867, having served in that capacity for almost eight years.
George C. Whiting Lodge No. 22, F.A.A.M. of Washington is named
for him.
His name signifies his Virginia antecedents, and he was ever a
splendid gentleman and truly upheld the traditions of the "F.F.V."
Though rugged he was most gentle. He and his delightful wife enjoyed
the society of a host of estimable and genteel friends.
Crowning the foregoing illustrious record, his greatest achievement
was when, as a student at Bowen Academy, he met the charming Mary
~oslet, daughter of the headmaster and founder, which was the beginrung of a great romance. They were married soon thereafter, and fortunately the qappy companionship extended almost through their lives, as
he survived his beloved by only a few years. He never recovered from
the great shock and the great loss. This may be understood when one
would describe the love and affection that existed as Byron described it_:_

260

"She was his life,
The ocean to the river of his thoughts
Which terminated all."

EULOGY
JoHN STEWART Ross

By JoHN R. MOORE, Past Grand Master
John Stewart Ross dwelt among the creatures of earth from May 21,
1879, to August 31, 1952. His birth occurred ~t Osceola, Nebraska,
whence he departed for California at the age of ten with his father, John
Ross, and his mother, Isabella (Stewart) Ross. He attended the free
public schools at Pomona, San Diego, and Los Angeles in the days when
it was popular to urge the minds of children toward respect for home
and country-which perhaps in later years influenced him to adopt the

262

263

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE. OP CALIFORNIA

rigid attitude that our concern for our public school system and our
country should be coextensive and that an attack from whatever source
upon our public school system is an attack upon the foundation stones
of our country. Concerning our public schools, he said in his message as
Grand Master, " ... destructive forces work the more effectively when
other forces are asleep."

In the unstinting expenditure of his time, John S~wart Ross erected
his own Masonic monuments which will live in· the hearts and minds of
his brethren from generation to generation. He fathered and made
functional our Officers' Associations and perfected our Inspectoral
Corps. Others have talked much about Masonic education. John Ross did
not waste the English language, but by his work on the Officers' Associations with the Inspectors, he created a Masonic educational facility
which has become a keystone.

His education on the college level was obtained at the University of
California at Berkeley, where he received his A.B. degree in 1902, and
at Harvard Law School. from which he took his degree of LL.B. in 1905.
At Cal.• the charming Dora Bramlet of Fresno was his schoolmate.
who, on May 5, 1906, became his lifelong, devoted helpmate, to whom
were born four children-Isabella, Jean, Neil, and Gordon.
John Stewart Ross was a distinguished lawyer. He engaged in the
practice of his profession in Los Angeles from 1906 to 191 O; in El Centro
from 1910 to 1927; and again in Los Angeles, where he resided from
1927 to date of his passing. The legal tomes of lmperiai County, California, and other records of Imperial Valley Irrigation District; El Centro
Club of Rotary (of which he was the first president): Central Union
High School District (of which he was a member for fifteen years ) ; and
Imperial Valley Bar Association (of which he was several times president) all bear witness to the good work and deeds of our brother.
The outstanding Masonic career of John Stewart Ross spanned two
score and two years. He became a Master Mason on June 9, 1910, in
Highland Park Lodge No. 382; dimitted to El Centro Lodge No. 384 on
February 6, 1911. and served as Master in 1912-13; was Inspector of
Imperial County District 1914-27; member of Committee on Grievances
1922-26; elected Junior Grand Warden in 1927: and presided over this
Grand Lodge as Grand Master in 1930-31. He was a member of our
Committee on Jurisprudence from 1935 and served as chairman from
1946.
He served as Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of
Knights Templar of California in 1947-48 and was a member of all York
Rite Bodies-Past High Priest of El Centro Chapter No. 109 of Royal
Arch Masons; Los Angeles Council of Royal and Select Masters No. 11;
Past Commander of Saint Gabriel Conclave No. 14. Order of the Red
Cross of Constantine.
He held membership in all Scottish Rite Bodies in the Valley of Los
Angeles, earned the rank and decoration of Knight Commander of the
Court of Honor in 1919, and was coronetted a 33° Mason in 1927.
He was Past Potentative of Al Bahr Temple, Ancient Arabic Order,
Nobles of the Mystic Shrine. and received the Honorary Legion of Honor
from the Order of De Molay in 1937.

Of course, his outstanding monument is our Ross Digest, now in its
sixth edition, which is an annotated compilation of our Landmarks,
Ancient Laws, Constitution and Regulations. This arduous task was
begun by our Master Craftsman in 1928, and the first edition was presented to Grand Lodge in 1930. It is pleasing to recall a cruise in the
autumn of 1928 by a group of brothers as guests of our late Past Grand
Master, Dana Weller, on his yacht which anchored in Cherry Cove at
the island of Santa Catalina. In the late afternoon all were swimming,
diving or fishing except John Ross, who was laboring on his Digest on the
afterdeck. I went to him and said, "Come on John and have fun." He
looked at me for a while and replied, "What do you think I am having?"
Concerning the first edition presented to Grand Lodge, our then Grand
Secretary, John Whicher, recorded the following:
"The compilation has been no inconsiderable task, involving
painstaking research and intelligent labor, and is donated by the
compiler, who asks no reward. He feels that he is amply paid by
the encouragement given by his brethren of the Grand Lodge."

•

While Grand Master, Brother Ross dedicated the Masonic Memorial Monument in Forest Lawn Memorial Park at Glendale. His
earthly remains now rest at the brow of a hill near this monument.
Perhaps the most personal Masonic pleasure came to Brother Ross in
1947, when he installed his son Neil as Master of Pentalpha Lodge No.
202. At the time, a speaker quoted the appropriate question of Sophocles:
"What greater ornament to a son than a father's glory, or to a father
than a son's honorable conduct?"
John Stewart Ross was a tender, responsive husband and father and
a noble citizen. He was a faithful. zealous Mason who earned the endless
gratitude of his brothers. On the fields of honor, verity, fidelity and
justice he sought no quarter and gave none. He attracted all who were
worthy of his friendship and regard. Time will declare him among the
Masonic immortals.
Our departed brother, who walked humbly " beneath the benignant
bend of the all-seeing Eye," now dwells in speechless silence in the unseen land. In our fraternal meditation we whisper, "Soft and safe to
thee."

26.+

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

PAST MASTERS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
California Lodge No. 1:
William Hasting Horrelson, died August 23, 1951.
Tehama Lodge No. 3:
William Edward Templeman, died November 1, 1951.
Frank Pierce Bruner, Jr., died January 9, 1952.
Nicholas Louis Bican, died April 4, 1952.
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8:
Homer DeWitt Rose, died September 26, 1951.
Henry Eugene Meyer, died December 21, 1951.
Yount Lodge No. 12:
Witherel Nickerson Atwood, died June 3, 1952.
James Gillies, died July 31, 1952.
Nnada Lodge No. 13:
Joseph H. Mason, died Aprll 21, 1952.
Temple Lodge No. 14:
Henry Diedrich Burmester, died July 23, 1952.
Eureka Lodge No. 16:
Marshall Zina Lowell, died October 5, 1951.
La Parfaite Unlon Lodge No. 17:
·
Fernand Frederic Amandes, died December 27, 1951.
Harwaiian Lodge No. 21:
John Kirkwood Clarke, died December 29, 1951.
William Woods Paty, died May 31, 1952.
Occidental Lodge No. 22:
Martin Antoine Sheldon, died October 8, 1951.
Finn John Angell, died February 2, 1952.
Georgetown Lodge No. 25:
John Alvin Gseli, died January 4, 1952.
El Dorado Lodge No. 26:
Rob't Anderson Fairbairn, died September 2, 1951.
Chas. Wesley Null, died September 30, 1951.
Thos. Fielding Lewis, died January 4, 1952.
James Andrew Irving, died July 3, 1952.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32:
Charles Hermon Bulson, died November 19, 1951.
Ophir Lodge No. 33:
Emory Willis Jenkins, died November 30, 1951.
Santa Crus Lodge No. 38:
Alex Joseph Petitdidier, died June 24, 1952.
SaCJ'amento Lodge No. 40:
Robert Emmett Walsh, died December 4, 1951.
Dougal Henry McAlpine, died June 5, 1952.
Martinez Lodge No. 41:
George Ernest Barnett, died August 2, 1951.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42:
Elmer Hiner, died November 12, 1951.
Earl Stanley Hartson, died April 7, 1952.
Hiram Lodge No. 43:
Clarence Louis Scheiber, died May 9, 1952.
Suisun Lodge No. 55:
Carl Frederick Loeser, died February 6, 19~2.
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57:
Harry Paul Fish, died September 9, 1951.
George Harman Lindemenn, died May 21, 1952.
Ellsworth Lansing Barnett, died July 30, 1952.
UDloa Lodge No. 58:
Victor Alexis Robinson, died March 31, 1952.
Leonard Arthur McKee, died May 13, 1952.

GRAND LODGE OP CALlPORNlA

Live Oak Lodge No. 61:
Rulo Elliott Minard, died February 20, 1952.
Frank Elijah Buckley, died June 2, 1952.
Noah Thomas Sturtevant, died March 26, 1952.
Frank Norris Dalton, died July 17, 1952.
Amador Lodge No. 65:
Leo Charles Ratto, died June 11, 1952.
Morning Star Lodge No. 68:
Henry William Bessac, died July 14, 1952.
Bear Mountain Lodge No. 711:
Albert Fortuna Wilson, died June 8, 1952.
Vesper Lodge No. 84:
George W. Doane, died July 19, 1952.
Rose's Bar Lodge No. 89:
Theodore Schwartz, died July 4, 1952.
Pajaro Lod17.e No. 110:
Earl Wilbur Baum1>ardner, died October 13, 1951.
Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
Benjamin Kraus, died June 12, 1952.
Sholom Silverstone, died July 3, 1952.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123:
Charles Edgar Palmer, died January 25, 1952.
Lafayette Lodge No. 126:
William Elsworth Park, died August 26, 1951.
Hermann Lodge No. 127:
S. Joseph Theisen, died November 13, 1951.
Vlaalia Lodge No. 128:
Frank Lamberson, died January 24, 1952.
Valley Lodge No. 135:
Wm. H. Carroll, died September 2, 1951.
Pacific Lodge No. 136:
Almond R. Morrow, died August 20, 1951.
Crockett Lodge No. 139:
Conrad Teigeler, died July 27, 1952.
Oriental Lodge No. 144:
George William Brooks, died May 19, 1952.
Frank CHapman Martin, died March 21, 1952.
Alameda Lodge No. 187:
Henry Morton Springer, died March 29, 1952.
Redwood City Lodge No. 168:
Laurence Andrew Heiner, died May 5, 1952.
Ernest Henry Werder, died June 29, 1952.
Elk Grove Lodge No. 173:
Arthur Delos Gage, died March 18, 1952.
William Edward Booth, died March 25, 1952.
Thomas Lukens Conrad, died April 6, 1952.
Phoenix Lodge No. 178:
·
Fred Wolford Hattan, died December 2, 1951.
Roy Beery Cole, died March 20, 1952.
Petaluma Lodge No. 180:
Henry Steele Johnstone, died July 19, 1952.
Russian River Lodge No. 181:
. Grant A. Laughlin, died September 4, 1951.
Wm. H. Small, died November 28, 1951.
C. J. Martin, died December 14, 1951.
W. Finlaw Geary, died April 29, 1952.
Oakland Lodge No. 188:
Willard Holmes Nutting, died April 20, 1952.
Marin Lodge No. 191:
William Lewis Chamberlain, died January 25, 1952.
Henry Marius Hansen, died June 17, 1952.

265

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mountain View Lodge No. 194:
Eugene A. Gavi~an, died September 4, 1951.
James Henry, died October 6, 1951.
John McBain, died May 20 1952.
Wilbur Stanley Sifert, died July 12, 1952.
San Simeon Lodge No. 196:
William Reid, died November 24, 1951.
Frank Penny Will, died June 18, 1952.
Wilmington Lodge No. 198:
Robert J. Stewart, died March 25, 1952.
Frank A. Olmstead, died May 11, 1952.
Truckee Lodge No. 200:
Yelton Lorenzo Deaton, died July 11. 1952.
Thomas Armstrong, died July 20, 1952.
Silveyville Lodge No. 201:
Winfield Rightmire Madden, died July 6, 1952.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207:
William E. Wright, Jr., died September 10, 1951.
William D. Kohlenberger, September 30, 1951.
Phillip H. Krick, died January 3, 1952.
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208:
Iuan Knox Hamilton, died July 25, 1952.
Monterey Lodge No. 217:
Frank Christian Jakobs, died September 6, 1951.
Mo1aic Lodge No. 218:
Thomas Wayne Norris, died May 15, 1952.
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219:
Antonio Cogliandro, died March 6, 1952.
Downey Lodge No. 220:
Charles Pomering, died April 27, 1952.
Inyo Lodge No. 221:
John August Lubken, died September 28, 1951.
Bruce L. Coulter, died March 13, 1952.
Roseville Lodge No. 222:
George Edward Nielsen, died January 6, 1952.
Robert Franklin Watson, died February 23, 1952.
Albert S. Teal, died July 16, 1952.
Bakersfield Lodge No. 224:
Edgar Lee Burton, died January 9, 1952.
Clement Daubney Oldershaw, died January 12, 1952.
Athens Lodge No. 228:
David Maurice Berry, died May 8, 1952.
Solano Lodge No. 229:
Herbert Frank Gordon, died January 25, 1952.
Ccwelo Lodge No. 231:
Fred A. Vincent, died May 21, 1952.
Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235:
Walter IL Hussa, died November 17, 1951.
David H. Grove, died February 3, 1952.
Lester A. Wheeler, died April 27, 1952.
John P. Reynolds, died July 19, 1952.
Guadalupe Lodge No. 237:
Kai K. Hansen, died May 11, 1952.
Santa ADa Lodge No. 241:
· Arthur Henry Pease, died February 1, 1952.
Laurel Lodge No. 245:
Edwin Moore Garrison, died February 25, 1952.
Pomona Lodge No. 246:
Edwin Wilton, died November 12, 1951.
Fremo Lodge No. 247:
Herbert Levy, died April 10, 1952.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Reading Lodge No. 254:
Gilbert Culvin DeForest, P.G.M., died January 25, 1952.
Oscar Jess Hensen, died March 7, 1952.
Antonio Furtado Souza, Jr., died March 25, 1952.
Welcome Lodge No. 255:
Truman "C" Allen, died December 18, 1951.
Lodi Lodge No. 256:
Hilliard Elihu Welch, died August 21, 1951.
Penrbyn Lodge No. 258:
Frank Elwin Small, died December 31, 1951.
Evergreen Lodge No. 259:
Charles Orville Reid, died March 27, 1952.
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260:
Randolph Virginius Whiting, P.G.M., died February 4, 1£52.
Lompoc Lodge No. 262:
Boyd Wayne Canfield, died July 17, 1952.
Hesperian Lodge No. 264:
Charles Warren Marsh, died March 1, 1952.
Olive BrBDch Lodge No. 269:
Vernal Lee Downey, died May 23, 1952.
Snow Mountain Lodge No. 271:
David Armand Sullivan, died April 18, 1952.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274:
Max Henry Morgan, died March 15, 1952.
Benjamin Dixon Conrad, died June 8, 1952.
Oakdale Lod9e No. 275:
Melvin Manning Clark, died May 24, 1952.
Southern California Lodge No. 278:
William Furby Barshfield, died November 21, 1951.
Elsinore Lodge No. 289:
Paul Vane Fox, died December 17, 1951.
Orange Grove Lodge No. 293:
Nelson Thomas Edwards, died December 19; 1951.
Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295:
George Blaine, died October 7, 1951.
Frank Amie! Lambert, died March 12, 1952.
Glen Pernell Laughlin, died April 5, 1952.
Reedley Lodge No. 304:
Arthur S. Tabler, died November 4, 1951.
Jeus Sorensen, died May 7, 1952.
Asusa Lodge No. 305:
Henry Melzer, died December 5, 1951.
Walter I. Heth, died December 16, 1951.
Ashlar Lodge No. 306:
James Neal Robinson, died September 21, 1951.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307:
Harris Welch Taft, died May 2, 1952.
Temescal Lodge No. 314:
Josiah Crane Hoover, died February 28, 1952.
Fred Elwyn Snedecor, died May 21, 1952.
Norwalk Lodge No. 315:
William Ernest Plains, died April 8, 1952.
Emanuel Lodge No. 318:
Henry Haselbusch, died July 31, 1951.
William Julius Fiedler, died June 23, 1952.
South Gate Lodge No. 320:
Charles Cromwell Crawford, died September 3, 1951.
Sherman Jones, died March 31, 1952.
Alllal Lodge No. 321:
Clinton DeClermont Keeler, died March 30, 1952.
Long Beach Lodge No. 327:
Wm. Jay Burgin, died March 21, 1952.

267

268

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Redondo Lodge No. 328:
Max Newmark Venable, died July 8, 1952.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329:
. Jean-Bertrand Barthe, died December 18, 1951.
Kilauea Lodge No. 330:
John Scott Cran, died January 4, 1952.
Rex Wills, died March 31, 1952.
West Gate Lodge No. 335:
W}lliam Lindsey Reynolds, died February 29, 1952.
Carqumez Lodge No. 337:
William Charles Madden, died January 13, 1952.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339:
Earl Snyder, died February 8, 1952.
Oxnard Lodge No. 341:
Clyde E. Johnson, died November 11, 1951.
San Fernando Lodge No. 343:
Stanley Dunham, died June 8, 1952.
Brentwood Lodge No. 345:
Allan Monro, died September 18, 1951.
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346:
Newton William Glaeser, died December 12 1951.
Otto Albert Wideman, died April 1, 1952. '
McKinley Lodge No. 347:
Ralph Horden Logsdon, died September 13 1951.
Karl Fairfield Tuttle, died September 14, 1951.
Ralph Tennant Ham, died February 29, 1952.
John Norton Harmon, died May 6, 1952.
Palestine Lodge No. 351:
. Thomas Cook Jones, died December 21, 1951.
Pinole Lodge No. 353:
William Patrick Drummey, died November 29 1951
Presidio Lodge No. 354:
'
·
Hugh King McKevitt, died October 24, 1951.
Glanville Adrian Stockhausen, died February 21, 1952.
Hollywood Lodge No. 355:
Homer Washburn Glidden, died July 1, 1952.
Edward Perry Kysar, died March 20, 1952.
Mill Valley Lodge No. 356:
John Johnson Monzingo, died December 1, 1951.
Golden State Lodge No. 358:
.
William Carl Kretschmer, died September 12, 1951.
San Francisco Lodge No. 360:
Earle Freeman, died October 1, 1951.
Alfred Daniel La Motte, died September 24, 1951.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363:
George Vernon Harris, died December 12, 1951.
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366:
Herbert "Z" Austin, died August 1, 1951.
John Clarence Hinton, died December 12, 1951.
Ernest Marvin Myers, died July 3, 1952.
Unity Lodge No. 368:
Donald Cooper Lindley, died December 6, 1951.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369:
Harold Hile Kinney, died July 21, 1952.
le Progres de L'Oceanie Lodge No. 371:
John Smyth, died September 15, 1951.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373:
William Herbert Riley, died December 14, 1951.
Francia Drake Lodge No. 376:
John Walter Coleberd, died May 21, 1952.
Artesia Lodge No. 377:
Frederick Wallace Earl, died July 19, 1952.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Highland Park Lodge No. 382:
Fred Ezekiel Vincent, died October 13, 1951.
Orosi Lodge No. 383:
Addison Rush Martin, died December 27, 1951.
El Centro Lodge No. 384:
Frederick William Peterson, d ied March 14, 1952.
. Charles Leroy Childers, died April 24, 1952.
Dinuba Lodge No. 385:
Claud Smallin, died February 16, 1952.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389:
William Elmer Hastings, died J uly 17, 1952.
West Lake Lodge No. 392:
Albert Llewellyn Francis, died September 3, 1951.
University Lodge No. 394:
George Henry Millard, died March 27, 1952.
Bay View Lodge No. 401:
Harry Edwin Jarman, d ied October 8, 1951.
Elmer William Hickman, died November 27, 1951.
Moneta Lodge No. 405:
Ernest Mathew Flickinger, died June 15, 1952.
Burbank Lodge No. 406:
Wm. Herman Daniel Clausen, died March 1, 1952.
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408:
Benjamin Sylvester Stinman, d ied February 6, 1952.
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
James Kennett Fisk, died September 10, 1951.
Henry Robert Braden, died J uly 13, 1952.
Perris Lodge No. 411:
Ralph Evans Holloway, died November 12, 1951.
Calexico Lodge No. 412:
Harry Wm. Moldt, died June 10, 1952.
Arlington Lodge No. 414:
William A dams Sheldon, died July 27, 1952.
Cloris Lodge No. 417:
Travis Ray Pendergrass, died November 7, 1951.
Elysian Lodge No. 418:
Andrew Peter Johnson, died May 25, 1952.
Upland Lodge No. 419:
Walter Wesley Horak, died October 20, 1951.
Marvin Francisco, died June 6. 1952.
Inglewood Lodge No. 421:
George Matthew Green, died November 9, 1951.
Exeter Lodge No. 424:
Len Eugene Hayes, died May 13, 1952.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427:
Edwin Rhodes, died July 3, 1952.
McCloud Lodge No. 430:
Hugh Patterson Martin, died March 4, 1952.
John James Morrow, died July 5, 1952.
William Henshaw Nigh, died J uly 28, 1952.
Fairmount Lodge No. 435:
Fred Brunner Hofheinz, died September 22, 1951.
Acacia Lodge No. 438:
Rene Burgin, died March 3, 1952.
Tyrian Lodge No. 439:
Joel Marshall Luck, died Sep tember 19, 1951.
Arnold Huih Morris, died May 4, 1952.
Coronado Lodge No. 441:
Harry Stanley Clark, died December 26, 1951.
Blackmer Lodge No. 442:
Daniel McRae, died September 27, 1951.
Ernest Lester McKie, died October 28, 1g5i.

269

270

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

WU.hire Lodge No. 445:
Frank Edgar Geiger, died January 23, 1952.
Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448:
William Charlesworth, died November 17, 1951.
Daniel Jenkins Baldwin, died January 16, 1952.
Crocker Lodge No. 454:
William Cairnie, died May 2, 1952.
Golden West Lodge No. 455:
Adolph Louis William Zillmer, died February 2, 1952.
Ramona Lodge No. 457:
Robert Fulton, died July 8, 1952.
RiTerbank Lodge No. 459:
Floyd.Raines Shepherd, died November 12, 1951.
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463:
Vertie Moulton Edes, died May 1, 1952.
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464:
Robert Duncan Brown, died July 20, 1952.
Center Lodge No. 465:
Walter Edward Bonnett, died December 27, 1951.
Joseph Ernest Megenthaler, died January 12, 1952.
Libertas Lodge No. 466:
Fred Charles Doll, died June 10, 1952.
Rockridge Lodge No. 468:
Fred Ray Templeton, died November 4, 1951
·
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469:
Homer J. May, died August 30, 1951.
Lincoln Lodge No. 470:
William M. Slimmon, died March 14, 1952.
Slyvan Dewey Leipsic, died March 1, 1952.
Maui Lodge No. 472:
Birney Mosher. Taliaferro, died September 29 ,1951.
Isaac Fraser, died March 30, 1952.
Temblor Lodge No. 477:
Lester Eugene Blakely, died September 13, 1951.
Fellowship Lodge No. 480:
John Byron Warner, died January 3, 1952.
ML Davidson Lodge No. 481:
Norman Murry Johnson, died November 12, 1951.
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485:
William Andrew Anderson, died June 26, 1952.
Woodstock Lodge No. 491:
Edmund Guilford Hathaway, died October 16, 1951.
Ralph Waldo Merrick. died January 5, 1952.
Augustus David Zimmerman, died April 6, 1952.
Garnnsa Lodge No. 492:
Earl Thaxter, died December 23, 1951.
Acom Lodge No. 494:
John Edward Quinville, died September 17; 1951.
Robert Nathaniel Campbell, died June 29, 1952.
Lebanon Lodge No. 495:
Albert H. Stevens, died February 24, 1952.
Stockton Lodge No. 498:
James Henry Luly, died November 15, 1951.
Harbor Lodge No. 502:
Lewis Emmet Jones, died February 9, 1952.
Seuide Lodge No. 504:
William Arthur Shonts, died January 27, 1952.
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509:
Franklin K. Pollitt, died ~tember 19, 1951.
Clarke E. Gilhousen, died January 26, 1952.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Argonne Lodge No. 514:
Laurence Chester Thompson, died May 11, 1952.
Clarence Adolph Nelson, died April 27, 1952.
Vermont Square Lodge No. 515:
Chester Arthur Reese, died May 30, 1952.
Taft Lodge No. 616:
Walter Hamlin Ireland, died February 6.z 1952.
Henry Francis Letlow, died April 21, 19:>2.
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517:
Charles Robert Bermel, died February 10, 1952.
La Jolla Lodge Ho. 518:
Earl Griswald Bigelow, died April 3, 1952.
Bellfiower Lodge No. 523:
George McCormick, died February 2, 1952.
George Washington Lodge No. 525:
Henry Alexander West, died December 16, 195L
Opie Leander Warner, died April 20, 1952.
Bay City Lodge No. 526:
Harold Sidney Hersch, died March 8, 1952.
Be-Yerly Hilla Lodge No. 528:
James Franklin Peterson, died July 20, 1952.
Sun Garden Lodge No. 530:
Elmer Butler Thompson, died October 3, 1951.
Johnie Everett Moore, died February 6, 1952.
A1ure Lodge No. 533:
· Raymond Jessup Starbuck, died June 5, 1952.
Forest Hill Lodge No. 534:
Alvin Howell Davis, July 14, 1952.
Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535:
Winfred Christopher Deister, July 18, 1952.
.
Seal Rock Lodge No. 536:
William Richard Hamilton, died March 16, 1952.
Lankenbim Lodge No. 542:
Arthur Frederick Jacky, died August 7, 1951.
Signal Lodge No. 543:
Arnold Weber Hogarth, died August 1, 1951.
Glendale Lodge No. 544:
John Sleeons Cleeland, died March 5, 1952.
Fairfax Lodge No. 558:
Lester McMillan Jones, died August 4, 1951.
Eut San Diego Lodge No. 561:
Morris Daniel Daron, dietl June 2, 1952.
Harvey Leon Shafer, died July 25, 1952.
Pyramid Lodge Ho. 562:
Walter Peter Mollison, died February 16, 1952.
Searchlight Lodge No. 567:
Hubert D. Logan, died February 10, 1952.
Hillcrm Lodge No. 573:
Everett Robert Ludden, died December 5, 1951.
Santa Maria Lodge No. 580:
William Arthur Tobiason, died June 1, 1952.
Rlalto Lodge No. 582:
Edward Perry Patterson, died November 22, 1951.
All States Lodge No. 593:
Anker Lysdahl Kelgard, died April 28, 1952.
Senice Lodge No. 594:
Eugene John Londers, died December 17, 1951.
Rezin Albert Hemry died March 6, 1952.
Edward Savage Dobbin, died April 4, 1952.
Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598:
Arthur Townsend, died January 17, 1952.
Frank Arthur Lewis, died March 28, 1952.

271

272

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Gri11ly Lodge No. 801:
Lester Thomas Davis ,died May 23, 1952.
Dimond Lodge No. 603:
Arthur Benjamin Currier, died March 5, 1952.
Jubilee Lodge No. 604:
John Peter Williams, died June 3, 1952.
Glusell Park Lodge No. 605:
Claude Spenser Wilson, died October 10, 1951.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607:
Rowzee Foster Shackelford, died September 23, 1951.
Elmhurst Lodge No. 610:
Julius E. Hood, died August 8, 1951.
Three Pillars Lodge No. 813:
William Zeff Herman, died October 13, 1951.
Southland Lodge No. 618:
Thomas Marcum Johnson, died February 6, 1952.
Chula Vida Lodge No. 628:
Randall Austin, died April 12, 1952.
Truth Lodge No. 628:
C. Zeno Holt, died November 29, 1951.
Poinsettia Lodge No. 633:
Vernon Elwood Patterson, died August 8, 1951.
Victorville Lodge No. 634:
William Franklin McEwen, died January 18, 1952.
James Archibald Farrington, died March 13, 1952.
Riverside Lodge No. 635:
Frank George McConnell, died December 14, 1951.
John Marshall Lodge No. 636:
Origene Emmanuel Senay, died September 25, 1951.
Palisades Lodge No. 637:
Robert J. Young, died June 19, 1952.
·
Indian Rock Lodge No. 638:
Harry William Carlson, died November 1, 1951.
Composite Lodge No. 639:
Philip Hillel Bloch, died April 28, 1952.
Veritu Lodge No. 640:
Preston Wallace King, died February 27, 1952.
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642:
Alvin Clinton Reed, died November 6, 1951.
Hawthorne Lodge No. 647:
Percy Nelson Hazel, died June 23, 1952.
Fontana Lodge No. 853:
Benjamin Frankland Killen, died April 2, 1952.
Jordan Lodge No. 654:
Cecil Otis Gorsuch, died December 5, 1951.
Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660:
George Roswell Mayland, died April 9, 1952.
Malia Lodge No. 661:
Charles Donald Field, died June 9, 1952.
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668:
Raymond Porter Kirby, died November 14, 1951.
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674:
Morris Prell. died March 23, 1952.
Oildale Lodge No. 688:
William Harper Ledbetter, died March 8, 1952.
San Carlos Lodge No. 890:
Louis Joseph Douatz. died March 7, 1952.
El Cerrito Lodge No. 70:>:
Glenn Moore, died November 14, 1951.

At 12:25 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 10.00 A.M. Thursday morning.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

273

IN GRAND LODGE .
MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 16TH, 1952
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 A.M .. the Grand Master
presiding. The Very Reverend Grand Chaplain offered the morning
prayer. The minutes of Wednesday morning, October 15th, were read
and approved.
Those committee reports which had been referred to, and reported
on by, the Committee on Segregation are here printed in full for convenience of reference.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
·. In addition to advice given to Grand Lodge officers and to committees and the subordinate bodies, the Committee on Taxation has also
aided the Grand Secretary's office in advising the subordinate lodges
with reference to the change in postal rates for Third Class postal material. Permission was obtained from the postal authorities for Grand
Lodge to flle the necessary copy of the Constitution and By-Laws in a
master flle, leaving it to the individual lodges to Ale with the local Postmaster the Petition for Exemption from the Amended Rates that went
into effect on July 1, 1952.
We again call to the attention of the lodges that a report must be
made of all employees, except ritualistic officers, wh0se wages are more
than $50.00 per calendar quarter for both the State Employment Act
and the Federal Social Security Act and to pay the taxes assessed
thereon.
During the year there have been no appreciable changes in the
rulings and interpretations relative to the Social Security Act. The
important thing is that each lodge should have its report flied and if any
objection is made, it will be promptly communicated directly to the lodge
by the governing authority.
We should state further, with particular reference to those lodges
that contemplate the creation of a non-proflt building corporation, that,
generally speaking, the Department places such a corporatiQn in the
same preferential group as is the lodge, providing the lodge owns the
stock of the corporation.
Respectfully submitted,
R. P. WISECARVER
}AMES E. HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YORK
Reported on by Committee on Segregation and Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Jurisprudence.

274

275

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
MASONIC CLUB HOUSE, LOS ANGELES

We set a maximum budget of $21 ,000.00 for the work and our
decorator has managed to meet it. You will be pleased, we believe, to
learn that we do not request a single cent of this cost by additional
appropriation from the grand lodge-and further, that it has been paid
without dipping into our securities, except for one five thousand dollar
bond which had been called.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
During the academic year which closed in June the social and
philanthropic activities of the masonically affiliated students who use
the large and beautiful club house you maintain adjacent to the campus
of U.C.L.A. were substantially the same as those outlined in our reports
to the annual communications in 1950 and 1951 . The new academic year
opened with the beginning of classes on September 22, three weeks ago.
In our reports to the 1950 and 1951 communications. we indicated
the approach of the day when major redecorating of the club house
interior would be necessary. In fact in 1951 we had moved in that
direction by the tentative selection of new carpeting for the main lounge
and foyer when information was received that carpet prices would
probably decline. We deferred action for a year during which· carpet
prices declined four times, for a total of 25%. Our information indicated
a stabilization of prices and the possibility of a rise, hence in June of
this year we resumed our task with a probable saving of three thousand
dollars on the carpets selected.
We employed a free lance decorator formerly with orie of our largest department stores and began the rather long task of selecting colors
and patterns for drapes, carpets and upholstery materials. The board
delegated the selection to a committee consisting of Directors Wilson,
Cooper, Crane and the chairman. Directors Klarquist and Smith also
attended some of the committee sessions.
The committee was fortunate in being able to call upon Bro. Russell
Northrop, Inspector, and head of the drapery department of one of the
large motion picture studios, and Bro. Lucius Croxton, also a Past
Master of Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506, and art director of another studio,
for expert advice as to colors and materials. We wish to acknowledge
our appreciation for the several midnight sessions in which they participated and so materially assisted.
The club house was built in 1929 and despite the fact that the
average yearly use exceeds 7,000 student visits, the original drapes,
furniture and carpets were still in use and presentable. This long life is
eloquent testimony as to the quality of materials originally used.
During the redecoration we replaced all drapes and carpets in the
entire building and had all the furniture redone and reupholstered. All
woodwork was repainted and seven rooms were repainted. Numerous
new items of desks, lamps, shades and wiring were also added. The
result has been most pleasing. We can best describe it by a paradox,
the visitor will find the interior completely changed and yet the club
house is the same.

Two new members of the board were nominated and elected during
the year, Bro. Charles Listenwalter, a Past Master of Westlake Lodge
No. 392, and Bros. Frank H. Reinsch, a Past Master of Liberal Arts
Lodge No. 677. The former is a retired business man with extensive
Masonic and temple experience. The latter is a member of the faculty
of the University.
We were saddened by and suffered a distinct loss in the passing of
Bro. John Stewart Ross, P.G.M., who had been a faithful member of
the board for twenty years. Suitable notice of his long service to the
craft will be made by the Committee on Necrology and we join in their
expressions.
For the ensuing year we propose the following budget and recommend that the same be referred to the Committee on Finance:
Director of Activities ..........................................$ 3,180.00
Assistant to Director............................................ 2,100.00
Building assistants .............................................. 1,H0.00
Building maintenance .......................................... 1.500.00
Gardener and gardening....................................
500.00
Magazines and newspapers................................
100.00
Heat, light, water and power.............................. 1,000.00
Telephones ..........................................................
325.00
Office supplies ....................................................
100.00
Postage ................................................................
25.00
Taxes .................................................................. 3,000.00
Insurance ............................................................
400.00
Auditing ..............................................................
100.00
Stationery and printing........................................
250.00
Social security ......................................................
300.00
Depreciation ........................................................ 5,160.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................
200.00
$19,680.00

The foregoing budget is a net increase of $415.00 over that proposed
last year, but there is an increase in the depreciation item of $710.00,
resulting from the purchase of new furnishings and equipment in the

276

277

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

amount of $7,225.57: actually therefore the operating items have been
reduced $295.00 from the total of last year.

gord is hereby made a part of this report, and is attached hereto· as
Exhibit "B".
At the June meeting' of the Board of Directors, a get-togethe r conference was held with some of the present and the new officers of the
Student club at which matters of mutual interest were discussed, and
which proved helpful to both the Board and the managemen t. President
Keldgord pointed out some of the problems faced by the Club and similar collegiate organization s. Due to the expiration in the Spring of 1951
of Public Law 346, and GI Bill, many veterans were effected, and there
was a noticeable decrease in enrollment. In addition to the loss of the
veteran students, the University enrollment was further lessened by the
Federal Selective Service. Enrollment on the Berkeley campus dropped
from a peak of 24,000 to the present 16,000. This has made a marked
decrease in all campus organization s. It also resulted in a drop of the
average age of the university student. The average age estimate for
1948-49 was 23.6 years. It is now 19.6 years.
Still another factor affecting enrollment in college organization s has
been a serious drop in the financial status of students. This seriously
affected the social events at the Clubhouse which demanded considerable
individual expense. However, in other social events which involved no
particular extra individual expense, the attendance was surprisingly
large.
A committee was appointed to examine the possibility of lowering
membership fees. The result of the study was a recommenda tion that
the dues be unaltered-a dding that, whereas, the student sometimes felt
financially 0.nable to attend social functions involving individual expense, he did not feel that the membership fees are prohibitive. C?n the
contrary. he frequently voiced amazement at the low cost of membership.

Respectfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH MEYER

A. CURTIS SMITH

c. EARLE CRANE
CL YOE

c. SHOEMAKER

JOHN A. KLARQUIST
ELVIN
EDWIN

c. DRAKE

w. WADE

MARION A . DUNCAN
WILLIAM R. GALLAGHER
JOHN M. ASKIN
HOWARD M. WILSON
HERBERT H. COOPER

Reported on by Committee on Segregation and Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF TRUSTEE S OF MASONIC CLUB HOUSE,
BERKELEY
To the Most Wofshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of
California at Berkeley, California respectfully submits its report covering the managemen t of the Club for the year 1951-1952.
The Board is pleased to report that the physical properties are in
excellent condition. The improvements and repairs planned in the budget
have been carried out satisfactoril y, and well within the budget. Your
Directors have met regularly and have worked co-operative ly to promote
the purposes for which the Club is operated.
As a part of this report, we respectfully submit the annual budget
prepared for the year 1952-53. In addition to the general operating
expenses, a number of items are included to cover upkeep and improvement~ at the Clubhouse. Because of careful managemen t by the Board
of Direc!ors, a ~ood part of these items can be cared for by savings
effected m carrying out the projects of the current budget. This is all
carefully set forth in the budget prepared for the year ending August
31, 1953, and attached hereto as Exhibit "A".
The Directors feel that the Club was exceptional ly well managed this
year by the student group, and wish to highly compliment President
Robert E. Keldgord and his corps of officers for their efficient and faithful performance of their duties. The complete report of President Keld-

Although social functions have not always been well attended, the
every day use of the Clubhouse has continued at a high rate. · A large
percentage of the members utilize the Clubhouse facilities many times
during the school week.
One of the delightful occasions of the year was the visit of our Grand
Master. Most Worshipful Louis Drapeau. His delightful humor and his
entertaining address endeared him to the students and their guests.
The Board deeply appreciates the interest taken in the Clubhouses
by our Grand Master. The Board is especially appreciative for his letter
of August 22, 1952 in which he called to the attention of the Brethren
the facilities offered by the Masonic Clubhouses to the sons and daughters who plan to enter the State Universities . Our Masonic Clubhouses
play such an important part in the developmen t of our younger generation it is hoped that the Masters of our blue lodges can be interested
into contacting in May and June of each year the Principals of our

278

Se~ondary Schools to learn the names of eligible graduates. With such

a hst, our students could make contacts.

~rs. Edna Morton has continued to do an ·exceHent job as h t

She is ~ot ~nly a wise and helpful counselor to the students, but ~: :1:~
a conscientious and capable manager.
the t~~~i=~n o~ ~he hBoardd, I would li~e to express appreciation for
w o e earte co~operation of the members for their
.
.
intense interest in the welfare of the club, and their faithful a•n d regu Iar
.
attendanc e at our meetings.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER T. HELMS
PAUL

s. BOREN
c. HORSTMAN

RUSSELL

FRANK R. KILLENGE R, JR.
CARL B. MUNCK

Furniture and major replacements (see Note 1
below) .............................................................................. 2,158.80
Total ordinary ~nditures ..................._ .......$13,254.31
Unreimbursed depreciation fund .................................. 3,000.00
· Depreciation ........................................................................ 4,010.00

$18,315.00
3,000.00
4,010.00 .

Totals ........................................................................$20,264.31

$25,325.00

.
·
Note 1.
Fumlture and major replaceme nts
Large reception rug ...- ................................................- ...........................$2,500.00
75.00
Linoleum ......................................................................................................
75.00
Letter flle ............................................................................... .................... 250.00
Window shades .......................................................................................... 150.00
Pool room repairs ..............................................................._ ... -.. -...........
Large television set .................................................................................. 550.00
furniture ···-···-·····-·-··-··········-··-········-···············"·············-··· 500.00
Recover
Recondition pianos (3) _ ................................................._....................... 150.00
Total·-------·-·--·----------·-····.,.···········--~'°
EXHIRIT "B"

15 May 1952
Board of Trustees,
University Masonk Club,
Berkeley i, California .

R. P. WISECARV ER
EXHIBIT "A"

Masonic Club of the Universjty, Berkeley, California
Proposed Budget for the Fiscal Year Ended August 31, 1953
Actual

2
!::;~:~=o~~es~·==:::::=~::::::=.~:.....~8;,~~~~~
396640.0000

-··-··-···- ........-.....................
Accountan
·
Gard
Janitor andt ·-··-·-··--··
...................~............ 1,182 00
....................
ener
.
R
374. 70
. --····-·-····--··-·········--·-··-······-··--··-·- ···
Clep8ll'S
510.00
T eanmg ·····-··-··--····--················--······--······-····-···
·---·-·--·-··--· ·-··--·-···· ··-··· 2' 141·44
axes ···----·
Securit
Social
0

Insur

y ···-····-········-·········-·······-········-······-···

Janit::~ s-;;ppii;°s-··-····-···--··-····-······-·-··-····-···

···--········---··--········-··-········-·····

53.98
340031.8117

lleat, light, water --······-··-·· ·-····-····-··- -···-······· 1,284:93
Telephone--.................................................................
188 20
56'40
Garbage --··-··-··- ··-··15:68
G~en su~lies ..................::==~~==::::::::::=.~:::::::
49.09
···--··-··-··- ··-··-········ ····-··-···-··
supplies
Office
Auditing
110090. 2001

___ ....·-······-·-.

Miscellan~;;--·-·····-·-·-··-··--······-··-··--··-··-··-·····

·····---......,....

~---

Total Expense ........................................................$11,095.151

4,250.00

Unexpended funds .............................................................................. 2,945.69
Net budget required 1952-53..............................................................$22,379.31

CARUSLE D. NIELSEN
LEO E. SIEVERT

Expenses

279

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Budgeted
Year 1952-53
$ 3,000.00
1,500.00
360.00
2,400.00
450.00
650.00
2,400.00
60.00
500.00
550.00
1,400.00
200.00
70.00
75.00
150.00
100.00
200.00
$14,065.00

Gentleme n:
The state of conditions at the University Masonic Club is not good.
There are a· number of problems, organizati onal in nature, to whom the
Masonic Club bas played host for a number of years. I shaH restrict .
my comments to observatio ns made during this past school year.

It appears that the Masonic Club is suffering from a malady common
to most collegiate organizati ons in 1952. Due to the fact that Public
Law 346 (commonly known as the "GI BiJJ") expired for most veterans
in the Spring of 1951, the enrollment at the University decreased noticeably. This decrease became evident in the months of Septembe r and
October of 1951.
In addition to the loss of the veteran-st udent, the enrollment of the
University has been further lessened by the Federal Selective Service:
The decreased enroHment of the University has been represente d
proportion ately by decreased membership in campus organizati ons. The
peak enroHment of the University was reached some four years ago, at
which time the Registrar' s records showed an enrollment of approximately 24,000 students on the Berkeley campus. During this past school
year, the Registrar' s .flies recorded an enrollment of approxima tely
16,000 students.

280

281

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Along with the decrease in the number of University students there
has been an accompanying alteration in the collective characteristics of
the University student. Whereas, the average age of the University
student in 1948-1949 was estimated at 23.6 years, the average age of
the student today is estimated at 19.6 years. The· sense of responsibility
and the spirit of co-operation which are developed via maturity are no
longer evident either in the classroom on campus or within the internal
structure of off-campus organizations such as the Masonic Club.
Despite the increased immaturity of the college student who supports
the campus organization, the mechanics of administration within the
organizations have become more complex. Although its appearance may
be deceiving, the administration of the University Masonic Club is not
unlike the administration of a small business concern.
Another factor which has hindered the effectiveness of campus activities has been the lack of finances among college students. As most of
you are undoubtedly aware, this factor has presented a perpetual problem to the scholar. During the past few years, however, the University
and University organizations have prospered. This prosperity, which
undoubtedly· was a result of the so-called "war boom" and "post-war
boom," ceased to exist with the beginning of the 1951-52 school year.
This factor is well-recognized in the campus community. As a result of
my campus radio program, I have had frequent opportunity to discuss
this topic with Telegraph Avenue merchants, all of whom have noticed
the decline in the student's spending power.
The student's financial problems have been manifested in the attendance at some of our social events. Events which· have drawn capacity
crowds in past years were poorly attended this year. On the other hand,
events which in past years have attracted little or no attention were
surprisingly well-attended. It is noteworthy that the affairs which demanded considerable individual expense (i.e. rental of tuxedos, corsages,
etc.) were the same events at which our attendance figures were low.
I would say that our variety show, our initiation dinner-dances, our
parent's night, and our Club picnic were given the greatest support by
the mem~ship. Our reception for the Grand Master, Most Worshipful
Louis C. Drapeau, was poorly-attended for two ( 2 ) reasons: first of
all, the reception for the Grand Master is an event which requires considerable expense on the part of the student: also, our reception for the
Grand Master was held during the same evening that the University
presented the Junior Prom. The date for our Grand Master's Reception
was chosen by the Grand Master in mid-November.
. ·
Although the attendance was not exceptionally large for our Grand
Master's Recepti?n, we felt that the Grand Master's performance, his
personal charm and his excellent choice of topics were sufficient compensation for the effort and expense connected with the reception.

.During the fall semester, I appointed a committee to examine the
possibility of lowering membership fees; the committee was chairmanned
by Robert Asnard, one of our most capable and most experienced members. After investigation and questioning among the membership, the
committee recommended that the dues rate be unaltered. Whereas, the
student sometimes felt financially unable to attend social functions, he
did not feel that the membership fees were prohibitive; on the contrary,
he frequently voiced amazement at the low cost of membership.
Whereas, our social functions have not always been well-attended,
the everyday use of the Clubhouse has continued at a high rate. A high
percentage of our members utilize the Clubhouse facilities four-to-five
times during the school week. It is interesting to note that the Clubhouse
is used 'Very little during the weekday evenings or on Sundays, excepting
the Sundays during which activities are scheduled. After six o'clock in
the evening, the Clubhouse ceases to serve as any kind of a studentcenter. The same situation, only to a lesser degree, is true on Sundays.
From the standpoint of economy, the use of the Masonic Club
facilities during Sundays and evenings does not warrant the operation
of the Clubhouse at those times, nor does it compensate for the cost of
utilities consumed during the evenings and on Sundays.
I

Attached hereto you will find the Report of the President of the
University Masonic Club: this report covers the school year 1951-52.
I have written this letter of introduction in the hope that it will clarify
any questions which may arise with the perusal of the attached report.
In preparing the aforementioned report, I have tried to submit unbiased
material-there has been no attempted "whitewash."
In closing, I should like to express my gratitude to each of you, the
members of the Board of Trustees, for the sincere interest that you have
shown in the Club. Your e.fforts have been appreciated greatly: it has
been a pleasure to work with you during my term as President of the
University Masonic Club.
Fraternally,
ROBERT E. KELDGORD,

President 1951-52
P.S ..: If the operation of the Masonic Club has served no other purpose,
it has at least aided the jewelry industry and other industries connected
with marriage. During the past year, twenty-three engagements have
been announced within the c~nfines of the organization; fourteen of these
engagements have, to this point, resulted in marriage.
·

282

PROCBBDINGS OP THI!

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OP THE PRESIDENT

UNIVERSITY MASONIC CLUB-SOCI AL CALENDAR*

UNIVERSITY MASONIC CLUB

PALL SEMESTER

BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA
YEAR 1951-1952
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL
PALL SEMESTER

Robert Keldgord
Keren Pace
William Stewart
Joan Sanford
Raymond Mushrush
Willis Clayton
James Martin
Stanley Thompson
Scott Harvey
Calvin Macintosh
Janet Malone
Pat Neill

SPRING SEMESTER

President
Vice President
Treasurer
Recording Secretary
Membership Secretary
Corresponding Secretary
Representative at Large
Representative at Large
Upper Division Men's
Representative
Lower Division Men's
Representative
Upper Division Women's
Representative
Lower Division Women's

Robert Keldgord
Keren Pace
William Stewart
Diane Meredith
Loma Austin
Willis Clayton
Paul Merritt
Kent Smith
Earle Dapper

Custodians

Joan Spiersch

Robert Swanson
Joan Sanford
Elizabeth Thompson
Joanne Anderson
James Warf
Carolyn Hill
Mark Reeve

EX·OPPJCIO MEMBERS

Mrs. Edna H.
Morton
Carol Colbie
Marvin Martin
C. Melvin Davis

Hostess
Assistant Hostess
Representatives from
Henry Morse Stephens
Lodge N ummber 541

November:
1. Visit to U.C.L.A. Clubhouse

December:
1. Christmas party for spastic
children
2. Christmas-Initiation formal
3. Mid-year elections
January:
1. Final exams
2. Sunday evening movies

SPRING SEMESTER

Janet Malone

APPOINTIVE OFFICERS

Chaplain
Social Chairman
Editor
Snack Bar
Pubilicity Director
Activities Chairmen

October:
1. Halloween Dance
2. Sunday Evening Movies
3. Men's Masonic Night (held in
conjunction with Henry Morse
Stephens Lodge)
4. Dance for U.S.C. game

2. Sunday evening movies
3. "Big Game" Dance (Stanford
Game)
4. Backwards Dance
5. "Secret Desire" Dance

Lee Vellom

Representative
Robert Asnard
Helen Blake
Dudley Westler
Leal Davidson
Joanne Anderson
Richard Oetting
Mary Schneider
Mark Reeve
Don Brammer

September:
1. Open House Festivities
2. Football Dances
3. Roaring 20's Dance

283

Mrs. Edna H.
Morton
Mrs. Alanna Moon
Marvin Martin
C. Melvin Davis

NoTE: In accordance with the Club Constitution. Council meetings
were held twice monthly during the entire school year. The Council is
the decision-making, representative body of the Club.

February:
1. Open House Festivities
2. Noon Dances
3. "Sock-hop"
4. Sunday evening movies

April:
1. Women's Tea
2. Variety Show for Masonic
Home at Decoto
3. Council Party

March:
May:
1. Reception for Grand Master
1.
Hayride
(formal)
2. Club Picnic
2. Parent's Night
3. Elections
3. Fireside (held in conjunction
4.
Initiation (formal)
with Henry Morse Stephens
Lodge)
June:
4. Variety Show
1. Final exams
5. Sunday evening movies
* In addition to the items enumerated above, monthly business meetings.
as described elsewhere within this report. were held. Council meetings.
meetings of the pledge classes. and variety show rehearsals rounded
out a very full social calendar for the year.
I. New Equipment:
Various items of equipment were obtained for use in the Clubhouse throughout the year. New Sling cabinets and a new tablemodel radio were purchased by the membership, in addition to the
purchase of new equipment for the ping-pong and billiard facilities.

284

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Perhaps the most important addition to the equipment of the
Clubhouse was the erection of the long-needed outside bulletin
board. This board, complete with its fluorescent lighting. was made
possible largely through the efforts of C. Melvin Davis and Marvin Martin, our representatives from Henry Morse Stephens
Lodge.
·
II. Organization:
In accordance with the provisions of the Club Constitution, the
Executive Council was elected during the regularly-appointed
elections. The appointive officers were named soon after the elections. Because of ever-changing conditions and new demands, the
tasks of the Excutive Council were numerous.
Heretofore established office hours for Council members were
maintained throughout the year. During his office hour, the Council member acted as receptionist for the Club.
III. Membership:
According to the files maintained by our membership secretaries, our total membership for the year was 385 members . .This
figure does not include a number of life-members who also used
the Club.
As a part of the membership drive, the previously-established
"pledge classes" were continued. For the first time in a number
of years, the Club succeeded in locating a booth at the end of
registration line at the University. For many years this booth was
made impossible by administrative "red tape" at the University.
IV. Snack Bar:
The downstairs lunch counter. commonly referred to as the
"Snack Bar," has operated during the year with a minimum of
difficulty. Of all the Club activities, perhaps the Snack Bar enjoys
the most constant patronage by the members.
V. Activities, Recreational and Social:
For the first time in two years, a ping-pong tournament was
held among the Club members. The billiard facilities and other
recreational equipment were utilized a great deal during the year.
The social program was varied and well-rounded. ( For information not found in the social activities listed below, please refer
to the attached social calendar for the year 1951-52..)
1. Open Houses:
For a two-week period at the beginning of each semester,
the Masonic Club held open house . festivities. The entire
campus public was invited to attend these functions. Approximately seven-hundred students visited the Masonic Club during the open houses.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

285

2; Other Visitors:
During the year, approximately thirteen-hundred individuals, excluding the aforem~ntioned students who attended
open house functions. visited the Clubhouse. Many of these
visitors were parents of members, visiting brethren, and other
interested individuals.
3. General Business Meetings:
As is required by the Club Constitution, general business
meetings were held once monthly during the entire school year.
The membership was invited and encouraged to attend these
meetings and the meetings were held in conjunction with either
a dinner or a coffee hour.
4. Movies:
.
Because of our recent acquisition of a new Bell and Howell
16 m.m. projector, we inaugurated a program of showing motion pictures on Sunday evenings: The pictures were shown for
a nominal charge and the films were obtained through a com·
mercial film distributor in San Francisco.
5. Philanthropic Projects:
In keeping with the Club's heretofore established policy,
the Masonic Club spent a certain amount of time in philanthropic endeavor. During the Fall semester, a party for spastic
children was held at Christmastime. The party was a huge
success and everyone, including guests and hosts, had an enjoyaJ>le time.
During the Spring semester, a number of Club members.
armed with appropriate stage props and a questionable degree
of Thespian talent, journeyed out to the Masonic Home at
Decoto, where a variety show was presented.
In addition to the above-mentioned activities, a number of
the Club members, under the supervision of the Upper Division
Women's Representative, donated blood for use in Korea. The
blood donations were arranged through the cooperation of the
Berkeley Chapter of the American Red Cross.
VI. Publicity:
It is felt by a number of interested persons, including the retiring Council and the retiring President, that the Club's greatest
problem is found in the realm of publicity activities. Despite the
very fine efforts of the publicity director and a costly publicity
program, it is felt that the Club does not receive sufficient pub...
licity. Any publicity which the Club has received through the
efforts of the Grand Master, the Board of Trustees, the Masters
of various Blue Lodges, and. other sources has been appreciated
immensely.

286

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
As a part of our publicity program for the year 1951-52, the
members of the Club utilized the University newspaper, announcements on a campus radio show, bulletins of the several Blue
Lodges, the newly-erect ed outside bulletin board, book matches,
pamphlets, and an always-effective program based on word-ofmouth publicity.

VII. Constitutional Changes:
Two years ago, in the belief that it would facilitate the management of the Club, the organization was put on a yearly basis.
This year, after a trial of two year's duration, the yearly basis was
abandoned in favor of a return to managemen t via a semester plan.
In keeping with the demands being made by the Selective
Service Act, certain other provisions regarding qualifications for
office were adopted by the membership at the mid-year elections.
CONCLUSION:
Sincere appreciation and gratitude should be extended to the following individuals and groups who gave much time and effort during the
year. Although the Club presented numerous problems, some of which
were administrative, others of which were personal and non-admini strative, the year could never have been completely successfully without the
co-operation of those individuals and groups listed below:
THE BoARD OP TRUSTEES, has done a great deal to provide the
student with every opportunity for an enjoyable life at the University. As individuals, the various Board members gave a great wealth
of time and advice for which I am sincerely appreciative.
THE FALL AND SPRING CoUNCILS, deserve mention for their contined interest in the Club's program for the year. I extend a hearty
"thank you" to every person who served on the Council during the
year. A particularly hearty "thanks" is directed to the Vice-President, Miss KEREN PACE, and to the publicity director, Miss JOANNE
ANDERSON. During the year, both of these individuals assumed a
number of my duties and discharged them effectively and capably.
MRS. EDNA H. HORTON, the Club's hostess, has supplied a variety of
aid during the year. Her familiarity with the Clubhouse provided
me with much assistance .•. for which I am extremely grateful.
MR. MARVIN MARTIN AND MR. C. MELVIN DAVIS, the representatives from Henry Morse Stephens Lodge, gave of their time generously and were always willing to help the students with any problem
that arose. Their presence at Council meetings, their friendly and
conscientious help, and their capable guidance are sincerely appreciated.
A vote of gratitude is also extended to PAST PRESIDENT ROBERT V.
AIRHART who, in addition to being a close, personal friend, also
provided valuable advice throughout the year.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

287

A similar vote of "thanks" is. directed to LIPE-MEMBER ROBERT
AsNARD and PAST PRESIDENT KENNETH HACK for their assistance
during my administration.
·
THE EAST BAY MASTER'S AND WARDEN's Assoc1AT10N, THE BERKELEY MASTER'S AND WARDEN'S ASSOCIATION, MR. PAUL BoREN, MR.
GEORGE CoURREGES, MR. LARRY DAYTON, and others deserve a
sincere "thanks" for their aid in publicizing the Club.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT E. KELDGORD,
President 1951-1952
Reported on by Committee on Segregation and Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMIT TEE ON
EARTHQ UAKE DAMAGE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The committee, appointed by you at the meeting held at Bakersfield.
California, on July 25, 1952, to ascertain and report as to a~y emergent
or other Masonic relief measures required in the area aflhcted by the
earthquake disaster of July 21, 1952, and succeeding after-shocks_. begs
leave to report:
.
.
Correspond ence with the Masters of the resp~tive lodg.es urging
inquiry and report concerning members of the Craft in the stricken area
has brought assurance that individual relief is not required. The Masters
and numerous members of the respective lodges have expressed profound appreciation for your prompt and active interest. and con~e~n.
Brother Arthur S. Crites, a member of the committee, resides at
Bakersfield and is personally well acquainted with the territory involv~d.
He has visited the Tehachapi and Maricopa areas and conferred with
local brethren, and bas also kept informed as to the Masonic Temple
at Bakersfield.
The Temple at Tehachapi and all of its furnishings were destroyed
by the shock of July 21, 1952. At the same time the Temple at Maricopa
was seriously damaged, and after-:;hocks have rendered it so unsafe as
to require its demolition.
The Temple at Bakersfield suffered somewhat from the shock of
July 21, 1952: these injuries were seriously aggravated by the shock of
August 22, 1952. It is our understandi ng, however-~nd we p~ayerfu~ly
hope that it is correct-tha t the injuries can and will be satis~a~tonly
repaired by and under the direction of the local T emJ>le Assooation .
The emergency has been met by the brethren and t~e lodges thro~gh­
out the stricken area with inspiring courage and fortitude. Ever since

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the initial shock of July 21. 1952, all have energetically devoted themselves to their normal pursuits and have also undertaken to restore their
Masonic properties. Although no appeal has been made to us in that
respect, we have taken the liberty of suggesting to the lodges concerned
that they report to you fully and in detail the property damage sustained,
their respective economic situations, and their plans for rebuilding and
rehabilitation, including suggested ways and means for accomplishing
the same.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA
TEMPLE RESTORATION

While perhaps beyond the scope of our appointment, the members
of the committee feel that requests from the respective lodges for aid in
restoring their buildings are entitled to and should receive careful and
sympathetic consideration by the Grand Lodge, and we so. recommend.
Please command us, if we can be of service.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR M. WARREN
FRAN>< HARWELL, JR.
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
ARTHUR H. TRIGGS
RALPH

c. HINE

ARTHUR S. CRITES
OSCAR LAWLER

Reported on by Committee on Segregation and Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Jurisprudence, on Lodge
Financing and on Finance.

289

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The committee is pleased to report all construction work, the furnishings and installation of all mechanical work authorized by various
appropriations of the Grand Lodge, has been finished. The Temple is
now complete in all respects as originally planned.
The care, operation and maintenance of the Temple at all times, is
subject to the direction and supervision of local members of our committee. Consequently, the building is excellently maintained and in
good repair and all property accounted for.
As suggested in our last report, that the lower hall be used as a
Masonic Museum, the committee has carefully gone into the matter and
the following facts obtained:
1. Due to the large number of visitors to Columbia who show much
interest in the Temple, a museum exhibiting historic Masonic paraphernalia would be appropriate and of general interest.
2. Information gathered by the committee shows that a great
amount of Masonic relics, jewels, furniture, documents, etc. are available.
3. If the proper storage facilities are available, such as cases, folders, desks, etc., these exhibits would be forthcoming.
4. The following is an estimate for the furnishing of the museum :
( Plan s~owing the installati<:>n attached hereto )
6 Floor Cases...................................................... $1,750.00
2 Wall Cases.......................................................... 600.00
4 Chairs ................................................................ 100.00
1 Table .................................................................. 125.00
2 Jardinieres .......................................................... 30.00
2 Photo Frames...................................................... 100.00
Electric work, plugs, lights.................................... 200.00
Fluorescent fixture for cases.................................. 105.00
Fixture for desk...................................................... 10.00
Fixture for registry................................................ 10.00
Bars for windows.................................................. 300.00 $3,330.00
The following is a statement of the capital expendure for the fiscal
year ending July 31, 1952:
Grand Lodge Appropriation .................................................. $9,966.00
Expenditure, 1951-52 ............................................................ 9,920.42
Unexpended .....•.......•................................................•.... .;. ...••;.$

45.58

290

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The committee requests the following amounts for the fiscal year
ending July 31, 1953:
Salaries and Utilities...........................................- ....~..............$ 500.00
Depreciation, General Maintenance and Contingencies...... 1,500.00
Furnishing Museum per above list....................................... 3,330.00
$5,330.00
Sincere thanks is expressed to the members of the Tuolumne Lodge
No. 8 and all others who gave so generously of their time to the completion of the restoration of Columbia Temple.
Your Committee moves that the request for appropriations be re~
£erred to the Committee on Finance and that the remainder of the report
and recommendations be adopted.
Fraternally submitted,
IRA w. COBURN
, FRED INGEL
CECIL B. MATHEWS
HENRY TEMPLE
ARTHUR E. CLINK
CHESTER B. SMITH
}AMES w. O'BRYAN
Reported on by Committee on Segregation and Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Jurisprudence and on
Finance.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

291

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF
CALIFORNIA, INCORPORATE D
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The (allowing is a statement of the Masonic Temple Association of
California, Incorporated, for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1952:
Assets
Cash ·············:·····························································-··········· $ 20.856.03
Accounts Receivable-tenant s ..............................................
257.50
Investments in stoc~ and bonds, at cost................................ 179,250.40
Property-deprecia ted value .................................................. 627,655.69
TOTAL ASSETS ··································-·················· $828,019.62
Liabilities and Capital
Liabilities .................................................................................. $ 5,738.88
Capital Stock and Surplus..........................-····-···················· 822,280.74
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL............._ $828,019.62
Income
Rentals .......................................................................______.__ ,................. $ 72,611.56
Dividends and lnterat............................................___....•.....
9,901.27
Sundry Income ........................................................................
104.09
TOTAL INCOME ...........................................•........ $ 82,616.92
Expenses
Expenses-Total Expenses

$ 66,302.94

Net Income for the year...........·-···························-············.. $ 16,313.98
Less dividends paid..·-·······--··-·····-·--····-··---··-···-·····

16,H9.84

Net decrease to Surplus----····.:.,'""__,...- •....••.••..__,..............
135.86
Surplus Balance October l, 1951.......................................... $155,628.31
Surplus Balance September 30, 30, 195.2................................ $155,492.i5
Reported on by Committee on Segregation and referred to Committee on Finance.

292

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of the Grand Lodge:
Your Committee which was appointed a year ago and known as the
"Sojourners Committee of Grand Lodge," wishes to report as follows:
The work of this new Committee, in a new field of endeavor, has
been most interesting and we trust, beneficial to the local Lodges. and
an asset to this Grand J uridiction.
For many years, Masons from other jurisdictions were gradually
coming to California, here to make their homes, a few joined our Lodges,
others attended our meetings, and many became lost to the fraternity.
In recent years, the influx has not been gradual. thousands have been
pouring into our metropolitan areas, others into our tourist centers and
rural districts, some to find employment, others to enjoy retirement. Our
Grand Masters have felt for many years that these Masons who have
come to live with us, with no intentions of returning to their former
homes. should be encouraged to join our Lodges near which they live and
become a part of this Grand Jurisdiction. And so local committees were
formed in every Lodge "at the request of our present Grand Master",
whose duties were to see that all sojourning Masons were invited to
attend Lodge, and when they attended were made to feel welcome.
This committee has held several meetings, with Lodge committees,
and at the open forums many interesting suggestions were brought to
light.
The members of the committee were assigned Lodges within a certain
radius of their homes, and have been a great help in arranging programs,
and speakers.
Many of our Lodges have set aside special nights where the sojourners have been given a special invitation to be their guest with free
meals and entertainment. If the sojourners are made to feel at home,
they will want to join our Lodges, and if our Lodges are friendly and
courteous the thousands of sojourners in our midst will become paying
members.
The work of the Committee can only be to assist and suggest; the
work must be done by the individual Lodge. Masters must appoint their
sojourners committees and see that they function. The Lodges that
have reported to us are only a few of the many who have cooperated in
this work, but have failed to report.
They all indicate that their efforts have been well repaid. Interesting
breakfast meetings have been held, to which many of the lodge committees responded and were present, and according to all reports much good
was accomplished.
·

293

It is impossible for your committee to measure the returns in one
short year; time and Grand Lodge reports will show whether the effort
was worthwhile, but the Lodges that have worked are the Lodges which
have benefited.
No appropriation was made for the work of this Committee and so
its efforts have been limited; Lodges must be contacted, and it is impossible for the members of your Committee to do this in person. Letters
with suggestions and advice should be sent periodically; for this reason,
your Committee recommends that if this Committee is to be continued,
the sum of one hundred dollars ( $100.00.) be appropriated to this
work, and that a sojourners committee be established in each Masonic
Lodge as a standing committee.
WILLIAM J. CouRTIOUR
CHESTER R. MACPHEE
EARL J. SAXON
JoHN H. FERGUSON
GEORGE A. FRENCH
HAROLD J. CooK
GILBERT R. MORRIS
EDWARD T. KoPoRD
J. J. JACKSON
EARL JOHNSON
JOHN A. DULL
JosEPH LYNN
ANTHONY J. OLIVER
GENE C. OTWELL
E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
WINFIELD S. McLEES
NADELL E. JEN SEN
RALPH E. WILLIAMS

Reported on by Committee on Segregation and referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Jurisprudence and on Finance.

294

295

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGB OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DeMOLAY

It is further recommended that the sum of $750. be appropriated to
cover its necessary expenses for the coming year.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
.
During this masonic year, your special committee on DeMolay has
again endeavored to carry out in a careful manner the original purpose
of the committee as set forth by the most worshipful Grand Lodge of
1946.
The over all results have been most gratifying.
The program as developed in the San Diego area is of particular
interest at this time.
Through the efforts of the Grand Lodge committeeman, Kay V.
Smith and the inspectors of that area, there was passed last year a resolution by the San Diego County Masonic Officers Association. The
resolution stated that the third week of February of each year be set
aside to be known as "DeMolay Week". That all Blue Lodges in the
area be urged to remain dark during this week. That all Masters urge
their members to attend at least one DeMolay meeting during this week.
Due to lack of time necessary to prepare for this week, the first
DeMolay week met with only moderate success. However, the second
annual DeMolay week which was observed in February 1952, was an
outstanding success. Each Masonic lodge in the county visited a
DeMolay chapter where one of the DeMolay degrees .was exemplified.
A summary of the week showed 583 Masons attended one or more
meetings, 237 of whom were witnessing DeMolay work for the first time.
The Committee notes with interest the continuance of the outstanding work in Southern California and particularly that area in and around
Los Angeles under the guidance of Honorable Judge William R. McKay
of the Grand Council of the Order of DeMolay.
A greater interest is now being shown by the Blue Lodges of the
East Bay area, under the guidance of committeeman Edwin R. Brooks
and the Masters and Wardens' Association of that area.
Notice also should be made of the increase in the DeMolay membership and a stronger programming in and around the Sacramento district.
This, in a large part, is due to the zeal of committeeman Alvin E. Clark.
Nevertheless, in view of the satisfactory progress as reported, DeMolay is losing many of its members and potential members to the
Armed Services.
In addition to committee members mentioned so far in this report,
Brothers Moyers of Fresno, Butterfield of Riverside, Honaker of Compton, Flierl of Hayward, and Peters of Los Angeles have been of assistance in informing the Blue Lodges of the DeMolay activities in their
respective areas and desire to be of assistance in carrying out the plan
as originally adopted.
It is recommended that the committee be continued, and its numbers
be determined by the most worshipful Grand Master.

Fraternally submitted,
RAYMOND S. KIMBELL
THURMAN D. MOYERS
KAY

v. SMITH

F. HAROLD BUTTERFIELD
HENRY HONAKER
WALTER FLIERL
FRANCIS W . PETERS

EowJN R. BROOKS
ALVINE. CLARK

Reported on by Committee on Segregation and referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Jurisprudence and on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
INFORMATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic Information reports as follows:
Your Committee reports that the four booklets distributed to the
candidates during their initiatory period continue to stimulate interest,
and that this portion of its program seems soundly established.
At the f 950 Communication your Committee presented with its report
the manuscript of "707 Questions and Answers about Freemasonry"
with the recommendation that this manuscript be referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Committee on Ritual
for their examination and recommendations, and it was so referred.
As this was our Centennial Communication, your Committee realized
that there would be insufficient time for these Committees to consider
the manuscript and to report back at that session of Grand Lodge.
The report of your Committee to Grand Lodge at its 1951 Communication referred to the submission of the manuscript the year preceding, but no report was presented by the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes or by the Committee on Ritual on the subject. Your
Committee realizes that it is no small task to consider carefully a manuscript of approximately one hundred pages. However, your Committee
has several other projects in prospect, including an Essay on Freemasonry to which reference was made in the Committee's report of last
year, but it is felt that nothing further should be submitted until the
work now presented has been approved or disapproved.
No doubt the efforts of your Committee in .behalf of Masonic in-

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

formation of necessity must be slow, and that the time of busy men to
review critically its work is limited, but your Committee is in duty bound
to point out that a program of education must be kept moving in order
to sustain interest. and that too long a delay in its operations is likely to
breed indifference and to cause a loss of momentum. Therefore, the
pending manuscript should be disposed of in order that ·y our Committee
can proceed with its work.
Your Committee recommends:
1. That subject to approval by Grand Lodge of the "707 Questions
and Answers about Freemasonry," the sum of $5000 be appropriated or added to the Grand Secretary's printing appropriation
for the publication of this book; that copies thereof be distributed
free to each lodge in number approximately 1% of the membership of such lodge, with a minimum of 3 copies to each lodge,
and that additional copies be sold to lodges or members at approximately the cost to be estimated by the Grand Secretary.
2. That your Committee be continued, and that there be appropriated for the general expense of your Committee during the
ensuing Masonic year the sum of $500.00.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY

w. COIL

ALVIN WENDT
ROBERT F. SHIPPEE

Reported on by Committee on Segregation and referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Ritual, and on Finance.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
LASSEN BURIAL SITE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the Communication in October, 1951, a committee was appointed
to investigate the possibility of securing a deed to the grave site of Peter
Lassen. The committee was composed of the following:
P. G. M. CHESTER WARLOW
P. G. M. LEON 0. WHITSELL
T. B. COPELAND
After considerable discussion with the ow~er of the property, Miss
Hannah Hulsman, we were unable to secure the site for the Grand Lodge
of California and the property was deeded by Miss Hulsman to the
·
. Native Daughters of California.
No expenditures were made and this is the committee's final report.
CHESTER WARLOW
LEON 0. WHITSELL
T. B. COPELAND

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

297

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON MEMORIAL
TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
·In rendering the report of this special committee, it seems in order to
review briefly at this point what has transpired to date since the committee was first appointed in 1948. The Grand Lodge is on record that:
1 ) The facilities at 25 Van Ness Avenue are totally inadequate
to hold an Annual Communication.
2) The Grand Lodge is continuing to grow; hence, the need for
more adequate facilities.
3) The Civic Auditorium in which we are now meeting is also
inadequate because it is a general purpose building, and does
not lend itself to the peculiar requirements of this great fraternity; hence, is not the solution to our permanent housing
problem.
4) The Grand Lodge has made available to this committee the
balance of the War Relief Fund, raised during World War II
in the amount of $158,507.H.
5) The Grand Lodge approved a 50c per capita tax at its last
Annual Communication.
6) The committee was authorized to expend moneys for investigition and study purposes, subject to prior approval of the
Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master, and Chairman of
the Committee on Finance.
Your committee has continued its efforts and while one of our valued
members, Brother Henry J. Brunnier, engineer, has not been able to
attend meetings since last June, he has been a most valued consultant.
At this point, I think it well to record that while his inability to serve
is a distinct loss to the committee and to this Grand Lodge, he is bringing great credit and honor to this Grand Lodge. and the State of California, for he has been honored by his election to the high office Qf
President of Rotary International.
While this committee officially consists of Brothers Henry J. Brunnier. James Hurst and the Chairman, we have sought counsel from many
Brethren, particularly those possessing special abilities in connection
with our assignment. Since our last Annual Communication, we have
held eleven special meetings and have held numerous unscheduled meetings.
We are greatly indebted to Past Grand Master Francis V. Keesling
for his wise counsel and advise, and for the use of his office as a meeting
place. Other outstanding men of Grand Lodge invited to attend some
of our meetings when available were the Grand Master, the elected
officers of Grand Lodge, the Chairman of the Finance Committee,
Brother Albert Roller, Architect, and others.

298

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

As was indicated in our 1951 report to this Grand Lodge, the committee has come to the conclusion that pethaps the best interests of this
Grand Lodge could be served by purchasing a building already in
existence and converting it to our use. This, we have concluded, is
sound, and have located such a structure. In order to come to this
Grand Lodge with a specific recommendation, we employed the services
of Mr. Albert F. Roller, architect, to make a study for the committee.
In this regard, he utilized the engineering offices of Mr. Henty J. Brunnier.
Our agreement with Mr. Roller is that he will bill us for work done,
at cost, and if the building is purchased and he is employed as the architect, his preliminary expense will become a part of regular architect's fees.
Your committee has progressed sufficiently with our sturdy to submit to you for consideration and approval the purchase of ......................
...................................., a property already in existence.

It is intended that the foyer shall be executed in colorful marbles and
terrazzo. Flanking the lobby are lounges for smoking, off of which will
be located the public toilet rooms; two committee rooms and two check
and coat rooms are available from the lobby, as are credential and registration spaces.
Thought has been given to providing facilities that would make the
auditorium attractive for limited conventions or public lectures, requiring
approximately 2,500 seats, and for which there is considerable demand.
From this source revenue could be secured in the interim between Grand
Lodge Sessions.
The auditorium will be designed with every thought directed toward
the achievement of perfection in acoustics and lighting.
The work area - particularly the Grand Master's station and the
Altar - has an unobstructed view from any seat in the building.
The work area indicated on the plans is flanked by two draped processional entrances leading from a spacious robing room. This is one
of eleven large committee or display rooms intended to be provided at
least in part with movable partitions so that two or three of the areas
can be combined if the need requires.
Two of these rooms are intended to serve as the offices of the Grand
Master and Deputy Grand Master, and one as an office for the Grand
Secretary and his staff.
This area can be reached from the main office building lobby without
passing through the auditorium. Separate toilet facilities are provided
for this area. •
The preparation of the plans and the work of remodeling the building
will take about twenty months, so that the first possible session of Grand
Lodge in this location would be in 1954.
The land area can be easily adapted to our use in that it has streets
on three sides. The plot contains 21 ,656.25 sq. ft. The value of the land
is conservatively appraised at $1,000,000.00. The estimated reproduction cost of the buildings in a recent appraisement made for insurance
purposes was $3,368,970.00.
The buildings are now 100% occupied and it has been estimated by
experts that the office building can be operated to show a net return of ·
$75,000.00 per annum after allowing for 10% vacancy. It is hoped that
we can purchase the property, make the necessary alterations, furnish
and equip it for approximately $3,000,000.00.

DESCRIPTION
PROPOSED MEMORIAL TEMPLE
OP THE
GRAND LoooE op CALIFORNIA
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
SAN FRANCISCO
CALIFORNIA

* * * *
The site of the proposed Memorial Temple of the Grand Lodge of
California, Free and Accepted Masons, is situated in the downtown
business area. The property has two buildings located on it, one a onestory auditorium type building with a contiguous twelve-story office
building. These lend themselves admirably well for the proposed purpose.
The real estate on which the two buildings are situated is one of the
few remaining large parcels of downtown financial district property on
which a future increment of value is a real potential.
The following is a description of what is contemplated in the plans
for the Memorial Temple.
The exterior facades executed in gray and black polished granite
will present an imposing modern building. The landscaped areas on
the east and west will further complement the character of the structure.
Upon entering from ............................ Street, one will find himself in
a spacious foyer on street level with an imposing grand staircase centering in the lobby and leading to the lower concourse, which is in two tiers
and provides 1,250 seats.
The balcony is reached by four staircases and seats 1,220 people.
The total seating in opera-type chairs is 2,470.

299

PARKING AND HOTELS:

A survey indicates parking facilities are adequate. The location is
complimented in that it is within walking distance of the principal downtown hotels.

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND. LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IDENTITY OF PROPERTY :

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES

We have been requested by some of the principals not to disclose
the true identity of the location and property on account of the multiple
ownership.
In view of the unusual circumstances and conditions with which your
committee is faced, we request your authority to continue to negotiate
for the property, that no decision or commitment will be made except
with the unanimous consent of the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master,
Senior Grand Warden, Junior Grand Warden, Grand Treasurer, Grand
Secretary, Chairman of Finance Committee and your Committee on
Memorial Temple, or their survivors. NOTE: We are asking that you
grant discretionary authority to conclude this transaction, but that it
must be a unanimous decision to bind the Grand Lodge.
That this authority carry with it discretionary power to make
necessary agreements, etc., to carry out the intent of this authority and
that specific legislation will be submitted at the next Annual Communication to take care of permanent financing.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed the
reports of the Special Committee on Taxation, the Sojourners Committee
and the Committee on DeMolay. These reports will appear in the proceedings of Grand Lodge and no requirement for approval as to policy
appears necessary.
Your Committee has also reviewed a report by Brother Arthur M.
Warren, Deputy Grand Master, and other Grand Lodge officers, witli
respect to the damage resulting from earthquake at Tehachapi, Maricopa
and Bakersfield.
We understand that the matter of earthquake damage is otherwise
receiving attention at this communication of Grand Lodge. Your Committee endorses as to policy such assistance as may seem to be required.
WM. RHODES HERVEY
WILL H. FISCHER

We also recommend that this Grand Lodge increase the Per Capita
tax from 50c per member annually to $1 .00 per member annually for the
purpose of supplementing the Memorial Building Fund and that should
futu~e conditions or circumstances develop which would make it unwise
to proceed with such a project as a result of facilities becoming available
to this Grand Lodge through some other means or program of planning
that the Memorial Building Fund above referred to revert to the general
funds of Grand Lodge, thus, in effect, increasing reserves for contingencies or reducing future per capita assessments.
Respectfully submitted,

300A

WM.B.OGDEN
ROLLIE M. MILLER
LESLIE E. WooD
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ELLSWORTH MEYER

H. GuYWALFORD
ARTHUR L. BELL
Adopted.

EDWARD H . SIEMS
JAMES HURST
HENRY J . BRUNNIER

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purpose and on
Finance.

Recognition of Grand Lodges
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes begs leave to
report as follows:
Your committee has made diligent inquiry regarding the merits of
the foreign jurisdictions that have applied for the recognition of this
Grand Lodge, and finds that several of said jurisdictions are entitled to
our recognition and amity.
This Grand Lodge, in 1923, established the following rules for
recognition of foreign Grand Lodges:
1. That the foreign Grand Lodge in question represents a substantial unity of the Freemasons of the territory over which it
assumes jurisdiction; i.e., the Country, Province, or State.

300B

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2. That it has been lawfully organized by three or more regular Lodges.
3. That it is independent, having entire dogmatic and administrative authority over resident Masons and the symbolic Degrees within its territorial jurisdiction.
4. That its ritual is fundamentally in accord with the ancient
landmarks, customs, and usages of the Craft. This involves:
A. Monotheism;
B. The Volume of the Sacred Law a part of the furniture of
the Lodge;
C. Secrecy;
D. The symbolism of the operative art;
E. The division of symbolic Masonry into the three degrees
of Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft, and Master Mason.
legend of the Third Degree.
The
F.
5. That it makes Masons of men only.
6. That it is non-sectarian and non-political; i.e., that its
dominant purposes are charitable, benevolent, educational.
and religious.

THE GRAND LoDGE OP ARGENTINA

This Grand Lodge was founded in September, 1858, and its jurisdiction consists of the whole of the Argentine Republic. It is independent of
all other bodies and confines itself to the symbolic grades. It fulfills all the
requirements of the Code of Rules of this Grand Lodge. It has 45 Lodges
and 2,700 members. It is sovereign and independent of any other body
in its jurisdiction, except in the case of the District Grand Lodge of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain, which has 40 Lodges and works in
English and has had a treaty with the Grand Lodge of Argentina since
the year 1860, that is to say, 93 years. The two bodies work in perfect
_
amity and concord.
Your Committee finds the Grand Lodge of Argentina to be entitled
to recognition and, therefore, moves that it be recognized.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

301

tion of the Grande Oriente of Brazil, this Grand Lodge recognized most
of those Grand Lodges but by error and mistake, it omitted the recognition of the Grand Lodge of Rio de Janiero.
This Grande Oriente now has 25 Lodges and 2.500 members, and
it is recognized by all the other Grand Lodges of Brazil. and is in accord
with the South American Confederation, to which all the Lodges we have
recognized belong. We have found that its work conforms to the English rituals and meets the requirements aforesaid fixed by the Grand
Lodge of California.
We, therefore, recommend the recognition of the Grande Oriente
of the State of Rio de Janiero.
THE UNITED GRAND LoDGE OP GERMANY

All the Lodges recognized by us in Germany prior to the World War
went out of existence, and now, after a lapse of 12 years, Masonry is
re-established in Germany and the Provincial Lodges of Bavaria, the
Hanseatic Provinces, Lower Saxony, the Provincial Lodge of Nordrhein,
and the Provincial Lodge of Wurtt-Baden have united in forming the
United Grand Lodge of Germany. They have 10,105 members and 205
Lodges, and are on a firm basis and conform to all the requirements for
recognition set by California.
The United Grand Lodge of Germany has been recognized by 50
foreign Grand Lodges, including Missouri, Utah, Louisiana, Connecticut, New Jersey, South Carolina, Michigan and Rhode Island, as well
as several other American Grand Lodges.
We. therefore, recommend that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the United Grand Lodge of Germany.
THE GRAND LoDGE OP ISRAEL

This Grand Lodge has applied for recognition; it having been
founded by regular Lodges and having 23 chartered Lodges and 5 under
dispensation, with approximately 2,000 members, is entitled to recognition. It occupies only the territory of the country of Israel and none of
the Lodges is in the State of Palestine. They have no confti.cting problems in their jurisdiction. While it is a young Grand Lodge, 1t has .made
great strides in the cause of Masonry in their terr.itoiy. ~nd wor~s in the
territory and appears to be a fertile field for our mstitutions. It is amply
financed and shows remarkable gains.
We move that the Grand Lodge of Israel be recognized.

THE GRAND LoDGE OP RIO DE }ANIERO

GRAND LoDGE OP FRANCE & NATIONAL GRAND LoDGE OP FRANCE

This Grand Lodge has its seat and jurisdiction in the State of Rio
de Janiero, which is outside and largely surrounds the City of Rio de
Janiero, having its seat at Nicterai. At the time the Grand Lodge of
Brazil had organized the several state Grand Lodges, after the dissolu-

We recognized the Grand Lodge of France and the National Grand
Lodge of France many years ago and continued our relations of amity
until the late war. Since the war, both of these lodges have been reestablished and relations of amity with this Grand Lodge is desirable.

303

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We recommend that such relations be resumed and that we recognize
both of these Lodges on the same basis as heretofore before they were
disrupted by reason of the wear.
Each section of the above was separately adopted.

California to meet the deficit in the payment due the Homes.
For the purpose of correcting this error, your Committee moves
that the transfer from the Endowment Fund to the Masonic Homes of
California be approved.
Adopted.

302

THE GRAND LoDGE OF ITALY

Blanket Fidelity Bond

. At the request of Past Grand Master Hervey, the Grand Secretary,
who had visited Italy earlier in the year, reported on the Masonic
situation in Italy.
He reported that the Grand Lodge of Italy (Grand Oriente of Italy)
has approximate ly 481 Lodges with 18,000 members, and has been
recognized by 34 American Grand Lodges as well as numerous foreign
Grand Lodges. The Grand Master of this Grand Lodge is Ugo Lenzi,
~he Grand Se~retary is Carlo Manelli, and the seat of this Grand Lodge
is at Rome with offices at No. 1 Via Giustiniani. This is the so-called
Palazzo Giustiniani group, and it is the considered judgment of most
informed persons on Italian Freemasonr y that it is the dominant Grand
Lodge and will remain so.
The Grand Secretary recommended that formal recognition be extended to this Grand Lodge, and the recommendation was adopted.
The Grand Secretary moved that the Resolution for recognition of
the Grand Lodge of Italy, introduced at the 1950 Annual Communication, be expunged, and the motion was adopted.
Brother Publio Cortini, Grand Treasurer of the Grand Orient of
Italy, was received with Grand Honors, and at the invitation of the
Grand Master addressed Grand Lodge, extending the greetings of his
Brethren in Italy.

The Grand Secretary recommends that a blanket Fidelity Bond be
secured covering officers of Grand Lodge, constituent Lodges, Masonic
Homes, Boards of Relief, Employmen t Bureaus, and Masonic Club
Houses, with a provision for minimum coverage of $5,000.00, and maximum coverage as may be determined; the total premium, therefore, to be
paid by Grand Lodge.
Your Committee has reviewed this matter with the Grand Secretary,
and is persuaded that compliance with the Grand Secretary's recommendation Is desired. Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the
proposal of the Grand Secretary be approved.
Adopted.

Compensation Insurance
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes have considered the
Grand Secretary's report with reference to Compensati on Insurance,
which every Lodge by State Law is required to carry. Recent rate
changes have added additional burdens to every policy holder. A plan
has now been developed to cover all lodges with Compensati on Insurance, which, if carried by Grand Lodge. will obtain a favorable rate. He
also proposes that Grand Lodge carry the expense thereof for the con·
stituent lodges.
Your Committee approves the proposal of the Grand Secretary.
Adopted.

Per Capita Payment-W ayfarer Lodge U .D.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under
consideratio n the statement by the Grand Secretary that Wayfarer
Lodge U. D. located at Whittier, instituted on July 1, 1952, only 30 days
before the dose of the fiscal year, was not required to pay dues during the
fiscal year. The Grand Master directed that they be not required to pay
the per capita tax.
The Grand Secretary asked approval which your Committee considers correct, and, therefore, moves that the action be approved.
Adopted.

Transfer of Homes Contributio118--La Habra Lodge No. 659
The Grand Secretary reports that La Habra Lodge No. 659 sent
in $150.00 on a Masonic Homes Endowment Fund remittance form.
Th~ amount was credited to that fund. The Grand Secretary states that
this amount should have been for the Masonic Homes, representing contributions on six Initiates. He, therefore, requests authority to transfer
this sum of $150.00 from the Endowment Fund to the Masonic Homes of

Addition of Section 202-lst A

.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
resolution submitted by six of our distinguishe d inspectors, said resolution proposing that Section 202-1 A of the Ordinances be amended by
adding the following:
To present to the Lodge at each June and December Stated
Meeting a statement of income and expenditure s, assets and liabilities, and to submit a copy thereof to the Inspector of the dis.
trict to which the Lodge is assigned.
resoluthe
in
contained
proposal
the
that
believes
Your Committee
tion is one which in practice will tend to better control of the finances
of our lodges. We. therefore, recommend that the resolution offered
be adopted.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
above recommendation
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

304

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Should We Have a Judge Advocate?
Your Committee, to which was referred the Recommendation .and
Ruling No. 2 of the Grand Master's message, reports as follows:
The Grand Master reported to us that our Junior Grand Warden,
Henry C. Clausen, had done an outstanding job in handling the legal
work during this year. He recommended that a special committee be
appointed by the incoming Grand Master to study the desirability of
establishing an office to carry on this legal work and to report its findings and recommendations to the next communication of this Grand
Lodge.
The calls upon the Grand Master for rulings and decisions are becoming more numerous and burdensome and this suggestion may lead
to a solution to the problem.
We. therefore, move that the Grand Master's recommendation be
adopted.

Revision of Section 5 3
Your Committee to which was referred the resolution to amend subdivision 9 of Section 53 of Ross Digest reports as follows:
The proposal would eliminate from the duties of an Inspector the
requirement that he inspect the books of his Lodges and report the result to the Grand Master.
The proponents of the legislation were under the impression that
the requirement for inspection included something in the nature of an
audit. Your Committee feels that the Inspectors should, at least once
a year, inspect the books of their Lodges to see that proper up-to-date
records are being kept and the results of the inspection should be reported to the Grand Master through the Grand Lecturer. or otherwise.
Such an inspection does not require an audit of the books. unless such
an audit appears desirable from the inspection.
We, accordingly. recommend that the resolution be not adopted,
and move the adoption of this report.
Adopted.

Adopted.
Repeal of Section 501
Your Committee, to which was referred the resolution to repeal Section 501 of Ross Digest. reports as follows:
Sections 50, 51 and 52 of Ross Digest require the Grand Lecturer
and the Assistant Grand Lecturers to see that the ritual is strictly conformed to and Section 248 of Ross Digest gives to Grand Lodge the sole
power to change the ritual.
Section 501 of Ross Digest implies that the Master of a Ladge may
omit a portion of the opening and closing ceremonies. These words
were not necessary to the decision and they have caused some confusion.
Since uniformity and clarity in our laws and decisions is most de..
sirable and for many years, our Ritual Committee has held that no part of
the esoteric work in the opening and closing ceremonies can be omitted,
we move that Section 501 be deleted from Ross Digest.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
Dedication of Public School Buildings
Your Committee to which was referred the resolution relating to a
ceremony for dedicating Public School Buildings reports as follows:
The resolution proposes that a Committee be appointed to write a
form of ceremony especially designed for the dedication of Public School
Buildings. Masons are particularly interested in our public schools and
it seems proper that we should have available for our use a dedication
ceremony directly relating to Public School Buildings.
We. therefore, recommend the resolution to you and move its adoption.
Adopted.

305

Revision of Section 25 5
Your Committee, to which was referred the proposal of the Grand
Secretary to revise Section 255 of Ross Digest to clarify and revise the
statement as to those members of Lodges whose dues may be remitted,
reports as follows:
The proposed legislation clarifies the section to eliminate some misunderstandings. permits the remission of the dues of a brother who has
been in good standing for 40 years regardless of need and raises the age
from 70 to 75 for the remission of dues for special service to the Lodge.
The revised section reads as follows:
A Lodge may annually remit the accrued dues of those of its members
who are unable to pay them.
A Lodge may remit in advance the dues of those of its members who
have been members in good standing in a Lodge or Lodges of this Judisdiction for a period of 40 years or more.
A Lodge may remit in advance the dues of those of its members over
the age of 75 years who have rendered special service to the Lodge and
who merit such remission.
Remission of dues in advance as herein provided must be by special
resolution. applicable only to the particular member, or members, whose
dues are to be remitted.
A Lodge shall not remit the dues of its members, or any of them, for
any stated period, nor in advance, except as herein provided.
We move the adoption of the revised section.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
above recommendations.
Report adopted by 5/6 vote.

306

307

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Revision of Section 99

of the keen interest of the Grand Master, but recommends that until
further study is made concerning approval by families or heirs of the
deceased Grand Masters by a proper committee, this committee disapproves the recommendation at this time.

Your Committee to which was referred the proposal of the Grand
Secretary to revise Section 99 of Ross Digest reports as follows:
Each Lodge, whether chartered or under dispensation, shall pay with
its Annual Returns, the following Contributions:
1st: For every Degree it shall have conferred during the year
a sum of $1.00.
2nd: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July
31, the sum of 50c.
3rd: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July
31, such Per Capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for its
general activities.
ith: For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of July
31, such Per Capita sum as the Grand Lodge shall levy for the
support of Masonic Homes of California.
The Grand Lodge may levy, in addition to the above, such other Per
Capita sums as, in its judgement, may be required.
The Per Capita sums levied under 2, 3 and 'i herein shall not apply
to any of the following:
1 ) Master Masons whose accrued dues for the preceeding 12 months
have been remitted by Lodge action at the July Stated Meeting.
2 ) Master Masons whose dues have been remitted in advance because
of 40 years membership in good standing in this jurisdiction as provided for in Section 255.
3) Master Masons whose dues have been remitted in advance because
of special service rendered to the Lodge, who are over 75 years of
age, and merit such remission as provided for in Section 255.
'i ) Master Masons whose dues have been remitted because of residence
in the Masonic Home at Decoto.
The revision of this Section is necessary to conform to Section 255 of
Ross Digest as revised by the action you have just taken and the changes
provide that the per capita assessments shall not apply to those brothers
whose dues have been remitted under Section 255, or to Master Masons
whose dues have been remitted because of residence in the Masonic
Home at Decoto.
We move the adoption of the proposed legislation.
The Committee on Jurisprudence reported their concurrence in the
above recommendations.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Markers for Graves of Past Grand Masters
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes have given careful consideration to the Grand Master's recommendation concerning ·
the installation of Gravestones, Markers or Masonic inscriptions on
existing gravestones of Past Grand Masters. The committee is cognizant

Adopted.

Courtesy Degrees in Hawaii
Your Committee is in accord with the recommendation of the Grand
Master regarding Courtesy Degrees in the Hawaiian Islands, and do
recommend that these degrees be discontinued until, at the discretion of
the then presiding Grand Master, this situation is relieved.
Adopted.

Hyam Portrait
The following special resolution adopted by Benicia Lodge No. 5 has
been referred to this Committee:
Whereas, this is the lOOth Anniversary of P.G.M. Benjamin
D. Hyam's year as Grand Master and,
Whereas, there is no portrait of Hyam on display with the
others in the Grand Lodge Temple,
Now, Therefore Be It Resolved: that the Grand Lodge of
California commission an artist to paint a likeness of Hyam from
the photograph that is now in the hands of the Grand Lodge ,
Your Committee approves this resolution as to policy.
Adopted.

Income Tax Exemption
Brother Claude Lenz, Past Master of Ionic Lodge No. 520 has presented a lengthy resolution, which we had best summarize.
It, if adopted. would require that steps be taken to obtain a ruling
from the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that contributions to this
body, a constituent lodge, temple association, are lawful deductions on
income tax returns.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is not adverse
to the obtaining of the end result sought by the resolution. It does not,
however, agree with the policy of presenting the matter in the manner
proposed. We have a Special Committee on Taxation which has been
operating for several years. We believe the matter can be handled as
expeditiously and possibly with better results by that committee than
by adoption of the resolution. We, therefore, offer the following motion:
That the resolution offered by Brother Lenz be referred to our Special
Committee on Taxation for exploration and a report to our annual communication in 1953.
Adopted.

308

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Increasing Membership of Committee on Lodge Financing
The Grand Master under the heading of Recommendation No. 3,
has recommended increasing the membership of the Committee on Lodge
Financing.
The name of this committee is the source of much confusion as to
its duties and it is frequently confused with our Committee on Finance.
It is not a committee on paternalism, it does not finance lodges and is
not concerned with the finance of any lodge except that portion which
has to do with building and improving temples.
The work of the committee is very extensive, it requires numerous
conferences with lodge members and building committees. It must cover
the entire state and is involved in every temple building project, acquisition and improvement.
We heartily agree that its membership should be increased from the
present seven, including a Master and Warden, to nine including the
Master and Warden members and recommend that you adopt legislation
to that effect when it is presented.
Adopted.

Research Lodges
In his annual message last year, the then Grand Master, Brother
Arthur Paulsen, recommended that provision be made in our jurisdiction
for research lodges. which would resemble a conventional lodge, but
would do no degree work. They were to study Freemasonry, prepare
papers and addresses and do research work. Complete proposed legislation was offered.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes approved the
policy inherent in the recommendation. The matter was the subject of
spirited discussion and the proponents acquiesced in a modified proposal
that the matter be deferred to this Communication, and that in the interim, the Grand Master be authorized to grant not more than two dispensations for research lodges under such terms and conditions as he
might prescribe. The Grand Master promulgated regulations which were
substantially the legislation which had been proposed and issued two
dispensations, one lodge to be located in northern California, and one
in southern California.
The two lodges were instituted on the same evening in May. Under
the regulations, these lodges meet once a month and hold a stated meeting four times a year.
The lodge in northern California has prepared material on the Constitution of the United States and this material has been presented to a
number of lodges during September. The lodge in southern California
has developed a panel on Masonic symbolism. It was given in the lodge,
repeated in the wilds of Ventura and in Inglewood Lodge. It has also
developed a panel on the pros and cons of discussions of political ques-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

309

tions in lodges. It is presently preparing a panel on clandestine Masonry,
and has projected others.
· ·
Every member of these two lodges must maintain his good standing
in a conventional lodge in California. The conventional opening and
closing ceremonies, records, and paraphenalia are used.
The roster of officers of the northern lodge contains the names of one
Past Grand Master, an Assistant Grand Lecturer, the Grand Marshall,
the Grand Tiler, and several who have served as officers in this body
·and on its committees.
The roster of officers of the southern lodge includes a Past Grand
Master, the Grand Orator and three who have served in that office in
·
previous years.
Included in the non-office-holding membership of the two lodges
are the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens,
Grand Secretary, Assistant Grand Secretary and several Past Grand
Masters.
The question of policy reaches us because the two lodges have presented resolutions memorializing for charters. To present the matter for
your consideration we offer the following resolution:

Be it Resolved That: The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California make provision, by
appropriate legislation, for research lodges on a permanent basis.
Adopted'.
At 12:20 P.M. Grand Lodge called off until 1 :30 P.M.

310

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thurs day, October 16, 1952
~t. 1 :40 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master

presidtng.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL
PURPOSES (Continued)
Disaster Assistance
- Nine officers and past officers of four constituent Lodges offer a
resolution which in substance proposes:
A levy of $1 upon each applicant for degrees and each affiliating
brother from another jurisdiction, for the purpose of assisting a certain
class ?f lod~es in ~aintaining their lodge buildings and for lending
financial assistance m cases of financial misfortune.
The resolution pro~ides that 40% of the accumulated fund may be
loaned on a deferred interest-bearing repayment basis, ana that 60%
of the fund shall be invested and the income therefrom expended by gift
to lodges in financial distress.
. Your ~ommittee feels that these special levies are generally un~esirable. It is very easy to explain to a candidate a levy of a special
item of $1 for the George Washington Memorial Endowment Fund, but
a levy of $1 toward a fund to maintain or rehabilitate poverty striken
lodges of our own jurisdiction is, to say the least, not very good public
relations and is apt to cause some wonderment on the part of the applicant.
Grand Lodge has always been generous to its historic lodges when
a particular situation merited the assistance and it undoubtedly will continue to do so in the future under proper conditions.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the resolution (No. 15)

be not adopted.
Adopted • .

Spanish Speaking Lodges
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has ref erred to it
the "Report of the Special Committee on Spanish Speaking Lodges"
which recommends:
"That Grand Lodge adopt and approve the policy, in proper
cases, of dispensating and chartering a Lodge, or Lodges, to work
in the Spanish language."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes feels that the problems of setting up, sup~rvising and administering to Spanish speaking
Lodges and the attending problems of interjurisdiction relations out-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

311

weigh the advantages which might accrue to the fraternity through the
establishment of such Lodge, or Lodges.
The matter of interjurisdiction relations in the case of Spanish Speak..
ing Lodges is entirely different from that which exists in the cases of
the French, German and Italian Lodges, primarily by reason of differences in geographical factors.
Our Lodge doors are not closed to members of Spanish speaking
races and we have a number of fine members of Spanish descent in our
California Lodges.
It is time that we should stop speaking of German-American citizens,
Italian-American citizens. etc .• and think of them all in proper cases as
American citizens. So, too, we should not be moving in the opposite
direction by extending and emphasizing the racial distinctions of Masons
within our borders.
The Ritual Committee reports to us that it is unanimous in its disapproval of the proposal to permit the establishment of Spanish speak..
ing Lodges and joins with us in recommending that the report of the
Special Committee be not adopted.
Adopted.

Relief for Tehachapi Lodge No. 313

We have before us a resolution offered by Brother Laurence B. Ruppers, Worshipful Master of Vermont Square Lodge No. 515, which in
substance proposes that Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 be authorized to solicit
lodges and individual brethren for subscriptions to assist them in rebuilding their temple and also to manufacture and sell gavels and ornaments made from the timbers of their destroyed building.
The earthquake of July 21, 1952, and the subsequent tremors completely destroyed the Masonic Temple at Tehachapi. California.
With one or two exceptions. it has been the policy of this Grand
Lodge not to permit such solicitations, and it has always been our policy
that lodges should not engage in business enterprises. Tragic as has been
the destruction. we believe that this particular resolution should not be
.
passed.
Tehachapi Lodge No. 313 should be continued in existence as an
active lodge. It has been a healthy lodge: its members are good active
and enthusiastic Masons. ·The community itself is an appropriate place
for a Masonic Lodge and a proper Lodge Hall is essential to the welfare of the Lodge. However, with all this, Tehachapi Lodge needs and
deserves assistance. This is not a case of destruction by fire, with the
brethren of the Lodge being culpably negligent in not carrying adequate
insurance. It appears to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that here is a clear case where the Lodge deserves the assistance of
Grand Lodge on a cooperative basis.
We, therefore, recommend that the particular resolution be not
adopted, but that the problem of the relief of Tehachapi Lodge No. 313,

312

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

under these circumstances, be referred to our Committee on Lodge Finances and our Finance Committee, with the request that these co·mmittees present a plan of cooperative assistance in the construction of a
new Masonic Tem;>le at Tehachapi.
It is our thought in this respect that, with a building plan approved
by the Committee on Lodge Finances, the Grand Lodge should contribute
an appropriate limited sum on a cash-matching basis with the funds
otherwise available to the Lodge, without a solicitation, and that the
brethren of the Lodge, in addition to their cash contributions, also by
personal services contribute as much work toward reconstruction as may
be reasonably possible.
Referred to Committees on Finance and on Lodge Financing.
Chain Letters
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has given consideration to the matter referred to it under the title of Chain Letters in the
Grand Master's Message, and offer the following report:
Your Committee wishes to make it clear that sending out Chain Letters is strictly in violation of law. Masons are enjoined to be good citizens and obey the law, and any action by Masons which violates the law
should be immediately ordered stopped.
We therefore approve the action of the Grand Master, and move the
adoption of this report.
Adopted.
Mileage for Maui Lodge No. 472
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred the resolution of Maui Lodge No. 472 requesting that this Grand
Lodge authorize the paying of the usual travel expenses for Norman E.
Weight, P. M., Howard K. Scott, P. M. and Herbert E. Peterson, P. M.,
who were deprived of the honor of attending the Annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge during the years 1943, 1944 and 1945 due to war
restrictions on travel from Hawaii to California, reports as follows:
Your committee feels that inasmuch as the war restrictions on travel,
which prevailed throughout this jurisdiction during those war years,
deprived many Past Masters of Lodges of the privilege of attending this
Grand Lodge, and they would be entitled to the same consideration and
this suggestion, if passed, would require similar consideration for many
others and result in confusion.
We, therefore, recommend that this resolution be not adopted.
Adopted.

313

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mileage for Secretaries
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred the resolution of Percy E. Johnson, P. M., Secretary of Santa
Maria Lodge No. 580, proposing to grant the same mileage to Secretaries of lodges with a membership of 200 or less as is allowed to Masters
and Wardens, reports as follows:
Your Committee has given the proposal careful consideration, but
believes that it would be impractical to allow mileage to Secretaries of
Lodges of a membership of 200 or less, and not allow it to larger Lodges
who might have the same financial inability to pay the expenses of their
Secretaries. We also know that many secretaries are not Past Masters
and members of Grand Lodge. and the payment of these expenses would
create a dangerous precedent.
We therefore recommend that this proposal be not adopted.
Adopted.
Minimum Dues
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was referred this resolution of the -Masters of the 558th Masonic District, that
the minimum dues in constituent Lodges of this Grand Lodge be increased to $15.00 per annum, reports as follows:
Your Committee has carefully considered this resolution. It is the
opinion of your Committee on Policy that the present minimum dues of
$12.00 per annum is adequate for many Lodges at the present time. Individual Lodges under the present law have the power to increase dues at
anytime if needed.
We therefore recommend that this resolution be not adopted.
Adopted.
Committee on Masonic Information
Your Committee on Policy and General Purpose has reviewed the
report of the Committee on Masonic Information and reports as follows:
The committee has prepared and submitted for approval a manuscript 96 pages in length containing 707 questions and answers on matters pertaining to Masonry. This represents a tremendous amount of
work on the part of the committee and the volume contains much information. The members of the committee on Policy and General Purposes
who have reviewed the questions and answers found many statements
which were made as factual or historical but which are subject to considerable controversy between students of Masonry.
Your Commtitee does not believe that anything of this nature should
be printed under the name of the Grand Lodge and distri~uted to the
lodges unless the statements are free from criticism and accordingly
recommends further study and research, and that the recommendation .
of the Committee on Masonic Information for the printing of the volume
at this time be not adopted.
Adopted.

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Sign of Distress
Your Committee to which has been referred Resolution No. 14 by
Brother Robert Lee Harper, Senior Warden, of Crossroads Lodge No.
696, is in hearty accord with the purposes sought to be accomplished
by this Resolution. We believe, however, that these purposes can be
accomplished without any change in our established ritual. The instruction in the giving of the distress signal should be given to each candidate
by the officers and coaches of the lodge, who are capable of ascertaining
the candidate's proficiency.
We recommend that the Resolution be not adopted and move the
adoption of this report.
Adopted.

Oversize Lodges
The Grand Master in his annual message, under the heading of
recommendation No. 1, calls attention to his opinion that there comes
a time when lodges become too large and he points out some of the
losses which such lodges suffer. He states that he should like to have
consideration given to restrictive legislatio~ upon the number of candidates which larger lodges might receive in a year and the duty to sponsor
and foster new lodges. However, he recommends for the present, the
appointment of a special committee to study the problem and report at
the next annual communication.
Several Grand Masters have called this situation to the attention of
the craft, but the number of groups petitioning to form new lodges has
not been in proportion to the increase in membership. The last printing
of membership totals of all our lodges is as of July 31, 1951, more than
a year ago, but it discloses surprising conditions. Of course the figures
about to be given will be larger when the proceedings of this communication are printed, but as of July 31, 1951, 128 lodges had a membership in
excess of 500: 18 had a membership in excess of 800: 14 had more than
900 members: 10 had more than 1,000 members: 4 had more than 1100:
1 had more than 1200. The new compilation for this year will probably
show that 4 lodges now have more than 1200 members.
San Diego is probably the most crowded. The nine lodges in that
community in the order of their age had memberships of 977, 1189, 1204,
710, 559, 498, 601, 611 and the baby, 157. The growth has been recent,
but there has been only one new lodge formed there since 1927, a period
of 25 years. In Los Angeles and other communities, the average membership of all lodges is in excess of 500.
In keeping with the recommendations of the Grand Master, we offer
the following resolution:
·
Be it resolved, that the incoming Grand Master be requested
to appoint a special committee to study the problem of large
memberships in our lodges and report its 8ndings and recommendations at our next annual communication.
Adopted.

.

315

Additional Lodges

The following resolution submitted by 32 officers of Lodges in
San Diego County has been referred to this Committee:
Whereas The regular attendance of our membership at the various
lodges is important to the continued well being of Masonry: and
Whereas The Junior Wardens of the San Diego area have studied
the attendance records of several lodges: and
Whereas These studies do disclose that the smaller lodges enjoy
a larger attendance at both regular and special meetings
in relation to total membership than do the larger lodges:
and
Whereas The area studied has twice doubled in population in the
last two or three decades with the addition of a single
new lodge: and
Whereas The membership of this Grand Jurisdiction is rapidly
increasing both by new members and by members of other
Jurisdictions attracted to California:
Now Therefore be is resolved, that it is the consensus of opinion of
The Most'Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of The State of California that there is
a need for additional lodges in many communities and
that every proper encouragement should be afforded to
the formation of new lodges.
We recommend the approval of the resolution.
Adopted. •

Amendment of Section 290
Brother Bowrin, a Past Master of Illinoistown Lodge No. 51, has
offered a resolution proposing the addition of the following language
to Section 209, which section makes it the duty of the Junior Warden
to prefer charges under certain circumstances:
"If the Junior Warden be the accused, or if the information
be against the Junior Warden, the Master shall immediately
ascertain if any of the information in the complaint be true: if so,
the Master shall at once suspend the Junior Warden, appoint a
Junior Warden in his stead, and direct the new Junior Warden
to prefer charges as per this section."
We recognize that the brother is attempting to make a provision
where a hiatus in our law now exists: however, we do not agree with
two elements of policy involved in his proposal: the pre-trial, in effect,
by the Master and particularly the suspension from office which would
introduce certai.n elements if the Junior Warden was acquitted. We
believe the desired result can be achieved if legislation is enacted to
provide that whenever a Junior Warden is accused the duties which

316

PROCEEDINGS 01" THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

would normally devolve upon that officer shall be the duties of the
Senior Warden.
If the brother is present, Most Worshipful. we ask him through you
whether he will consent to the substitution of the following resolution:
The Committee on Jurisprudence have concurred in proposing the
·
following legislation:
Resolved: That Section 290 be amended by adding thereto
the following: "If the Junior Warden be the accused, or the information be against the Junior Warden, it shall be the official
duty of the Senior Warden to prefer such charges.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Mandatory Proficiency
The following resolution has been referred to your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes and to your Committee on Ritual. We
are authorized to speak for the Committee on Ritual. The resolution
reads:
Whereas, frequently. newly raised brethren are loathe to
visit Lodges other than their own through fear of inability to pass
a satisfactory examination and as sojourners in other jurisdictions
they are often lost to Masonry, and,
Whereas, we now require proficiency in the lecture of the
Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees before advancement, and,
Whereas, a brother's knowledge of Masonry is usually limited to that which he is taught,
Therefore, Be It Resolved: That before a receipt for dues
may be issued a candidate, he must have given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that he is entirely
proficient and well qualified in the candidates lecture of the
Degree of Master Mason.
Your Committee is in accord with the object of the proponent of this
resolution to increase the number of brethrt;n who will be proficient in
the work of the Third Degree, but it is not in accord with the policy
of the resolution.
We recommmend that the resolution be not adopted.
The report was not adopted.
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Ritual.

Plural Membership
A resolution to amend secti_on 163 of our ordinances has been presented by Brothers John H. Ferguson, P;M., Long Beach Lodge No. 327,
and Arthur J. Sissons, P . M .. Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674.
The purpose of this resolution appears to be two-fold: first, to clarify
existing provisions which permit a member of a California lodge to be

317

a member of a lodge in another jurisdiction, if the other jurisdiction permits dual membership, and secondly, to permit a member of a California
lodge to belong to more than one lodge in this jurisdiction at the same
time. The first purpose does not modify our present policy: the second
does.
The number of jurisdictions which permit a member to belong to more
than one lodge in the same jurisdiction has steadily increased over recent
years. As of January 1, 1952, the following jurisdictions permit a Mason
to belong to more than one lodge in their jurisdiction: Alabama, Arizona,
Arkansas, Connecticut, Florida. Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts,
Michigan, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and Wisconsin, a total of twenty-two.
In Canada of the nine grand jurisdictions eight permit their members
to belong to more than one lodge.
We know that in England membership may be held in as many
lodges as one desires. We are not advised what is the rule in other
countries.
Of the eight jurisdictions in Canada which have been mentioned,
six place no limitation on the number of memberships held at one time;
two jurisdictions limit the member to two memberships.
In the United States thirteen jurisdictions place no limitation on the
number of lodges in the same jurisdiction to which a Mason may belong.
These are: Alabama, Arizona, Kentucky, Louisiana, Massachusetts.
Michigan, North Dakota, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South
Dakota, Virginia and Wisconsin.
Some years ago we of California adopted legislation permitting dual
membership, one of which must be in another jurisdiction. Last year
we permitted a dual membership in this jurisdiction of a limited nature
in connection with the two research lodges.
We can appreciate that there might be one or more .reasons why a
given brother might wish to belong to more than one lodge in this jurisdiction. The most obvious is that he desires to, for reasons of friendship,
interest or close associations. We all know that some of our brethren
are transferred as to their places of employment from one part of the
state to another. Family situations or health reasons may be the cause
of moving from one place to another.
Sentiment, family traditions or service as an officer may be suffiicient reasons for not demiting from the lodge at the former residence,
but there may be a strong and commendable desire to become a member
of a lodge in the new place of residence. It is indeed difficult to see
wherein Freemasonry would suffer one iota from permitting the additional affiliation in any of these instances. It would seem that there
might be benefits to be gained from the interest and activity in the new
community.

318

319

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

There is yet a further situatioo in which benefit might accrue from
a change of our policy. When a group seeks to form a new Lodge, it
and this grand body will benefit if the first Master and even other officers are experienced Past Masters. At present, it is difficult for such
a group to find such qualified leaders because many are loathe to sever
their memberships in the lodge they served as Master. This legislation
might make them available.
While no member of this committee feels a present desire to acquire
membership in any additional lodge it does not see that it should say
to a brother who is willing and desires to pay dues in more than one
lodge and assume the responsibilities and duties of additional membership: No, you can't do it.
We have examined all the privisions in the proposed legislation and
approve the policy thereof. We recommend its adoption.

The proponents of the amendments moved their adoption in the form
submitted, as follows:
Resolved: That Section 26 of the Constitution and Section
349 of the Ordinance be amended by adding to each Section the
words: When the report of the committee, or committees, is presented the vote shall be taken on the amendment.
Resolved: That Section 69 of the Ordinances be amended by
adding therto the words: When the.report of the Committee, or
Committees, is presented the vote shall be taken upon the business as originally presented.
Adopted by unanimous vote.

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

Method of Voting
A resolution has been introduced ·by Brother Ralph C. Hine, our
Grand Orator. It recites in its preamble that our law presently requires
that when a matter is referred to committee or more than one committee that the committee or committees must report before a vote is
taken on the questions. It points out that sometimes a vote is taken on
the committee report rather than upon the matter under consideration
and if .the report of a committee is against the matter proposed those who
favor the measure must vote in the negative on the motion made by the
committeeman in order to express their approval of the measure, thus
leading to confusion on frequent occasions.
We might add that on occasions, the report of one committee has
been favorable and that of another unfavorable. In such a case the
confusion incident to the vote on the second report has been compounded.
·
The resolution proposes an amendment to section 26 of the Con~
stitution and section 69 of our ordinances to provide that when the vote
is taken, it shall be on the amendment or item of business; hence, those
who favor the measure will vote "aye.. , and those who do not, will vote
"no" regardless of the favorable or unfavorable nature of the committee
report or reports.
We approve the policy involved in the resolution and recommend
the adoption of the amendments proposed.
The Jurisprudence Committee reported their agreement with the
form submitted, but that they did not believe the legislation to be
required.

Discussion of Public Questions
Brother Chas. Albert Adams. P. G. M., has presented a resolution
which is self-explanatory and reads as follows:
..Now, Therefore be it Resolved: That none of the Ancient Charges
or Regulations (specifically including the Charge approved in 1722 with ·
respect of "Behavior After the Lodge is Closed and the Brethren Not
Gone" )-and no edict or decision of any Grand Master, or any edict or
regulation, or other action of Grand Lodge heretofore given, made, taken
or adopted,-shall be so construed or interprete das to prevent a free, full
and open discussion in Grand Lodge, or in any constituent Lodge, of any
question directly or indirectly affecting Masonry. or any object, purpose
or activity of the Grand Lodge of California, or the discussion of any
public question to be submitted to the people, and upon which Masons, as
citizens, in the ,discharge of their civic duties will be required to express
an opinion: Provided. However,
That there is to be no discussion of sectarianism, as such, or of partisan politics, or of any particular candidate for public office; and no
pending or proposed legislation is to be endorsed or disapproved by the
adoption of a resolution, or any other action by the lodge.
And, be it further resolved that this resolution be adopted and recorded among the standing resolutions of this Grand Lodge."
By a divided vote, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
has disapproved the policy inherent in the resolution as presented. That
disapproval arises from the inclusion of the following words:
"or the discussion of any public question to be submitted to the
people, and upon which Masons, as citizens, in the discharge of their civic
duties will be required to express an opinion:"
By unanimous vote of those present, your Committee recommends
the adoption of the resolution with the above words deleted. After
making the deletion, it would read:
"Now, Therefore be it Resolved: That none of the Ancient Charges
or Regulations ( specifically including the Charge approved in 1722 with
respect to "Behavior After the Lodge is Closed and the Brethren Not
Gone" )-and no edict or decision of any Grand Master, or any edict or

321

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

regulation, or other action of Grand Lodge heretofore given, made, taken
or adopted,-shall be so construed or interpreted as to prevent a free, full
and open discussion in Grand Lodge. or in any constituent Lodge, of any
question directly or indirectly affecting Masonry, or any object, purpose
or activity of the Grand Lodge of California: Provided, However,
"That there is to be no discussion of sectarianism, as such, or of partisan politics, or of any particular candidate for public office: and no
pending or proposed legislation is to be endorsed or disapproved by the
adoption of a resolution, or any other action by the Lodge.
"And, be it further resolved that this resolution be adopted and recorded among the standing resolutions of this Grand Lodge."
A motion prevailed that the matter be held over until the next annual
communication.
Publications
Several resolutions relative to the amendment of section 127 of Ordinances adopted at our last annual communication, and the Grand Master's recommendation and ruling No. 44, have been referred to this
committee. We have examined and considered questions of policy implicit in them. To discuss them individually would consume much time
due to their number and the length of some, and would serve no useful
purpose as several are similar in effect and merely vary in expression.
At our last annual communication a report was received from the
Special Committee on Masonic Publications which recommended the
adoption of an amendment to section 127. After considerable debate the
amendment was adopted. It reads as follows:
"No lodge or member of a lodge, without the express sanction
of Grand Lodge, shall solicit, sponsor, insert, place or print advertising of any kind in or for any medium or publication which purports to be Masonic in name or character, or which is published by
or for any body, order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership."
It will be observed that the prohibition prescribed by the section
operates on two classes, lodges and members of lodges, and on three
types of publications, those put out by lodges, those put out "by or for
any body, order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership" and those which, for clarity, we shall call private
publications.
Under date of November 30, 1951, a letter addressed to our lodges
and all other interested parties was sent out. The text thereof is set out
in the appendix to the annual message of the Grand Master. Except for
the quotation of the amendment it makes no reference to publications by
or for other bodies, orders or organizations requiring Masonic affiliation
as a condition to membership. The text of recommendation and ruling
No. 44 states that based upon the original section 127 and the amendment thereto, concordant bodies were refused approval for publications
containing advertising.

It is not the province of this committee to express a legal opinion
whether the original section, which makes no reference whatever to any
other body, order or organization and which has been the law of this
jurisdiction for many years, prohibits concordant bodies from publishing
a periodical containing advertising: it is not the province of this committee to express an opinion upon the question whether this grand body
possesses the power to tell another body. order or organization that it
may not put out a publication which contains advertising matter. It is
the province of this committee, however, to express to you our considered
opinion as to the wisdom and policy of attempting to exercise such
power if it is possessed: therefore, as a committee on policy and not as
individuals, we shall assume for the sake of this report only, that the
power is possessed and may be exercised.

320

We are of the opinion that it should not be the policy of this grand
body to attempt to say to the Royal Arch, Knights Templar, Scottish
Rite, Shrine, Eastern Star, Amaranth, White Shrine, Sciots, Grotto, De
Malay, Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls or any other order or organization, that it may or it may not put out a publication containing advertising or that it must first secure the sanction of this Grand Lodge or any
of its officers or committees, before it may solicit advertising for its own
publications.
It seems to us to be an anomaly to have in our law the express provision that we do not recognize any but the ftrst three degrees and at the
same time to follow the policy· of attempting to prohibit, or prescribe
conditions under which they will be permitted to do things which are
perfectly legal and moral, namely, put out a publication with advertising
and solicit for that advertising. The mere fact that some or a majority
· of their members may be members of our lodges does not warrant the
continuance of the policy followed this past year any more than it would
warrant a policy of telling the Los Angeles Times or the San Francisco
Examiner that it would have to stop carrying ads because the publisher,
editor and staff were Master Masons.
We therefore recommend a policy of withdrawal from this fteld.
This may be accomplished by adopting the resolution presented by
Brother Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master, San Diego Lodge No. 35, after
first deleting the seven words "under regulations prescribed by the
Grand Master". His resolution would thus read:
"Resolved that section 127 of Ordinances be amended by adding the
following:
Provided, however, that Master Masons may solicit, sponsor,
insert, place or print advertising in such publications issued offi..
cially by any body, order or organization requiring Masonic
affiliation as a condition to membership."

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PRIVATE PUBLICATIONS

publications which had been approved and the situation as to requiring
approval of private publications would be unchanged.
The Committee on Jurisprudence presented the following resolution
as their recommendation of the combined form to be used if the foregoing
resolutions were to be adopted.
Provided, however, that Masons may solicit, sponsor, insert,
place or print advertising in publications issued officially by any
body, order or organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a
condition to membership, and provided further that a Lodge may
insert its trestleboard, notices of meetings, news items or advertising in a publication approved by Grand Lodge, or by the Grand
Master during the recess of Grand Lodge, and may pay a reasonable sum for mailing and for that purpose the mailing list of the
Lodge may be used.

The resolutions offered in the field run from the complete repeal of the
amendment adopted last year to merely further amending the section to
clarify points here and there.
Your committee does not recommend a policy which would be effected
by repealing the amendment. It believes that the attempt to control
private publications should be continued for the present.
It has considered from the stan'dpoint of policy, the prohibitions of
carrying the trestle boards of constituent lodges in such publications. It
believes that there is no necessity for the prohibitions and that such
lodges as desired to use local. private publications for notices of their
meetings and affairs should be permitted to do so. It has been asserted
to your committee that the carrying of trestle boards by certain of the
publications which have been approved under the terms of the amendment is essential to their continued publication.
By adopting the amendment last year and by action under it during
the year, we have given to these publications something they did not
have previously, namely a measure of approval and a certain standing.
Because of that result, the matter of prohibiting or permitting trestle
boards to be published in approved publications takes on aspects which
it might not have if we had continued to ignore these publications.
Many lodges, it appears, were thus using these magazines. No harm
appears to have "'been suffered as the result. We can see no dire results
if the practice is resumed. There is no secret as to the officers of any lodge
or that each confers the first, second and third degree of Masonry. The
rosters and trestle boards tell no more-and new items are being prohibited.
We recommend that the resolution presented by the thirty-flve
Masters and Wardens in the Santa Barbara-Ventura area be adopted.
It reads as follows:
"Now therefore be it resolved, that section 127 be further
amended by adding thereto a third paragraph, as follows:
A lodge or member of a lodge, may insert its trestle board
notices of meetings, news items or adveritsing in a publication
approved by Grand Lodge, or by the Grand Master during the
recess of the Grand Lodge, pay a reasonable sum for mailing and
for that purpose mailing lists of lodges may be used.''
To summarize for you the situation which would prevail if you
determined to follow the recommendations of this committee and adopt
the two amendments which have just been considered, it may be said
that you would then cease trying to lay down prohibitions or restrictions
on concordant bodies as to their official publications: you would permit
those lodges who desired to do so, to insert their trestle boards in private

323

By motion duly seconded, adoption of the combined resolution was
presented for consideration.

A motion to postpone further discussion until Friday morning as a
special order of business immediately after the readit;1.g of the minutes,
failed of adoption.

At 5: 50 P.M., Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30, Friday morning.

321

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1952
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M .• the Grand Master presiding.
The Very Reveren d Grand Chaplain offered the morning prayers.
The minutes of the morning and afternoo n sessions of Thursda y, October 16th were read and approved .

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENER AL PURPO SES (Continued)
Publications (Contin ued)
The Grand Master directed that consideration of the matter be divided into action on the two original resolutions, separate ly.
A motion to amend by substitut ing the following: "Resolve d. that
the amendm ent of Section 127 as adopted at the 1951 Communication
be repealed " failed of adoption .
By separate votes taken thereon, each of the proposed resolutions
failed of adoption .

Grand Master's Rulings No. 4 and 38
The Grand Master's Recommendation and Ruling No. 1 relating to
a Temple Association leasing part of its premises to a store which sel!s
retail bottled liquor and No. 38 relating to a wife paying her husband s
dues were referred to your committee on Policy and Generua l Purposes
by the Committee on Segregat ion.
Your Committee has reviewed the rulings and feels that no action
on policy is required , and on that basis, has referred the matters to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.
Adopted .
Columbia T em.pie Lease
An offer has been made by a prospective tenant to lease the ground
Boor of the Masonic Temple at Columbia for mercantile purposes , at a
rental of 5% of the gross sales and with a minimum of $600 per year.
He proposes to establish and operate the business in an appropri ate manner and in keeping with the gold rush days atmosph ere.
Such a lease will not only obtain income from the building but will
also, in a sense, provide a keeper to exhibit this replica of the original
historical building to intereste d persons.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves the pro-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

325

posal as to policy and we move that the Grand Master and Grand Secretary be authoriz ed to execute, on behalf of the Grand Lodge, such a
lease. upon such further and detailed terms and conditions, and for such
period of time, as the Grand Master shall approve.
Adopted .

GRAND TREAS URER OF THE GRAND LODGE OF
IT ALY RECEIV ED
Brother Publio Cortini was received with Grand Honors and escorted
to the East. At the invitation of the Grand Master, Brother Cortini addressed the Grand Lodge, extendin g the greetings of the members of his
Grand Lodge and expressing their apprecia tion for recognition granted
them.

REPOR T ON GRAND LODGE LITIGA TION
WITH A. C. MALO NE
Henry C. Clausen, Junior Grand Warden , Attorney for Grand Lodge
in this litigation, reported as follows:
A. C. Malone filed suit against Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, some
individual trustee members, and Grand Lodge, on July 23, 1951, at Long
Beach, being Superior Court Action No. LBC 17591, to which reference
was made for details. Past Grand Master John R. Moore and George
Penney, E~q. represen ted the Palos Verdes Lodge and the defendan t
members, except F. A. Knight. Various motions and demurre rs were
interpose d successfully, thus narrowin g the issues and forcing into the
case as a defendan t, F. A. Knight. Depositions were taken. Trial by
Court before the Honorab le Thomas J. Cunning ham took place July 16
to July 31, 1952. At the conclusion of this trial, the Court ordered judgment for the defendan ts. It is expected that no appeal would be taken.
The disposition thereof thus has resulted in a complete victory for the
defendan t Grand Lodge, Palos Verdes Lodge, and its members who
were originally sued.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

327

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

326

REPOR T OF COMM ITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined and approves:
Decisions No. 4. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
21. 22.23. 2i.25,2 6.29.30 . 33,35.3 8,39,i0 .il.42.
Fraterna lly submitted,
GEORGE L. JoNES
EARL WARREN
}oHN W. SHENK
OSCAR LAWLER
JoHN R. MooRE
ARTHUR PAULSEN
LAURENC E Eow. DAYTON
WAKEPI EW TAYLOR

Adopted.

See report of Committee on Policy and General Purpos~s for those
items on which the report of that Committee was presented with the concurrence of the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Research Lodges
At the last annual communications of Grand Lodge. the following
Edict and Resolution was adopted:
"That the Grand Master be and he is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue Special Dispensations to create not to exceed
two Research Lodges under such rules and regulations as he may
adopt, and
That such Dispensation or Dispensations shall terminate in

accord with the provisions of Section 709 of Ordinan ces on October
1, 1952,an d
That the Jurisprudence Committee shall submit legislation, to
perpetua te and make permanent said Research Lodges and others
which may be created, at the next Annual Communication."
Pursuan t to that mandate, the Jurisprudence Committee submits the
following legislation for your approval:
RESEARC H LoDGES

Sec. 150( a) A special classification of constituent lodges is hereby
established, to be known as Research Lodges, with authority to conduct
research, hold discussions, gather and preserve Masonic information,
maintain a library, supply papers or speakers at the request of other
lodges when convenient, and conduct a program of general service to
the Craft in the field of Masonic Education and Information, subject to
all the provisions of the Ordinan ces except:
1. The word "Researc h" shall be included in the name of the Lodge.
2. Membership shall be limited to Master Masons in good standing
in a Lodge in this jurisdiction, and shall cease if a member loses
such status. Membership may also be voluntarily severed at
any time by resignation.
3. Receipts for dues must accompany a petition for dispensation,
but no dimit or demand for dimit shall be received or issued by
a Research Lodge.
4. Sectjons 103, 105, 106 and 111 shall be deemed complied with
if an Inspector designat ed by the Gand Master certifies to the
standing of the petitioners, the provision for a suitable lodgeroom and the qualification of the officers for their duties. The
Dispensation and Charter shall be issued without charge.
5 . . Sections 185; 186, 187, 189 and 190 shall not apply to the officers
of Research Lodges.
6. A Research Lodge shall have no power to confer degrees.
7. A Research Lodge shall not be liable for the relief of a member,
.
his wife, widow or orphan.
in the
tation
8. A Research Lodge shall not be entitled to represen
Grand Lodge nor any vote therein.
9. A Research Lodge shall be exempt from the contributions levied
upon Lodges under Section 99.
1O. No officer or Past Master of a Research Lodge shall. by reason
of that position alone, be a member of Grand Lodge.
11. The stated meetings of a Research Lodge shall be held at least
once quarterly and its special meetings may be held anywher e
in the jurisdiction upon such notice as its by-laws may provide.

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

12. The forms of Petition for Dispensation, Petition for Charter,
Charter, and Uniform Code of By-Laws shall be adopted for
use of Research Lodges insofar as the provision may be applicable to such Lodges.
13. A Research Lodge shall have no judicial powers.
14. The giving of notice of receipt of applications provided by Section 214 of the ordinances is dispensed with.
15. Suspension of a member of a Research Lodge for non~payment
of dues shall not affect his membership in any other lodge.
16. Research lodges when chartered shall be chartered only by name
and without a lodge number.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Recommendation and Ruling No. 27
Should the fees of an Entered Apprentice, initiated in 1936 and with
reference to whom the Lodge was instituting proceedings for the forfeiture of fees in accordance with Section 133, as amended in 1951. be
considered as forfeited, even though a declaration to such effect had not
been made when he died March 15, 1952?
The answer is that in the absence of a contrary directive by the
Lodge, the fees may be retained by the Lodge. A declaration to this
effect is not necessary.
Adopted.

Reconsideration of Trial Record 1256
The Right Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Junior Grand Warden,
called attention to the fact that his vote on the Report of the Grievance
Committee applying to Trial Record 1256 had been on the prevailing
side. Brother Clausen moved that the Trial Record be presented for
reconsideration, and referred to the Jurisprudence Committee for report.
The Right Worshipful Frank Harwell, Jr., Senior Grand Warden,
having also voted with the prevailing side at the time of original consideration, seconded Brother Clausen's motion.
Grand Lodge voted to reconsider the matter and the record was
referred to the Jurisprudence Committee.
The Jurisprudence Committee reported upon the matter, as follows:
Resolved: That the finding made by the trial commission, as
shown in Trial Record No. 1256, that the accused, T. M. C.
was guilty of the specification therein charged be, and the
same is hereby ratified, confirmed and approved; that the finding that the accused was not guilty of unmasonic conduct be
reversed and set aside: that by action of this Grand Lodge, a
finding that the accused, T. M. C.. was guilty of unmasonic
conduct be, and the same is hereby made therein, and that the
penalty therefore be, by this Grand Lodge fixed at expulsion.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

329

Compensation for Organist
Resolved: Section 158 of Ordinances be amended by adding at the
end thereof the following:
"The ·organist shall receive such compensation for his services as
the Lodge may direct."
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

Applications to Prerequisite Bodies
The Grand Master held correctly that no member may, within twelve
months after receiving the degree of Master Mason, apply for, receive
any degree or be initiated in any body requiring Masonic affiliation as
a condition of membership therein.
The ruling, however, insofar as it suggests that another Master
Mason may within the twelve-month period propose the brother for
membership in such body, should not be approved.
That the brother who is under the restrictions of his promise does
not himself make the application, should not be the deciding factor.
That which cannot be done directly may not be done indirectly.
We are therefore of the opinion that a Master Mason may not
propose a brother for membership in any concordant body before the
expiration of such brother's waiting period.
Adopted.
Appointment of Trial Master
By ruling No. 32, the Grand Master has held that under Section 301,
of our OrdiBances, the Grand Master, or his representative, is not required to ascertain whether the trial master is qualified to act as such.
We cannot agree with this conclusion. Under this Section, the Master
of the Lodge has no power to act as a trial master simply because he -is
the Master of the Lodge. The power to act as a trial master is derived
from the appointment. The law specifically directs a Grand Master, or
his representative, to appoint as trial master the Master or a Past Master
of this jurisdiction in good standing, and skilled in Masonic law. In
order to comply with this direction, it is the duty of the appointing
officer to ascertain whether or not his appointee meets the requirements
of the law. It is not necessary that his determination of the facts of
qualification be shown in the record.
Adopted.

Plural Membership
The Committee on Jurisprudence pointed out the necessity for
amending additional sections besides 163 in order to avoid confusion
with reference to legislation on this matter. Because of the lack of time
in which to prepare the appropriate legislation, the committee moved that
the matter be continued to the next Annual Communication.
Adopted.

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amendment of Section 124
Resolved: That Section 124 of Ordinances be amended by adding
at the end thereof the following:
"or in accordance with the dispensation of the Grand Master."
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concur1 ance.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.
Dispensations Approved
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
special dispensations issued and denied by the Grand Master during
the year and also his approval of Resolutions relative to Life Membership; the change of meeting places and his action on applications for
degrees from members of the Armed Forces.
We find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the law. We.
therefore. recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein be
approved.
Adopted.
Ruling No. 44 by Grand Master
This ruling contains no decision of law requiring review by the Committee.
Adopted.
Ruling No. 28 by Grand Master
The ruling is approved and we concur in the comment of the Ritual
Committee that "if the officers of the Lodge had performed the duties
given them in our ritual. the incident could not have occurred. The candidate should never be out of the control of the officers." We suggest
that be added to the decision.
Adopted.
Ruling No. 34 by Grand Master
What procedure should be followed on a candidate who, during
the obligation of the First Degree. refused to conform to the ritual by a
declared intention not to become bound to assume the penalty thereof?
On the candidate's refusal to conform to the ritual of his initiation, the
Master should direct the senior deacon to reconduct the candidate to
the preparation room in the manner provided in the ritual, and no
further work appearing, close the lodge. At the next regular meeting of
the lodge. the Master should declare the candidate rejected and his fee
should be returned.
· There is abundant written Masonic law which justifies the action
indicated. By Art. III, Sec. 6, R. D .• our Constitution requires "a strict
adherence to the Ancient Landmarks of the Order". Landmark Eight-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

331

een requires the qualification of the candidate for initiation. Sec. 650
R. D. enjoins us to remember always that "the ritual itself constitutes
binding law".
Thus, the ritual must be adhered to by all Lodges and Masons.
( R. D. Sec. 247.)
The Committee on Ritual concurs in the above ruling.
Adopted.
Ruling No. 37
By ruling No. 37 the Grand Master held that a lodge cannot receive
an application for the degrees from one who had leased a bar and restaurant reserving an option to buy.
Ordinance No. 210 provides that no lodge shall receive an application for degrees or affiliation from anyone who is engaged either as
principal agent or employee in the saloon business (except in connection
with and as part of the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant).
Because it appears that the applicant is within the exception. your
committee is of opinion that the ruling is erroneous. The answer should
have been "yes."
Adopted.
Discussion of Public Questions
By decision No. 43. the Grand Master ruled:
"Questions relating to a referendum measure to appear on the ballot
of California this fall. might be discussed in meetings of tiled Lodges. or
at social meetings before or after such meetings; but that no action of the
Lodge, endorsing or condemning this or any other measure was to be
taken."
We are of the opinion that our law at the present time does not permit
such discussion within a tiled Lodge room. but that such discussion is
permissible at social meetings held before or after tiled meeting of a
Lodge. We agree with the Grand Master's decision that no action,
endorsing or condemning such a measure can be taken at such a meeting.
The report of the Committee was not adopted.
A minority report of the Committee on Jurisprudence was then presented approving the decision as set forth by the Grand Master in his
annual message.
Adopted.
Amendment of Section No. 70
Resolved: That Section 70 of Ross Digest be amended by inserting
the words "Committee on Lodge Financing" in line three between the
words "Purposes", and "to",
And, that the words "on Lodge Financing" in lines ftve and six be
deleted.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

333

Fidelity Insurance

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

Resolved: That the last sentence of Section 666 of Ross Digest be
stricken and the following be inserted in lieu thereof: "The annual premium on said bonds shall be paid by the Grand Lodge."
Adopted by 516 vote.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Finance has given careful consideration to the
matters which have been referred to it by the Grand Lodge, and makes
its recommendation on the various items. Comments are made only in
those cases where special reference seems desirable. Otherwise, the
items appear in the list of proposed expenditures. We appreciate the
courtesy and cooperation of the committees, and board, in setting up
promptly and efficiently their needs for the coming year.
We are recommending a budget for this fiscal period and after
estimating the expected income are proposing the per capita tax that
will be necessary to take care of our need.$ for the next fiscal period.

Mandatory Proficiency
Your Committee has found it impossible to prepare necessary legislation to make effective policy adopted by Grand Lodge by which a
member would be required to pass a proficiency examination in the Third
Degree before being permitted to pay dues. We recommend that such
legislation be held over until the next Annual Communication.
Adopted.

Unreported References Your Committee on Jurisprudence points out that those items assigned to it on which no report has been made were deemed by this
Committee to involve no question of law.
Adopted.

ADDITIONAL REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
Research Lodges
Pursuant to policy adopted by the Grand Lodge in 1951 and the
legislation adopted this year, your Committee on Charters recommend
that Charters be granted to Northern California Research Lodge and
Southern California Research Lodge.
We move the adoption of this portion of our report.
Adopted.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON GRAND LODGE CEREMONIES
The Deputy Grand Master recommended that this Special Committee be continued with instructions to report at the next Annual Communication.
Adopted.

Audit of Accounts
Following the practice of many years, all of the accounts of the
Grand Lodge, the Endowment Fund and the Masonic Homes have
been audited and the reports of the auditor, Brother Walter A. Parker,
have been reviewed by members of your committee on Finance. These
and the reports of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary in our
opinion, represent the true condition of the finances of the Grand Lodge
and its allied organizations. Brother Parker is making a valuable contribution to Masonry in this auditing work, and we appreciate his interest
in our affairs. In our proposed budget, we are providing for a continuation of the present auditing procedure with a slight increase in cost.

Bonds and Insurance
Your Committee on Finance has had referred to it the Grand Secretary's recommendations as respects fidelity bonds and workmen's compensation insurance.
Fidelity Bonds:
The legislation now in effect, namely Section 666, was made effective
in 1918. Experience has shown that the minimum bond of $500.00 has
proven inadequate. We therefore concur in the Grand Secretary's recommendation that Section 666 be amended in accordance with the recommendation in his Report.
It is our further recommendation that should those lodges with sufficient liquid assets in excess of the amount of the minimum bond as
noted, namely, $5,000.00, desire additional capacity that the same be
made available to them and that the annual premium for such additional
coverage shall be advanced by Grand Lodge, but it shall be reimbursed
by each subordinate lodge for the prorata share of the premium chargeable against said subordinate lodge for any amount of the excess bond
used by it. Provision for additional premium has been made in the proposed budget.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33-i

335

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Workmen· s Compensation:
We also concur in the recommendation of the grand Secretary that
the Grand Lodge of California may be assuming unnecessary liability
on account of subordinate lodges failing to carry workmen's compensation insurance as is required by State Law.
Since the California Workmen's Compensation Act provides certain
minimum charges ($39.00 per lodge), the total premium for all lodges
in the State would be in excess of $23,000.00. Investigation shows if the
Workmen's Compensation is carried by the Grand Lodge of California
under a blanket policy for all constituent lodges, Boards of Relief and
Employment, and others, a single minimum premium of approximately
$7.500.00 would be charged. Your Committee on finance concurs with
the recommendation of the Grand Secretary and that his office, or a
special committee on insurance. be authorized to make a survey of the
Workmen's Compensation coverage now carried by each of the subordinate lodges, and if the survey indicates that the lodges are not adequately covered that the Grand Secretary be authorized to obtain
coverage as outlined in his report for the benefit of all subordinate lodges:
and that the premium be paid by the Grand Lodge, and the subordinate
lodges be advised of the effective date in order that they may cancel
any coverage they may have.
Public Liability Coverage:
Much progress has been made in impressing officers of constituent
lodges with the importance of carrying adequate Public Liability and
Property Damage Insurance. It is known that many lodges have no such
protection, even though all are exposed to Public hazard. In discussing
this problem with men of the legal profession and in the light of recent
decision of our Courts, it is felt that men on investigating committees,
or other committees functioning in the interest of the lodge, are agents
of the constituent lodges, and could involve the lodge and Grand Lodge
in a public liability claim.
It is the considered judgment of your Finance Committee that the
whole question of Public Liability Coverage of the Grand Lodge and
constituent lodges be again reviewed, and that the incoming Grand
Master be instructed to appoint a special committee on insurance to investigate the effectiveness and adequacy.
Insurance Coverage for Grand Lodge and Subordinate Lodges, as
respects:
1 ) Workmen's Compensation.
2) General Public Liability and Property Damage.
3) As respects Grand Lodge, personal floater comprehensive
policy covering all personal property of Grand Lodge and
with patricular reference to Regalia, Supplies, Art Gallery, etc.
It is further recommended that if the Committee recommendations
are such that the Grand Master, Grand Secretary, Graad Treasurer,

and the Chairman of the Finance Committee feel it justified, they be
given authority and power. to purchase such coverage as in their judgment is required and desirable.
Your Committee on Finance feels most strongly on the importance
of allowing the constituent lodge the right to manage their own affairs
but where Grand Lodge is in effect partially responsible or could be
joined with a lodge in a suit and the lodge was unable to discharge its
rightful responsibility, we feel Grand Lodge not only has a right to
protect itself, but is morally obligated to do so, either by joining with
the lodge, on an equitable basis, or at least, carrying excess coverage to
protect Grand Lodge in case the constituent lodge has no protection or
insufficient coverage.

· Ritual Committee
We continue to be impressed with the work done by this very flne
committee. The school of instruction held by districts and the spring
conferences held by divisions all are of a very high order. The efficient
management of the Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers
is to be highly commended. The Grand Lecturer contemplates some
slight increases in activities during the coming year, and consequently
an addition to the budget of last year is provided. However, expenses
for Inspectors aprons and stationery still continues high due, undoubtedly, to many changes in Inspectors. It is recommended that the Ritual
Committee fix as a policy that Inspectors aprons remain the property
of Grand Lodge and are to be returned at the end of service, making
provisions for the retention of their aprons by those Inspectors "!ho have
had extended terms of service.

Columbia Temple
· Early in this Communication, the Columbia Temple Committee presented a report of the operations of the Temple for the last year and
asking for $2.000.00 for operations during the coming year, and an
additional sum for the setting up of a Museum on the ground ftoor of
the Temple. We understand now that subsequent to the filing of that
report. negotiations have been started for the leasing of the ground ftoor
of the Temple for commercial purposes. and such an arrangement would
not permit the operation of the Museum.
We are, therefore, providing $2,000.00 in the proposed budget for
the operation of Columbia Temple during the ensuing year, and approval
of the proposal to lease the ground floor of the building if successful
negotiations are completed by the Columbia Temple Committee.

Masonic Homes
The Committee on Finance has carefully examined the financial
operations of Masonic Homes for the past year and have reviewed .the
anticipated revenues and expenditures for the ensuing flscal year.

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As a result thereof your Committee on Finance concurs in the request
of the Board of Trustees and offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That a per capita tax of seventy~ftve cents (75c) be
levied for the operation of the Masonic Homes for the ensuing Masoni~
year.

George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association
Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the George
Washington Masonic National Memorial Association and also that of
Past Grand Master John R. Moore, State Chairman, setting forth the
progress made by the association and the amounts remaining to be
paid. After a careful study of the existing situation, they have strong
reason to believe that in view of the changes which have been made in
the plans for completing the project, this Grand Lodge may not be called
upon for any further contributions. However, in view of the uncertainties which exist, we recommend that the assessment of l 5c per
member be continued this year.

Morton Estate Bequest
Referring to that portion of the report of the Grand Secretary being
Item 2, under the heading of Unfinished Business "disposition of pro~
ceeds of Estate of Andrew W. Morton, deceased". This amounts to
$25,000.00.
We recommend that this sum be transferred to the Building Fund
account.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389
At the 1951 Communication of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master
was authorized to order the payment of such attorneys' fees, costs and
other expenses as he deemed necessary for the protection of the interests
of Grand Lodge which had been named as defendant in a suit involving
the title to certain stocks held in trust for Palos Verdes Lodge. A total
amount of $642.08 was paid as a result of this authorization, and we
are informed that this is only a portion of the expenses incurred and
that no attorneys' fees have been paid.
Trial has been had and judgment was rendered in favor of the
Lodge and the Grand Lodge, although time for an appeal has not passed.
Past Grand Master, John R. Moore, acted as one of the attorneys for
the Lodge, and Junior Grand Warden, Henry C. Clausen, represented
the Grand Lodge, and it is due largely to the excellent legal work of
these two Brothers that the trial was brought to a successful conclusion.
While it is not the proper time for this matter to be considered, we hope
that eventually all of the costs incurred by the Grand Lodge, as well
as adequate attorneys' fees, will be paid and charged against the corpus
of the trust, which we understand is quite substantial.
Portrait of P.G.M. Benjamin D. Hyam
The matter of a portrait of Past Grand Master Benjamin D. Hyam,
third Grand Master of Masons in California, has been given consideration and this committee concurs with the Policy and General Purposes
Committee that the portrait should be authorized and, therefore, present
the following resolution and move its adoption.
RESOLVED: That the sum of $500.00 be appropriated for the
purpose of commissioni~g an artist to paint a likeness of Hyam from
the photograph that is now in the hands of Grand Lodge. ,

337

Tehachapi and Maricopa Lodge Buildings
The resolutions pertaining to the unfortunate disaster which demolished the Tehachapi and Maricopa Lodge buildings have been referred
to this Committee.
While this Committee is sympathetic to the intent of these resolutions, it feels its hands are tied until the entire situation has been exam~
ined and analyzed by the Committee on Grand Lodge Financing.
This committee, therefore, is confidently content to leave the solution
in the hands of its chairman, the Committee on Lodge Financing and
the incoming Grand Master to resolve it after the matter has been fully
digested by the Committee on Lodge Financing. .
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
That the incoming Grand Master, the chairman of the Committee
on Finance, together with the Chairman of the Committee on Lodge
Financing be hereby authorized to expend such monies of Grand Lodge
to relieve the unfortunate condition of the Tehachapi and Maricopa
Lodges.in their rebuilding projects as may be collectively decided upon.
Memorial Building
Your Committee on Finance has considered with a great deal of
interest the report of the Committee on Memorial Building. It is un~
necessary to recapitulate here the variot,ts studies that have been made
by that committee over the last few years, but it should be emphasized
that, in the thinking of the members of that committee, the erection of a
building which might be termed a memorial building, single purpose in
its character, is not feasible nor within the financial capacity of this
Grand Lodge. Consequently, the work ·of the committee during the
last year has been to find some building which could be adapted for
our purposes and at the same time provide some income which would
·
assist in carrying the financial burden of the project.
While the members of the Finance Committee have not followed
completely all of the work of the Committee on Memorial Building, we

339

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

do know that many investigations have been made and that a great deal
of time and effort has been expended by the members of the committee,
and the proposal which that committee is now making is the very best
that can be made at this time, or is likely to be made in the foreseeable
future. Conseq uently, we feel that the decision which is being asked of
the Grand Lodge is a very important decision and we have approac hed
our consideration of the matter with some hesitation and some reserva tions. One does not lightly enter into the purchas e of a home, nor does
a Lodge consider lightly the matter of entering into a proposal for a new
building.
In considering the purchas e of a new home, either for an individual.
or for a Lodge, ordinar ily it is not considered as to whethe r it will be a
good investment from a financial point of view, but rather as to whethe r
it will meet the needs of the purpose for which it is intended, namely,
that of a home. We believe that this project should be considered from
this same point of view. We do not think it can be recommended as a
sound business investment, neither do we feel that the project is in any
sense unsoun d if we are to consider the objective which is intend edthat of a perman ent home for the Grand Lodge.
. We have no doubt that some of the Master s and officers of Lodges
with us here today, can look back to many frustrations and disappointments as their building program went ahead. We doubt not that if. with
your approval. we go ahead with this program , there will be like disappointments and like frustrations that we cannot now foresee. We
believe, however, that the likelihood of difficulties should not deter us
and that we should take this opportu nity which is offered to us at this
present time.
There are, of course, many considerations which cannot be answere d
at the present time. The plans for the alteratio ns must be carefully considered with a view to the ultimate, maximum comfort of members of the
Grand Lodge. The ultimate method of financing will depend natural ly
upon the completion of those plans. The men who have worked on this
project for many months have believed that these problems can be solved
successfully and if you vote for this project, you are placing your conft~
dence in the officers and committees of the Grand Lodge to solve these
problems. or at least, have them solved sufficiently so that they can be
present ed to the Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communication. The
members of your Committee on Finance believe that Grand Lodge is very
fortuna te in having a proposal of this kind present ed to it, and with the
concurrence of the Committee on Policy and Genera l Purpose s approve s
the recommendation of the Committee on the Memorial Building.

for the purchas e of the building described in the report of the
Memorial Building Committee to the owners of the propert y, as is
authorized by the unanimous vote of the elected officers of the
Grand Lodge, and the Chairm an of the Committee on Finance.
Be it resolved further that if such offer is accepted by the
owners of the propert y that the Grand Master or the Deputy
Grand Master, and the Grand Secreta ry, or the Assista nt Grand
Secretary, be authoriz ed and empowered to execute such agreements, contracts, notes, or other documents, as may be necessa ry
to acquire an option on, or title to, the propert y and to make such
arrange ments necessary for the completion of plans and alterations to the building with full power to use the funds now in, or
to be paid into the building fund, and such additional funds of the
Grand Lodge as may in theh: judgme nt be necessary.
Be it resolved further that a per capita tax of $1.00 be levied
for the year 1952-53, the proceeds to be paid into the Building
·
Fund of the Grand Lodge.

338

We present the following resolution, and move its adoption :
Resolved: That the Grand Lodge of California through its
Memorial Building Committee be empowered to offer such sum

Salaries
Your committee has discussed with the Grand Secretary, the salary
needs for the coming year. Total salaries paid during the past year were
$40,541.85. This included $13,200.00 paid to the Grand Secreta ry. and
$7,200.00 paid to the Assista nt Grand Secreta ry. The total salary
expense for Grand Lodge was reduced by $7,500.00, the amount paid
by the Masoni c Homes, making a net of $33,041.85. The Grand Secretary estimates that an increase of $4,500.00 will be needed for the staff
during the' coming year. This includes some increase in the staff as well
as some increase in salaries. This brings us to the salaries of the Grand
Secreta ry and the Assista nt Grand Secreta ry, which have not been
adjusted since the Annual Communication in 1950.
We cannot speak too highly of the services of our Grand Secretary.
An efficient administrative officer, a leader among the Grand Secretaries
of the various jurisdictions of our nation, an authori ty on Masoni c law
and custom, a speaker of outstan ding reputation, it is regretta ble that in
a fraterna l association such as ours that we cannot set his salary on a
scale comparable with those paid in the business world. Our Assista nt
Grand _Secreta ry, likewise represe nts a very high degree of efficiency
and deserves like consideration. We recommend that the salary of the
Grand Secreta ry be increased $3,600.00 per year, and that of the Assistant Grand Secreta ry _$1,800.00, making:
$16,800.00
Grand Secreta ry
9,000.00
Assista nt Grand Secreta ry
.00 and we recom$49,900
This would make the total salary expense
c Homes of
Masoni
the
from
t
mend that this be reduced by paymen
.00.
$40,900
cost
$9,000.00, making the net salary

340

500
Correspondence Committee ........................
750
De Molay Committee ..................................
Employment Bureaus ................................. . 16,444
Endowment Board ...................................... 10,000
50
History Committee ......................................
500
Hyam Portrait ..............................................
500
Information Committee ..............................
Lodge Finance Committee .......................... 1,000
Public School Week .....•.............................. 3,500
100
Sojourners Committee ................................
Publications Committee ............................. . 2,500
University Clubhouses ............................ 42,100

Budget 1952-53
Administrative and Office
Salaries ............... ~........................................$.if0,900
Rent .............................................................. 6,000
Audit ............................................................ 1,050
Grand Treasurer .......................................... 1,600
Postage and Express...•,............................... 2,250
Telephone and Telegraph............................ 1,500
Bonds, Supplies, Sundry.............................. 4,200
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes 1,000
900 ·
Investment Counsel ....................................
Total ..........·--··-···-··-···············

$59,400

Total-·-··-·········································

$89,994

Recapitulation
Administrative and Office .......................... $59,400.00
General Expense .....:.................................... 94,528.22
Appropriations ............................................ 89,994.00

General Expense
Annual Communication .............................. 7,000
Conferences .....................................•............ 2,000
Grand Lodge O~cers: Travel Expense.... 5,000
400
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler................
Grand Master:
Travel .................................................. 7,000
Miscellaneous ...................................... 1,750
Investment Counsel for Lodges.................. 3,000
Portrait Grand Master................................ 1,275
Pay of Members .......................................... 25,103.22
Printing ·······-··············································· 22,000
Ritualistic Expense:
600
Grand Lecturer ....................................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery.... 1,000
Travel Expense .................................... 10,000
Relief Fund, Grand Master........................ 2,000
900
Retirement Pay ............................................
Veteran Buttons ......................................... . 3,000
Miscellaneous ............................................. . 2,500
Total .............................•.................

341

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Grand Total ....................................$243,922.22

Estimated Income and Expense 1952-53
Dues from Lodges ...........·...............:...........................-.............. $221.931.00
Income from Investments ·······················································-·· 25,000.00
$246,931.00
243,922.22
·-···················
Appropriations and Budgeted Items....................
Estimated Surplus.................................... _............$

94,528.22

3,008.78

We believe that this surplus leaves too narrow a margin and feel that
there should be a modest increase in the per capita tax. We offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption.
Resolved: That in addition to the Constitutional provision of fifty
cents per capita that an additional levy of fifty cents ( 50c) per capita be
levied for the expenses of the Grand Lodge fiscal year 1952-53.
PER CAPITA TAX

Appropriations
Activities Committee ..................................•$ 6,000
Board of Control .......................................... 2,000
50
Board of Relief ............................................
Charters Committee .................................... 1,500
Columbia Temple........................................ 2,000
500
Constitution Month ....................................

Constitutional for expenses-··-·---------·-····-···························-$ .50
Special for expenses .............................................................................. .50
George Washington Memorial ............................................................. .15
Masonic Homes ···························································.························· .75
Grand Lodge Building Fund..·-··························································· 1.00
$2.90

34!

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

In concluding its report, your Committee offers the following resolution and moves its adoption.
Resolved: That the appropriation of $243,922.22 as represented by
the items previously represented be approved.
Fraternally submitted,
CLAUDE H. MORRISON

F. WESLEY DAVIES
JOHN W. DAVEY
EDWARD H. SIEMS
PHIL N. MYERS
PAUL F. BALCK
MARCUS A. WOODWARD

By separate action applying to each section of the report, the various
items of the budget appropriations and per capita were adopted, and
the report was then adopted in its entirety.

"

343

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections of
the Constitution applying to the same.
The Grand Master then appointed the following brethren to serve
as tellers:
George W. Alden, Master, Anaheim No. 207.
Arthur J. Bullock, Jr. Warden, Unity No. 368.
Philip R. Chapin, Jr. Warden, Parnassus No. 388.
Manuel Clavin, Jr. Warden, Loyalty No. 529.
. Arthur A. Coughlin, Master, Unity No. 368.
J~mes Guy Davis, Master, Ashlar No. 306.
Fred R. De Barrows, Master, McKinley No. 347.
Morrison G. Foster, Master, Service No. 594.
James F. Fry, Sr. Warden, San Simeon No. J96.
George E. Gates, Jr. Warden, Queen Beach No. 540.
William Greenwell, Jr. Warden, Chula Vista No. 626.
Edgar L. Henderson, Jr. Warden, Normal Heights No. 632.
Mason C. Jurgensen, Sr. Warden, Bixby Knolls No. 699.
Ian T. Kay, Sr. Warden, Far West No. 673.
Henry L. Kidwell, Master, Alhambra No. 322.
Wayne C. Klein, Sr. Warden, Big Bear No. 617.
Theodoric C. Linthicum, Sr. Warden, Service No. 594.
James L. Marriott, Sr. Warden, Alhambra No. 322.
Richard E. Middlekauff, Master, Alta Loma No. 643.
Raymond Miller, Sr. Warden, San Miguel No. 285.
Charles Bartley Moore, Master, Hunters Point Naval No. 706.
E. A. Rathbun, Sr. Warden, West Adams No. 565.
Homer E. Rathbun, Sr. Warden, Unity No. 368.
Gordon C. L. Ross, Jr. Warden, Alhambra No. 322.
Lloyd M. Ryckman, Jr. Warden, Poinsettia No. 633.
William D. Sparks, Sr. Warden, Poinsettia No. 633.
Arthur P. Stewart, Master, Poinsettia No. 633.

3H

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OFFICERS
The R'. W. Arthur M. Warren, Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481. was
elected Grand Master.
·
The R. W. Frank Harwell. Jr.. Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. was
elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Henry C. Clausen, Ingleside Lodge No. 630, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Loyalty Lodge No. 529, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Francis V. Keesling. Past Grand Master, California
Lodge No. 1, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Walter H. E. van Kansky. Seaport Lodge No. 550. was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Adam B. Morten, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.
·
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Ralph M. Foote. Valley Lodge No. 135; Elbert W. Davis,
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571: Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas
Lodge No. 466; Guy B. Mize. Unity Lodge No. 368; Augustus H. Allen,
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.
Grand Orator, Loys T. Newton, Delta Lodge No. 471.
Assistant Grand Treasurer. Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge
No. 360.
Grand Marshal, Cyril L. Weeks, Fidelity Lodge No. 120.
Grand Standard Bearer, Winfield S. McLees, Normal Heights Lodge
No. 632.
Grand Sword Bearer, Alfred H. Nicoll, Mt. Davidson Lodge No.
481.
.
Grand Bible Bearer, Henry Kober, North East Lodge No. 266.
Senior Grand Deacon, Ralph V. Devoto, Hartley Lodge No. 199.
Junior Grand Deacon, Walter Clayton, Atascadero Lodge No. 493.
Senior Grand Steward, Harry H. Pollock, Wasco Lodge No. 583.
Junior Grand Steward, Alvin E. Melim, Honolulu Lodge No. 409.
Grand Pursuivant, Elbert C. Yuille, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528.
Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Grand Tiler, Alvin A. Horwege, Woodstock Lodge No. 491.
The Grand Secretary announced the appointment by the Grand
Master-elect of Chas. Albert Adams and Myron E. Smith as Trustees
of the Masonic Homes for terms of three years each.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

345

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Most Worshipful Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master,
acted as Master of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed,
with the exception of Assistant Grand Lecturer, Ralph M. Foote, were
installed by the Retiring Grand Master in due and ancient form.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecessor with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Chas. Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retiring
to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers exchanged
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The J. Everett Houser lapel pin was transferred from the retiring to
the incumbent Grand Orator.
The Grand Master called upon the Grand Chaplain to invoke the
blessing of God.
The Most Worshipful Chas. Albert Adams, Past Grand Master,
invested the Retiring Grand Master with the apron of a Past Grand
Master. The Most Worshipful Charles M. Wollenberg. Past Grand
Master. on behalf of the members of Grand Lodge, presented a gift to
Mrs. Louis C. Drapeau, and it was accepted by the Retiring Grand
Master in her behalf.
·
At 6:30 P. M., all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

~~-~
Grand Master

Very Worshipful Walter H. E. von Konsky, elected Grand Lecturer for the f ourt,h time at this Communication, died at his home
in San Francisco on Monday morning, November 3, 1952. Funeral
services were conducted by Most Worshipful Arthur M. Warren,
Grand Master, on Wednesday, November 5, 1952, Grand Lodge being opened in Special Communication. Worshipful Elbert W. Davia,
Assistant Grand Lecturer in charge of Division 3, was appointed by
the Grand Maater to fill the vacancy in office thua created.

SPECIAL

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

347

APPENDIX

CONTENTS
Page
348
.
.......
.................................
Budget for 1952-53 .................................
349
Audit of Annual Returns-1952 ···············-···································
Financial Report-Grand Lodge:
350
Auditors Certification ························································'·····
Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities.................. 352-353
Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and
Disbursements ..............................•...................................354..3'5
356
Grand Lodge Audit ............................................................:.....
Financial Report-Endowme nt Fund:
Auditors Certification ..............................................................
Grand Treasurer's Report ................. :......................................

365
367

Financial Report-Masonic Homes:
Auditor's Certification..............................................................
Balance Sheet ............................................................................
Cash Receipts and Disbursements..........................................
Statement of Revenue and Expenses .................................. _..
Securities Owned ......................................................................

374
376
384
384
377

Statistical: •
Contributions to Masonic Homes Endowment Fund............
Details of Masonic Homes ......................................................
Number of Residents, Decoto and Covina........·-···-····-·
Per Capita Cost Decoto and Covina. ..................·-··········
Contributions to Special Funds ........................................
Annual Returns-I 951 ............................................................

388
399
415
415
416
417

348

October 3, 1952

BUDGET FOR 1952-1953
The Finance Committee proposed the following budget for the cur~
rent fiscal year:

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California:
Gentlemen:

Administrative and Office

SalariesGrand Secretary ....................................... .$16,800.00
Assistant Grand Secretary ...................... 9,000.00
Other Help .................................................... 15,100,00 $40,900.00
Rent ......................................................................................... .
6,000.00
Audit .............................................................................- ........
1,050.00
Grand Treasurer ..................................................................
1,600.00
Postage & Express ................................................................
2,250.00
Telephone & Telegraph ......................................................
1,500.00
Bonds, Supplies, Sundry ....................................................
4,200.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes .: ..................
1,000.00
Investment Counsel ............................................................
900.00
TOTAL.:................................................................
$59,400.00
General Expense

AUDIT OF 1952 RETURNS
We have audited the current 1952 annual returns from constituent
Lodges up to and including October 3, 1952. As determined from the
returns, the following amounts are collectible:
Grand Lodge:
Degrees conferred ..........................

26,924 @ $1.00

$ 26,924.00

Per Capita:
1952 membership ...................... 207,832
Less, dues remitted ..................
2,562

Annual Communication ..................................................... . $ 7,000.00
Conferences ....................................................................:.......
2,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers: Travel ........................................ ..
5,000.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ....................................
400.00
Grand Master:
Travel ............................................................................. .
7,000.00
Miscellaneous ................................................................
1,750.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges ........................................
3,000.00
Portrait, Grand Master ......................................................
1,275.00
Pay of Members ..............,..................................................... 25,103.22
Printing .................................................................................. 22,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ............................................................. .
600.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ..........................
1,000.00
Travel Expense .............................................................. 10,000.00
Relief Fund, Grand Master ................................................
2,000.00
Retirement Pay ....................................................................
900.00
Veteran Buttons ....................................................................
3,000.00
2,500.00
Miscellaneous ···'C"·····-·-···-~---··-·-··-··-······-·······--··-···
TOTAL ..................................................................
Appropria:tiom

.349

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Net ...................................... 205,270 @

1.60

328,432.00

Total due ····································-r··················-·········-·-···- 355,356.00
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer................ 355;166.60
Balance Due ...................•.., ...~ ..............................:.:.........:.$
189.40
=====
Masonic Homes:
Fourth quarter 1952, $25.00 contributions........................$ 72,350.00
Per capita 205,270 members @ $.7fL ...........................~... 153,952.50
$94,528.22

Activities Committee .......................................................... $ 6,000.00
Board of Control ..................................................................
2,000.00
Board of Relief .................................................................... ..
50.00
Charters Committee ............................................................
1,500.00
Columbia Temple ..................................................................
2,000.00
Constitution Month ..............................................................
500.00
Correspondence Committee ..............................................
500.00
De Molay Committee ............................:............;................
750.00
Employment Bureaus .......................................................... 16,444.00
Endowment Board ................................................................ 10,000.00
History Committee ............................................................. .
50.00
Hyarn Portrait ......................................................................
500.00
Information Committee ..................................................... .
500.00
Lodge Finance Committee ................................................
1,000.00
Public School Week ............................................................
3,500.00
Sojourners Committee ....................................................... .
100.00
Publications Committee ......................................................
2,500.00
University Clubhouses ....................................................... . 42,100.00
TOTAL ..................................................................- - - - - - $89,994.00

Total due ···················---··············-·····-···-··-··········-·-·-$226,302.50
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer................ 226,302.50
George Washington Memorial Endowment Contributions:
Fourth quarter 1952, $1.00 contributions..........................$
Collected and transferred to Grand Treasurer.........:......

2,634.00
2,634.00

All returns have been received and paid in full with the amount
shown by the returns as computed. The balance still due represents
errors made in various returns an~ are now iri process of collection.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER

Certified Public Accountants
WALTER A. PARKER

350

351

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

Bank, which holds the securities for safe-keeping. All interest and dividends
due were received.
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123 paid $1,200.00 on their indebtedness to Grand
Lodge, leaving a balance due of $3,850.00.
A bequest of $25,000.00 was received by Grand Lodge from the Estate of
Andrew W. Morton and is being held for disposition by action of Grand
Lodge.
In our opinion, the attached statements present fairly the financial position
of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California at July 31, 1952 and the result
of its activities for the fiscal year 1951-52 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
September 26, 1952
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and financial records of the GRAND
LODGE F. & A. M. of CALIFORNIA for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1952
and submit herewith the following statements:
.
Consolidated Statements
Exhibit AA: Consolidated Statement of Assets and Liabilities, Owned or
Under Control of Grand Lodge, July 31, 1952.
Exhibit BB: Consolidated Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements,
form Funds of, or Controlled by Grand Lodge, August 1, 1951 to July 31, 1952.
Grand Lodge
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets and Liabilities, July 31, 1952.
Schedule 1: List of Securities, July 31, 1952.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1951
to July 31, 1952.
Schedule 2: Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected from
1951 Annual Returns.
Schedule 3: Comparison of Budget and Expenditures, 1951-52.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1951 to July 31, 1952.
Exhibit D: Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash Received, August 1, 1951
to July 31, 1952.
Schedule 4: Statement of Masonic Homes Per Capita Dues and $25.00
Contributions Collected During the Year 1951-52.
COMMENTS

As shown on Exhibit AA of this report, the combined assets of Grand
Lodge, the Masonic Homes and the Endowment Fund now exceed $10,000,000.00. Exhibit BB shows that over $2,000,000.00 was received and a like
amount disbursed by these three. The disbursements were not all for expenses, as the Endowment Fund alone disbursed over $1,000,000.00 for purchase of stocks and bonds. Grand Lodge has set up a series of safe-guards
which, in our opinion, are adequate to insure the safety of this flow of money,
and the safety of the assets on hand.
The revenue from all sources exceeded the expenses and appropriations
by $21,430.89. The expenses include $6,038. 73 which represents the remaining
cost of unsold copies of "100 Years of Freemasonry in California".
Schedules 2 and 4 show proof of the revenue due from the Lodges in accordance with their 1951 annual returns and the $25.00 Homes contribution
reports received up to July 31, 1952. The total amount due, as shown, agrees
with the total cash received from the Lodges by the Grand Secretary.
Cash receipts were accounted for and deposited in the proper bank accounts of the Grand Treasurer. Disbursements were made ·by checks and
supported by properly approved vouchers. The disbursements made by the
Grand Secretary were from his Operating Fund bank account. Reimbursements to the Operating Fund by the Grand Treasurer were not made until
we had audited and approved the bills, which was done monthly. During the
current year, all bills paid by the Grand Secretary were provided for in the
Budget or had the approval of the Grand Master.
Bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. A
certified list of the securities was received from the Anglo California National

352

PROCEBDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

·

EXHIBIT
CONSOLI DATED STATEM ENT
OWNED OR UNDER CONTRO L

AA
OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
OF GRAND LODGE- JULY 31, 1952
Grand Lodge
(Exhibit A)

Endowment Fund

901,142.43
34,569.94
2,500.00
10,832.15
1,876.05
950,920.57
4,798.90

$ 150,804.80
20,000.00
500.00

$ 294,583.65
............................
............................
................................
.............................
294,583.65

4,053, 792.80
2,350,716.47
54,471.96

326,200.00
592,013.92

Total

ASSETS
Caah

Custody of the Grand Treasurer...._.______....;..~--·-A..-..L.
~
··-Operat.mg "'~·-·
- ..-·--···· ·-·----- ·- Revolving fands..·-··-···--·-··-···-···---·--·-·--~---····-·---~upe~t~mdents' accounts-p ecoto and Covina
Residents.......
epos1 m tranatl:.--·-··--·~·-···-···········-·-··
·
·
Total cash..---··--··-·-··-··~·. -·---

=
·----- --

353

$

Accounts Receivable ···-············

-·--····-···"'··-··-········--------"I'"-···--·-··-

-------------·······
....................................
171,304.80
4,037.20

(Exhibit A)

Masonic Homes
(Exhibit A)

......................................

$ 455,753.98
14,569.94
2,000.00
10,832.15
1,876.05
485,032.12
761.70

3,156,606.26
1,126,005.66
14,553.14

570,986.54
632,696.89
39,918.82

Investmen!s :

In custody of Grand Treasurer:
~~~~····-····-·-··-············-······-·-·-···-···-···-··-··-··-·-··-···-··-·--·Notes a~·d-~~~t~~~~-;;;i;;bi;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~-:=::.=
In custody of Grand Secretary:
insurance policies...............-..·-·-·--· -·-··--· --··--eh
estate...·- ········-·-··
t
·--·---------"'\-··--·-----o ers ····-···························-······-··-··:.._·
·-···········-········-··...····---··-··-- -·····-···
Total investme nts...-··-- --··-··-···- ·--·-···----·-· ···----

iif:i

14.00

8,832.52
2,849.00
2.00
6,470,664.75

--------------------

918,213.92

2.00
4,297 ,181.06

1,255,269.77

$4,591,764.71

2,913,105.95
26,628.65
$4,680,798.19

150.00

$ . 6,661.13

Properties: (at cost)

Land, buildings and equipment -Decoto and Covina...·-···-······--- ···
Inventory of Stozea and llupplML-··-----··-~-·-----··---·--·

Total usetB.--··-.:..·~-----·-

· · ·-·-··- --

2,913,105.95
26,628.65
$10,366,118.82

1,093,555.92

8,818.52
2,849.00 .

LIABILITIE S. RESERVES AND CAPITAL
Liabilities:

.

Accounts payable. _ __

Reserves1

$

.

=:s~~:i~J=:~~.:~~~~:··· ~:-·::·:·:·-····

Capital-·--·· -··---··· ----··-· ··-··-·-- -·--- . ..

. -··-..-··

•

Total liabilities, reserves and capital ·-·····-- ·-·-··--

NOTE: The above figures were compiled from the three separate audit
reports and can be found on Exhibit A of each report.

13,489.13

1,444,450. 71
25,000.00
8,883,178.98
!10,366,118.82

$

6,678.00

170,508.86
25,000.00
891,369.06
$1,093,555.92

$

-----.--·-~·----···

...................................

4,591,614.71
$4,591,764.71

1,273,941.85
.. .................................
3,400,195.21
$4,680,798.19

354

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

EXHIBIT
CO NSO LID ATE D STA TEM EN I'
FRO M FUN DS OF, OR CO NTR
Gran d Lodg e: (Exh ibit B*}

OLL ED BY GR AN D

Bala nce
Aug ust l. 1951

Gen eral Fund.............·-········-·······-~··············-·
·-··-$ 36,007.59
Geo rge Was hing ton Masonic Nat iona l
Mem oria l End owm ent Fun d...........·-········-·
6,356.00
·
George Was hing ton Masonic
Nati onal
Mem oria l per capi ta fund . ........·-··- ··-··
------···
Cen tenn ial Cele brat ion fund.·-····················-·· ·-· --·--12,019.54
Beq uest held for disposition......................··········
.......... ......................................
Tota l Gra nd Lod ge cash..·-····-···-········-·· ·-··
54,383.13

Masonic Hom es:

Gen eral Fund.·-······-···_ ;·-·· ·-··- ··-·· -····
··Fun ds held in trust.·-·-···--··-··.;.···········
··········-Tota l Masonic Homes cash......................·-···

OF

LOD GE -

AU GU ST 1, 195 1 TO JUL Y 31,

29,994.30

......................... _. _
25,000.00
574,951.46

1,143,614.39
36,238.84
1,179,853.23

End owm ent Fun d (Exh ibit B*>············-···
··········· 717,802.03
Luc ken bach Fun d (Ex hibi t C*>····-········10,437.92
············
Tota l End owm ent Fun d cash. ...............- ......
728,239.95
Consolidated cash tota ls................................
$1,064,132.16

597,726.57
6,722.21
604,448.78
$2,359,253.47

•NO TE:
The Exhi bits refer red to in pare
in the sepa rate audi t repo rts. nthe ses indic ate whe re the deta ils may be foun d

195 2
Cust ody
of Gran d
Trea sure r

Ope ratin g

Tota l

Disb unem ents

Bala nce
July 31, 1952

$ 546,567.75

$ 418,942.37

$ 127,625.38

$ 107,125.38

$ 20,500.00

15,753.00

9,075.00

6,678.00

6,678.00

............................

29,994.30
12,019.54
25,000.00
-629 ,334 .59

29,994.30
18.12
....................................
458,029.79

....................................
12,001.42
25,000.00
171,304.80

......................................
12,001.42
25,000.00
150,804.80

..............--.···

............................
20,500.00

1,408,713.18
52,649.13
1,461,362.31

945,973.42
30,356.77
976,330.19

462,739.76
22,292.36
485,032.12

444,293.77
11,460.21
455,753.98

18,445.99
10,832.15
29,278.14

1,315,528.60
17,160.13
1,332,688. 73
f.!1423,385.63

1,037,683.88
421.20
1,038,105.08
$2,472,465.06

277,844.72
16,738.93
294,583.65
$ 950,920.57

277,844.72
16,738.93
294,583.65
$ 901,142.43

9,397.00

265,098.79
16,410.29
281,509.08

Endo wme nt Fund :

BB

c.ASH REC EIP TS AN D DIS BUR SEM ENT S

Rece lpu

$ 510,560.16

355

$

Fun ds

............................

............---·-···

............. _.............
...............................
$ 49,778.14

356

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

357

Schedule I

Exhibit A

Statement of Securities Owned
July 31, 1952

Statement of Assets and Liabilities
July 31, 1952

Cost
200 American Telephone & Telegraph, conv. deb
200.00
· -·--··--·'r-··--·-·..$
3lf.t%, 1964 •••••··-··-······-·-··10,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.t %, 1953......·-················· 10,000.00
40,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.t %, 1958..•.......••....-·-····· 40,000.00
30000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 2lf.t %, 1959..•.......·-············· 30,000.00
90,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21,2 %, 1960..•-..................... 90,000.00
156,000 U.S. Certificates of Indebtedness, series B,
1 % %, 1955.·--··-············-··········-··········································· 156,000.00

Bonds:

$
Assets:
Cuh in Banks:
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts (Exhibit C) ........$150,804.80 $ 171,304.80
Grand Secretary's ·bank accounts................................ 20,500.00

Investments: (Schedule 1)
Bonds ···-·-··-·-·----··-·--··-··--··- -·-··-·-····· ~~~·~gg:gg
'
··········:···········
Stocks
Masonic Temple Assn. (San FrancJSco) .... ·339,850.00
Stock in··························································
.
Other Assets:
Accounts receivable-Sotoyome Lodge No. 123·-···
Due from Lodges for public liability insurance......

3,850.00
187.20

Liabilities and Reserves
Accounts Payable:
George Washington Masonic
National Memorial for initiates'
contributions ··········-·--··--··-··-·······
Funds Held for Special Purposes:
Centennial Committee --··-··-·-----.$ 12,001.42
War Memorial Building Fund····-········ 158,507.44

170,508,86

Bequest Held for Disposition. .....................

25,000.00

6,678.00

202,186.86

Total liabilities and reserves... .

$ 891,369.06

Net assets ·········-·--·-········--·····

Total revenue ····-··-·-··-····-····
. ti
Less, expenses:

~i~1:°1l>.~~~~~~---~~---····· 251,267.06
Unsold "Masonic History"·····-····· 6,038.73
ExC?eSS revenue for the
y~ar 1951-52----·········--·-

Balance, July 31, 1952.•..·-······-····-·············

4,037.20
1,093,555.92

Total assets --··················-··-··-········-·············

Capital:
Balance, August 1, 1951.---··-··-··-··-···
Add·
E~cess of revenue over expense 1951-52:
Revenue received: (Exhibit B)
By Grand Secretary·--····-··-·-···
By Grand Treasurer....·-··············-·

Total bonds..............- ..·······-··-··············-············--···--······-····· 326,200.00
918,213.92

$ 869,938.17

243,199.43
35,537.25
278,736.68

257,305.79
21,430.89

$ 891,369.06

Stocks:
5hares of preferred:
30 Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., 4% ~·-··-·-···-·----·-··.:.-...
45 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 414 %.·-···--····-··-··-:-..·--····-·
165 Commonwealth Edison Co., 1.32% ••·--··-- -·-··-···--- ··-···
45 Food Machinery & Chemical, 314 % •...·-····-··········-··--·············
60 'Liquid Carbonic, 3lf.t% ..........•••--··-·············································
30 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5% ••·--······················-······-·············
180 Philadelphia Electric Co., $1.00 conv...·-····--······-·-·-··-····-···
165 &>uthern California Edison Co., 4.48% ..·-··················-······-···
45 United Aircraft Corp., 15%·-------······--········-·-···105 Y\Jrk Corp., 4lf.t~---·--·--·-··-...-·······-··-----·······

3,150.00
4,517.00
5,171.25
4,348.28
4,611.19
765.00
4,586.93
4,889.06
4,913.85
4,152.64

Total preferred..·--·-·-···-··;..-··-·-······ ··········-·----·-··········-

41,105.20

Shares of common:
150 Air Reduction Compaily....- ..·-··--······················-········-······-···
15 AmE:rican Telephone & Telegraph Co...............·-··-···-······-···
75 American Tobacco Company_···-··-········-··-····-·--- --·---·150 Anglo California National B~---··························-·-··--·····
75 Armstrong Cork Company....·-······-·······-·······-···-···-······-·-··
75 Atlantic Refining Compan7..·-··----··----··-··----...· - 60 Bankers Trust Company........·-········-··············-······-·················
90 Beatrice Foods Company..................................................·-·········
60 Bendix Aviation Corporation........·-····-··-·-·-·-···-····-··-·········
15 Bethlehem Steel Corporation.---······-·-··-·--··-··.....:·-········-···
45 Borg Warner Corp·-·-··--··-··--····--····-···- --·-··········-···
300 Central Hud90D Gas & Electric Corp...............·-··-'·················
150 Central & South West Corp_····-·········.,..·-···-···························
75 Chase National Bank.---~·-······--··-····-··-··-·-····-·····--·········
60 Chemical Bank & Trust Company........................................... .
60 Cleveland Electric IDuminating Company..·-·························
75 Columbian Carbon Company....·-··-····-··-··-········-····-·············
90 Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc·--·-···-········-·
75 Container Corporation of America.·-····-······-··-···················
75 Continental Can Company, Inc.-·--·····-···---····---·-·······
75 Corn Products Refining Company............·-······-·······················
50 Delaware Power & Light Company..........................................
135 Detroit Edison Com.P8DY-·--··-·-··-··--··----·························
66 Eastman Kodak Company..............·-················-····-·-·-·············
75 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp.·---··-···-··---- ··············-·
60 General Electric Company··············-········-··-···-·········-··-··-···
160 General Public Utilities Corp............................ - ...................... .
45 Gulf Oil~·-----········-··-----··-.:.-·---·-·· ...·
45 Hercules Powder Company....·-··-·--··---··-····-·-···-······-···

4,523.05
2,317.48
4,714.62
5,201.22
3,604.19
2,588.10
2,730.00
3,254.45
3,166.44
763.33
2,902.74
3,196.60
2,505.68
2,765.63
2,610.00
2,888.19
3,512.80
2,926.62
2,796.49
3,174.67
4,986.23
1,220.98
3,027.41
2,781.42
3,637.50
3,603.40
3,175.34
2,412.48
2,969.21

358

75 Hershey Chocolate Corp...·-··-----·-··--·-··-···-··· - 2,872.47
75 Illinois Power Company..·--··-·········-······-··-·-·-·-·················
2,542.58
90 International Harvester Company............·-·····························
3,114.67
122 Kansas City Power & Light Company......................................
3,354.70
75 Koppers Company, Inc....----····----··----···········----····--·--··--··--·
3,352.71
150 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Co·--··-··-·······-···-·--······-········ 5,104.20
45 Manufacturers Trust Co·-·-·-··-··-··-·---·-----·--- ·-····
2,385.00
33,985 Masonic Temple Assn. of San Francisco........................... - ..... 339,850.00
90 Middle South Utilities, Inc..--··-··-······--············-·······--········
1,999.30
75 Minnesota Power & Light Company..·--······-····-·····················
2,458.07
150 Montana Power Company............................................................
3,216.07
60 Montgomery Ward & Co...............................................................
3,770.32
60 National Cash Register CO........................................................... 3,324.45
253 New England Electric System............................ ·-···-···-····-·····
3,206.47
132 New York State Electric & Gas Company................................
3,119.56
165 Niagara Mohawk Power Company.........-................................. 4,308.23
330 Northern States Power Company.............................................. 3,322.79
99 Ohio Edison Company........-------··---··-·--···-···-···----·······--·-····--·
2,888.72
15 Owens-Corning Fiberglas COrp.................................................
536.25
150 Pabco Products, Inc.........................._...........................................
2,872.49
90 Pacific Gas & Electric Company-..............................................
2,888.63
75 Pacific Mills ····-···--------··-·-···----··----···--·-······-------···-··--- 2,552.24
90 Penick & Ford, Ltd..·-··-··-··-·-··------~---····--~---···-··-·····.,. .3,318.76
50 Phillips Petroleum Company................................-...................
2,470.02
150 Public Service Electric & Gas Co...............................................
3,369.46
132 Public Service Co. of Indiana....................................................
3,334.96
78% Remington Rand, Inc.......----·-··-·--··-··--····---··-·--··--·····-·---·
1,572.65
66 St. Joseph Lead Company............................................................
3,087.82 .
150 St. Regis Paper Company............................................................
2,996.37
90 Southern California Edison Company......................................
3,063.81
150 Standard Brands, Inc..•..·-··-········-···-···-·······-·······-···--··-····-· 3,426.99
75 Sterling Drug, Inc.........................................................................
3,381.15
30 Texas Gulf Sulphur Company....................................................
3,225.50
75 Underwood Corporation..............................................................
3,899.10
90 Union Carbide & Carbon Corp................................................... 5,082.34
75 Union Oil Company of California.........-.................................
2,928.33
135 United Gas Corp.............................................................................
3,300.46
75 United Shoe MJichinery Corp.....................................................
3,488.90
75 Westinghouse Electric Corp.........................................................
2,712.18
180 Wisconsin Electric Power Company..........................................
3,253.73

Total common.......................................................................... 550,908. 72
Total stocks....................---·---·--·--·-···-··---··-·------··-·· · 592,013.92
Total Securities (in Custody of Grand Treasurer) ........$918,213.92

359

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Refund of expense allowance-Grand Master

eo~::faP.;~ek ·;;ntaI:::····································--······--·
p

--·--·······--·········-···-········-

3,467.18
175.00

Total revenue receipts........................................ 243,199.43
Refunds of expense (see disbursements)
11,962.89
. Per capita for George Washington
--·-··--·····-··
National Memorial ........
29,994.30
Initia~s' contribu~ions to <:k7;rge·w~;hhigt~~-------···
p National
ts fMemorial
s .......................................................... 9,397.00
1,200.00
. ~bll:llabllttm in~~~~ef~dge No. 123......................
12,279.15
Sales of "100 ears of Free~~J;8hi.-C~lif-;;~i~;;::::
1,554.00
B~uest.~om Estate of Andrew Morton held for
25,000.00
dJSpos1tion ····---·····---·--------------------···--·-------··-··-·······
Total cash received by Grand Secretary
.
Received by the Grand Treasurer

?

:=

:~:~:=~

·······-· · ······-·······-·······-··'"······-····-·-·······'"'-·
---··-----·--·· ·--·· · · · · · · ·----·· ·--·--·· ······ ·
.

Dividends ·······-··---··-·--··-····- ······-····-·-··-····-··· __
Profit on securities sold... _.......................................:......::

S

. . Total revenue receipts........................................
ecur1ties sold---····-···--··················································--··
Total cash received by Grend Treasurer......
Total to account for........----·-----··-···
Disbursements
grand Secretary............................................................
Y rand Treasurer......... ·---······-···----·····-··--··--······--··

:Y

1,076.32
9,508.22
19,514.53
5,438.18
35,537 .25
204,827.44
240,364.69
629,334.59
165,871.84
292,157.95

Cash Balance, August 1, 1951.......................................,.....
$ 54,383.13
Received by the Grand Secretary
Dues from Lodges, 1951 annual returns, Schedule 2) ..$ 216,568.90
Dues from Lodges, prior years...--··-··--··-·-··-···-···
259.50
Charters and dispensations ..............................................
665.00
Sales of supplies..................................................................
19,668.42
Lodge officers' surety bond premiums............... -·-·····
2,395.43

458,029.79

Cash Balance, July 31, 1952:
Grand SE!cretary's bank accounts............................ ..
20,500.00
Grand Treasurer's bank accounts.............................. 150,804.80 $171,304.80
Disbursements:
---Disbursed b y - Grand
Grand
Treasurer Secretary
Total
Refund e d through co11ecti ons:
$ 14,829.46 $ 14,829.46
Supplies purchased for resale·-··-······-···
Lodge officers' surety bond premiums ..
1,591.25
1,591.25
Refund to Lodges of prior year dues....
257.50
257.50
Total refundable ............................

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August l. 1951 to July 31. 1952

334,586.77

16,678.21

Administrative and office: (Schedule 3)

!riC~~::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::
:::::~~::
Grand Treasurer ........................................

Postage and express..................................
Telephone and telegraph..........................
Bo~ds, supplies and sundry......................
Social security and unemployment taxes
Investment counsel ···--··-·---·-·-··········-$
Total. administrative and office..

33,041.85
6,000.00
950.00
795.76
2,122.09
1,413.28
1,495.95
778.36
900.00

33,041.85
6,000.00
950.00
795.76
2,122.09
1,413.28
1,495.95
778.36
900.00
47,497.29

360

- - Disbursed by - Grand
Grand
Total
Treasurer Secretary
General expense: (Schedule 3)
500.00
Annual communication ···-·······················
Conferences ·····························-················· 1,500.00
Office equipment ----··························-···.
Grand Lodge officers' expense...............
400.00 t
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler............
Grand Master's travel expense........... _. 8,000.00
Grand Master's miscellaneous expense 2,250.00
Grand Lecturer's expense..·-····-········-···
Ritual Committee, travel expense....... .
Inspectors' aprons and stationery..........
Portrait of Grand Master·-············ ··-·-··
Printing ···-····-··--··-··-··- ······-··--····-····· 24,388.61
Pay of members..........·-·····························
Grand Master's Relief Fund....................
Retirement pay ···-····-·······························
Veterans' buttons ·--····--······-·····················
Microfilming expense ............................. .
Investment counsel for Lodges................ 3,000.00
Miscellaneous:
Grand Master's present.-··········-·········
Ceremonies Committee ................: .......
Expense-P. G. M.'s portraits............. .
Floater insurance Grand Lodge
equipment ............................................
Research Lod~es ............................. ...... .
Special comnuttee-Me ridian
Lodge No. 667 ........................·-···-······
War Program ......................................... .
Sundries ..................................................

6,941.64
2,231.24
1,781.14
4,699.69

600.00
8,469.82
980.61
. 375.00
19,329.25
90.22
1,834.40
900.00
1,977.99
3,083.18

7,441.64
3,731.24
1,781.14
4,699.69
400.00
8,000.00
2,250.00
600.00
8,469.82
980.61
375.00
19,329.25
24,478.83
1.834.40
900.00
1,977.99
3,083.18
3,000.00

500.00
25.70
41.89

500.00
25.70
41.89

412.18
30.50

412.18
30.50

52.43
120.87
1,015.60

52.43
120.87
1,015.60
$ 95,531.96

Total general expense................... .
Appropriations: (Schedule 3)
Activities Committee ·····-············-·········
Board of Control ........................................
125.00
Board of Relief (Bakersfield)..................
·····
Charters Committee ·······--········-········
Columbia Temple ...................................... 6,840.60
Constitution Month ················-················
Correspondence Committee ................... .
De Molay Committee ..............................,.
Employment Bureaus .............................. 16,004.00
Endowment Board .................................... 3,418.00
Information Committee ·······················-·····
Lodge Finance Committee..................... .
Public Schools Week...·-···-········-··-···-· ··
Publications Committee ......................... .
University Clubhouses, Berkeley
and Los Angeles............·-····-····-··········· 42,375.00
Hyam Monument·····························-·······
Trial expense-other jurisdictions....... .
Trial expense-Palos Verdes
Lodge No. 389..........................·--···········

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3,195.55
192.00
759.02
2,892.70 .
2,304.04

5,997.64
1,520.85
125.00
846.26
9,920.42
53.69
51.84
483.69
16,004.00
6,613.55
192.00
759.02
2,892.70
2,304.04

366.22
411.60

42,375.00
366.22
411.60

642.08

642.08

5,997.64
1,520.85
846.26
3,079.82
53.69
51,84
483.69

- - - Disbursed b y - - ·
· Grand
Grand
Total
Treasurer Secretary

Expenses refunded: (see receipts)
Masonic Homes salaries ·········-··············
Annual communications ···-····-···-···-·-··
Activities Committee·············-····-···········
Conferences ·····················-·························
Columbia Temple ·····-··-·-···-········· ·······
Grand Lodge officers' expense..............
Postage ·······················-·······························
···········-····-·········
Printing ····························
Reimbursement s to two Lodges for
duplicate payments to Endowment
Fund ···················-··· ·-·-·--···-···--·····
Miscellaneous expense ·--····-··..;-··-·······

7,500.00
198.38
324.64
612.59
183.09
2,172.21
280.94
209.96

7,500.00
198.38
324.64
612.59
183.09
2,172.21
280.94
209.96

351.50
129.58

351.50
129.58
11,962.89

Total expenses refunded..............
Advances to be refunded:
Public liability insurance..........·-···········
George Washington National Memorial:
Initiates' contributions ·········-·-·········-··· 9,021.00
Per capjta -··-··-··-····-·--···· ····-········-····· 29,994.30
Refunds to Lodges....................................
History :publication-ma iling costs............
Centennial celebrations ···--······-·················
Stocks and bonds purchased..·-··················· 143,441.44

12,178.25

12,178.25

54.00
92.73
18.12

9,021.00
29,994.30
54.00
92.73
18.12
143,441.44

Total disbursements ......................$292,157.95 $165,871.84 $458,029.79
Schedule 2

.

Statement of Grand Lodge Per Capita Dues Collected
From 1951 Annual Retums
During the Fi.sc:al Year Ended July 31, 1952
Degrees Conferred:

Number Per Capita
- - - · : . . . 8,951
Initiated
Passed -·--······--··-··. ..:.··-··-··-···-·- ···· 8,745
Raised ····-··-··--··-·······- ········-··-·········-·· ····· 8,909

Amount

Total -·-··---····-····- ·-··-····-·····-· 26,605
Master Masons:
Membership --·---··---··-·- ·---··---202,5 00
Deduct dues remitted..·-····- -·······-··-··-··· 2,538

@

$1.00

$ 26,605.00

Total dues paying members.................199,962

@

$1.10

219,958.20

Total appropriations ................... .

91,559.60

Total Grand Lodge dues as per
annual returns of 1951 ......•.............
Disposition of Revenue
Grand Lodge ···················-··-····-··--···-·····················-········-$216,1568.90
George Washington Masonic National Memorial
Fund 199,962 members @ 15c-·-········-····-·- -······-······· 39,994.30

Total disbursed for expenses......

251,267.06

Total as above__·-·-- ·-··-··--···-·-·· -····-

$246.563.20

$246,563.20

362

PROCEEDINGS OP THI!

Schedule 3
Comparison of Budge! and Expenditures
Year 1951-52
Appropriation Expended Under
Administrative and office:
Salaries ··-·--·-··--····-········-··-···$35,00 0.00 $33,041.85 $1,958.15
Rent ···········-······-································· .6,000.00 6,000.00
950.00
950.00
Audit ···········--····-·-···-··············-···
404.24
795.76
Grand Treasurer·····-························· 1,200.00
127.91
2,122.09
Postage and express......... _............... 2,250.00
86.72
Telephone and telegraph.....-........... 1,500.00 1,413.28
4.05
Bonds, supplies and sundry........... _. 1,500.00 1,495.95
Social security and unemployment
471.64
778.36
taxes·············-··---······--········--·--···----··--· 1,250.00
900.00
900.00
Investment counsel............................
Total administrative and office.... 50,550.00 47,497.29 3,052.71
General expense:
$1,941.64
Annual communication .................... 5,500.00 7,441.64
2,731.24
Conferences ........................................ 1,000.00 3,731.24
218.86
Office equipment .............................. 2,000.00 1,781.14
Grand Lodge of1icers' expense...... 6,500.00 4,699.69 1,800.31
400.00
400.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler....
1,000.00
Grand Master's travel expense. ____ 7,000.00 8,000.00
Grand Master's miscellaneous
500.00
expense ............................................ 1,750.00 2,250.00
600.00
600.00
Grand Lecturer's expense................
Ritual Committee's travel expense 9,500.00 8,469.82 1,030.18
19.39
980.61
Inspectors' aprons and stationery.. 1,000.00
475.00
850.00
375.00
Portrait, Grand Master....................
670.75
Printing ····-···---··-·······--···------····--····· 20,000.00 19,329.25
978.83
Pay of members ·········-·--···---··---····· 23,500.00 24,478.83
Grand Master's Relief Fund............ 2,000.00 1,834.40 . 165.60
900.00
900.00
Retirement pay ..................................
477.99
Veterans' buttons .............................. 1,500.00 1,977.99
416.82
Microfilming expense ...................... 3,500.00 3,083.18
Investment counsel for Lodges...... 3,000.00 3,000.00
300.83
Miscellaneous ·········-····-------····--····· 2,500.00 2,199.17
Total general expenses .................. 93,000.00

95,531.96 5,097.74 7,629.70

Appropriations:
2.36
Activities Committee ........................ 6,000.00 5,997.64
479.15
1,520.85
Board of Control ................................ 2,000.00
125.00
125.00
Boards of Relief (Bakersfield)........
153.74
846.26
Charters Committee _...................... 1,000.00
45.58
Columbia Temple .............................. 9,966.00 9,920.42
446.31
53.69
500.00
Constitution Month ..........................
448.16
51.84
500.00
Correspondence Committee ............
266.31
483.69
750.00
De Molay Committee ···-·······--·--··--·
Employment Bureaus ····--···-··-···--·· 16,.()04.00 16,004.00
Endowment Board ·······---·---··---··-· 8,000.00 6,613.55 1,386.45
50.00
50.00
History Committee ···········----···--····
308.00
192.00
500.00
Information Committee ·····--·--·····-···
40.98
759.02
800.00
Lodge Finance Committee ..............
107.30
Public Schools Week........................ 3,000.00 2,892.70

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Appropriation Expended Under
2,500.00 2,304.04
..................
195.96
Committee
Publications
University Clubhouses .................... 42,375.00 42,375.00
366.22
500.00
133.78
Hyam Monument ..............................
900.00
900.00
Lassen Burial Grounds ....................
411.60
Trial eJtpense-other jurisdictions
Trial expense-Palos Verdes
642.08
Lodge No. 389 ................................
Total appropriations ................ 95,470.00

363

411.60
642.08

91,559.60 4,964.08 1,053.68

Totals ··--·-····-··-····---··---------.239,020.00 234,588.85 13,114.53 8,683.38*
Authorized by Grand Master•............ 8,683.38
Total authorization ···-·······-················-247,703.38
Total expenditures ................................234,588.85
Unexpended appropriation ···-······-··-$13,114.53
*NOTE: Items not covered by the budget and expenditures in excess of
amount in budget were not paid until approved by the Grand Master.

Exhibit C
Grand Treasurer's
Siaiemeni of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
August 1. 1951 lo July 31. 1952
Cash Balance, August 1, 1951:.....................-········-····------·--······-' 33,883.13
Receipts
From the Grand Secretary..................................................$334,586.77
Interest and dividends..·-······--··---·········--·····---···--·--········--· 30,099.07
Sale of securities ·-··-··-··-----·-····--·-····---- ··-··· 210,265.62
Total receipts ····-···-····--············--···············--·--··-~--

574,951.46

Total to account for.·-·-····--··-·-·····-·-···Disbursements
Reimbursing Grand Secretary's operating fund ....... _... 165,871.84
Grand Treasurer's disbursements (Exhibit B) ............._ 292,157.95

608,834.59

Total disbursements ..............................................

458,029.79

Cash Balance, July 31, 1951:
t1Yica:il¥'15~ Com:panY···-··-··-··-·-····-·····- ·-······ 25,050.00
orma National Ban1t.·-··--······---····---· 78,326.31
go C
Bank of California........................................................... . 6,028.87
Crocker First National Bank. ......................................... 33,890.15
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Company................ 7,509.47 $150,804.80

364

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND AUDIT

Exhibit D
Grand Secretary's Resume of Cash Received
August l, 1951 to July 31, 1952

For Grand Lodge:
$ 334,586.77
Per capita dues, etc. (Exhibit B) ....·-·························
For the Masonic Homes: (Schedule 4)
Per capita dues ·····-··-········-············-············-····-··-····.$199,962.00
451,887.00
$25.00 contributiona ·····-················································· 251,925.00
For the Endowment Fund:
Donations and bequests................................................ 306,273.85
150.00
Check from La Habra Lodge No. 659..........................

306,423.85

Total received and transferred to Grand Treasurer................$1,092,897 .62

Schedule 4
Statement of Masonic Homes Per Capita and $25
Contributions Received
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
Per Capita Dues--1951 Annual Returns: ·
Membership -·-····----··-·-··--·--···· ···- 202,500
Deduct, dues remitted...·-······-····-·····- 2,538
Total dues paying members.................. 199,962 @ $

1.00 $199,962.00

$25.00 Homes Contributions:
Amount due per 1951 annual returm:
Initiations ·-·~--······-··· 8,951
Afiiliationa ···---·--· 730
54
E. A. and F. c_
Total·········-··-····-····· 9,735 @
Deduct, payments received in advance
of annual returns and reported in
1951 proceedings···-··-··--· ·····-·-········
Balance due on 1951 returns·-·-···-·······
Add, payments received in advance
of 1952 returns--,-·--··-·--· ·-·-······

$ 25.00

365

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$243,375.00

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the accounts and records of the MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1952 and submit herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Statement of Assets, July 31, 1952.
Exhibit B: Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements, August 1, 1951
to July 31, 1952.
Exhibit C: Statement of John and Lena Luckenbach Fund, July 31, 1952.
Exhibit D: Statement of Income and Capi.tal Accounts, for the Fiscal Year
ended July 31, 1952.
Schedule 1: Regular endowment fund securities owned, July 31, 1952.
Schedule 2: Securities redeemed and sold during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1952.
COMMENTS
Cash:
The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries.
All interest and dividends due from investments and saving bank accounts
were received by the Grand Treasurer and deposited in the bank accounts
of the Masonic Homes. The total income received by the Homes from the Endowment Fund amounted to $125,715.87.
Securities:
Securities on hand are listed on Schedule 1. Securities redeemed and sold
during the current year are listed on Schedule 2.
Bonds purchased are listed at actual cost. Donated securities are listed
at market value when received, or at a nominal value of $1.00 if the actual
value is unknown.
Certified lists of securities held for the account of the Endowment Fund
were received from the Anglo California National Bank. The records were
checked to these lists and the securities not listed were inspected by us at
the office of the Grand Secretary.
.
Liabilities:
A check for $150.00 was received from La Habra Lodge, No. 659 attached
to an Endowment Fund collection slip, and deposited in the Endowment
Fund. In August the Lodge claimed the check was an advance payment on
its 1952 annual return, therefore, the Endowment Fund owes the Lodge
$150.00 which we have shown as a liability on the Endowment Fund's State·
ment of Assets, Exhibit A.
Increase in Fund:
The combined assets of the Endowment Fund and the Luckenbach Fund
show the following increase for the current year:
Amount of funds, July 31, 1952...·-·······-····--···················-···• 4,591,614.71
Amount of funds, July 31, 1951....- ..- ..·-············--·--·········-· 4,244.715.81

171,625.00
71,750.00
180,175.00

Total contributions received
during the year 1951-52.. ·-··-···

251,925.00

Total cash received by the Grand
Secretary and turned over to the
Treasurer of the Homes·--·-··--··-·-

$451,887.00

346,898.90
Increase ····-··-··-··--·--··-···· -··-··---··-···-···-····· ·····"
The increase is accounted for as follows:
Cash donations and bequests ---··-··············································-$ 306,273.85
1.00
Securities by bequest ········-·······-····-··········-····-···-····-··-·······
40,624.05
Proflt on sale of securities........................·-············-···················
Increase ···------··-·-·----··-····-····-··-~---··-··-·····-··-'

346,898.90

367

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The donations received through Lodges were confirmed by correspondence
with the individual Lodges as at June 16, 1952.

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT-ENDOWMENT FUND
Exhibit A
Statement of Assets
July 31, 1952
Endowment Fund:
Cash in savings accounts:
Anglo California National Bank·····-·--·--·$ 227,240.54
50,604.18 $ 277,844.72
Pacific National Bank ......................................

366

Other Endowmen! Assets:
'f.he books of the Masonic Homes carry the record of the Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund. After the death of the beneficiaries of this
fund, the remainder will be transferred to the Endowment Fund. The Masonic Homes report shows that this fund had a balance of $20,154.81 as at
July 31, 1952.
· The Masonic Homes also hold several pieces of real estate for the account
of the Endowment Fund. Whenever a sale is made, the proceeds will be
deposited to the account of the Endowment Fund.
Certificate:
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund at July 31, 1952 in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

Securities at book value: ·
(For details see Schedule 1)
Bonds ···········-··-··-······················-················-····· 3,109,041.36
Stocks ···········-······-··-··········-··-······-······-······-· 1,126,005.66
14,569.14
Miscellaneous ·········-··········-····-····-··········-·······
Total ········-··-········--·································· 4,249,616.16
Less reserve for ammortization of
1,962.10
bond premiums -·-··········-···························
Net book value of securities.·--········--···

4,247,654.06

Total assets ............................................
Deduct liability to La Habra Lodge, No. 659..... .

$ 4,525,498.78
150.00

Net Endowment Fund assets...........- .......

$ 4,525,348.78

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund:
Cash in savings account:
Anglo California National bank···············-···
Securities at cost:
(For details see Exhibit C) ..............................

16,738.93
49,527.00

• Total Luckenbach Fund assets·-·······

66,265.93

Grand Total Endowment Fund Assets..·-···········

$ 4,591,614.71

Exhibit B
Statement of Cash Receipts and Disbursements
(Not Including "Luckenbach Fund" Exhibli C)
August l, 1951 :to July 31, 1952
Cash in Banks, August 1, 1951 --·---··----·-·---······ ··-' 717,802.03
·
Receipts
From the Grand Secretary:
Donations through Lodges ···········---.$267,502.18
Donations from individuals
1,635.00
and organizations -······················
Memorial donations -·-······-··············· 3,928.20
Bequests ·········-··-······-··-··········-········· 33,208.47 $306,273.85
Securities redeemed and sold:
(Schedule 2)
Bonds --··········-··-··-······················· 13,398.12
Stocks ···········-··-··········-················· 276,455.38
13.26
Sundry ···········-··-··-······-···············Notes ·······-··-······-··-······················· 1,165.42

291,032.18

368

From Masonic Homes for annual
amortization of bond premiums ·-···
Check from La Habra Lodge No. 659,
intended for $25.00 Homes
Contributions···-······-···-·-··············-···

Exhibit D
Statement of Income and Capital Accounts
For the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952

270.54
150.00
597,726.57

Total receipts ·-··-···········-··············
Total to account for ................
Disbursemenis
Securities purchased during current year:
.
.
On hand:
Bonds ·-····-··--··-··-········:···-········· 399,993.53
Stocks ·············-··-··················-·········596,918.50

369

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$ 1,315,528.60

Income Account:
Income received from Endowment Fund investments:
...f 124,231.92
.
Endowment Fund
1,754.49 $ 125,986.41
Luckenbach Fund....................................................

Deduct, annual amortization of bond premiums
restored to Endowment capital ..................................·-·········

270.54

Total income transferred to the Homes General Fund ·······-······· $ 125, 715.87

996,912.03

Capital Accounts:

Sold:
Stocks···································-···········
Payment to Masonic Homes for
interest on securities which
was added to redemption value ........
Transfer to Grand Lodge for account
of Triangle Lodge No. 548 per
resolution of Grand Lodge
Communication of 1951 ......................

Total
Endowment Luckenbach
Balance, August 1, 1951 ....................$4,177,882.09 $ 66,833.72 $ 4,244,715.81

36,479.87
3,773.28

518.70
1,037,6~3.88

Total disbursements ······-··············
Cash in Savings Account, July 31, 1952
Anglo California National Bank ......
Pacific National Bank ........................

227,240.54
50,604.18

$ 277,844.72

· Additions to Funds:
Donations and bequests:
Cash (Exhibit B) ....................
Securities (Schedule 1) ........

306,273.85
1.00

306,273.85
1.00

Total donations and bequests

306,274.85

306,274.85

Profit from sale of securities:
Proceeds (Schedule 2) ···--···
Less, book value ·-············-···

291,032.18
249,840.34

6,722.21
7,290.00

297,754.39
257,130.34

Net profit ..................................

41,191.84

(567.79)

40,624.05

Total additions ................

347,466.69

(567.79)

346,898.90

66,265.93

$ 4,591,614. 71

Balance, July 31, 1952....·-··-··-··-··-$ 4,525,348.78 $
Exhibit C
and Lena Luckenbach Fund"
"John
Statement of
July 31, 1952

Schedule 1
Regular Endowment Fund Securities Owned
July 31, 1952

Cash in Savings Account:
Anglo California National Bank ····--····--··-·-······-···-·-····------f 16,738.93
Securities:
Bonds:
$16,200 U. S. Savings Bonds series
F, 1957 ·······-··········-··-···-···········-··-$11,988.00
Increase in redemption value .......... 1,539.00
1,000 U. S. Savings Bonds,
series G, 21h%, 1954 ......................
35,000 U. S. Savings Bonds,
series G, 21h%, 1957 ......................

Total cost of securities ................

$13,527.00

1,000.00
35,000.00
49,527.00

Total Luckenbach Fund Cash and Securities ·-··································-···$66,265.93

Book Value
Bonds:
900 American Telephone & Telegraph Co. conv. deb. 31h%,
907.06
1964 -···-··---······················-··-··-··-··-···-·-··········---··-·-·····-.$
3,000 Central Public Utilities Corp., 20 year income, 5%%,
1.00
1952 ···-······················-······-······-··-··-··-· -··-··-··················-·····
44,999.81
45,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment, 2% %, 3/1/1960....... .
4,999,98
5,000 Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Equipment, 2%%, 9/1/1960 ....... .
5,688.70
5,000 Chicago Board of Education, 4% %, 1954............................
25,000 Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R.R., series K 3%,
24,786.82
1962 ............................................................................................. .
40,000 Illinois Central Equipment Trust, series 35, 2% %,
39,569.18
5/1/1962 ···········-··-··-······-······-··-··-··-···-· -······-········ ..·······
10,000 lliinois Central Equipment Trust, series 35, 2% %,
9,887.66
11/1/1962 ................................... - .............................................. .
25,000 Minn., St. Paul & S. Ste. Marie R.R. Equipment, 3%%,
24,847.76
1962 ································-···--··········-··-··············-·············-··-·
24,951.34
ali,000 Missouri Pacific R.R. Equipment, 3%%, 1961....................

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

25,000 New York Central R.R. Equipment Trust, 3%%, 1960 ....
25,000 New York Central R.R. Equipment Trust, 3%%, 1961 ....
25,000 Northern Pacific R.R. Equipment Trust, 3%, 1963 ..........
50,000 Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R.R. Equipment Trust, 2o/, %,
1961 ..............:.......·-······················-··············-·····························
50,000 Seaboard Air Line R.R. Equipment Trust, 2 'Va o/~ 1962 ....
50,000 St Louis-San Francisco Eqwpment Trust, 2%10, 1959 ..
5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series E, 1953 ···········-······-·················
130,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956 ·······-·····························
Increased redemption value E and F ·b onds ..........:...........
30,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1953 ....................... .
17,200 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1954 ···········-···········
85,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955 ·······-···············
100,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1957 ···-··········-······
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1958 ···-······-···········
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959 ··-····················
980,000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, z:th % , 1960 ···········-···········
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1961 ........................
722,000 U.S. Treasury Notes, series B, 1%%, 1955 ......................
160,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds Investment Series A, 21h%, 1!165..
165,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lf.i%, 1969-64 ·······-·························
12,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2% %, 1980-75 ···-······-······-·············
5,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 2lf.i%, 1972-67 ···················-··-·········
8,000 West Shore Railroad Co., 1st mortgage bonds, 4%, 2361..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Book Value
25,480.54
25,435.19 .
24,999.68
49,606.81
49,442.85
50,078.85
4,150.00
96,200.00
18,070.00
30,500.00
17,200.00
85,000.00
100,000.00
100,000.00
100,000.00
980,000.00
100,000.00
722,000.00
160,000.00
168,346.88
12,093.75
4,837.50
4,960.00

Total bonds -·-······-··--·---·-··-··-·-··-··-- ·--··-···--···• 3,109,041.36
Stock:
Shares of Preferred:
120 Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., 4% % ..•~-------·-·····-$
180 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 4%% ···················-··············-···
660 Commonwealth Edison Co., 1.32% ................................
180 Food Machinery Chemical Corp., 3% % ····-~---···············
10 Healdsburg General Hospital (donated) ......................
240 Liquid Carbonic 31h % -·-······-······-·------------··············-·
558 Pacific Gas and Electric Co., 6 % ···-·-··-·-·-··-··-·-96 Pacific Gas and Electric Co., 5 lh % ·······-··-··············-···
120 Pacific Gas and Electric Co., 5% ·······-···························
720 Philadelphia Electric Co. $1. conv. ···-··············-···········
660 Southern California Edison, 4.48% ···················-···········
180 United Aircraft, 5% ···········································-·············
420 York Corporation, 41h% ·······-······-··················-·············

12,586.45
18,068.40
20,685.00
17,543.07
1.00
18,544.66
15,855.75
2,430.00
3,060.00
18,347.19
18,943.34
19,680.41
17,161.76

Total preferred ---·-··-·--·----··.....-··-··-·-··-··-' 182,907 .03
Shares of Common:
1,370 Adams Figueroa Investment Co.....................................
600 Air Reduction Co., Inc. ···········-··········-·····························
60 American Telephone and Telegraph Co. ·····--······-·····
300 American Tobacco .............. ~·-······-··················-··············-·
600 Anglo California National Bank····-······························
300 Armstrong Cork ·······-······-··································-·············
300 Atlantic Refining Co. ···················-··················-···············
240 Bankers Trust Co. ·························-···································
360 Beatrice Foods Co...............................................................
240 Bendix Aviation Corp.···················-··········-··········-·········
360 Bethlehem Steel Corp. ·························-···························
180 Borg-Warner Corp.·····························-··-··············-·········
1,200 Central Hudson Gas & Electric Co...............................
600 Central & South West Corporation···········-··-.;;..··-·······

9,590.00
18,114.04
9,269.91
18,957.08
20,809.48
14,347.18
10,336.78
10,920.00
12,992.69
12,691.25
18,654.72
11,583.15
12,723.00
9,973.82

371
Book Value

300 Chase National Bank·················--··············-··········-·······
240 Chemical Bank & Trust Co. ···--·-··-···'"·-··-··-···-·-··-···
240 Cleveland Electric lliwninating Co. ··················.·-·······200 Columbian Carbon Company ···············-······-·······-·-·····
360 Consolidated Edison Co. of N. Y., Inc. ·············-··--·····
300 Container Corporation of America ···-·-··-··---;····-···
300 Continental Can Company, Inc. ···-··--·.:.···-·-··-·...:.........
300 Corn Products Reftnirig Co-·····-·-··································
200 Delaware Power & J.,ight Co. ···········-···················-·-·····
540 Detroit Edison Co. ···················-······-·································
364 Eastman Kodak Company ·······-·······································
225 Food Machinery & Chemical Corp.................................
240 General Electric Company ·······-·····--·-··········--------640 General Public Utilities Corp. ·····--·-······:·--····-···········
280 Gulf Oil Corporation ···-··········-··-······················-··-·······
180 Mercules Powder Company ········-·························-·······
300 Hershey Chocolate Corp. -·-········:·····-··-··-······""··-·······300 Illinois Power Company ..................................................
310 International Harvester Company ·-·····-··;..··-········-490 Kansas City Power & Light Co. ···-······-··--·-··-······-·····
300 Koppers Company, Inc, ____. '·-·:---··--··-··-·-····
600 Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Co........................................ .
180 Manufacturers Trust Co. ·······················-·························
360 Middle South Utilities, Inc. ·-········-······-·····--······-··..;.....
300 Minnesota Power & Light Co. ···-··-······-··········-······-···
600 Montana Power Co. ···-··········-··········-··--·-··-··-··-·······240 Montgomery Ward & Co.···-··-··-·--··-··-·-··-··-·············
25 J. P. Morgan & Co. ···········- ··············-···-·--·-··············-···
11 Mt. Olivet Cemetery Co. ···--·-··-··-··········-····--·--·········
240 National Cash Register Co. ··--·················-··-'·-··-··-·····
100 National Shawmut Bank of Boston..·-··-··········-···········
1,012 New England Electric System ....................:...................
528 New York State Electric & Gas ......................................
660 Niagara Mohawk Power ···················- ··-··-··--·-·············
125 North American Company---······················--·-··-·········
1,320 Northern States Power Co. ···-····-~----···-··-···········:··-~--396 Ohio Edison ···-·········-·········:····-······-············-········-·········
60 Owens-Corning Fibreglas Corp. ···-······-·······················
300 Owens-Illinois Glass Co.•.................................................
600 Pabco Products Co. ···················-··-··-······-··--·········-··-···
180 Pacific Gas & Electric Co...·--······-··-······-······-··-··-···
300 Pacific Mills ···················-··-······-··-······-·············--·······-···
360 Penick & Ford ··--··--···--·--·--·---·····---------···--··-··-·······
250 Phillips Petroleum Company -····-··············-··-·············
600 Public Service Electric & Gas Co·--·-·····-··--··-·········
528 Public Service Co. of Indiana ..........................................
315 Remington Rand, Inc........................................................ .
264 St. Joseph Lead Co ...........................................................
600 St. Regis Paper Co. ·····································-··················· ··
20 ·Security First National Bank of Los Angeles···-·········
377 Southern California Edison ·······················--·-··-······-·····
4 Southern Realty Co............................................................ .
600 Standard Brands, .Inc.......•......•...........:....· -····-·-·············
440 Standard Oil Co. of California ···-··-··········;..-····-···········
300 Sterling Drug, Inc.·····'·-··············-~·-················-··-·············
120 Texas Gulf Sulphur Co. ·--················-······-··············--·····
1,200 Title Insurance & Trust Co. ···············-··········-···············
300 Underwood Corporation ···-······-······-······-·····--·······-·····
360 Union Carbide & Carbon Corporation ···-·····················
300 Union Oil Company of California ···-······-·····················
. 583 United Gas Corporation ···-·····-··-······-··········-······:......

11,062.50
10,440.00
10,783.28
9,989.13
11,695.93
5,258.51
12,693.20
19,904.96
4,719.38
12,015.08
15,414.25
10,912.50
14,484.06
12.698.58
15,113.39
11,876.02
11,489.10
11,564.79
10,670.32
13,358.59
13,444.15
20,428.42
9,540.00
7,962.05
9,906.53
12,914.14
15,076.18
' 5,416.25
522.50
13,271.79
' 2,654.31
12,812.65
12,528.46
17,238.98
1,227.31
13,291.46
11,551.27
2,145.00
21,729.43
11,429.08
5,791.18
10,195.47
13,249.53
12,345.33
13,614.28
13,339.82
6,325.07
12,323.55
11,971.28
1,155.00
11,655.36
11.00
13,203.65
5,468.80
13,594.30
12,814.33
37,500.00
15,621.63
20,288.29
11,713.14
12,806.70

372

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Book Value
300 United Shoe Machinery Corp........................................ .
500 Westinghouse Electric Corporation ···········-······-·········
756 Wisconsin Electric Power Co. ·····················--···············
57 Various Masonic Temple Associations, donated,
at nominal value ···-······-······-··············-······-···················

13,8115.94
18,532.64
13,504.71

Total common ·································-························-·······

943,098.63

21.00

Total stocks-·-·--·-·-······---··--··-··--·-··-··-' 1,126,005.66
Miscellaneous Securities:
Fraternal Death Certificates:
9 Al Malaik:ah Auditorium Co., @ $100 par........
1 Ben Ali Mystic Fund.............. ·-·····························
1 Masonic Temple Assn. of Sacramento
@ $100 par •.......................................................
1 Oakland Lodge of Perfection, No.2,@ $20 par

Insurance Policies:
$ 500 New York Life Insurance Co..•.......•......
1,000 Reliance Life Insurance Co•....:···················

9.00
1.00
1.00
1.00

12.00

1.00
1.00

2.00

Notes:
Harold R. & Elizabeth P. Haugen..................·-·- 5,448.96
Melvin C. Hobson..·-··-··-········································· 6,504.02
A R. Hummell···-······-······-··-··-··················--··-··· 2,600.16
Sundry:
Oil & Gas Lease, Western Gulf Oil Co•..·-···········
Lease to Shell Oil Co., Long Beach...•..·-··-···········

1.00
1.00

360 American Home Products ···-··-··-·-··-······-··-····················· 13,621.31
1,200 American Radiator & Standard Sanitary Corp................... 18,740.79
300 Anaconda Copper -·-··-······-··-··············-······-·····-·-··-··········· 13,758.82
300 Anchor Hocking Glass Corp.···-······-··········-························· 9,307.52
360 Best & Co. ···-······-···········-··-·--······················-··-·········-···· 9,974.50
400 California Packing Corp. ···-··········-·······-·-·······-·-··············· 9,812.52
50 Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co•.•·-··-····························-··· 1,502.10
300 'Commercial Credit Company···············-······-··-··-··············· 18,834.85
200 Continental Can Company, Inc. 4¥4%, Pfd.•.....·-··············· 23,002.06•
28 Deere & Co. Pfd. ········--··-···---·-·-··--·······-·-··········-··· 860.67
360 Glidden Co., 4'.lh%, Pfd...·--·-···········-··-····--··-·······-···· 21,461.24
180 Jewel Tea Company ···-······-··-··-············--······-··················· 12,108.30
31 Kansas Power & Light Co...·-······-···-·-···-·············-···········
490.72
20 Central Investment Company (L. A Biltmore Hotel) .... 20,047.06
90 Middle South Utilities, Inc. ···-······-·--·-······-··········-··········· 1,767.16
300 National Cash Register···························-··-··········---······•···· 17,083.33
360 Otis Elevator -·-··-····--··-··-·-··-····-··-······-··--·-··-··-······ 13,107.19
321'.lh Pacific Western Oil Corp••.·---··-········-········-······-··-···-·--· 6,281.40
37 Potomac Electric Power Co•......·-··-··-··-······-·········-··-·······
534.56
192 . Public Service Electric & Gas Co.·--······-··-··-·-·•···--··· -4,521.38
180 Sunshine Biscuits·-····-·-···········-·-··-·-······-····-······-··-······· 11,828.00
258.50
12 West Kentucky Coal Co.-----···----·····-·-··-····-----·······
Sale of various rights --············-····-·······-·-··-··-····-·······················
283.07
Sundry:
Trustees Certificate, Bond & Mortgage Guarantee Co......·-········
13.26
Notess
Payments received on notes.--·-···---··--····-······-··-··-····-··-······-··· 1,165.42

14,553.14

2.00

Total miscellaneous securities ....................

14,569.14

Total Securities on Hand, July 31, 1952..·-···-···-······-·-

$4,249,616.16

Schedule 2
Securities Redeemed and Sold
During the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
Endowment Fund
Net Proceeds
Bonds:
$2,175 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1954..·-······-··················-·······• 1,960.25
4,025 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1955-·-··-···················-·-··-··· 3,569.85
8,500 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F. 1956-·-··-······-·-··-··---······· 7,286.02
582.00
750 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1960...............·-·-······-··:········
Stocks:
Shares:
148 Air Reduction Co.,
Pfd...·-···-····-·········-···-··········-··· 16,286.63•
300 Allied Chemical & Die---··-·-···-·············-····--·--··--··· 20,705.44
100 Allis Chalmers, 3y,., Pfd...·-··-··········-······-·--··---·-·-·- 10,276.26

'*"

373

Total Proceeds --·-······-··-··-···--·---········-········ ....··········-··-··...······f291,032.18
Luckenbach Fund
Bonds:
$9,000 N'orthern Pacific Railway Co., General Lien, 3%, 2047 $ 6,722.21
•Note: Purchased during current year.

374

375

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

Investments Sl.255,269.77:
The securities and other investments owned, and those held in trust, b;y
the Masonic Homes are listed in detail on Schedule 1. The Trust Fund securJ.ties on the list are coded in order to maintain each fund's identity. The Trust
Funds' securities are carried in separate portfolios and separate bank accounts are maintained in order to account for each trust fund in accordance
. .
with its agreement.
Bonds and stocks purchased are listed at cost; donated securities are
listed at market value when received, if known, otherwise at a nominal value
of $1.00. Life insurance policies are recorded at the amount due. at the death
of the insured, if determinable and the premiums are fully paid up, otherwise at a value of $1.00.
The notes and contracts receivable were received from the sale of donated property and are listed at the unpaid balance as at July 31, 1952.
Monthly payments of principal and interest have been received.
All bonds, stocks and notes ~re h~d by the Anglo CalifoI?lla. National
Bank and were verified by a certified list from the bank. The life insurance
policies and real estate deeds are held in the office of the Grand Secretary and
were inspected by us.
Properties $2,913,105.95:
The value of the properties as shown, is the cost !>f the homes at ~ecoto
and Covina. During the current rear $31,082.89 was paid f?r the completion of
the employees' cottages at Covina and $1,000.00 was paid to start the construction of the superintendent's house at Decoto. These current payments
were made from the Reserve for Additions and Replacements.
Funds Held in Trust $437,028.83:
With the exception of the Residents' Deposits._ these funds were crea.te!l
by donation or by bequest to the Homes for a particular ·purpose. The actiyities of each fund during the current year are shown oi:i our Schedul~ 2. All income due on the investments of these funds was received and credited to the
proper fund. Annuity payments were made as called for by the contracts
carried by the Flint Annuity and Wadleigh Endowment Funds. Payments
from the other trust funds are in accordance with the a~ements. The
Residents' Dl:!posits are personal money of the Decoto residents and the
Covina children deposited in bank accounts by the superintendents for safekeeping. The Wadleigh Endowment Fund is to be traJl!lferred to the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund after the death of the annuitants.

Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California
Gentlemen:
We have audited the books of account and records of the MASONIC
HOMES OF CALIFORNIA for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1952 and submit herewith the following statements:
Exhibit A: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1952
Schedule 1: Statement of Securities, July 31, 1952.
. Schedule 2: Statement of Funds held in Trust.
Schedule 3: Statement of Funds held for Special Purposes.
Exhibit B: Statement of Revenue and Expense for the Fiscal Year ended
June 31, 1952
. Exhibit C: Statement of Direct Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit D: Statement of Direct Operating Expense-Covina.
Exhibit E: Detailed Operating Expense-Decoto.
Exhibit F: Detailed Operating Expense-Covina.
Comments
Cash $485,032.12:
·All recorded receipts were properly accounted for and deposited in the
proper funds bank accounts. The bank balances were verified by correspondence with the depositaries. The total cash as shown on the Balance Sheet,
Exhibit A, is made up of the following accounts:
Treasurer's accounts:
American Trust Company, commercial·-······················-············-$ 85,443.97
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co., commercial.................. 42,618.75
Anglo California National Bank, savings......................................310,108.74
Bank of America, savings .......---------------------------------------------·------· 6,122.31
Operating accounts:
Decoto--Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust CO------··-··---·--··· 8,242.09
Covina-Security First National Bank..........·--------------·--·-·- 2,878.43
Covina National B~----·-·-·---------------·-·-···--·--- 3,449.42
·
·
Revolving funds: 500.00
Decoto ·-··-··----·------·-··----------·---'-·--------·-"·-··---··-----·····
Covina ....................................................... _......................................... 1,500.00
1,876.05
Covina..................................
and
Decoto
from
Deposits in transit
Total general fund cash.............._ .....................................- 462,739.76
Trust Funds--Treasurer's accounts:
Anglo California National Bank:
C. N. Flint Trust Fund..----··-····--·-··--··-·-----··---C. N. Flint Annuity
Wadleigh Endowment
Scholarship Fund .............- ............................................ - ...........
Trust Funds-Superintendents' accounts:
Central Bank, Niles, Decoto, Covina children............................
Covina National Banlt, Covina children......................................

-Fund.------------------·--·--··
Fund..-----·-------·--·-·-·----·-

1,644.37
3,924.37
154,81
5,736.66
6,122.59
4,709.56

Total trust funds ________________ ...........-.......................... 22,292.36
Total cash on hand and in banks................................$485,032.12

Funds Held for Special Purposes $836,913.02
These funds were created by the Board of Trustees to receive donations
and bequests which are to be used for purposes other than the direct operating expenses of the Homes. The activities of these funds during the current
year are shown on our Schedule 3.
Total Funds of the Homes $4.639,430.79:
A summary of all funds of the Masonic Homes as at July 31, 1952 is

shoHo:~~~~neral J!'.und..........................................................................$3,400,~.~~
C. N. Fl!Jlt Annuity Fund..................................................................
C. N. Fhnt Trust Fund........................................................................
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund................
Students' Loan and Scholarship
Covina Special Fund..... _...................................................................
Decoto _Special Fund..........................................................................
Entertainment Fund .......................................-.................................
Funeral Fund......................................................................................
Reserve for Additions and Replacements......................................
Unappropriated Reserve····-------------··-·---······-··--··------···-

Fund...-....;....-.........................

g

2• ·
2 0,426 .96
20,oog.oo
59,45 .73
127,087.05
i~·gg~·~~

• :00
43, 350
370, 732. 27
198,117.13

Total -·-----·----------------..ff.839,G0.79

376

Revenue and Expense:
A detailed audit was made of the revenue and expense accounts and we
satisfied ourselves as to the general correctness of the accounting records.
The Endowment Fund income received by the Homes is in agreement with
the Endowment Fund audit report. All interest and dividends due on the investments were receive<!. The records of the contributions through Lodges
were examined and the amounts received appear to be all that can be collected. All disbursements were made by checks and supported by proper
vouchers.
The 1951 annual returns from the Lodges were audited and the $25.00
contributions due thereon, plus the contributions received up to July 31 1952
agree with the amount turned over to the Treasurer by the Grand Sec~etary'.
The per capita on 199,962 members at $1.00, in amount $199,962.00, was also
received ·b y the Treasurer from the Grand Secretary.
The operations of the Masonic Homes resulted in an excess· of revenue
over expense amounting to $112,999.95 as shown by Exhibit B.
Certificate:
In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly the financial
position of the Masonic Homes of California at July 31, 1952 and the result
of its operations for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1952, in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles.
Respectfully submitted,
BURROWS & PARKER
Certified Public Accountants
Walter A. Parker

Exhibit A
Balance Sheet July 31, 19&2

,Aueis2
Cash on hand and in banks..---··-··--··-··-..---··-··
Accounts Receivable:
Employees, children and others.·-·-··-·--- ·
Investments (Schedule 1) ....................................... -...
Properties: (at cost-no depreciation taken)
·
Land, buildings and equipment-Decoto..............$2,259,109.52
Land, buildings and equipment-Covina.... ........ 653,996.43

$ 485,032.12
761.70
1,255,269.77
2,913,105.95

Stores and Supplies:

g:°in~ ==::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Total assets ..............................................

17,171U7
9,452.48

26,628.65
$4,680, 798.19

Liabllltl•, R•ervea and Capital
Accounts Payable ............................... .
Funds held in Trust (Schedule 2) ......
Funds Reserved for Special
Purposes (Schedule 3) ...- .............
Total liabilities and reserves

377

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$

6,661.13
437,028.83
836,913.02

1,280,602.98

Capltal1
Balance, August 1, 1951................

$3,225,112.37

A~~w buildings at Covina............$ 31,082.89

New buildings at Decoto............ 1,000.00
Excess of revenue over expense
for the fl.seal year 1951-52
(Exhibit B) ................................ 112,999.95
Total .....,_..........................- .....

145,082.84

Balance, July 31, 1952.........- ...........
Total liabilities, reserves and capital. ...... .

3,400,195.21
$4,680,798.19

Schedule 1
STATEMENT OF SECURITIES OWNED
July 31, 1952
Bonds:

$

Book Value
300 American T. & T. Co., 31h%, 1964.........- ...............$
300.00
5 000 810 South Spring Building Co., 5%, 1956................
4,450.00
5'000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 3%, 1970........................
5,100.00-S
4'000 Southern California Gas Co., 3l/4%, 1970..............
4,270.00-S
5'000 Southern Counties Gas Co., 3%, 1971......................
5,150.00-S
42:000 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956.:........:...............
31,080.00-FA
125,675 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1956..........................
93,388.95--Fl'F
10,100 U. S. Savings Bonds, setjes F, 1957..........................
7,474.0a-: A
13,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1957..........................
9,990.0&=FT
2,200 U. S. Savings Bonds, series F, 1959..........................
1,628.0 FT
Increased redemption value of F bonds................
6,366.50-FA
Increased redemption value of F bonds..................
17,642.52-FT
1,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1953..............
1,000.00
1,000 U.S. Sav!ngs Bonds, ser~es G, 21h%, 1954..............
1,000.00-FA
8,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1954........,.....
8,000.00-FT
10 100 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955.............. · 10,100.00
10:000 tr. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955..............
10,000.00-FT
5,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1955..............
5,000.00-S
1,600 U. S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h %, 1956..............
1,600.00
100,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957.............. 100,000.00
42,600 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1957.-,--·····42,600.00-;FA
18,300 U.S. Sav~gs Bonds, ser~es G, 21h%, 1957..............
18,300.00-FT
7,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, senes G, 21h%, 1958..............
7,500.00-FT
103,500 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959.............. 103,405.00 p
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1959..............
10,000.0015,300 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960..............
15,300.00
10,000 U.S. Savings Bonds, series G, 21h%, 1960..............
10,000.0010,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1964-69......................
10,000. 00
4,000 U. S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70......................
4,157.50-FTS
10,500 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70.........._.........
10,372.0310,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965-70......................
10,000.00-W
5,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1965....•.....-...............
5,000.00-S
1,000 U.S. Treasury Bonds, 21h%, 1967-72......................
1,000.00

!f

Total bonds -----····-··-----·····-···· ···-···-···-:····Less reserve for amortization of bond premium

571,174.50
187.96

Net book value----··-·--·-······--.;.........--..-'··--

570,986.54

378

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

Stocki:
Shares of Preferred:
~~ ~gheny Ludlum Steel Corp., 4%% ......................$
C our & Co. $6.00.......................................................
75 Canada Dry Ginger Ale, 4% %-········--·-···--·-·····:
27 F ornmMnwealth Edison Co., 1.32% ............................
7 Lfo~id C~~'ii1fc 'b~~~ical Corp., 3lj4 %--·········-·······
lOO
q
, lh% ..........................................
~acme Gas & Electric co., 5% ....................................
1
5 3
167 P:~i1i~
~f~~gf~ Co., 63
lh ·····-···············-··-···
527 Paci1ic Gas & Electric go., 6 ···························-·----·-·
3
PhiladelPhia Electric Co.,
300 S
o., $1.00·········-···-···············------................................. .
Southern California Edison Co., 4.32% ...........•........
outhern California Edison Co., 4.48% ....................
~~g ~ou~ern Calµorn!a Edison Co., 4.32% ....•...............
Uo~ ern Califorrua Edison Co., 4.48% ...................•
22 ruted Aircraft Corp., 5% .•·--········-···-···-······-··--···
175 York Corp., 4lh%----··-····-·-·····-·····-···-···········-···

g
gg

8: t

an

Total preferred..·-····-····-·········-···-····-··········-·······
Shares of Common:
250 Air R~duction Co•...·-··-········--·-·-····-···-··-······
~g !:~~~: ~~~!'hone & Te~egraph Co••........._.....•....
cco Co•.·-·-···-·-··-·-·············--·······
100 American Trust Co.....·-···-···-··-····-··-··········-····-·······
112 Amigos Oil Co•........·-····-··-··-········-········-··················
250 Anglo California National Bank................................
125 Armstrong Cork Co.••·--··········-··--·-·············-··-·-···
175 Atlantic Refining Co...·-···--··-····--··-···-·-··--···
161 Bank of America N.T.&S.A.....•....- ......-.......................
531 Bank of America N.T.&S.A.........................................
100 Bankers Trust Co........·--·-·-·-··-·············-·-·----··--·-·---·····-·
150 Beatrice Foods Corp..•·-····-·--······-··-···--···-·-···-··-·
100 Bendix Aviation Corp...................................................
25 Bethlehem Steel Corp.·-··-······-····-···-·········--···-·····
75 Borg Warner Corp.........................................................
250 Central & Southwest Corp........................................._
500 Central Hudson Gas & Electric Co.................•...........
125 Chase National Bank........·--··--····-··-················-····
100 Chemical Bank & Trust Co....·--··--····-·········-··-··:
100 Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co...........................
125 Columbian Carbon Co·--·--···---············-..··--·····
150 Consolidated Edison Co•..·-··········-······-········-········-·
125 Container Corporation ot America............................
125 Continental Can Co... ·-·-·----·--·--·-·-·-····-········---------····---100 Corn Exchange Bank & Trust C.o..........·-····-···-·····
125 Corn Products Refining Co...........................................
30 Covina Irrigating Co....- ............................·--·--·······
~e~a~f:E J?ower & Light co.......................................
2
e ro1 dISon Co... ---------··········-··-·-·--··-·-····-·-··-··-··-·-··-··
1 Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn...............................
110 Eastman Kodak Co.....-....................................................
1,200 Ewa Plantation .Co.........................................................
200 ;Food Machinezy & Chemical Co.................................
100 General Eleetr1c Co.·--···-----·-·········--·········-············-······
266 General Public Utilities Corp..•.....•.·-····-···············40 Glendora Water Co.-..............;..............·-··-··-·-·······75 Gulf Oil Corp·······--·-·······-·--·-·········-·················-······-·····--·
75 Hercules Powder Co...·-······-··-··-··----·--·-·····

1

gg

379

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5,250.00
600.00
7,528.60
8,618.75
7,246.68
8,035.60 .
1,275.00
4,869.75
5,346.25
14,000.00-S
7,644.69
1,240.88
9,352.77
2,500.00-S
2,500.00-S
2,715.47
6,937.69
95,662.13

7,536.38
4,085.83
7,831.85
4,918.79
1.00
8,671.15
6,570.31
4,313.30
1,427.11
8,321.21-FT
4,550.00
5,429.08
5,282.45
1,272.07
4,828.86
4,149.31
5,327.30
4,609.38
4,350.00
5,019.49
5,907.10
4,880.88
4,666.00
5,295.42
6,469.37
8,362.28
32.50
1,220.98
5,023.73
1.00
4,619.09
20,400.00
7,584.22-FT
6,008.18
5,282.58
1,000.00
3,993.27
5,031.76

125 Hershey Chocolate Corp........ _ ............:--··-·-····-···
103 Home Insurance Co. of New York...............·-········-·
125 Illinois Power Co...........................................................
1,430 Imperial Oil, Ltd...·-··-·--·-·······-·-·····-····-····-·····---~
200 International Harvester Co..........................................
204 Kansas City Power & Light Co...................................
125 Koppers, Inc..............................................................:: ......
7,160 Kutz Canon Oil & Gas Co'··-··-··-····-··-··-··...:..__
250 Libbey Owens Ford Glass Co.~........_.:..•_ . __.:....- ..
100 Lone Star Gas Co...............·-·-··-·-···-•····-··-·····-~;•.
75 Manufacturers Trust Co•..-•-···..·-··························-···
6 Masonic Hall Assn. of Alameda................................. .
16 Masonic Temple Assn. of Fruitvale..........................
2 Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton...·-······················
150 Middle South Utilities, Inc...........·-······················-·····
125 Minnesota Power Co.....................................................
250 Montana Power Co••- - -..-·-·-·-···-··-·--..-···
100 Montgomery Ward & Co•.•.•••·-··-·-·-··------··
100 National Cash Register Co.............- ......;.-.........
421 New England Electric System....................................
220 New York State Electric & Gas Co...........................
275 Niagara Mohawk Power Co.........................- ......:....
550 Northern States Power Co.............;...................-·-·····
165 Ohio Edison Co...................................................~----··-·
25 Owens Corning Fiberglas Corp...................................
250 Pabco Products, Inc..................................- .........;.........
330 Paci1ic Gas & Electric Co.............................................
125 Pacific Mills..............................·-··-·····-·········-·--····-150 Penick & Ford, Ltd...·--··-··-··················-··-····-··
200 Phillips Petroleum ·Co•......·-······-··-··-····-··--..--····-·
250 Public Service Electric & Gas Co.................·-·········220 Public Service Co. of Indiana..·---·-···-··--···-···-·····
131 l/4 Remington Rand, Inc·-···-···--·_':··--··-····--~----···
525 Remington Rand, Inc-······-······-··········-··-······-··--·····
1,629 River Farms Co. of California......;.:..................·-··-···
110 St. Joseph Lead Co..........................................................
250 St. Regis Paper Co·---··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-·····--5lh San Dimas Co................................................................ .
160 Security First National Bank of Los Angeles..·-·····
150 Southern California Edison Co..................- .............
253 Southern Realty Co·-·-·--··-··-··-·-..-·---·-.........
250 Standard Brands, Inc...................................- ......-.......
114 Standard Oil Co. of California.........................- .........
125 Sterling Drug Co.............................................................
50 Texas Gulf Sulphur Co..................·--··--····-·---·-··
626lh Transamerica Corp.........................................................
500 Transamerica Corp.......·--··-····-··-·------·--·125 Underwood Corp .............................................................
150 Union Carbide & Carbon Corp...................................
125 Union Oil Co., of California..........................................
225 United Gas Corp.............................................................
125 United Shoe Machinery Corp.....................................
1,200 Waialua Agricultural Co., Ltd.................................... .
100 Walworth Co...................................................................
125 Westinghouse Electric Co--···-··-··--·--···-····-·307 Wisconsin Electric Power Co·-·-····-····--····-········--

4,792.15
3,350.00
4,237.63
. 24,347.92
6,780.02-FT
5,601.77
5,591.21
1,432.00
8,524.76
2,400.00
3,975.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
3,335.55
4,139.26
5,387.28
6,278.29
5,532.50
5,330.69
5,199.26
7,098.45
5,525.71
4,795.00
893.75
4,250.00
10,428.69
4,258.53
5,807.52
8,160.73-FT
5,568.84
5,558.26
2,649.02
. 9,134.68-FT
48,870.00 .
5,140.03
4,979.08
1,072.50
8,850.00-FT
5,127.58
399.00-FT
5,603.87
3,520.70
5,662.95
5,376.20
10,061.94
5,873.25-FT
6,535.62
8,460.68
4,885.63
5,477.12
5,790.16
10,200.00
475.00
4,470.65
5,562.10

Total common....•.·-··-········--······--··-··-··········-·

537,034.76

Total stocks.•.- ..-·-··-·-··-···-····-······-····--·

632,696.89

380

Inaurance Policies:
Acacia Life Insurance Co.............................................................
Bankers National Life Insurance Co.........................................
Electrical Workers Benefit Assn...............................................
Equitable Life Assurance Society..............................................
General American Life Insurance Society............................. .
G. L A. Relief Assn. to B. of L. E.-2 policies....................... .
Homesteaders Life Assn.-2 policies........................................
Kansu City Life Insurance Co...................................................
Locomotive Engineers Mutual Life and
Accident Insurance .Assn.-··-··----·-·-······-··-······---·····
Low Twelve Club of the 87th District....................___ ...........
Manufacturers Life Insurance Co·--··-··-··-·-·---..-·..- ...
Marin Mutual Benefit .Assn.--··-------··-- --...
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.-12 policies--··--·-·
New York Life Insurance Co•..•---·-·-·-·-·-..-·--····
Parnassus Mutual Benefit Fund·--··-··---·---·-..-·
Paul Revere Life Insurance Co......................._ .._ ..................
Prudential Insurance Co. of America-23 policies................
Reliance Life Insurance Co. of Pittaburlh-.-··-·-···--··State Mutual Insurance Co ....................................................... ..
Sun Life Assurance Co. of Canada. ......................................... ..
Travelers Insurance Co. of Hartford, CoDn..-......____......
Travelers, Aetna &: Equitable Insurance Co.....- ..............-.
United Benefit Life Insurance Co....................- -..···-··-·--..
Widows and Orphans Fund:
····-··-·-··-······-··-·-·-······
Alhambra --·····---··-··--····-··-..................................
- ..........
California Bodies Scottish Rite.
Williams Funeral Chapel.............. _____________ ,___....... _
Women's Benefit Assn..................................-···-··-·--·--·Total insurance pollciea................. _,, ___.......
Notes and Contracts llecelTable:
Agers, William H. and Lucile C............................................._.
Baumgartner, May Parker.......----·-··--··------·Boucher, Claudia.........- .....- ........................._ .......-·-··...
Evanson, Herman 0. and Sara L .... _ ....................·--··-··--···
Ervin, Artis and Annie Lee..._. _ _ _:_.•...._ •. ____ ...
Fagnani, Joseph F. and Ediht.---·-··-·------·- -·
Gordon, Francis C. and Betty M..............·--··-···----··-·
Miller, Bradstreet and CaroL.......·-·-···-----··-··-·-···
Wilson, Richard and Rosetta..........---··-·--·--····-··-Total notes and contracts receivable................

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

118,90
1.00
1.00
1.00
471.78
1.00
2.00
1.00

Schedule 2
Statement of Funds Held in Trust for the
Fiscal Year Ended July 31. 1952
C. N. Flinl Annuity Fund

----·---.$

90,537.37
Balance August 1, 1951_..
Add, interest from investmenta.•.- - - - - - - - -..-·----··- 2,507.50

693.00
1.00
1.00
1.00
906.00
2,000.00
1.00
259.00
1,907.00
2415.84
1.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1.00
1.00

Total --··-··--·--··-··-·--····-·-·-- ·-··----··-···········- 93,044.87
600.00
Deduct, payments on contract...............--··-··-·"'.'----··-·-····--·······

1.00
1.00
200.00
1.00

George N. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
20,000.00
Balance, August 1, 1951
250.00
-----·---··-Add, interest from investmenta

8,818.52

Total -··-··-·····-···--·····--·..·-·-·······-··-·········..·······-····-·:..... 20,250.00
Deduct, transfer of net yield from investments
250.00
to Decoto Special Fund.•..•.....·-····--····-···-·--··-······-···-······-······--···
Balance, July 31, 1952..,.,_._ _ _.. ____________..............$ 20,000.00

3,558.41
400.00
4,333.25
5,821.19
3,692.73
2,750.00
3,890.76
11,770.13-FT
3,702.35
39,918.8%

Miscellaneous:
7 Letters of PatenL........................- ...........................................
Real estate, unimproved, 23 parcels..........._ .............- ...........
Real estate, improved-..- ........................................................
Real estate held for the Endowment Fund..-···--··---··

:Nu
23.00
2,700.00
126.00

Total miacellaneous......................._ ...........___ _

2,849.00

TOTAL SECURITIF.S ON HAND, JULY 31, 1952....................$1,255,269.77
NOTE: The above consolidated statement includes securities carried in
separate portfolios, as coded, for the following trust funds:
FT-C. N. Flint Trust Fund
FA-C. N. Flint Annuity Fund
P -George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment Fund
W -Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
S -Scholarship Fund

--··-------·----··-- ···...$ 92,444.87

Balance, July 31, 1952...-...

C. N. Flint Trust Fund

Balance, August 11 195L.....·-··-----··_;.-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-··· -····..······-$230,428.96
Add dividends ana interest from investments....:................................... 8,967.92
Total--·---··---·-·-·-·- -·-----·--·-·····-·--······· 239,394.88
.
Deduct, transfer of net yield from investments to
Decoto Special Fund-..·--··~·-----·---·--····-······ 8,967.92
Balance, July 31, 1952.........-·-··--·-··--···--······-··-····-·· -..·-·-·--·.$230,"28.98

·------·--··--·.$

•
Students' Loan and Scholarahlp Fund
_ _ _ _ _ _ ;,.______........$ 62,037.44
Balance, August 1, lNl

.

~=

Dividends and interest from investments....................$ 2,173.23
17.76
Less, reserve for amortization of bond premiums

2,155.47
60.00

Loan paymenL--·---- ----

64,252.91

Total·-··---·-·-···--·· --··-·-··-··---···
Deduct:
Disbursed for educational purposes.·-············-·····-····· 4,677.49
124.69
Loss on sale of. securities.....---··--··········-···-···-··-···
Balance, July 31. 1912

4,802.18
$ 59,450.73

Harriet C. Wadleigh Endowment Annuily Fund

1911---·--·-- --··----'

20,974.70
Balance, August 1,
530.11
Add, interest from investments....•.·-··--·-····--····-··--··-·---·-······· ··
· - - - - - · · - - - - - - 21,504.81
.
Total
Deduct, payments on contract...-·--·-··--·---· ··-·--..··----· 1,350.00
·Balance, July 31, ltDl....·---·-···------··-·-···· ·.....----..

--t 20,154.81

382

383

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Be1iden:t1' Deposits

Funeral Fund

Decoto resident&-·-··-------··-·-·-··-.:.-~---·····-····-··-···········$ 9,715.90
Covina children......---··-·--··----··--··---····-······ ···-···-··········-· 4, 709.56
T o t a l - · - · · · - - - - - ------··--··----' 14,425.46

Balance, August 1, 1951...·-····-··-··--··-··--····-· --··-··-··--··-·-·* 46, 704.14
Add, receipts from Unappropriated Reserve..........·-··-···--··-····-··-·· 1,749.58

Balance, July 31, 1952••·-··-------··--··-·---·----··---~·--' 43,350.00

Endowment Fund

Real estate_________

,..-----·--·------~----.$

126.00

Total funds held in trusL..·--·-·--··-····-····-··--·-·············$4 37,028.83
Note: Separate bank accounts and securities portfolios are
maintained for these funds.

Sta:temen:t of Funds Held for Special PurposH
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952

Covina Special Fund

Balance, August 1, 195L·---····--·-·-··-··-·· -·--·----·····-' 84,942.01
Add:
.
Bequests .......
----~·-··-·-······-··--' 62,138.43
·
Contributions --··---··--·-···-···-··-···-···- --··-· 1,309.12
63,447.55
Purchase of Chevrolet station wagon....·-·-·······-········· 2,256.52
Purchase of Willys truck. ................................................. 1,386.99
Purchase of bookkeeping machine....................... _....... 1,854.00
639.29
Purchase of 2 television sets----··--··----·---·
Purchase of furniture and equipment....___ .:. ..__ 11,213.04
Purchase of 2 hogs...................-........................................ .
714.14
Swinuning pool alterations................... _.........................
587.78
Painting boys' dormitory................................................. .
350.00
. 98.50
Weed-spraying barbecue are&.--···-···-···-··-·-·······52.50
High school student body cards-·-··--··--·---···
955.48
Music instruction......·-················································-·····
235.10
Ceramics instruction..·-··-····-················-······-·················
422.00
Moving picture expense..·-··········-······-···························
108.15
Aerial photographs..........·-···············································
21,302.51
429.02
Sundries ···--···--··-···----····-··-······-·--···· -····-·········
Balance, July 31, 1952.
$127,087.05

·---·-·---·--

En:ter:tainment Funcl

Balance, Aucust 1, 1951------··--·--··--···· ···-·-··--····.$ 22,560.11
Add, contri~utioDI----·-··---··-··-··-··-···-···-··--··--··-··· 9,725.82

Christmas.--·--··---··----·----·-·

Balance, August 1, 1951-··- - - - - - - - - · Add:

- $ 32,285.93
1,995.00
2,951.82
9,317.80

14,264.62

Balance, July 31, 1912---·----··-·---··-···-···· -····-··-···--··-···-' 18,021.31

$ 56,005.73

·""""'...,
26,366.96

Total ···---··-·--··-·-·-··-········--····- ··--····-··-··-··-·-····· 82,372.69
Deduct:
Purchase of Chevrolet sedan.--····-···-·········--····-· 2,012.22
Construction of pigsty......................................................
755.21
2,767.43
Balance, July 31, 1952.••.•.·-··-···-····-··--···-················-·-

$ 79,605.26

Reserve for Addi:tiom and Replacemen:ts

$148,389.56

Deduct: Total ···--··--·--··---····-··-··-····---···· ··········-·

Deduct:
Decato
Decoto entertainment·-----·----- -···-··--·-··
Covina entertainment.---·-··-······--·· ---······-···-·

Dec:oto Special Fund

Bequests ···-··-····--··········-·····-··-··-··-······-······-···-···-···$ 17,149.04
Traru;fer of Perine Fund income................._.................
250.00
Transfer of Flint Trust Fund income..........·-··-··-······· 8,967.92

Schedule 3

Total-----·-----

Total_..:..__·---··-·-· -··--··-·--··..._____ 48,453.72
Deduct, funeral expense..· - - - - · · - - - · .
·
·-··· 5,103.72

Balance, August 1, 1951..·-·--··-·-··-···--··-···-···-·Add, bequests and gifts..·--····-·--···-···-··---····-··--·
Total ···-··-············-···-·····-··-····-··-·····-················
,
Replac~~ta and repairs.-----·-·-·-··---·- --' 14,034.93
New buildings--Covma.....---··--·-··-··-···--·- 31,082.89
Ne"". building-Decoto...-··-······-······-··········-····-······-· 1,000.00

$326,148.50
90,301.59
416,850.09

Dedqct:

Balance, July 31, 1952..•...·-··-·········---····-··-·····-··--··-···

46,117.82
$370, 732.27

Unappropriated B&Hrv•
$117,098.83
Balance, August l, 19151-----·----··-·----·· ···
Add:
·
Profit on sale of, and income from,
proeerty donated to the funL--···--··-··-···----' 3,164.51
Contributions by applicants...----·-·----··- 58,452.52
Pensions ·······--·-·--··-·-···-····-···-·· --··-·-·-·- 34,295.73
Deceased residents' deposits...·-·····-··········--·-·············· 3,990.12 . 99,902.88

Total ···-·-··-······-··········-·········································
Deduct:
Monthly grants to residents..............·--··-·-···-··-··· 17,135.00
Transfers to Funeral Fund-.........-----··-···-·····-···- 1,749.58

217,001.71

Balance, July 31, 1912..---·-····-··-········-··-··- ·-···Total funds held for special purposes............... .

$198,117.13

18,884.58
$836,913.02

384

Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Fann production ·······················-·································
Canteen ·······-·······-·-··········-·········································
Sundry revenue..·-·--·-······-··--····-·--·-·-&·-·····-··--

Exhibit B
Statement of Revenue and Expense
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
Revenue
$25.00 Homes contributions current year.....................- ..$251,925.00
Per capita dues from Lodgesl951 returns... ·-··-··········-· 199,962.00
Endowment Fund income.................................................... 125,715.87
·
Contributions through Lodges:
For Decoto•••.••...·-··········-···-················-··.$ 11,555.00
23,504.41
For Covina...·--··············-················-······· 11,949.41
39,829.81
Income from investments-net...·-········-·
8,843.85
Profit on sale of securities•.....·-···················
111.70
Sundry fire loss recoveries...............·-··········
Total revenue·---····-········-······-···
Expense
Operation of Homes:
Decoto (Ex:lu"bit C) ..·--····-··········-···-·····
Covina (Exhibit D) ...·-···-··--··-···--·····
Outside relief--······-··--- -···-·······
Outside care of children..·-··············-···········
.
Administrative and general:
889.50
Taxes--real estate....·-····-········-···············
Taxes--payroll ····-···-··--··--····-··-···· -· . 3,476.99
Insurance ·················-·················-············· 9,336.02
Refunds of $25 contributions of
prior years-net..................................... . 1,280.00
Social welfare agents:
Northern district................................... . 5,396.40
Southern district................................... . 3,785.79
Secretary's and assistant's salaries....... . 7,500.00
Pensions-retired employees..........·-····· 5,752.00
Trustees' expenses..·-······-······-················· 3,065.38
1,120.00
Auditing ·······-·-··---··-··-·············-··········. 1,200.00
Safekeeping of securities.......................
Telephone and postage..·-······-················· 1,021.06
Office supplies and printing................... . 1,623.13
476.58
Legal and notary fees..·--··········-···-··-··
Investment service..·--··-··---··-·-···-··· 1,350.00
50.35
Sundry expense...·-·-··-·········-······-·········
Total expense..................................

----

7,757.70
1,435.48
193.84

9,387.02

---- $327,414.90
Net Operating Expense..·-··-·---·---··- ·-···-

$649,892.64

Exhibit D
Statement of Direct Operating Expens&-Covina
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
·
Operating Expense:
Maintenance ···-·-··················-··-······-····~........................$148,059.06
Administrative expense..•...·-··---··- ··-···-·-··-······-···-·· 18,516.27
$166,575.33
Total (Refer to Exhibit F for details)....·-·········
Deduct:
Sundry direct revenue:
Farm production ···············-··········-····························· 12,695.93
262.78
Discounts earned..·-··-··-··-··- ··-··--··---------39.75
Canteen ···-··············-··-··-··········-······················-·········
13.45
13,011.91
Sundry revenue....•.................·-······················-·············

327,414.90
153,563.42
8,456.17
135.00

Net Operating Expense....·-··--··-···-····-··-··---··~---·

$153,563.42

Exhibit E
Detailed Operating Expen1e-Decoto
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
Maintenance
Food:
Groceries·-·-··---- -··-········-··-··--' 22,145.45
Meat···-·-··--·-·-· ·-····-·········-··-····· 28,614.91
Fish··-··-···--··---····· ··-·-····.:.····-···-····-··· 2,135.64
Fruit and vegetables..................·-··-··-· 13,605.88
Butter, milk and eggs......·-·················-··· 30,380. 77
Bakers' supplies................·-··-··················· 3,571.96
Total food cost..............·-·--···-- 100,454.61
Less charge to hospital for meals............ 21,492.97 $ 78,961.64

47,323.20

. Excess of Revenue Over Expense......·-··-·

536,892.69
$112,999.95

Exhibit C
Statement of Direct Operating Expen1e-Decoto
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
Operating Expense:
Maintenance ........................................................................$140,470.32
Hospital and medical......-········-··········-··-··-··········-··· 83,799.93
Farm and garden.....·--··-··-··-··-·····-··-·-·······-· 26,070.22
9, 793. 73
Laundry --·-·-··-··-·-··-··-··- ···-·····-·····-··----·
Heating plant.-..........--··-······-····-··········-·· -···--····- 11,570.73
Paint shop.·-··--··-··-··-----······-··-··-··-······-··········· 2,495.85
Transportation···-············-··-······-····-····-··········-····-····· 1,827.84
General land administrative....--·-································· 60,773.30
Total (Refer to Exhibit E for details) ................

385

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Kitchen and dining room:
Repairs and maintenance...·-··--···-···Expense ·····-··-··-··-··-··-··-·-······--···········
Salaries and wages............·--·······--······-·--·
Sundry:
Residents' supplies..·-···-·····-··-·····-··--·
Dry goods and bedding...·-·-··--··--···

$336,801.92

Total maintenance expense........
Hospilal and Medical
Salaries and wages.·-··------·--- ····-··Meals to staff and patients....-,.·-···-·-·····
Medical supplies........·--····-··-··-····---···
Dental expense..·-·-···-·--····-···-····---- -····
Surgical expense..:_···--··---···-···-·····- ·Eye, ear, nose and throat·--··-···--··-··-·

594.89
3,368.56

3,963.45
55,096.20

1,158.61
1,290.42

2,449.03
$140,470.32
36,669.87
21,593.58
4,721.13
1,124.00
17,928.00
1, 763.35

83, 7911.93

.386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

Farm and Garden
Salaries and wages..·-··-·-·-- ··-··-·
Livestock ···-·--··-··--··--··--· ··-····-···
Tools and equipment....·-····-········--····-·····
Seeds ·······-····-······-······-······-··-··-·················
Feed ···-··········-··-··-····-····-··-··-··-·········-······
Miscellaneous expense.--·-······---···-··-···
Laundry
Salaries and wages..·--····-········-····-·····--·
Supplies and expense.•..·-··--··-······-·-·-·
Heating Plant
Salaries and wages.-•....................................
Repairs and maintenance..........·-·················
Paint Shop
Salaries and wages..·-··-···-·-···-··-···
Supplies and expense_··--··--········ ----····
Transportation
Salaries and wages ..........·-···························
----_
oiL....:.----Gasoline
__________
repafrs
andand
Tires
General and Administrative·
Superintendent and office salaries............
Light, heat, power and water..·-··-·············
Office supplies and printing..·--··--········-·
Telephone and telegraph....·-·····················Repairs and maintenance..·-······-··-···········
Furniture and equipment......................•.....
Miscellaneous ~pense....·-····-····-····-···-···

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11,032.28
10,325.33
287.47
550.65
1,545.94
2,328.55

26,070.22

8,380.26
1,413.47

9,793.73

9,256.76
2,313.97

11,570.73

1,760.10
735.75

2,495.85

185.00
915.80
727.04
23,677.42
22,925.50
667.80
1,326.78
10,323.98
609.51
1,242.31

Total Operating Expense-Decoto............
Exhibit F
Detailed Operating Expense-Covina
for the Fiscal Year Ended July 31, 1952
Maintenance
Care of Children:
Food:
Meat------- --·-·-··--' 11,127.55
Fruits and vegetables-·-··-··-·· ··--·- 3,057.40
Butter, milk and eggs..._··-··-··--··· 8,480.87
Bakery goods·-··-··-··-·-··-··-·· -··-··-··· 1,564.89
Miscellaneous groceries·-········-··········· 5,857.02
Outside meals·-····-··-····-·-'····· ············ 3,020.34 $ 33,108.07
Kitchen and dining room:
Salaries ·········-···-··········-···-- ··-···-··· 9,478.41
974.53
Supplies and repairs..·-··-··-··-·············
11,333.82
880.88
Replacements ···-··········-··-···················
Clothing:
Ready-to-wear-····-· ··-····-··-··---··-··· 1,569.57
194.76
Cleaning and repair•.·-······-······--···
1,893.85
129.52
Dry goods and notions..:.......................
---Laundry:
Salaries ···-····--···-···--···-·· ---·-··· 4,297.40
5,077.51
780.11
Supplies and repairs·-·-··--··-········- ···

----

1,827.84

60,773.30
~3361801.92

Dormitories:
Salaries ·····-··-··-·-·--··--·-·· --··-···· 21,088.15
860.65
Supfalies and repairs....·-··-····--····-··-·
610.79
Rep cements ·--····-····---··--·····-·-· ·
---Domestic Science cottage:
438.75
~alarrrs ·······---···---·--···· ··-··-··
128.38
uh~ es and repairs..·-········--··--· ····
970.00
Su sistence allowance..........·-······--···
---Hospital and medical:
Salaries -----····-·--- -··- 4,019.02
- · - · · - - · - 2,196.66
~d~.ts' fees.
580.16
e icme and drugs••·--····-··--····-·······
Other supplies and repairs..........•.......
355.92
84.30
Replacements ····-····-········--···········-···
Outside hospital and X-ray·········--····· 3,012.59
6.00
Diet supplement... ·-···--··-····-----·······
---General expense:
Miscellaneous expense..·-··--···-·······
Total care of children..____·····General House, Property and Farm Expense:
Power plant:
Salaries ·········--·--··-········-··· ·--····-·· 2,399.00
Supplies and repairs..........·-·········-····- 4,407.79
Repairs to buildings:
Salaries ·········--···-··············-················· 10,022.70
Supfilies and repairs·········-··········-······· 7,485.86
436.52
Rep acements ····-··········•······-····-········-·
Farm and grounds:
Salaries ··········-··--···-········--········-····· 6,379.33
Supplies and maintenance....·-····-··-··· 3,642.80
104.94
·················-····-····-··--··
Replacements
__________ _ ·
Animal husbandry
7,551.73
10,128.64
Live
307.09
Swimming pool.·-··--·········-·····-·······
---Orchard expense:
895.00
Salaries ·············-······························-·····
323.49
Supplies and maintenance_·-····-· ···316.60
Water ···-····-··-·····-··-···--··- -··········-·
---General expense:
Gas, water and light..·--·--·-·····-···- 5,914.16
937.46
Sundry supplies and expense···-·········
110.91
Equipment expense.·-····--·- ·-··-

stock...-·--·---··----··-

387

22,559.59

1,537.13

10,254.65
930.42

$ 86,695.04

6,806.79

17,945.08

28,114.53

1,535.09

6,962.53

Total house, property and farm expense
Total maintenance cosL·---···Administrative Expense
Salaries ···························-···········-·················
Stationery, printing and postage··-··-········
Telephone and telegraph.........·-···-·····-·····
Freight and express..·-·····-···-··--··--··--·
Automobile expense..·--······-·-·---···-· ·
Miscellaneous expense····-···-··········-····--···

61,364.02
. 148,059.06
10,326.95
2,072.51
1,939.82
40.72
2,707.52
1,428.75

Total administrative expense......

18,516.27

Total Operating Expense-Covina...- ...._

$166,575.33

388

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO
ENDOWMENT FUND

Membership 1948
1949
1950
1951
1952
M•1-caillornill-.~--=:~ 551 $..- 509.50 $"649.5011:177.50 $t,i55.4o $(H>s:oo
2 Western Star ·····-····· 154
99.00 210.00 ·······-··· 113.00
80.00
3 Tehama ···············-····· 781 1,355.00 1,544.00 1,569.50 1,542.50 1,747.75
........
244.50 120.50
142.50
5 Benicia ..................... 223
336.50 288.00
141.00 216.00
73.80
8 Tuolumne ................. 244
9 Corinthian .........•..... 433
248.50
178.50
163.00 181.50
260.00
10 San Jose ···-········-····· 537
328.50 361.50
344.50 375.50
423.89
12 Yount ···············-······ 523
242.00
202.00
38.50 208.50
260.50

No.

. Name

1

l~ ~:~1: :::::::::::::::::::: ~I~

~~:~8

16
17
18
19
20

Eureka .....................
La Parlaite Union....
Mountain ~hade ......
San J_oaquin ·······-·····
Washington ·······-·····

332
114.00
116
185.00
48
~i:88
796
801 1, 095.~ 0

23
24
25
26
27

Mad.ison ···········-·······
Mariposa ....................
Georgetown ··············
El_D.orado ···-······-·····
Trinity ···············-·······

321
203
61
259
133

3

1

0

~~:88

g~:88

101.00
75.00

4 ~~·88
.

659 .00
3 00

g~:g8 1~g:g8

275.00
150.50
20 1. 50
1,157.50
1

308.00
247.75

1

321.70
743.00

204.50
158.00
135.00
299.75
868.50

~~ ~~ci3!~I'a1 ··::::::::::::::: ~I~ ·~~ho ~9Z:25 ·~g~:88 ·~:~:~8 ~~l~8

~g g~~~e~ji~~-~-::::::=::::: ~~i

233 ..50
22 00
715.50
258.00

2~:~~

Nfii·~~

118.06
362.00
20.00
164.00
311.00 198.00 477.00
34.00
31:00
97.00
40.50
l 5 OO
104.50
78.00 2,025.00
,8 7 50 2,270.30 1,964.00
50.00
53.00
135..00
70.50 143.50
146.00
388.00
774.40 1,119.39 1,558.00
769 00
312.35 365.18
515 .00
2,848.00 1,871.00
·
12 50
480.50
39 ·50
303.50

i:

91.34
102.50
488.00

136.51
197.50
51165 . 0000

6~~:~8

33 Ophir ···················-····· 77
35 San Diego ···········-····· 1002 2,3~~:g8
37 Howard ...............•..... 247
.
195.00
38 Santa Cruz .........•..... 533
00
776
40 Sacramento .............. 735
41 Martinez ··············-··· 393
1.1
72 0
42 Los Angeles .......•..... 759
95
43 Hiram ·····-················
44 Mount Moriah ...•..... 412 325.00 45~:88
384.00 280.00
359.00
45 Crescent ···-········-····· 183
185.00
200.00 102.50
370.00
46 Texas ....................······ 54
50:00
161.00
176.00 104.00
50 Forbestown .............. 108
91.00
5.00
36.00
89.50
51 Illinoistown ·····-······· 90
82.00
188.00
208.50 181.00
48.50
55 Suisun ·······-··-········-· 224
165.50
60.00
91.50
91.00
56 Volcano ····-··············· 72 142.50 136.00
86.50
42.00 100.50
57 Santa Rosa --········-··· 609 1,424.10
2,075.70 1,004.00 1,453.00
58 Union ···········-············· 726
78.00
98.50
52.50
67.50
59 Gravel Range ...•..... 69
84:00 127.50
246.50
426.00
60 Plumas ....•..........•..... 207
1,100.00 940.00
825.00 1,440.00 1,350.00
61 Live Oak ·········--·<-··· 1031 144.50 170.50
136.50
133.00 154.25
64 Natoma ···-·············· 229
69.75
147.50
294.41
65 Amador ...............•..... 82
66 Forest ·················•····· 29 846.60
749.50
827.00
890.50 1,000.00
68 Morning Star .....•..... 634
2.00
2.00 326.50
70 Enterprise .........•..... 333
.
20.00
47.00
67 25
11.25
21.50
76 Bear Mountain .•..... 74
61.50
16.00
49.50
122.50
78 Calaveras •..........•..... 115
334.50
150.00
72.00 159.35
61.50
79 Humboldt ...........•..... 468
17.00
19.50
16.00
80 Ione ·-························ 90
49.50
68.00
63.50
58.00
81 Yolo -····-····-····---.. --- 92
9.00
14.50
17.00
31.00
17.00
84 Vesper ·······-·············· 233
1,419.79 1,953.90 2,448.00
87 Naval ··--·······-·········· 1219 2,116.40 1,683.70
11.00
30.00
8.00
89 Rose's Bar ·······--····· 33

No.
91
93
95
98
99
101
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149
150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
· 180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191

389

MemName
bership 1948
1949
1952
1950 1951
North Star ................ 62
7.50
10.00 ............ $ 16.00
St. Helena ................ 130
190.06 109.50
46.00
341.04
Henry Clay .............. 79
99.50
2.50 108.50 137.00
41.00
Hornitos ....•............... 103
86.50
72.50
56.00
58.00
232.05
Yosemite ................. . 469
208.00
347.00 312.50 552.50 647.50
60.00
23.00
53.50
49.00
60.50
Clay ......................······ 94
55.50
26.00 118.00
133.50
90.50
Oroville .........•...........• 345
250.00
Lexington .................. 558
250.00
300.00 250.00 250.00
237.25
124.50 218.00 428.00 267.00
Arcata ···············-······· 300
73.00
30.00
101.75
10.00 218.27
Pajaro ·····-·········"'····· 393
19.26
20.00 525.50 385.00
197.50
Chico ·············-····-···-~ 490
Summit ..................... . 46
159.36
162.64 199.49 149.65
269.70
Eden ···-····················· 426
440.00 219.00 245.50 372.50 350.00
Concord ....•............... 369
228.00 332.50 819.IW 1,210.00 1,325.99
Fidelity ···············-····· 556
168.50 184.00 126.00 213.25 '184.27
Alamo ···············-······· 428
187
157.00
64.00
Sotoyome ................. .
135.00
38.00
Table Mountain ..... . 187
53.50
80.00
93.50
9.50
74.50
34.00
Lafayette ·····-··········· 219
171.00 183.50 156.00 204.50
Hermann ................. . 208
249.50
Visalia ..........•...•......... 571 1,153.50 1,462.25 1,317.20 1,624.50 1,279.60
71.50
37.00
14.00
50.00
Nicolaus ·········-------· 109
25.00 123.00
w_oodb.ridge ............. . 177 135.25
120.50
16.00
7.00 109.50 152.50
64.00
Sincerity ·············-····· 98
195.50
83.50
108.00 175.24
Vacaville ············--····· 220
Valley ....................... . 95
20.00
75:50 199.50
Pacific ........................ 611
162.50
39.00
587
258.50
450.00
1549.00 372.25 856.50
Crockett ·········-·········
65.00
6.00
Curtis ......................... . 72
26.00
20.00
43.00 248.75
232.50
Grafton ··············-····· 114
72.00
137.50 384.50 288.50 441.50
Franklin ................... . 138
595.50 458.00 528.50 785.00 560.72
Oriental ···············-····· 382
74.00
48.00
50.90
55.50
62.00
Vitruviµs ·············-····· 126
291
379.50 401.00 262.00 207.00 605.10
Abell ···················-····· 239
160.50 198.50
57.69 197.50 238.50
Eel River ................. .
121.00 491.50 485.85
106.00
509.50
Lassen ·················-····· 232
54.00
164
37.00
32.50
44.50
82.00
Molino ·················-····· 287
251.00 228.50
206.93
Woodland ........... _.,. __ _
393.50
63.75
Keystone ·············-····· 30
21.00
Harmony ................... . 24
31.00
30.00
41.00
475.00
Excelsior .................... 510
714.00 684.00 702.00 606.50
75.00
Alameda ................... . 178
100.50 184.00 295.50
384.50
345.50 387.00
R~d":"ood City .......... 582
1,142.00
522.00
314.50
1,508.50 680.50 641.50
MISsion ···············-····· 704
216.00
Elk Grove ................. . 135
210.50 180.00
21.00 . 244.00
27.50
27.00
48.00
37.00
Drytown ·············-····· 50
9.00
235.50
319.00
247.70
Antioch ··············--····· 347 .
Phoenix .................... 660 1,408.59 819.70 1,464.85 1349.35 1,338.00
81.00
94.50
69.50
23.00 :...........
Mendocino ·········-····· 124
88.00
105.50
42.00
78.00
86.50
Petaluma ···········-····· 343
Russian River ......... . 119
73.00
37.00
38.00
32.00
Arbuckle ·····-············· 81
Clear Lake ............... . 76
58.00
18.00
7.00
3.00
Sierra Valley ........... . 39
42.50
18.00
6.00
5.00
Claiborne ···········-····· 65
Evening Star ........... . 56
39.61
14.25
5.00
46.00
8.00
137.00
99.00
Keith ···········-······-····· 181
907.00 570.00 760.00 734.50
634.50
Oakland ·············-····· 955
Northern Light ....... . 90
12.00
20.00
6.00
21.00
12.00
351.50 353.00 335.91 477.25 481.00
Marin ····-···-····-········· 547

2ioo

390

MemNo.
Name
bership 1948
1949
1951
1952
1950
192 Santa Barbara .......... 343 441.50
404.50
706.00
459.00 775.00
193 Ferndale ·····-·;···-······ 101
86.00
90.00
89.50
27.00
38.00
194 Mountain View ·-····· 339 281.00
74.25
419.50
445.50
80.50
188.00
195 Buckeye ············-······ 142 204.00
303.00
245.00
286.00
250.50
196 San Simeon ·····-······· 97 248.50
95.20
101.20
80.00
688.50
198 Wilmington .............. 585 596.00
767.50 1,059.50 1,202.50
48.50
199 Hartley ·······-············· 238
31.00
15.00
200 Truckee ···········-········ 111
12.00
167.50
54.00
49.50
67.00
201 Silveyville :...·-········· 154 351.85
308.00
117.00
163.50
151.00
202 Pentalpha -···-··········· 541 1,462.50 1,213.00 1,159.50 1,465.50 1.437.50
203 Confidence ................ 51
89.00
68.00
55.00
77.00
30.00
204 Salinas·····-······-········ 550 317.00
239.50
386.00
200.00
268.00
205 Olivet ···-······-··-······· 118
2.00
90.50
143.00
91.00
50.00
206 Stanislaus ····-········· 625 564.50 729.75
585.50
522.25
687.50
207 Anaheim ·····-············· 432 406.00 338.00
892.50
832.50
859.00
208 Rio Vista .................... 154 322.02 269.00
312.00
301.00
354.00
209 King David's ···-······· 418 449.50 602.80
850.15
904.00
868.00
210 Friendship ····-········· 725 455.00
471.50
269.00
294.00
415.50
211 San Benito ................ 164
61.50
79.50
383.60
30.00
361.10
212 So. San Francisco.... 264 151.50
189.00
302.50
439.00
277.50
·214 San Buenaventura.. 401 1,015.50 575.00
790.50
800.50 1,035.47
215 Oak Grove ·-·-········· 634 297.00
271.00
643.00
595.50
26.50
216 Doric -·············-········· 501 102.50
123.50
149.00
232.00
358.50
217 Monterey ···---······ 260 179.00
196.35
169.00
128.00
152.50
218 Mosaic ·······--··-········· 185 145.00
113.50
118.00
67.00
58.50
219 Speranza ltaliana .... 318 351.50 286.00
303.50
367.50
350.00
220 Downey ···--···-········ 574 811.00
975.85 1,068.30 1,095.75 1,193.00
221 Inyo ·················-········· 161 333.00 314.00
336.00
349.00
279.50
222 Roseville ···--····-······· 348 294.00
84.00
540.50
518.50
467.50
224 Bakersfield ···-··········· 804 793.50 473.00 1,142.00 1,302.40 1,635.00
233.00
225 Brooklyn -···-····-······· 604 204.00
448.00
78.00 467.00
226 San Mateo ····-·-····· 505 372.50 742.50
699.00 1,121.10 1,487.00
228 Athens ---·--······· 165
159.50
239.50
72.00
89.00 125.00
229 Solano ····-··----···-· 586 467.50 305.50
207.00
31.00
655.00
115.50
230 North Butte ···--······· 204
146.50
173.00
157.00
7.00
14.00
231 Covelo ···--··--·-······· 64
24.50
74.50
44.00
232 Janesville ···-············· 160 139.00
73.50 302.59
129.00
50.50
22.00
233 Calistoga ···--············· 116
57.00
3.00
84.50
37.00
34.00
128.00
234 Hope ............................ 124
65.50
144.00
7.00
74
235 Surprise Valley........
232.50
236 Hills Ferry ···-··-······· 153
65.00 155.00
95.00
297.50
500.00
237 Guadalupe ---·-····· 168 200.50
438.00 420.50
49.00
53.50
240 Colusa ···-···-····-······· 159
37.00
51.50
47.00
241 Santa Ana ····-···-······ 586 1,085.16 1,169.50
675.50 1,278.00 1,522.50
242 Magnolia ···--····-······· 403 1,025.00 1,068.00 1,112.00 1,113.50 1,120.56
411.85
13.00
248.41 359.68
243 Eucalyptus ···-···-····· 451
477.50
141.75 246.75
244 Alcatraz ····--··-······· 647 405.00 322.00
246.50
230.00
230.50 302.00
245 Laurel ···-··-··---····· 237 273.50
603.50
348.50 497.00
246 Pomona ·--··-······ 391 · 339.50 551.00
33.50 498.00
487.53
247 Fresno ····-··-··--·····- 702
101.50 421.00
203.00
87.00
77.50
157.85 233.00
248 Alturas ·····-··--··-····· · 180
86.50
54.50
225.00
25.00 122.50
250 Adin ............................ 105
47.40
23.54
22.88
34.50
253 Landmark ................ 119
90.50
65.50
60.00
94.00
254 Reading ·····-··············· 212 274.50
180.50
111.20
242.00
255 Welcome ····---······· 212 169.00
298.02
22.50 310.00
172.00
256 Lodi ···············-··-······ 385 408.10
39.50
103.40
47.00
104.50
258 Penrhyn ···-····-········· 153
509.50
358.66 584.50
259 Evergreen ·········-······· 643 243.00 447.50
580.50
449.00 460.50
260 King Solomon's ·-····· 489 496.50 601.50
261 Tuscan -------········· 89

391

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324

N ame

Membership

Lompoc ···-········-······· 188
Hesperian .................. 359
Orland ·········-··-········· 157
North East ···-····-····· 57
Galt ···--··········-··-····· 86
Durant ·····-················· 532
Olive Branch ............ 314
Snow Mountain........ 41
Pasadena ···········-······· 543
Anchor ·····-····-····-···· 545
Arroyo ·········-····-·-·-··· 156
Oakdale ...................... 188
Selma .......................... 227
So. California ............ 516
Hanford ·····-··············· 225
Madera ·--··-············· 268
Mount Shasta ............ 92
Callayomi .................. 65
South West................ 439
San Miguel ................ 65
Paso Robles ···-········· 253
Winnedumah .....•...... 208
Maxwell ·····-············· 72
Elsinore ····-················ 159
East Gate ········--······ 833
Santa Paula .............. 350
Los Gatos ·········-······· 316
Orange Grove .......... 267
Traver ···--····-··········· 158
Mt. Jackson ·····-··-···· 133
Silver Gate ····-········· 1221
Dunsmuir ................ 304
Liberty ·····-··············· 315
Redlands ·····-············· 444
Ontario ...................... 384
Santa Lucia .............. 148
Porterville ·····-········· 472
Reedley ··•--·-·-···-····· 163
Azusa ·····-··················· 259
Ashlar ....•.....••...........• 283
Santa Monica ·······-··· 383
Monrovia ·····-··········· 293
Delano·---··········-····· 234
Sisson ··············-·········· 108
Los Banos ····-····-····· 157
Tehachapi ···-············· 204
Temescal ···-········-····· 226
Norwalk ····-············· 265
Sanger ·····-··········-····· 327
Fallbrook ·····-··-······· 145
Emmanuel ····-·····-··· 80
Hollenbeck ·····-········· 1044
South Gate ····-·········· 642
Alisa! ·········--···-······ 137
Alhambra ········--·-···· 644
Whittier ···-··--········· 716
Corona·····-····-··········· 475
325 Consuela ···-···-······· 264
326 Needles ...................... 356
327 Long Beach ·····-······ 584

1949
546.75
603.50
319.50
148.50
42.00
5.00
5.00
438.22
318.00
86.00 319.50
16.20
14.00
970.00 1076.00
1,250.00 1,342.77
98.00
60.50
23.00
178.37
255.75
196.00
1,139.00 1,310.50
440.50 485.50
243.50
237.00
2.00
77.00
25.00
25.00
348.00
312.50
55.00
67.00
92.00
149.00
294. 72
358. 75
47.31
74.79
76.00 .
75.00
699.00
766.25
621.75 680.00
382.23
189.50
151.00
156.50
8.00
34.50
1,039.50 1,136.50
222.18 321.50
231.00
298.50
265.50
358.00
220.00
189.00
220.50
304.50
807.50
999.00
7.00
214.50
245.50
245.00
196.00
660.00 358.50
179.97
213.00 230.00
65.50
73.50
105.00
121.00
237.50
228.50
133.50 148.50
339.50 243.00
190.50 221.50
32.00
68.00
3.00
85.00
163.25
1,549.50 856.50
120.00
161.00
338.25
383.50
1,187.91
401.00 724.00
141.17
100.34
641.00 699.50
361.50 508.55
1948

1952
1951
1950
282.50
256.00 289.00
818.50
402.50 718.00
228.00
219.50 186.35
3.00
2.00
2.00
116.00
30.00
103.00
441.00
366.00 424.20
497.50 565.50 497.00
28.47
16.00
10.00
594.00
665.00 859.50
1,122.50 1,277.18 1,500.00
318.25
37.00
75.00
143.50
94.00
504.25
434.00 331.00
1,400.00 1,372.00 1,816.50
453.00
488.50 470.50
139.50
120.00 132.00
200.00
99.50
25.00
25.00
25.00
672.97
374.50 488.50
60.00
93.18
217.50
274.80 241.50
315.99 368.82 455.41
83.21
76.01 108.19
183.00
150.54
98.52
999.00
922.75 731.00
842.60
570.00 913.00
246.09
210.17 119.00
229.00 191.50
209.50
177.00
1,300.50
217.50
129.50
314.50
259.50
172.00
835.50
141.00
157.40
139.50
475.50
103.50
115.00
247.25
46.50
394.50
165.00

296.25
786.50 1,010.19
146.50
86.50
211.00
385.00
407.00
278.00
256.50
325.00
249.00
222.00
22.50 1,027.50
42.00
38.00
440.50
249.00
235.00
243.00
339.00
385.50
117.50
131.00
532.00
553.50
53.00
58.00
302.00
196.00
450.00
340.50
178.50
79.00
538.10
509.05
241.50
276.50

32.00
18.00
16.00
182.46
114.75 112.50
1,005.00 1,338.00 1,502.50
81.00 108.00
126.00
307.00 915.05 1,366.05
1,450.00 730.00 1,001.00
351.50
469.00 565.00
176.50 311.00
831.75
543.00 832.50
806.04
250.53 348.00

392 .

393

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND l-ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MemName
bership 1948
1949
1950 1951
1952
No.
210.00 520.00 410.00
328 Redondo .................... 521 300.00 209.00
190.00 261.50 275.25
329 Vallee de France ·--··· 125 240.00 250.09
889.00 304.00
395.00
330 Kilauea --·--···-···------ 233 506.00
rii~oo
94.00 212.00
119.50
331 Pacific Grove ..--····· 264 159.50
332 San Pedro ····-·-·------ 506 1,384.50 1,227.50 1,035.00 1,028.00 1,028.51
171.50
306.00
333 Alta ----·-··-··------------ 94 145.00 188.50
198.50 281.50
913.50
334 Covina ........................ 314 310.75 213.00
335 West Gate ..........- ..... 1041 1,123.00 887.17 2,050.00 2,104.00 2,094.15
572.00 403. 75 454.25
336 Fruitvale -----··-------- 899 400.00 335.50
14'7.00 173.60 221.63
337 Carquinez ···--··--·.. 206 155.00 140.00
42.00
53.00
200.00
338 San Jacinto ·---..--- 103
63.06
321.10 427.00
280.50
339 Fullerton --·--·-··-----· 382 200.50
185.50 217.00
886.76
341 Oxnard ...........-........ 385 238.25 576.88
543.19 808.50 1,160.50
343 San Fernando .......... 535 738.00 569.25
147.50 258.00
724.00
344 Starr King ............... 537 229.50 311.50
43.00
74.00
40.00
28.00
345 Brentwood ·····-··------ 141
64.00
346 Palo Alto ···-·-------- 725 1,251.00 1,325.50 1,3'70.00 11415. '15 1,690.97
639.00 573.25 637.90
347 McKinley ..---·--·.., 494 295.20 185.25
842.83 440.02 652.65
348 San Bernardino ·---··· 717 672.90 543.87
911.75 1,251.50 1,138.40
349 Sequoia ..........- ........ 1090 907.50 1,175.00
475.00 840.65 1,204.00
351 Palestine ···-·-····----- 598 484.50 434.00
832.25 885.00
907.50
352 Sunset ·····-···-··-----.. 388 835.00 822.25
46.50
68.50
64.00
80.00
68.00
353 Pinole ........................ 176
500.00 420.00
367.25
354 Presidio .............-..... 519 538.00 495.00
464.00 1,440.00 1,309.50
355 Hollywood ···-------- 1213 328.50 695.10
386.50 537.00
614.00
356 Mill Valley···--·------ 439 381.50 414.00
181.25
486.00
357 Buena Park .............. 223 178.75
474.00 714.55 1,012.00
358 Golden State ............ 840 2,498.30 564.00
139.00
16.00
16.50
40.50
359 Loyalton ........-......... 99
330.50 327 .50
582.50
360 San Francisco .......... 317 126.00 462.50
29.00
77.50
7.00
361 Fort Bragg ................ 129
60.00 106.50 109.25
50.50
362 Charity --·-···-··-----· 151 109.50
23.00
70.50
383.50
363 Berkeley ···-··---··· 664
216.31 118.31
365 Willits ···-·-·--------- 155
1,609.00
366 Las Palm.as ................ 1011 919.00 609:50 Tos~so
367 South Pasadena ...... 582 1,080.50 531.00 1,453.65 1,297.14 1,343.50
773.50 1 255 00 1,341.00
368 Unity .......................... 628 1,173.50 1,202.00
427.oo ' 586:15 617.00
369 Ocean Park .............. 509 496.50 510.00
172.50 301.00
625.00
87.50
370 Amity --···-···---··-··· 464 159.50
371 le Progres de
roceanie -·----.. . 701 . 718.00 1,199.10 1,498.75 1,460.09 1,461.10
145.00 270.00
178.00
195.45
372 Gardena .................... 331 202.25
206.00 353.00
467.00
373 West Los .Angeles...... 406 249.00 192.00
139.25 203.50
374 Jewel ·········-··--·------ 192 171.00 173.00
348.50 327 .50 409.00
375 Richmond ···--···-·---- 541 223.50 230.00
207 .50 254.50
339.50
376 Francis Drake .......... 356 273.50 182.50
442.00 376.00 400.00
377 Artesia ···---------· 176 326.00 282.00
378 Mizpah -----··-··--· 440 2,018.07 1,104.50 1,178.80 1,345.00 1,449.50
591.50 505.00
654.00
379 Fillmore .................... 239 537.50 459.00
51.00
21.00
106.00
50.00
28.00
380 Huntington Beach.... 317
343.12 486.36
371.00
381 Oceanside .................. 362 357.25 368.36
196.00 448.55
425.50
382 Highland Park ........ 648 401.10 320.00
284.00 340.00 415.50
383 Orosi ·--·-·----·-··--··· 146 617.00 280.00
540.50 544.25
500.00
384 El Centro ·----·------ 425 335.00 133.00
40.00 354.00 244.00
385 Dinuba ................... .. 288 255.50 120.25
812.00 1,025.00 1,000.00
387 Coalinga .... _ .. ______ _ 393 300.00 695.00
512.75
456.80 470.30
388 Parnassus ..- ........... . 756 332.50 490.50
294.00
219.90 150.50
389 Palos Verdel ··----·-- 714 385.82 132.50
318.50
23.00
'71.00
390 Imperial ................. .. 126 171.00
93.00 134.50
25.00 127.00
8.00
391 East Belt ···-··-··----- 90

MemNo.
Name ·
bership 1948
1950 1951
1952
1949
1,942.00
1,220.00
2,404.00
2,101.00
392 West Lake ·····---····· 926 909.60
571.50 460.00 449.50
393 Balder ···-····-··----··· 500 452.00 405.50
674.50 1,305.50 1,464.50
394 University --···----· 616 710.00 459.00
198.00 338.00 450.00
395 Turlock ·-------· 386 1'75.00 336.25
396 Apollo ........................ 468 331.50 273.00
266.30 323.00 358.50
397 RJSing Light .............. 1033 1,563.00 791.37
159.88 924.02 1,303.55
140.00 171.00 166.00
399 Fraternity ··-······-----· 452 171.50 154.00
400 Burlingame .............. 659 1,088.50 712.00
961.60 963.50 1,118.50
401 Bay View .................. 618 108.00 114.00
125.00 138.00 200.00
402 Brawley .................... 209 221.50 222.11
342.50 263.50 541.50
403 Yerba Buena·------·-- 889 847.50 714.20
581.00 1,064.50 1,216.25
25.00 .......... .. 115.50
404 Glendora ·-----··---··· 149 175.50 100.00
· 405 Moneta ...................... 709 934.00 850.15
793.50 943.00 1,472.00
406 Burbank ............------ 684 1,040.00 1,217.00 1,030.00 1,200.00 1,441.30
407 La Mesa...................... 519 197.55 412.00
337.75 971.00 656.50
408 Sierra Madre ............ 152
44.00 302.00
209.00 350.00 323.00
409 · Honolulu .................. 395 823.50 737.00
806.50 966.50 942.00
410 Charter Rock ............ 353 155.00 106.00
85.00 203.00 211.00
411 Perris ...______ ......... 148
50.00
69.00
67.00 245.00 121.00
412 Calexico .................... 159 119.00 167.00
105.00 194.00 248.00
414 Arlington .................. 353 287.50 414.00
209.00 392.50 739.50
415 Silver Trowel .......... 399 807.50 1,135.00
806.00 816.00 1,181.00
82.00 410.00 286.50
416 Lindsay ····-··-···-····· 222 433.00 345.00
298.50 594.50 607.50
417 Clovia ···--···-····-----· 443 414 25
302.00 476.00 968.06
418 Elysian -·-··-··-··... 456 406:00 636.00
120.00 155.71 175.00
419 Upland --··-----· 209
63.00 184.05
420 Kerman ...................... 116 142.00 104.00
128.50 185.00 241.00
1,111.50 685.50
421 Inglewood ···-··------· 702 556.00 418.50
482.75 422.05 629.22
422 Eagle Rock···-·-----· 512 306.50 348.00
222.50 200.25 301.25
423 York ····-··--··------· 345 189.00 200.80
424 Exeter ........................ 215 398.50 486.50
322.00 519.00 473.50
206.50 210.00 210.00
425 Holtville ·--·--·-·-- 140 180.00 224.50
426 Mic;Iway ...................... 501 113.00 353.50
564.50 142.55 533.50
138.50 140.00
113.50
427 Chmo Valley ...----· 137
116.50
152.00 150.00 152.00
428 san Dimas ·-·----·---- 166 2io~oo 190.00
429 Pittsburg .................... 300
17.00
122.50
35.00
18.00
44.00
98.10 122.00
430 McCloud -··--------· 98 201.08 121.00
300.00 306.20 314.00
431 Alpha ·--·-··-·-·----·· 500 344.50 349.25
433 Hammonton .............. 61
21.00
27.50
25.00
70.00
25.00
83.00 180.00
46.00
434 Maricopa ---··--·· 179
4.00
90.00 127.00 262.35
435 Fairmount ··---··· 478 133.65 277.75
77.00 133.00
73.00
63.00
436 Claremont ·--··-·---- 118
48.00
500.50 520.50 600.00
437 Lancaster -·--···-- 290 182.00 306.75
117.00 120.00 128.00
438 Acacia ·-··-··---··· 59 132.00 126.00
439 Tyrian .........._........... 178 111.50 103.00
54.50
58.00
48.00
131.00 148.00 103.50
440 Standard ---··--·--.. 350 16'7.00 182.00
371.39 590.00 575.25
441 Coronado -·------· 386 529.75 415.00
907.25 678.00 1,319.40
442 Blackmer -------· 1241 1,008.25 866.~
447.08 310.00
146.70
443 Schofield --··-····· 260 108.00 379.50
469.50 272.00 308.50
.444 Carpinteria ···-·------ 119 178.50
870.28 657.00 537.00
445 Wilshire ··--··-··---· 566 625.76 735.50
24.00
8.00 117.50
38.00
446 La Puente ··-····-----· 156
209.50 396.50 573.60
447 Torrance ···---··-----·-- 398 278.00 290.16
248.00 263.50 373.00
448 ·Mount Diablo ···-····· 322 265.00 230.00
373.50 301.32 276.50
449 Park ·---··------· 506 408.74 315.00
444.50 771.50 1,684.35
450 Van Nuys --·-·---··--· 791 505.52 464.75
624.00 785.65 723.00
451 Montebello ..-...... 580 498.90 606.22
930.06 1,020.00 1,000.00
452 San Pasqual ---····--· 500 850.00 952.77
563.50
426.00 335.90
453 Bethlehem ···--····· 296 422.00 421.00
316.50
94.50 210.50
454 Crocker ····--·--······ 409 166.80

1:4a2:oo

394

GRAND LpDGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mem1952
1950 1951
1949
Name
bership 1948
No.
218.00
565.50
250.50
455 Golden West ···-······· 578 238.00 366.50
661.50 1,073.50
591.00
457 Ramona ·····-·-··--····· 484 252.00 377.00
458.50 1,628.50 1,423.00 1,451.50
458 Henry S. Orme ........ 687 760.80
41.00
79.50
63.00
102.00
459 Riverbank.·····-··········· 144
77.00
186.50
172.50
18.00
42.00
460 Mount Oso ·······--····· 303
93.50
908.50 887.00
518.50
461 Argonaut ···········--····· 435 316.50 537.50
462 Paul Revere ·····-······· 607 738.00 1,123.00 1,174.00 1,195.00 1,222.52
25.75
140.00
107.00
463 Morgan Hill ·······-····· 159
35.00 131.00
460.00
566.25
709.25
464 Alta Vista .................. 267 119.50 468.50
219.00
247.50 403.50
158.00
465 Center ·····-··········-····· 529 289.00
528.00 440.00 453.25
466 Libertas ···-··--··········· ·610 498.50 493.00
728.50
835.00
643.00
658.50
467 Culver City ···-········ 355 731.00
383.00
602.50 659.50
468 Rockridge ·········-······· 488 267 .50 182.00
347.00
70.00
180.00
469 Yorba Linda···-········· 153 217.00
470 Lincoln ··········-··-····· 344 810.50 1,021.50 1,174.80 1,178.50 1,189.50
624.00
592.00 744.50
471 Delta ···-·-··-····-······· 484 429.00 683.00
374.00
441.28 501.00
472 Maui ·····-··-·······-······· 246 198.00 387.00
118.00
118.00
130.00
118.00
473 Blythe ···--··--··········· 140
386.50
441.00
474 Victory ···-··-··········· 293 135.00 258.50
80.00
100.00
475 America ·····-··-··-····· 500
13.00 297.00
236.00
176.00
308.00
191.50
476 Coachella ···--··-······ 198
70.00
75.00
132.00
76.00
477 Temblor ·····-············· 148
56.00
278.00
83.50
218.15
478 Thousand Oaks ........ 502 154.00 189.00
450.75 1,174.15
339.50
479 Golden Rule ···-········· 622 733.50 255.00
83.00
46.00
97.80
122.10
480 Fellowship ···-···-····· 329
63.00
521.50
453.50
384.50
481 Mt. Davidson ·····-····· 401 337.00 694.75
884.50
533.00 751.00
482 Clarence F. Smith_.. 368 731.00 512.00
396.00
449.00
591.81
483 Bell ···--···-·········-····· 632 1,110.95 737.00
272.75
74.00
250.00
110.00
484 Albert Pike ·······-····· 257
95.00
411.50
28.00
240.50
31.00
485 Chowchilla ·········-····· 160
44.00
757.00
616.50 811.35
486 Caledonia ···-······-····· 500 710.66 791.95
344.00
118.25 222.30
255.75
487 Vallejo ·················-····· 388 386.25
48.50
17.00
15.00
42.50
488 Patterson ·······--··-····· 113
147.50
61.00
176.50
489 East Bay ·····-··-··-····· 399 173:00 190.50
147.50
112.50
146.00
490 Corcoran ·············-····· 123
...
62.50
70.00
491 w oodstock ···--··-····· 425 rn2:5o 124.50
292.50
215.50
333.50
349.00
492 Garvanza ···--····-····· 304 283.00
324.17
217.58
284.13
373.75
493 Atascadero ····-··-····· 117 415.13
402.00
103.00
203.50
285.50
494 Acorn ·····-····-·····-····· 604 293.50
942.50
178.00
147.50
190.00
495 Lebanon ·····-··-··-····· 390
78.50
4.00
389.98 473.01
497 Fremont ·····-··-··-····· 524 494.00 400.86
277.50
202.78
255.50
498 Stockton ···-·-··-····· 192 284.80 268.50
405.00
501.00 433.00
499 Capital City ·····--····· 507 391.00 350.00
153.50
123.50
151.50
500 Roosevelt ·····-··--····· 207 109.00 120.50
608.00
404.00
604.00
501 Westwood ·····-··-····· 271 170.00 121.00
187.00 367.68 425.00
502 Harbor ·····-····-····-····· 573 190.00 197.00
165.50
88.00
125.00
121.00
503 Point ····-·····----····· 270 228.00
779.54
720.50
754.50
504 Seaside ·····-········-····· 495 754.50 706.10
545.00
518.50 475.00
505 Silver Cord···--·-•···· 474
90.00 700.00
506 Mount Olive ····-······· 999 2,409ffl0 1,921.80 1,425.29 1,929.70 2,036.00
311.50
69.00
401.55
507 El Segundo ···-····-····· 346 151.00 229.00
49.00
20.00
69.00
508 Joppa ·····-··-········-····· 82
64.63
243.25
518.25
484.30
4.95
509 Benjamin Franklin.. 360 244.00
88.00
48.00
28.00
87.50
510 Cupertino ···-····--····· 168
91.00
219.12
214.50
171.00
511 Sunnyvale ···-··-····· 319 240.25 242.50
900.00
246.50
668.00
512 Palms·····-··--··--····· 443 257.00 360.75
374.00
219.00
201.50
513 Cahuenga ···-······-····· 551 340.00 247.50
153.50
259.00
194.00
514 Argonne ···--·-··-····· 387 187.00 112.00
783.51 1,058.00 1,272.60
515 Vermont Square...... 539 420.44 693.05
516

Taft ····---··--······ 313

93.50

824.50

621.50

619.60

456.00

395

MemNo.
Name
bership 1948
1952
1950 1951
1949
517 Mount Vernon···--··· 224
159.25 211.50
274.25
211.00 202.00
518 La Jolla·········-········· 284
32.00 119.50
97.00
81.00 100.50
329.50 640.71
519 Euclid ·····-····-····-····· 391
791.38
657.00 825.13
537.50
520 Ionic················-········· 841
2,345.25 1,694.18 1,777.50
521 Piedmont ···········-····· 289
121.50
203.50
157.50 109.25
161.50
522 Sunrise ·············-······· 334
623.95 437.50
309.65 491.58 325.50
523 Bellflower ···-····-····· 414
427.00 412.24
317.00 127.00 189.00
524 Catalina Island ·-····· 149
112.00 316.00
301.00
299.25 303. 75
525 George Washington.. 479
247.50 562.00
208.00 654.50 420.50
42.50
526 Bay City ·········-··-····· 371
194.00 343.00 173.50
527 Covenant ·········-······· 337
742.58 683.50
443.25
736.50
528 Beverly Hills ·····-····· 520
655.60 306.00
575.42 777.00 1,059.00
529 Loyalty ·······-······-····· 483
548.70 872.00
892.50 1,500.00 1,146.00
248.55 231.08
530 Sun Garden ·····--····· 546
89.00
570.50
125.00 163.00
531 Alexandria ···-····-····· 160
189.00 231.46 320.53 .
532 Smyrna···············-····· 121
28.00
16.00
26.00
1.00
16.00
533 Azure ........................ 250
11.00 671.00
161.00 142.50 104.00
534 Forest Hill ···-····-····· 185
86.00 143.50
110.50
94.50 . 190.50
535 Alexander Hamilton 268
600.00 450.00
460.00 820.27 540.00
105.00 111.50
185.00 184.50
176.00
536 Seal Rock .................. 195
332.00 239.00 1,002.17 1,438.47 1,457.15
537 Utopia ·····-··-······-····· 706
298.25
538 Ascot ......................... . 351
424.00 328.00 389.75
348.00
231.00
1~0.00
539 Belvedere ···········-····· 220
163.00 104.00
80.00
139.00
223.50
540 Queen Beach ·····-····· 187
220.50 112.00 224.00
200.14
83.50
541 H. M. Stephens ....... . 342
91.00 107.50 117.00
584.50 497.25
650.40
542 Lankershim ·····--····· 775
377.50 270.00
645.00 807.50 1,017.80
543 Signal ···-····-············· 504
434.00 476.00
617.00 543.50 353.50
544 Glendale ·····-······-····· 710
668.32 420.50
142.00 373.50
545 Jonathan ................... . 201
384.00 408.80
414.31
116.50 142.00
167.00 522.00 900.00
546 San Gabriel ............. . 444
397.50 434.50
347.50
547 Arcadia ·········-··--····· 411
268.50 291.00
237.00
204.00
548 Triangle ·····-······-····· 259
184.00 256.00
202.00
520.99
361.50 436.50
397.50 522.00
549 Justice r-··-··---····· 376
227.50
132.00 205.00
550 Seaport ···············-····· 236
180.00 195.00
120.50 109.50
71.00
551 Lakeshore ···········-····· 273
62.00
92.00
246.81
323.00
552 Semper Virens ···----~­ 278
441.50 380.00
32.25
216. 70 180.95
554 Educator ···-········-····· 383
204.00
199.00
84.00
555 White Pine ·········-····· 100
156.50
67.50
76.00
225.50 177.00
90.00
556 Fairfax ···-················· 376
137.50
60.00
118.00 141.00
62.00 122.00
557 Hermosa ···········-······· 320
639.00 693.75 " 899.00
743.50 562.50
558 Point Firmin ·····-····· 368
121.75 138.00
135.00
58.60 223.00
559 Craftsmen ···-··-········· 430
168.00 139.00
165.00 178.00 176.00
560 Plymouth ···-······-····· 387
364.43 418.50
588.00
553.35 385.50
561 E. San Diego..·-··-····· 732
. 44.50 165.50 607.50
562 Pyramid ···-··-··--····· 301
25.00 208.50
478.00 593.05 671.50
563 South Park ···----····· 416 ·610.25 576.25
384.50
231.00
117.50 126.50
196.50
564 Foothill ···-··--···-······ 771
236.00
391.00 218.50
248.50
565 West Adams ···-··-····· 317
519.13 1,158.08
526.15 873.00 700.00
566 James A. Garfield.... 232
262.75 257.00
202.00 485.00
380.50
567 Searchlight ·········-····· 474
273.66
268.00 643.00 747.75
568 Park Blvd................. 424
282.50
176.50 158.00 291.00
274.00 217.50
569 Chateau Thierry ..... . 354
64.50 121.00 119.00
98.50
104.50
570 Military Service ...... 346
196.00.
571 Francis K. Shattuck 267
116.00
229.00 230.50
560.00
572 James Madison .•..... 361
269.00 480.00
287.50 310.50
30.00
573 Hillcrest ···-··············· 75
10.00
5.00
10.00
574 S. W. Hackett........... . 563
270.25 372.00 311.00
329.75
575 Fort Crook ···-··········· 169
257.00 326.32 338.50
265.50
382.50
608.00
576 El Cajon Valley._ ....• 278
519.00 540.00
371.00 384.50
577 Sunnyside ···-··-··-····· 468
821.00 1,015.00 966.00
724.00 1,003.00

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mem-

bership

1948

1949

1950

578 Progressive ···--·------· 511
579 Warren G. Harding.. 531
580 Santa Maria ·······-····· 112
581 Security ·····-··-·'"···-··· 393
582 Rialto ···················--··· 159
583 Wasco .......................... _......... 301
584 Harding···········-···..···· 250
585 Manchester ................ 366
586 Garden Grove ···-····• 220
587 Valley Forge ·····-····· 367
588 El Sereno ···-..- ......... 431
589 Kauai ...........- .. _......... 125
590 Compass .................................. 264
591 Escalon ................................ 130
592 Tujunga ·····-··-········· 263
593 All States .................. 535
594 Service ...................................... 729
595 Alexander G. Bell. ... 272
596 Guardian ........... _. ............... 838
598 Pearl Harbor ···-····· .. 571
599 Carmelita ...- ............. 335
600 Lynwood .................... 391
601 Grizzly .. _ .......- ........ 144
602 Melrose ...........- ......... 237
603 Dimond .......... _ ......... 290
604 Jubilee ···-··-·-········· 338
605 Glassell Park ............ 408
607 Sojourner .................. 207
608 Granada ···-········.. ····· 744
609 Provident •..- ............. 429
610 Elmhurst .....- ......, ..... 246
611 Canoga _............-····· 238
612 Temple City ···-·-•···· 383
613 Three Pillars •.•_....... 405
614 Larchmont ................ 405
159
615 Hemet
616 R. E. oOll~y::::::==::: 202
617 Big Bear ....._..._ ....... 154
618 Southland ...........- ..... 319
619 Neptune ...___ .... 279
620 Point Loma .............. 540
621 The Gardens ...-_ ..... 428
622 Atwater
371
623 Menorah ............·-····· 816
624 Fortitude ·····-····------ 202
625 Angeles Mesa ............ 652
626 . Chula Vista ....... -....• 414
627 Lamanda Park ........ 260
628 Truth ................... -..... 246
629 Fairview ···-······-----· 271
630 Ingleside .............- ..... 193
631 Benevolence ....... _..... 280
632 Normal Heights ·-····· 628
633 Poinsettia ........... _..... 623
634 Victorville ···-··------- 197
635 Riverside ···-··-·-............ 378
636 John Marshall ...-..... 284
637 Palisades .............- ..... 382
638 Indian Rock ....·--····· 209
639 Composite ···-··-······· 386

435.50
254.50

506.00

343.25
592.25
134.00
643.56
107.00
839.00
198.00

No.

Name

·········-··-·---·

397

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1951 .

1952

847.00 1,052.00
153.00
670.50
450.50
185.00
90.00
196.00 252.00
778.00
643.00
144.00
99.00
94.00
132.00
604.50
630.50
337.50
204.00
185.50
500.00 248.16
777.65
757.00
1,463.00 762.00
2.00 392.88 283.50 109.50 196.50
293.00
122.00 152.50 133.00 454.50
83.00 275.00 325.00
160.50 150.90
467.00 494.95 337.00 423.10 444.50
145.00 109.00 158.00 278.00
324.50 161.50
215.50 154.00 153.50 191.75 245.00
1,295.00 616.25 449.00 541.50 850.00
364.50 352.75 388.00 389.00 551.10
651.00
407.50 671.80 575.15 570.00
1,037.00 1,322.90 1,385.50 1, 732.00 1,779.50
1,207.00 1,313.00 1,179.00 1,326.25 1,299.06
671.50 795.00 814.00 756.00 739.50
799.50
649.00 694.66 . 716.00 755.50
16.00 141.50 111.50
90.00
124.46 521.70 185.06 262.50
143.06
581.10
342.50 489.76 555.61 572.66
153.00 656.00 531.00 668.00 680.00
451.50
332.75 344.25 358.00 427.00
93.00
74.50 154.00
106.00 129.00
720.50
246.00 185.00 671.00
541.17
715.50
524.75 502.75 602.50 602.50
86.00
58.00 108.50
47.00
61.00
51.00
56.00 137.50
173.00 118.00
483.00
87.00 230.00
167.50 196.00
629.62
482.00
735.00 515.25 540.37
820.00
888.00 746.50 794.50 866.50
175.00 277.34
143.04 105.50
412.50
148.00 238.00
186.50
129.00
49.00
47.00
77.00
75.00
338.00 215.00 244.50 173.00 275.00
273.45
156.25 161.00 104.00 222.00
370.75 517.87 361.00 360.00 446.50
59.00 243.00 221.00
249.25
330.00
848.00
350.50 307.00 320.00 552.00
1,294.00 3,100.00 3,031.10 2,614.00 2,439.75
124.00
32.00 134.50
104.00 187.00
224.73
191.81 136.25 130.00 632.50
272.60
164.00 374.50 445.00 460.00
305.50 207.50 494.00 512.00 576.50
563.50
538.00 612.50 530.00 686.25
735.00
461.25
558.00 576.00 705.50
118.00
261.00 165.00
84.00
72.00
12.00
114.00 147.50
17.00
1,017.75 636.50 756.75 467.00 1,234.00
1,046.00 969.50 992.00 1,206.50 1,250.00
96.50
165.27 149.50 100.00
237.27
466.00
415.50 313.00 277.00 351.00
597.50
965.00 535.50 439.75 605.00
792.00
738.00 824.00 783.00 798.00
106.50
58.50
37.75
112.50 104.50
655.50
382.50 319.50 270.00 1,079.00

No.

Membership

Name

640 Veritas ......................................
641 James A. Foshay ......
642 La Cumbre ..............
643 Alta Loma ···········-···
644 Lomita ........................................
645 A. F. E. Irwin. ...........
646 Metropolitan
647 Hawthorne ........... - ...
648 Damascus ..................
649 Florence ···-···············
650 La Brea ....................................
651 Menlo Park ..............
652 Crescenta Valley ......
653 Fontana .....................................
654 Jordan ........... . . . . ................
655 Monte Vista ..............
656 Citro! ·······--····-·........
657 John D. Spreckels ....
658 Livingston ................
659 La Habra ..................
660 Baldwin Park ..........
661 Malta ..........................
662 Henry Knox ............
663 Ojai ............................
665 Kaweah ................... ..............
666 Reseda ............................ . ...
667 Meridian ....................
668 San Gorgonio ..........
669 John P. Jarman........
670 Greenleaf ..................
671 San Clemente ..........
672 Laguna Beach ..........
673 Far Wj!st ..................
674 Los Cerritos ..................
675 Modesto ...................................
676 Willow Glen ............
677 Liberal Arts ...............
678 Altadena ·---·-····· ·-····
679 Canby Cross ............
680 Carmel
681 Dos Palos ..................
682 Barstow .....................
683 Redwood Empire ......
684 Tron a
685 San Ma~ilic;··::::::::::::::
686 Albany ....................................
687 Vista .........................................
688 Oildale ...................................
689 Pahona ....................................
690 San Carlos ................
691 Indian Wells Valley
692 Travelers ..............................
693 Palm Springs ..........
694 San Antonio ········-··· ..
695 Meudel . ................................
696 Crossroads ........ .................
697 St. Elmo ....................
698 Wm. D. Stephens......
699 Bixby Knolls .....-.....
700 Ponderosa ..........·-·····

-

-

---~·-··- ········ ·- ··

1948

1949

1950

108.00
118
243.00
48.00
242
487.00
202.00 471.50
251
702.50
661.00
788.75
371
224.00
318.00
347.76
242
76.00
154.50 619.25
276
131.00
602.00
90.50
138
144.00 275.00
398
309.35
414.00
227.00
561
355.88 389.96 276.78
475
224.75
516.95
372.00
262
531.35
475.77
548.77
242 - 60.50
144.00
70.00
415
269.50
138.00
227.00
292
19.00
16.00
19.00
115.00
368
210.50
151.25
573
89.00
167.00
249.96
180
30.50
41.00
162.00
628 1,291.65 708.59 1,037.00
170
101.00
10.00
175
64.00
143.00
163
171.67
258.00
151.00
213
144.00
134.00
162.50
435
2,872.50 1,208.00
111
105.50
82.50
60.00
118
177.50 135.00 154.50
307
133.00 142.00 225.00
502
375.50
291.50
296.75
225
182.15
321.99 249.50
247
158.00
140.50
94.00
528
29.00
101.00
572.00
82
30.00
25.00
29.00
195
356.00
329.00 400.00
336
408.50
374.00
220.00
319
629.00
134.00
452
617.50
991.50
294
145.75
204.50
161.00
309
537.00 525.50
557.00
736.06. 757.01
445
815.25
136
200.00
133.00
24.10
177
307.50 324.50
248.50
66.00
115
130.00
208.00
376.51
279
427.25
360.50
46.25
90
72.50
254.00
169.25
127
260.00
454.50
584.50
308
447.75
152.50
196
104.50
174.00
238
302.00 310.00 275.00
153.00
165
386.00
65.50
45.00
65
46.00
56.00
240
304.00 375.50
286.00
400.00
406.00
262
608.00
65.00
158
169.25
138
113.25 296.50
68.00
132
130.00
114.18
177.00
125.00
115
177.00
185.00 286.26
.50.00
192
103.00
83
210.00
71
577.00
141.00
182
232.00
166
109.50
147.50

1951

1952

188.00
502.00
826.50
233.50
257.00
642.50
385.50
470.00
305.10
310.00
533.81
181.75
353.00
75.50
254.00
277.50
55.00
907.50
263.00
346.50
232.50
134.50
904.00
146.50
167.00
5.00

132.50
502.75
856.75
325.50
259.25
368.00
297.00
600.00
604.41
441.40
535.00
270.00
470.50
167.66
336.00
248.75
107.00
493.00
104.50
389.75
245.00
211.50
890.00
155.50
298.80
397.50
561.25
216.00
179.00
210.00
60.00
396.00
508.25
201.00
536.50
196.00
708.50
900.50
336.50
280.50
235.00
423.15
115.50
260.75
737.50
412.00
282.15
168.00
139.00
499.50
707.00
140.50
296.50
405.00
297.00
400.20
122.50

666 . ~0

392.93
187.00
34.00
50.00
382.00
441.25
226.00
564.82
149.00
590.20
882.45
121.00
259.50
237.00
385.50
169.00
262.00
492.00
252.00
244.50
166.50
118.25
439.50
583.50
186.50
269.00
222.69
215.00
332.50
1.29.00
816.50
318.75
203.50

395.00
393.50

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

398

399

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Membership
Name
No.
701 Santa Ynez Valley.... 66
702 Rosemead ···-······-····· 78
173
703 Westchester
704 Orinda ···-··-········-····· 83
705 El Cerrito ···········----·· 85
706 Hunters Point Naval 114
707 Lake Tahoe ·······-····· 36
708 Seafaring ···········----·- 152
709 Lorenzo ·-----······-----· 115
710 Anacopa ·············--···· 82
711 Rim of the World..... 71
712 Los Altos ·······-·····---··· 61
713 Castro Valley ········---- 78
714 Blue Lakes ··-·········-·-· 66
715 Magnolia Park .......... 71
U.D. Belmont Shore ........ 61
46
U.D. Wayfarer ..................

DECOTO
1948

1949
71.59
69.00

1951
110.61
142.15
250.00
99.00
105.00
71.00 164.50
25.00 29.50
77.50 312.05
89.00
96.35
150.47
114.50
105.00

1950
86.00
112.00
189.38

145.00

1952
149.50
157.00
354.29
51.50
84.50
241.50
14.00
248.50
311.14
229.00
161.00
170.50
143.00
383.50

Total Received ..........................$267,853.68
Adjustment authorized by
351.50
Grand Lodge ........................
Net Increase ..............................$267,502.18

RESIDEN CE

Names of Residents-ME N-Average Age 78.2
Age
No. Town
Admitted Lodge
Name
88
..................
Orange
Adams, Harrison A .....Nov. 29, '46 Orange Grove ....293
Albers, George R .........Feb. 17, '45 California .......... 1 San Francisco ...... 84
Alseth, Lars ·····-······-··-.Mar. 7, '34 Moneta ····-··----405 Los Angeles ........78
Anderson, Alfred H .....Sept. 25, '51 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......79
Anderson, Charles A. ..Nov. 19, '36 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............90
Baer, Reubin E. ---·····.June 25, '42 Sotoyome ............123 Healdsburg ·······--85
Baril, Leon J. ·····-·······..Feb. 22, '52 Jas. A. Foshay .. 641 Los Angeles ---...60
Bassett, Henry N. ·····--···Jan. 6, '50 Santa Paula •..... 291 Santa Paula ···-···78
Batt, Saul C .....................June 2, '52 Starr King ·····----344 San Francisco ......76
Baumgardner, William Jan. 12, '52 Pajaro ·-------····-110 Watsonville -···-···88
Beale, D. Grant ..............June 4, '46 Los Gatos ............292 Los Gatos .......... __87
Beckmann, Carl A. ........May 3, '51 Liberty .................299 Santa Clara ·····-···70
Bicknell, Clyde C .........Apt. 30, '51 Los Gatos ............292 Los Gatos .....•...-74
Boggs, Frederick H .....Aug.10, '47 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ___77
Bosworth, Herl. C .........Jan. 6, '52 Tuscan ................261 Williams ···-··-···89
Burke, Harold . ·····-··.July 26, '49 York ................... .423 Los Angeles ______60
Cassady, Earl J. ····-······.Feb. 3, '36 Geo. Washingt'n 525 San Francisco ......81
Casterline, Myron ........Nov. 16, '32 Oceanside ···-····-381 Oceanside ___ __a7
Childs, Clarence E. ···-·····Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............92
Collins, Wm. W. ···-···-Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......86
Condon, Wilbert S •........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ····-············396 Alameda ..............77
Conway, Winn P. ··-----Oct. 21, '45 Roseville ...........:222 Roseville ..............77
Cowan, Will E. ·····-··-·.July 17, '48 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........83
Crossen, James A. ........June 29, '52 Pacific Grove ....331 Pacific Grove ......87
Date, Harrinton ···--··-.Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ·····-----601 Portola ·····-----85
Dix, Benjamin R. -·--···June 9, '50 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwin Park ___91
Dixon, Edgar A. •...........Nov. 19, '48 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............78
Vallejo ·--··-··-73
Dowdall, Ferd'k W •......Aug. 3, '43 Solano ······-····----229
Dowdle, Everett S ......-.May 18, ;48 Yerba Buena _____402 Oakland _____.__83
Elder, James R. ..............Dec. 13, 50 Abell ···········-····--146 Ukiah ···--··---79
Ellworthy, Fred -W. _......Jan. 2, '52 Paso Robles ........286 Paso Robles ·····-··80
Felton, Wilson K. -······-···July 1, '48 Calexico ..............412 Calexico ...........:....85
Fetter, Ferdinand ........ May 19, ;50 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco .,.__ 93
Fraser, John E .............Sept. 28, 51 North Butte ........230 Gridley ..................68
Frare, Giacomo ............. .Apr. 1, '.51 Sp'r'nza Itali'na 219 San Francisco ......72
Frost, Frank M.....................June 24, 52 Temple City ......612 Temple City ........81
Frost, Harold G ............. Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ····------537 Los Angeles ......_62
Geible, George F •..........May 12, '39 Faimount ............435 San Francisco ... __78
Gelston, Hollister ........Sept. 12, '49 Mission ····-···---169 San Francisco ......80
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32 Apollo ···········---396 Alameda ···-······-83
Gregory, George W .....Apr. 25, '36 Sunset ·····----352 Los Angeles ........87
Griffiths, William E .....Apr. 23, '52 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....81
Halpin, Robert L ...........Oct. 23, '33 Silver Trowel ....415 Los Angeles ........79
Hansel, Calvin E ...- ...Nov. 18, ~50 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......81
Harcout, James ·-·-··.Nov. 12, '51 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......81
Harth, Arthur P. ·---·····Sept. 4, '40 Lindsay ............. .416 Lindsay ·····-··--···79
Hendricks, Alfred ........Nov. 17, '50 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................71
Hepburn, Robert ____ ...April 7, '52 Palesades ............ 637 Santa Monica ...... 63
Hiltner, Harry B. ·····---.Aug. 17, '40 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......85
Holman, Harry T .........July 15, '48 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco ......76
Howard, James W .............Feb. 21, '52 Sacramento·-··· ·· 40 Sacramento ..........78
Howell, Arthur G ........ _.Mar. 3, '51 Carmel ···--····-···680 Carmel ·····-····-·····76
Hyman, Milton ..............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......67
Jack, Chas. P ...................Jan. 9, '38 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......73
Jefts, Benjamin ···-··-·····Oct. 27, '48 Justice ·····-····-··-549 San Francisco _____80
Johnson, Einar M. ......Sept. 19, '51 Point Fermen ....558 San Pedro ·····----66

400

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Joiner, Wm. B. ·····-··-··.Feb. 11, '47 Marin ····-··· - -191 San Rafael ····-··-88
Keen, Cassius ................Dec. 15, '51 University ........-394 Los Angeles ........82
Ketcheson, Horace ......Mar. 17, '50 Wilmington ........198 Wilmington ..........82
Lawrence, Edward S ...Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ···--···421 Inglewood ............60
Lawso1!i_ Andrew N.......Dec. 30, '48 Coronado ·······--·441 Coronado ..............77
Lewis, .ned S ........•....._.July 25, '49 Argonaut ·····-··-.461 San Francisco ...-.85
Martin, William ............Mar. 20, '51 Western Star .... 2 Shasta ....................75
Matlock, William L .......July 12, '51 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................82
Matthews, Elbert C .....July 10, '35 La Mesa -······--·407 La Mesa ................85
May, Fred ......................Aug. 15, '51 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................89
Mearns, John C ...............Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......78
Mellinger, Walter E .......May 5, '51 Redondo ···-····-·528 Redondo Beach ..86
Menke, Williams ......... .Nov. 26, '49 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......80
Miller, Louis C. ·····-·······Oct. 30, '48 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......73
Moore, Andrew A. ...._..Apr. 25, '50 Redlands ............300 Redlands ·····-·---.78
Nathan, Louis ..................June 4, '49 Starr King ····-···344 San Francisco ......77
Nichols1.. Charles ..........Apr. 10, '52 Sunnyvale ..........511 Sunnyvale ···-··-·86
Nixon, Hobert D......- ...Apr. 25, '47 Bell ····-··-····--···4 83 Bell ·········-··-····-· 91
Oakley, Charles W .......Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ·······-·-·129 Wheatland ......... _.76
Palmer, James ..............Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ·····-····-···204 Salinas ·····-··--·····91
Peale, Charles W .........Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ...- ...457 Montebello ·····-···69
Peters, Thomas C.........Sept. 11, '50 Center ..................464 Fresno ·····-···········78
Plato, John ........................Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach .... _..327 Long Beach .......-.88
Porter, Wm. G .................Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ·····-···········537 Los Angeles ···-···78
Quilty, Frank E ...............Feb. 1, '33 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................99
Regan, Edwin D. ·-······.Mar. 19, '52 Dunsmuir ·····-····.297 Dunsmuir ............_76
Richardson, William ___July 29, '50 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ................60
Riddle, Starr D. ·····-····.Dec. 26, '50 Excelsior ····-·····-166 San Francisco ......62
Robertson, William ...- ...July 4, '52 Fullerton ···-··-·339 Fullerton ···-··--81
Rogers, Albert E. ···-····.Feb. 11, '48 Elysian ···-···--···418 Los Angeles ........74
Rogers, Earl W. ···-······-.July 27, '49 Harbor ·····-········.502 Richmond ·····-·····73
Russell, Frederick ....... .Dec. 26, '49 Pajaro ···--··--··-·110 Watsonville ·····-···81
Russell, Wilbur ·····-···-··Oct:. 18, '51 Brooklyn ............255 Oakland ·········--···68
Salisbury, John T •..........Aug. 4, '51 Upland ...........:.....419 Upland ····-··-··-··76
Shults, John ·····-··-····-··.Apr. 3, '51 Hollenbeck ···- ···319 Los Angeles ···--·85
Slagel, Robert B. ·····--···Oct. 28, '38 Parnassus .....- ...388 San Francisco ····-75
Spaulding, Horace ....- ..Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ......87
Stacey, George ..............Nov. 18, '50 Mt. Moriah ·-··- 44 San Francisco -··-72
Stowell, George ............Feb. 16, '52 Willits ·····-···········365 Willits ·····-······-·····88
Stewart, James 0 .........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras- ··-·- 78 San Andreas .....-.82
Stillwell, Arthur M ....... Aug. 6, '50 Washington ··-- 20 Sacramento ---···85
Stubbs, Will L .............. .Mar. 21, '51 Sojourner ·····-····-607 Monrovia ·········--81
Templeman, Henry ......Dec. 29, '38 Oriental ·········--144 San Francisco ....:.92
Thomas, John ·····-····--··.Feb. 2, '52 Orland ···-··-··_.265 Orland ····-···········87
Thompson, Charles J •..Nov. 17, '49 Mission ····--····-169 San Francisco ......93
Tilsner, Henry ................Mar. 2, '56 Crockett ·········---139 San Francisco ...-81
TingleyjCha rles H. ... _...Dec. 6, '50 Jubilee ·········-·····604 Santa Ana ···-····-·74
Tuttle, oseph K ......- ...Mar. 17, '46 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ····-···-·····-·81
Vanderwerk er, L ...._...Apr. 13, '47 Alcatraz .....- ..--244 Oakland ···--···-···82
Vorsanger, Edward ... _.June 10, '37 Martinez···· ·-··-- 41 Martinez ·-·-···-··.84
Wallace, James S ...... _.Apr. 18, '51 Excelsior ·····-··-·166 San Franicsco ......85
Wallis, Abraham ....____ .Nov. 2, '47 Midway ·········-···426 Taft ·-·....................68
Watkins, Wilford .....- .. .Apr. 11, '47 Ramona ·......;........457 Monterey Park ....85
Wells, Williams S ........_.Aug. 3, '51 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ...-.82
Williams, Chas. F .... - .. .Aug. 24, '56 Rockridge .......-468 Oakland ·····-·-····70
Williams, Robert G .....Sept. 27, '50 Woodbridge ........131 Woodbridge ·····-···88
Willis, Walter H ....- .......Dec. 7, '45 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................75
Young, Frank E. ···--··-·Oct. 5, '51 Hollenbeck __ ...319 Los Angeles ... __79

Names of Resident1-W OMEN-Ave rage Age 79.8
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Allen, Ida ···--··············.Feb. 17, '40 Balder ····-············393 San Francisco ....85
Anderson, Christine ....Apr. 10. '50 Yerba Buena ....-403 Oakland ................77
Anderson, Mary ···-··-···Nov. 19, '51 Sequoia ·······-·····349 Oakland ................78
Aver, Ida M. ·····-···-······.Mar. 4, '44 Madison .............. 23 Grass Valley ........83
Baker, Annie J. -····--.May 15, '48 Sequoia ·-······-···349 Oakland ................77
Bradic, Elizabeth - ........June 3, '44 Golden Gate-···· 30 San Francisco ....61
Barkworth, Elizabeth..June 14, '51 Union -.:---·····-· 58 Sacramento ..........69
Barnes, Elaine G .............July 7, '34 Liberty ···-··········.299 Santa Clara ·-·······82
Bausch, Ella A. ................Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ................349 Oakland
................89
Blakiston, Edith ..............Apr. 4, '48 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......84
Bodutch, Johanna R. ....Jan. 11, '50 Alameda ·-···········167 Centerville ·-··-···80
Bourland, Catherine E ... Oct. 31, '51 Le Progus de
'L'Oceanie ......377 Honolulu ·····-·······91
Bode, Louise H. ..........Dec. 28, '50 Manchaster ........585 Los Angeles ..........76
Brown, Jean L .............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ·-·······73
Brown, May M.............Nov. 29, '42 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ._.....81
Campbell, Lucy A. ......Sept. 11, '50 Dunsmuir ·-····---297 Dunsmuir . ·······-···88
Carnall, Louise M ...........Dec. 1, '45 Mission ................169 San FrancJSco ......80
Carroll, Nellie P ...........Aug. 27, '49 Marin ..................191 Sdll Rs!ael ............81
Casterline, Mary A. ..... .Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ·--·-·381 Oceanside ............79
Cauch, Mabel R. ............Jan. 19, '51 Friendship _........210 San J<;>se ................90
Cavins, Kittie E ...........Aug. 13, '44 San Diego ·---··· 35 San ~ego:·············~~
Chase, Aimee C.............. .Dec. 3, '41 Bethlehem ·-··--·453 San ancJSco ..... .
Cheney, Hazel E ...........Aug. 15, '51 Washington --······ 20 Sacramento ..........67
Clute, Frances E. _........Dec. 11, '48 Marin ·-········-··-·191 San Rafael ............76
Cope, Hattie May .....- ...July 29, '52 Hartley ·-···-····-199 Lakeport ..............76
Costain, Mattie L .........June 10, '40 San Jose .............. 10 San Jos~ ................76
Cross, Sophie A. ............May 26, '52 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocmo ............76
Cundell, Isabell ............Dec. 16, '44 Pentalpha .....- ...202 Los Angeles ..........77
Dalton, Meta C...............Jan 27, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland -·:·············~4
Damner, Jennie ............Aug. 27, '42 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ...... 7
Davidson, Elizabeth .... Sept. 14, '50 Alisa! ..................321 Pleasanto~ --·····--·80
Dickson, Allee M.........Aug. 23, '51 Lincoln ................470 San FrancISco ......92
Dixon, Nora E .............. .Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ......- ..392 Los Angel~ .....-.78
Donald, Flora L. ···-···-·.Apr. 10, '48 Amith ·-··-----·····-370 San FrancISco ......64
Dott, Edna ....................June 11, '52 Washington ........ 20 SacramFent,o ..........82
Douthitt, Edith A ........Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San rancJSco ......76
Edwardes, Lina M........ .May 23, '50 Presidio --·-··-354: San ~ancisco ......71
Edwards, Letitia M .....Aug. 30, '50 Vacaville ·-·········134 Vacaville ..............78
Edwards, Nellie B .......Jan. 24, '39 Brooklyn .............225 Oakland -··:·······-···77
Elliott, Maude M.........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Be~erly Hills --·-·75
Enos, Nellie A. ................Aug. 5, '49 Salinas -··--··-···204 Salin!ls -··-·---·90
Erwin, Lillian B ...........July 28, '48 Olivet .•....._.........206 Corning ···--·········80
Ferguson, Ruth R. ..........May 26, '34 Sotoyome --·--···123 Healdsburg ·-··-···95
Fetrow, Dora L .............May 11, '35 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............83
Finle~ Ada L. ···-··--····.Apr. 9, '40 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ..........82
Fish, uertrude L. -··-···Jan. 26, '46 Elmhurst ·-·-··-···610 Oakland -·:······-······89
Ford, Alice ···········--····-Sept. 18, '49 Excelsior ·········--166 San Francisco ......95
Fortin, Martha ..............Jul 16, '49 Oakland ·······-··-·188 Oakland ................81
Fortriede, Au~ste ....._.Apr. 24, '25 Crockett ........... _.139 San Francisco ......75
Fox, Cora F. ·-·-··········.Dec. 30, '49 Clovis ..................417 Clovis ·················-·68
Gafford, Sophia B .........Feb. 7, '49 San Bemardino..348 San Bemardino....78
Gardner, May A. ..........July 16, '51 Mission ···········----169 San Francisco ___ ..82
Gilliam, Estelle ·............Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ·······-····-·--615 Hemet ....................68
Goldstein, Pauline ......Nov. 21, '50 San Jose·······-····· 10 San Jose ................81
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '48 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ........79
Gowen, Laura ·-·············Jan. 31, '48 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........87
Graham, Alice M...........Dec. 4, '48 Oxnard -··········-···341 Oxnard ..................83
Graham, Mamie E .........May 17, '50 Fruitvale ·-···-···336 Oakland ................84
Grant, Lillian A. ·····-·······Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown ·-··· 25 Georgetown ........78

Name

Name

401

402
Name

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Town

.ABe

Griffith, Rose L •............Mar. 26, '36 Enterprise .......... 70 Yuba City •...........86
Guthrie, Rena ............... .May 27, '52 Buckeye ..............195 Winters ................76
Harris, Louise C. ·-······.Feb. 19, '33 Pacific ···········-·····136 San Francisco ·--..77
Hawkins./. J..ouisa ..........June 26, '48 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland •...............84
Hazard, Marie ..............Aug. 10, '25 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ..............82
Henderlong, Magalene ..June 4, '46 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............80
Henderson, Margaret..Sept. 23, '50 Oroville .............. 103 Oroville ................ 8'1
Hepburn;. Catherine ......Apr. 7, '52 Palesades ............637 Santa Monica ......61
Hewitt, ~·rieda Z ...........Nov. 7, '46 King Solomon's..260 San Francisco ......69
Hill, Catherine ............. .Apr. 26, '48 Sunset ..................352 Los Angeles ........73
Hoover, Emma J. ·······-··.Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 72
Howell, Pearl ·············-···May 3, '51 Carmel ................680 Carmel ·······-·········65
Huber, Tillie ....................July 7, '49 King Solomon's..260 San Francisco ......87
Hyatt, Nannie S. ·-·········Feb. 13, '48 Washin~on ........ 20 Sacramento ..........86
Hyman, Loretta ............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ·--..61
Jack, Mary ·-··········-·······June 1, '31 McKinley ............347 Richmond ..........-86
Jebe, Elise ......................Mar. 10, '48 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......78
Johnson, Jane ·····-···········Jan. 6, '34 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......86
Jones, Elise ·-················.Jan. 25, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............80
Kapp, Carrie E. ..............July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................80
Kauffman, Eda B ...........Dec. 7, '46 Alex. Gr. Bell....595 Los Angeles ..........70
Kaufman, Augusta ......Mar. 19, '48 East Bay ............. .489 Berkeley .............. 84
Kautenberg, Caroline ..Nov. 23, '49 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............82
Keenan, Effie ............... .July 17, '33 Jewell ..................374 San Francisco ......75
Kelsey, Ada M ...............May 11, '50 South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ·····-···95
Kendrick, Josephine ....Aug. 5, '49 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ······--·-···77
Kidder, Hallie D .............Dec. 2, '46 Torrance ............447 Torrance .............. 86
King, Catherine L .........Feb. 2, '52 Frances Drake ..376 S. San Francisco 72
Krejcik, Otilia ................Jan. 25, '49 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................82
Krejcik, Rose ................. .Feb. 16, '48 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......77
Kutzner, Estella ............Aug. 29, '51 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........76
Lane, Edith B ...............Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........78
Langenberger, C.......... .Apr. 26, '47 Jewell .... ·--·········374 San Francisco ·-... 87
Larson, Alice B. ·······-···Jan. 19, '47 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......74
Larter, Gertrude M .......Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ..........64
Lasman, Esther ............ _Jan. 10, '51 Bay City ..............526 San Francisco ......68
Latham, Martha ······-···.May 10, '50 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......81
Lewis, Elizabeth ............Jan. 4, '47 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......84
Lindsey, Mary Jane ......July 28, '52 Visalia ................128 Visalia ·····-····-··--'19
Mackenzie, May ..........June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Oakland ·······-··-···"4
Mahan, Elizabeth ............Apr. 3, '51 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ·······-·····--83
Maltby, Sarah E ...........Dec•. 16, '39 Chico ·····-····-·-···111 Chico -····-···········-83
Mayfield, Mary -··········Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ·············-···431 Richmond ............80
McCord, Zidana -·····-···Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ·-····· 57 Santa Rosa ..........77
Mccully, Gertie M .......June 10, '46 Educator ............554 San Francisco _____77
Mccurry, Alice ............Nov. 27, '48 Union .....:............ 58 Sacramento ..........90
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................'16
McGarry Marion ..........June 2, '48 Cathalina Island 524 Avalon ..................65
McGinne~, Mary M .......May 24, '52 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......92
Mciver, Ella W ...............July 9, '48 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............77
McLean, Lucy A ........... Nov. 28, '34 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......78
Mears, Margaretta ......Sept. 17, '41 Palestine ·······-···351 Los Angeles ........72
Melanphy, Isobel M .......Oct. 4, '51 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu, T.H.....84
Merrill, Ivy L .................Jan. 24, '41 Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ..................74
Meyer, Annie J. ·····-·····June 2, '51 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............76
Monro, Eddith C ...........Mar. 16, '46 Alpha --···············431 Richmond ·······-···85
Moore, Louise K ...........Apr. 25, '50 Redland ..............300 Redlands ..............72
Mullen, Charlotte ..........Jan. 11, '52 Mendocino ······---179 Mendocino ............ 91
Murrell, Catherine ........Jan. 12, '52 John Marshall ..636 Beverly Hills _____74
Needham, Esther A. ......June 4, '52 Alamo .................. 122 Walnut Creek ......90
Newman, Susanna ........June 4, '29 Antioch -----··-···175 Antioch ·········-··-·91

403

Age
No. Town
Admitted . Lodge
Name
75
................
Oakland
336
............
Fruitvale
'40
3,
Oct.
...............
M
Este
Nielsen,
O'Donnell, Florence ......June 1, '43 Durant ................268 Berkeley ·-····-·····90
Olsen, Minnie ................May 28, '52 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka '-··-···········70
Otis, Ethel E .................Mar. 22, '48 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............69
Owens, Lenita L ...........Apr. 28, '50 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......85
Palmer, Elizabeth ........Aug. 14, '47 Salinas ................204 Salinas ···········-····-85
Palmer, Stella ..............July 30, '52 San Gabriel ........546 San Gabriel .......... 78
Pankow, Catherine ......Apr. 29, '29 Crockett ............139 San Francisco ......88
Parizek, Grace D •..........Jan. 11, '49 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........80
Peacock, Katie ............. .Mar. 15, '47 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland .... ,...........79
Peairs, Lillian W ...........Feb. 11, '35 Normal Heights .. 632 San Diego ·-·····-··83
Pearce, Carrie C ...........Oct. 11, '46 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................88
Perger, Eva ....................Sept. 8, '45 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................75
Phillips, Ida M .............Nov. 13, '48 Pajaro ................110 Watsonville ..........88
Powell, Bell M ...............May 15, '50 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......87
Prentice, Rose .....,........June 30, '45 Marin ·····-··········-191 San Rafael ............83
Preslar, Ida ....................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................90
Randolph, Jeannette ..June 26, '51 Corcoran ·-····-··-490 Corcoran ..............73
Ramsey, Hattie ............June 23, '40 Monterey ............217 Monterefu ........... _.91
Raymond, Lillian ........Sept. 21, '39 Liberty ................299 Santa C ra ..........83
Reasoner, Marie D .......July 21, '48 Normal Heights..632 San Diego ·-······-·70
Robertson, Mary F .......Apr. 28, '46 Washington···-· ·· 20 Sacramento ..........70
Rudebeck, Anna ·······-··.Dec. 15, '48 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......80
Schwartz, Grace H .......July 12, '42 Arlington ............414 Los Angeles ........80
Seagrave, Edna R. ........May 17, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............67
Seymour, Laura ............. .Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ·-·········409 Honolulu .............. 74
Shanks, Ella ....................Sept, 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu -············81
Shimeall, Charlotte ........Feb. 1, '52 Rising Light ......397 Huntington Park 83
Short, Anna M.............July 14, '52 Phoenix ····-----178 San Berdino ........91
Smith, Laura M ............ .Nov. 24, '51 Educator ............554 San Francisco ......81
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr. 13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........80
Sparrowe, Constance ..Sept. 27, '40 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......84
Spaulding, Lillian ........Nov. 17, '41 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ......82
Sprague, Julia ..............June 29, '47 Acorn ···········-·····494 Oakland ................84
Steele, Fannie T ......- ...June 26, '50 Hanford ..............270 Hanford -·········---86
Stroud, Laura ................June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ..............79
Sutherland, Charlotte....June 8, '52 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ···········-···79
Swain, Sarah C ...............Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............74
Taylor, Clara B ...............Apr. 2, '48 San Francisco ....360 San ;Francisco ......91
Thomas, Elizabeth ........Dec. 7, '41 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ·····-···74
Thompson, Celia ·-···-····Dec. 16, '33 Eden ······-···-·····113 San Leandro --··--82
Vale, Olive B. ................June 18, '36 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......95
Ward, Jennie E .............Sept. 1, '50 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ...•........88
Wharton Mary ·-········.Mar. 20, '50 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland --···-·······-76
White, Einrna C ............ .Apr. 16, '46 Tuscan ................261 Williams -············-92
Wilcox, Edith ..................May 3, '36 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............85
Williams, Annie ............. .Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......73
Williams, Eda M ...........Nov. 10, '51 Park ···--···-··-···449 San Francisco ......72
Williams, Louise ........... .Feb. 16, '49 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ..............79
Williams, Mary ............. .Feb. 17, '43 Holtville ..............425 Holtville ................90
Wilson, Lillie B .............Oct. 23, '44 Washin~ton ...... · 20 Sacramento ..........82
Winterberg, Clara ..........Mar. 1, '50 Starr Kmg .....- ...344 San Francisco ......91
Witham, Bess T ............ .Aug. 25, '51 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster -············70
Zeehandelaar, Mary ....Jan. 12, '48 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ..........81
DEATHS OF MEN. Average Age 81.l
Date of
Age
No. Town
Lodge
Death
Name
88
..........
Chowchilla
485
........
'52
Chowchilla
26,
..
June
A.
Anderson, William
Blanton, John ................Jan. 20, '52 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......85
Cleveland, Benjamin ..Aug. 16, '51 Service ................594 Long Beach -··--·80

404

405

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Town
Age
Cohl, Benjamin ............July 14, '52 Bay City ·····-·······526 San Francisco ... __74
Davis, Alva S ...............June 23, '52 Woodland ..........156 Woodland ········---83
Donovan, John V. ···-····.Aug. 2, '51 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............84
Engelbret, Niels ..........April 30, '52 Pinole ..................353 Rodeo ··········-·······-77
Farall, Percy ..................Oct. 13, '51 Westwood ..........501 Westwood ............64
Garrick, Walter J ...........Aug. 3, '51 Hollenbeck •.......319 Los Angeles ........88
Graham, Eugene ........... .Dec. 8, '51 Oxnard ................341 Oxnard ..................87
Hannah, Jack S ...............Jan. 16,'52 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......83
Helmet, Victor G .........Feb. 20, '51 Mountain ............ 18 Downieville ..........78
. Hughes, Henry J ............ .May 7, '52 Fairmount ..........435 San Francisco ......82
Hynding, John P .........Sept. 26, '51 Ferndale ............193 Ferndale ................87
Jones, Harry S ...............Feb. 17, '52 Plumas ···········---- 60 Quincy ..................85
Kelley, William H .........Mar. 8, '52 Glendale ............544 Glendale ..............77
Leeper, Robert W .......Sept. 18, '51 Delano ···········----309 Delano ..................71
Lewis, William I ...........Jan. 14, '52 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ........80
Maynes, William A. ....April 15, '52 Escalon ..............591 Escalon ···········-·--·81
Monson, Edward ..........Mar. 22, '52 Fellowship ····--·--480 Oakland ................80
Murrell, Frank D ...........Jan. 31, '52 John Marshall ....636 Beverly Hills ......76
Neal, Robert W .............June 28, '52 Doric ....................216" San Francisco ......88
Nelson, James B ...........July 24, '52 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......87
Over, Sirwell C .............May 19, '52 Santa Ana ---------241 Santa Ana ............88
Reed, Samuel B .......... .Aug. 30, '51 F. K. Shattuck ..571 Berkeley ..............85
Schlichting, Martin ......Oct. 22, '51 Seaport ................550 San Francisco ......72
Seifert, Otto ·············-·-···June 5, '52 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............91
Stevenson, John E. ......June 30, '52 Starr King .......... 344 San ;Francisco ......85
Tosy, Antonio ................July 10, '52 Sp'r'nza Itali'na 219 San Francisco ......85

DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT FUND, 1951-1952

DEATHS OF WOMEN. Average Age 83.2
Date of
Name
Death
Lodge
No. Town
Age
Anderson, Matilda ....... Nov. 26, '51 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ............... ~91
Adolphson, Amy L .......Aug. 19, '51 Crockett ..............139 Crockett ................76
Anderson, Sidney L .....Jan. 31, '52 Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco ......74
Blank, Maude ................. .Mar. 1, '52 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........83
Brockman, Katherine ....Jan. 2, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............79
Brod, Laura H ...............Sept. 10, '51 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......89
Cameron, Rae V ...........July 28, '52 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................71
Dickie, Mary E .............July 10, '52 Silveryville ........201 Dixon ....................73
Ellsworth, Celeste H .... .Mar. 25, '52 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........67
Green, Nellie ..................Jan. 20, '52 Bethlehem ..........453 San Francisco ......83
Harris, Helena G ........... Nov. 19, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................88
Howland, Joanne ....... .Mar. 25, '52 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................90
Jackson, May- ..................Oct. 6, '51 Lompoc ..............262 Lompoc ................92
Joly, Evelyn M. ·····-- ··Nov. 25, '51 Occidental ···-····· 22 San Francisco ......64
Leibold, Emma L ........ Nov. 20, '51 Fidelity ·········----120 San Francisco ......84
Long, May ····-····-···········Oct. 7, '51 Friendship ·······--210 San Jose ..............95
Lowell, Lillian ............. .Aug. 20, '51 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ......91
Miller, Statira ·····-·········May 12, '52 El Centro ............384 El Centro ..............78
Palmer, Lilla P .............Feb. 12, '52 Carmel ············--·680 Carmel ..................91
Pease, Mabel ................Sept. 10, '51 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................92
Pitzer, Jessie M ...............Jan. 3, '52 Alhambra ..........322 Alhambra ............84
Rosie, Elizabeth ............Dec. 15, '51 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ............88
Scheuch, Caroline ........Nov. 27, '51 Doric ·········-······---216 San Francisco ......83
Smilie, Mary A. ............Aug. 27, '52 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................91
Wade, Georgia ................May 5, '52 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ................82
Whittemore, Ida E .......Mar. 10, '62 Mount Jackson .. 295 Guerneville ..........84
WITHDRAWALS: Women 2, Average Age 82
Name
Withdrawn Lodge
No. Town
Age
Gordon, Harriett E .......Dec. 14, '52 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......83
Long, Mary A. ·····-·········Oct. 7, '52 Friendship ......... .210 San Jose ..............81

No. Lodge
1 California ---·-···-----.$
2 Western Star ..................
3 Tehama ............................
8 Tuolumne ........................
9 Corinthian ......................
10 San Jose ..........................
12 Yount ·······················-·····
13 Nevada ........................... .
16 Eureka ........................... .
17 La Parfaite Union ........
19 San Joaquin ................... .
20 Wash~gton ·············-·····
21 Hawauan ·········-·············
22 Occidental ......................
23 Madison ·····················-···
24 Mariposa ........................
26 El Dorado ........................
27 Trinity ····························
30 Golden Gate ..................
32 Gold Hill ........................
35 San Diego ........................
37 Howard ............................
38 Santa Cruz ..................... .
41 Martinez ......................... .
42 Los Angeles ----~----------43 Hiram ·····-··················-···
44 Mount Moriah ............. .
45 Crescent ......................... .
46 Texas·········-·····················
57 Santa Rosa ..................... .
58 Union ·······················-·····
61 Live Oak ·········-·············
64 Natoma ........................... .
65 Amador ·······················-···
70 Enterprise ......................
76 Bear Mountain ............
78 Calaveras _______ :...............
81 Yolo ................................. .
87 Naval----·-···-·····················
93 St. Helena ......................
95 Henry Clay ·····-·············
99 Yosemite ·····-······-··-·····
101 Clay···--··-········-····--·- ···
106 Arcata ·····-·······················
111 Chico·····-···-········-···········
117 Concord ..........................
120 Fidelity ............................
122 Alamo ............................. .
126 Lafayette ........................
127 Hermann ....................... .
128 Visalia •.............................
129 Nicolaus ..........................
131 Woodbridge ....................
134 Vacaville ....................... .
136 Pacific ............................. .
139 Crockett ......................... .
143 Franklin ..........................
144 Oriental ..........................

Amount
Lodge
5.00
Molino ............................. .
25.00
5.00
Woodland ........................
5.00
12.50
Excelsior ........................
10.00
5.00
Alameda ..........................
5.00
10.00
R~d"."ood City ................
10.00
25.00
15.00
Mission ···············-···-·······
15.00
Antioch ............................
3.50
25.00
10.00
Phoenix ····-····················
12.50
5.00 180 Petaluma ....................... .
5.00
5.00 181 Russian River ................
5.00
10.00 187 Keith ................................
10.00
10.00 188 Oakland -········-···············
12.50
25.00 191 Marin ..............................
5.00
20.00 192 Santa Barbara ................
10.00
5.00 193 Ferndale ..........................
10.00
5.00 194 Mountain View ............
5.00
5.00 195 Buckeye ......................... .
10.00
5.00 196 San Simeon ....................
10.00
25.00 198 Wilmington ·········-·········
10.00
5.00 199 Hartley ............................
5.00
25.00 200 Truckee ·····-··············-···
10.00
10.00 201 Silveyville ......................
10.00
10.00 203 Confidence ......................
15.00
61.09 206 Stanislaus ....................... .
10.00
2.00 208 Rio Vista -··················-•··
10.00
5.00 209 King David's ·············-···
10.00
5.00 210 Friendship ·········-···········
10.00
5.00 211 San Benito ......................
10.00
5.00 212 South San Francisco ....
5.00
15.00 215 Oak Grove ···-·················
10.00
12.50 217 Monterey ···········-···········
10.00
25.00 218 Mosaic ............................. .
7.50
5.00 219 Speranza Italiana ·····--··
10.00
5.00 220 Downey ..........................
5.00
5.00 222 Roseville ·········-·············
12.50
5.00 224 Bakersfield ................... .
10.00
10.00 225 Brooklyn ........................
25.00
2.50 226 San Mateo ..................... .
5.00
25.00 228 Athens --·················-·······
5.00
5.00 236 Hills Ferry ......................
2.50
2.50 240 Colusa ..............................
10.00
10.00 . 241 Santa Ana ···············-···5.00
10.00 245 Laurel ·········-··--·············
20.00
5.00 246 Pomona ..........................
25.00
10.00 247 Fresno·············-···············
5.00
5.00 253 . Landmark ......................
10.00
12.50 254 Reading ..........................
10.00
10.00 256 Lodi ..................................
5.00
5.00 258 Penrhyn ....................•..•..
20.00
20.00 259 Evergreen ......................
20.00
10.00 261 Tuscan ............................
5.00
5.00 262 Lompoc ........................... .
10.00
5.00 264 Hesperian ·········-·············
7.50
5.00 265 Orland ............................
5.00
10.00 267 Galt ························-·······
5.00
15.00 268 Durant.....---····-···············
10.00
5.00 269 Olive Branch ·········-··-···
25.00
25.00 272 Pasadena ···············-··-···

Amount

No.
150
156
166
167
168
169
175
178

406
No.

Lodge

Axroyo ............................
Hanford ..........................
Calayomi ....................... .
South West ................... .
San Miguel ·········-·········
Paso Robles ................... .
East Gate ........................
Los Gatos ....................... .
Orange Grove ............... .
Dunsmuir ....................... .
Liberty ........................... .
Redlands ·········-·············
Ontario ........................... .
Azusa ............................. .
Ashlar ............................. .
Tehachapi ..................... .
Temescal ....................... .
Norwalk·········-···············
Fallbrook ....................... .
Alisa! ............................. .
Corona ........................... .
Needles ............................
Long Beach ................... .
Redondo ......................... .
Pacific Grove ................
Fruitvale ....................... .
Carquinez ..................... .
Oxnard ·········-·················
San Fernando ................
Starr King ..................... .
Palo Alto ........................
347 McKinley ........................
348 San Bernardino ....,...... .
349 · Sequoia --················-·······
351 Palestine ....................... .
353 Pinole ..............................
356 Mill Valley ................... .
360 San Francisco ............... .
362 Charity ........................... .
366 Las Palmas ................... .
367 South Pasadena ........... .
369 Ocean Park ................... .
370 Amity ..............................
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
374 Jewel ............................. .
375 Richmond ..................... .
376 Francis Drake ............... .
377 Artesia ·········-·················
379 Fillmore ..........................
382 Highland Park ..............
384 El Centro ........................
385 Dinuba ........................... .
387 Coalinga ···················-·····
388 Parnassus ....................... .
393 Balder ............................. .
397 Rising Light ....................
400 Burlingame ................... .
401 Bay View ........................
402 Brawley ......................... .
403 Yerba Buena ................. .
274
279
282
283
285
286
290
292
293
297
299
300
301
305
306
313
314
315
317
321
324
326
327
328
331
336
337
341
343
344
346

Amount

No.

Lodge

5.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
7.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
12.50
12.50
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.50
25.00
12.50
7.70
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
16.50
15.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
9.00
20.00
20.00
10.00
5.00

405
407
409
410
411
415
426
428
429
431
433
434
435
440
441
447
448
449
460
461
462
463
466
467
468

MoIH!ta ........................... .
La Mesa ............................
Honolulu ....................... .
Charter Rock ............... .
Perris ·········-···················
Silver Trowel ................
Midway ......................... .
San Dimas ..................... .
Pittsburg ···············-·······
Alpha ............................. .
Hammonton ................. .
Maricopa ....................... .
Fairmount ......................
Standard ....................... .
Coronado ....................... .
Torrance ......................... .
Mount Diablo ................
Park ................................
Mount Oso ·············-·······
Argonaut ....................... .
Paul Revere ................... .
Morgan Hill ................... .
Libertas ..........................
Culver City ·········-·········
Rickridge ........................
Delta ............................... .
Blythe ............................. .
Temblor ......................... .
Thousand Oaks ............
Golden Rule ................. .
Bell ..................................
Albert Pike ···············-···
Caledonia ........................
Vallejo ........................... .
Patterson ........................
East Bay ..........................
Woodstock ......................
Atascadero ..................... .
Acorn ..............................
Roosevelt ....................... .
Harbor ............................
Point •...............................
El Segundo ................... .
Cupertino ....................... .
Sunnyvale ..................... .
Cahuenga ........................
Argonne ..........................
Taft ..................................
La Jolla ......................... .
Piedmont ....................... .
George Washington
Bay City ......................... .
Covenant ···················-···
Beverly Hills ................. .
Sun Garden ................... .
Alexandria ..................... .
Belvedere ....................... .
San Gabriel ....................
Seaport ............................
Lakeshore ......................

471

473
477
478
479
483
484
486
487
488
489
491
493
494
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
518
521
525
526
527
528
530
531
539
546
550
551

407

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
7.50
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
11.00
5.00
15.00
25.00
.5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
18.96
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.11
10.00
5.00
5.00

No. Lodge

Amount

552 Semper Virens ..............
555 White Pine ......................
558 Point Firmin ..................
561 East San Diego ..............
563 South Park ....................
564 Foothill ..........................
574 S. W. Hackett ................ .
576 El Cajon Valley ............
578 Progressive ....................
580 Santa Maria ....................
581 Security ..........................
589 Kauai ..............................
590 Compalils ..........................
593 All States ........................
594 Service ............................
595 Alexander Graham Bell
596 Guardian ........................
603 Dimond ..........................
609 Provident ........................
620 Point Loma ....................
623 Menorah ··········-···-·········
634 Victorville ......................
635 Riverside ........................
· 638 Indian Rock ....................
643 Alta Loma ......................
645 A. F. E. Irwin ..............
648 Damascus ........................
650 La Brea ..........................
661 Malta ..............................
662 Henry Knox ..................
665 Kaweah ..........................
668 San Gorgonio ................
669 John P .• Jarman ............
673 Far West..........................
674 Los Cerritos ..................
675 Modesto ..........................
676 Willow Glen ..................
679 Canby Cross ..................
680 Carmel ............................
681 Dos Palos ....................•...
686 Albany ............................
688 Oildale ............................
690 San Carlos ......................
711 Rim of the World........

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00
31.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
15.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
60.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

Total ...................,..................$3,096.36
CHAPTERS R. A. M.
No.
Chapter

Amt.

Sonora ~----··---········-····--···.2 $ 5.00

Sacramento -----··········-··--3
Nevada ···-··--·-··-··-·····-···6
Shasta ···--··---·--···:·······-······
Sutter ---···-·-·······-···----11
Cyrus ·····-········-··-···----····-15
Grass Valley ·····-··-·········---18
Petaluma ···--·····-:..•....,•.____.22
Delta ···-······-······--····--····.27

5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
1.25
5.00

No.

Amt.

Martinez ·········-····-·············31
Naval ····-··-···-······-········---35
Siloam ····--··-············-·········37
Santa Cruz _.......................:38
Santa Rosa ··········-·····-······-45
Ventura ·-··-····-·················-50
Humboldt -······················---5~
Keystone ···-·-······--·--········-56
Colusa ····················-·······-··60
San Luis ··········--···-··········---62
St. Helena ·······················---63
Riverside ··-•--------············-6'7
Crown ..................................72
Hanford ................................74
Pomona ................................76
Ferndale ..............................78
Calaveras ............................83
San Pedro ····-················-····89
Whittier ...:....................•.••-91
Palo Alto ·····-················--···93
Fidelity ................................96
Redondo ............................101
Marin ..................................102
Ontario ..............................195
Mill Valley ········-······-·······108
El Centro ·············-·············109
South Pasadena ................112
Coalinga ·········-············-···-114
Sebastopol ·····-············-···--11'1
Hollywood .......................•120
Huntington Park ..............127
Searchlight ·············-········-133
San Fernando ..................136
Wilmington .......,..............141
Roseville ·······················----146

5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
2.50
5.00
37.50
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Chapter

Total ···························-····-······-$236.25
COMMANDERIES. K. T.
Amt.
No.
California ··-··-··-··-·······---1 $ 12.50
5.00
Sacramento ··················----.2
5.00
Pacific -··-········-·-····-··--··.3
10.00
Oroville ······-·--·-··-······-·····5
2.50
Nevada ·····-··-···--······---.6
5.00
Marysville ............................7
5.00
San Jose ···-··-·---···--·········10
5.00
Chico ·····-·--···-··········-·-····12
8.75
Santa Rosa ····-···················14
5.00
Naval ···-····-···-······--···---19
5.00
Watsonville ........................22
7.50
St. Bernard ···-·····················23
5.00
Colusa ···--··-····-··-············.24
15.00
Visalia ·-··········-·····-···--··-.26
5.00
San Luis Obispo ................27
10.00
Pasadena ····-·········-·--·-··---.31
10.00
Mt. Shasta ··-···········'···-·······32
15.00
Ukiah --·-··-····-···-·--------33
Corrzmandery

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Commandery

No.

DISTRICT OFFICERS'
ASSOCIATION

Amt.
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00

420th District ................................$10.00
Santa Clara Valley (Districts
53, 54, & 124) ················-·········· 5.00

Total ·-············-··-·········-·········-$208.75

Amt.

Southern California •.........37
San Francisco ············-······41
Santa Cruz ·····-·····'-·········-44
Palo Alto ···---·--·-···-····---47
Whittier ···-···························51
Auburn ·····-··-··················--.52
Hollywood ·····-······-··········-56
San Pedro ·············-·············60
Calvary ..............................•.62

COUNCILS R. & S. M.
Council
No.
Amt.

Sacramento ·-··········-·····-···1 $ 5.00
Gateway ···--·············-·-·····13
5.00
Pasadena ·························-··-16
5.00
Santa Cruz ···--··-····-···-····17
2.50 ·
San Luis Obispo ................38
2.50
Total ·---······-··-··········-·······-' 20.00

Name

Amt.

Total ·········-······················-··-···:.$15.00
CHAPTERS, O. E. S.
Chapter
No.

Mercedes ···-················-···126 $ 10.00
10.00
San Rafael ·········-······-····.215
10.00
Mill Valley --·······-········-.219
. 2.50
Atascadero ···········-··········-344
Total ·····-··-··-······--········-··--·-.$32.50
MISCELLANEOUS

Amt.

Amt.
California Lodge of Perfection $12.50
Fresno Lodge of Perfection...... 50.00
Oakland Bodies ............................ 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ........................ 20.00
Sacramento Bodies -'-·-············ 12.50
San Francisco Lodge of
Perfection ·························-······· 25.00

Thomas O'Leary (332) ·-··-······-$ 3.00
E. H. Stevenson (417) ................ 50.00
Jack Nuttall ············-·················· 25.00
633 Club ···············-····················· 5.00
Trowel Club of Texaco ............ 12.00
J.P. Hazel & B. F. Galbraith.... 1.00
Ladies' Auxiliary of Palo
Alto Commandery No. 47...... 25.00
Albert C. Vieille (415) .............. 5.00
Miss F. Seligson.......................... 5.00
John Wesley Heidt (61) ............ 5.00

Total ···-···-························-···...$145.00

Total ·····-·················-·············-$136.00

A.&A.S.R.

CIIlLDREN AT COVINA HOME
July 31, 1952
Boys-33
Name

Admitted

Lodge

409

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Town

Age

Achenbach, Howard ..Sept. 11, '49 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........ 8
Anderson, Raymond ..Sept. 11, '51 Taft ················-··--516 Taft ·······-····-····-···11
Angel, Bill ................. .March 22, '46 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ···----16
Armstrong, James ........Dec. 12, '47 Tyrian ·····-·······--439 Manteca ····-···-···17
Armstrong, Robert ......Dec. 21, '47 Tyrian ··········-···.439 Manteca ··········-··-15
Ashurst, Ellis ·····-····-····.Feb. 2, '47 Magnolia .........•..242 Santa Barbara ....15
Ashurst, Larry ·····-········.Feb. 2, '47 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....12
Averill, Crl>rdon ·-····:....Feb. 19, '47 Mill Valley ···----356 Mill Valley ·····----12
Readmitted ..............April 2, '52
Barham, Thomas ..........June 27, '51 Moneta ·····-·········405 Los Angeles ........ 7
Barham, Jerry .........•....June 27, '51 Moneta ···········-···405 Los Angeles ........ 5
Beckman, Charles ........Nov. 12, '49 Eureka ·····-········· 16 Auburn ..........•.....11
Burkhalter, Charles ....Mar. 26, '45 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ···-···13

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Case, Arthur ................Sept. 24, '46 W. Los Angeles 373 W. Los Angeles ..13
Darlmg, Truman ............Jan. 28, '48 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara .......... 9
Deemer, Robert ..............Jan. 6, '52 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Park ·····----12
Eller, Harold ................June 23, '44 Meridian ....•.......667 Glendale •..........._14
Fifield, Jerald ................Aug. 31, '50 Benevolence ......1131 Los Angeles ···----13
Finney, Charles ..............July 5, '48 Neptune ...•.........:619 Long Beach ....•...•.11
Finney, Michael ..............July 5, '49 Neptune ···········--619 Long Beach .......... 9
Flannigan, Richard ......Jan. 28, '50 Ramona •.............457 Monterey Park ..•. 9
Fmiter, Kenneth ..............July 8, '51 Signal ..................543 Long Beach .......•..10
Hacquebord, Charles ....Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ..........436 Claremont ··········- 9
Harris, Earl ·····-··········.April 28, '51 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia •...............15
Joy, Harry ......................Aug. 10, '47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........10
Joy, William ..................June 15, '47 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........15
Kilpatrick, Charles ......Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 5
Kilpatrick, David ........Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ..............457 Monterev Park .... 5
Kilpatrick, Paul ............Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ..............457 Monterey Park .... 5
Lohr, Charles ................June 14, '52 LaHabra ..............659 LaHabra .............. 5
Lohr, Duncan ..................June 7, '52 LaHabra ..............659 LaHabra .............. 6
Mason, David ..................July 9, '47 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ·········-·····13
Place, Barry ................... .Aug. 9, '47 Burlingame ........400 Burlingame ..........12
Wylie, Kenneth ............June 18, '52 University ..........394 Los Angeles ....... .- 8

Girls-29
Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Achenback, Patricia ....Sept. 11, '48 Progressive ........578 Los Angeles ........10
Allison, Linda ..............June 17, '45 Ashlar ..................306 Colton ···········-·······12
Allison, Patricia ............April 1, '45 Ashlar ..................306 Colton ·-··-····-·······16
Barham, Patricia ..........June 27, '51 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles ........ 8
Barnett, Marie ..............July 19, '52 Acom ..................494 Oakland ....•........... 9
Bowman, Lorraine ............Aug. 31, '45 Coronado ............441 Coronado ·········-···16
Readmitted ................Aug. 31, '52
•
Darling, Mary ···········-··.Aug. 26, '46 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........13
Decker, Shirley ·····-·······Jan. 26, '52 Guardian ............596 South Gate ·····-··· 9
Deemer, Linda ................Jan. 6, '51 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Peark ....•_.14
Hacquebord, Patricia ..Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ..........436 Claremont -·········-11
Hacquebord, Suzanne ..Jan. 26, '52 Claremont ···-··---436 Claremont ·····-·····13
Harris, Bonnie ............April 28, '51 Arcadia ·····-······-547 Arcadia ·········--·-11
Johnson, Judith ............Sept. 8, '49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles •...._.11
Johnson, Kathleen ........Sept. 8, '49 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........ 9
Larsen, Cherie ..............June 24, '52 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ........14
Larsen, Sandra ............June 24, '52 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ·------12
Leachi....Madelyn ..............Oct. 1, '50 Palisades ·····-····-637 Santa Monica ......15
Lohr, .r·rances ................June 14, '52 La Habra ·······----659 La Habra ·····-···--10
Lohr, Grace ..................June 14, '52 La Habra ............659 La Habra ·····-·······12
Neilsen, Darlene ..............July 1, '52 Covina ................334 Covina ···········-····· 4
Neilsen, Linda ................July 1, '52 Covina ................334 Covina .................. 9
Offinga, Elinor ..............Aug. 4, '44 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........13
Ostrander, Carol .......... Sept. 14, '51 Big Bear ..............617 Big Bear Lake .... 9
Ostrander, Patricia ....Sept. 14, '51 Big Bear ..............617 Big Bear Lake ....12
Pease Barbara Joanne July 18, '47 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ···········-···15
Porte~, Susan ................Sept. 12, '50 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ....•...13
Rose, Lorna ..................•.Sept. 9, '50 Temple City ......612 Temple City ........ 8
Weist, Nancy ·········-····.Aug. 25, '46 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........14
Williams, Jeannette ......June 2, '43 Ione ...................... 80 Ione ···- ······-····-·····15

410

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Departed During the Year-A ugust 1, 19.51 to July 31, 19.52
Boys-1 1
Name

No. Lodge

Admitted

Departed

Age

Beard, Paul S. ·····-········.Aug. 5, '46
Beard, Robert ............... .Aug. 5, '46
Beard, William -········-····-Aug. 5, '46
Biss, Donald Raleigh ......Oct. 1, '50
Diercks, Allen Don•... .Nov. 26, '43
Dyer, John Joel ..............July 8, '40
Edwards, Roland W .....Feb. 26, '50
Eller, Harry H.• ............May 24, '43
Trebell, Thomas• ..........July 10, '47
Whitney, William P. • Sept. 11, '49
Woodry, William Kent Aug. 23, '50

June 15, '52
June 15, '52
June 15, '52
July 13, '52
June 14, ·~2
Sept. 17, '51
Aug. 1, '51
June 13, '52
June 13, '52
June 14, '52
Mar. 3, '52

13
11
15
16
17
17
14
17
17
18
10

Departed

Age

June 16, '52
June 15, '52
July 13, '52
July 13, '52
June 24, '52
Aug. 1, '51
June 21, '52

17
17
10
8
17
10
18

Aug. 28, '51
June 13, '52

13
17

Girls-9
Name

Admitted
Allison, Laura M.• ........April 1, '45
Beard, Patricia Carol• ..Aug. 5, '46
Biss, Vera Leigh ..............Oct. l, '50
Biss, Vickie Jean ............Oct. 1, '50
Burkhalter , Sue J: ......Mar. 26, '45
Edwards, Donna Lee ....Feb. 26, '50
Offinga, Barbara A.• ..Aug. 13, '42
Wallen, Jo Ann ..........,_.April 1, '44
Readmitte d ................Sept. 6, '48
Williams, Suzanne• ......June 2, '43
•Graduate

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina Home, July 31, 19.52
Date Began
No.
Ledge
Name
Pilz, Theodore Chas ......................... Alcatraz ..............244 ........November , 1946
No.

COVINA CHRISTM AS AND ENTERTA INMENT FUND, 1951-1952
Ledge
Amount No. Lodge
Amount

1 California ..................... .
2 Western Star ..................
3 Tehama ..........................
8 Tuolumne ·····-··-···········
9 Corinthian ......................
10 San Jose ......................... .
12 Yount ···-····-·····················
13 Nevada ............................
16 Eureka ............................
17 La Parfaite Union ........
19 San Joaquin·········-·········
20 Washingto n ....................
21 Hawaiian ············-··········
22 Occidental ·············-·······
23 Madison ..........................
24 Mariposa .............•........,.
26 El Dorado ···-·················
27 Trinity ···················-·······.
30 Golden Gate .................

25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
3.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00

32
35
37
38
41
42
43
44
45
46
51
57
58
61
64
65
70
75
78

Gold Hill ........................
San Diego ..................... .
Howard .....................:......
Santa Cruz ................... .
Martinez ..........................
Los Angeles ....................
Hiram·························-···
Mount Moriah ................
Crescent ..........................
Texas ............................. .
lliinoistow n ·········-·········
Santa Rosa ......................
Union ···················-·········
Live Oak ....................... .
Natoma ........................... .
Amador ..........................
Enterprise ......................
Bear Mountain ..............
Calaveras ···-··········-·······

15.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
61.09
2.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

Amount

No. Lodge

2.50 228 Athens ............................
81 Yolo •.................................
20.00 236 Hills Ferry ......................
84 Vesper ..............................
25.00 240 Colusa •.............................
87 Naval ..............................
5.00 241 Santa Ana ......................
93 St. Helena ···············-·····
2.50 245 Laurel ..............................
95 Henry Clay ··········'·········
10.00 246 Pomona ......................... .
99 Yosemite ........................
10.00 247 Fresno ···············-·············
101 Clay·························-·······
50.00 253 Landmark ......................
104 Lexington ......................
5.00 254 Reading ..........................
106 Arcata····-· ··-············- ···
10.00 256 Lodi ................................. .
111 Chico ................................
5.00 258 Penrhyn ..........................
117 Concord ......................... .
12.50 259 Evergreen ......................
120 Fidelity ............................
10.00 261 Tuscan ............................
122 Alamo ·········-········-···.. ····
5.00 262 Lompoc ........................... .
126 Lafayette ........................
20.00 264 Hesperian ·········-·············
127 Hermann ........................
128 Visalia ............................. . . 10.00 265 Orland ............................
5.00 267 Galt···.-··················-·········
129 Nicolaus ..........................
5.00 268 Durant ............................
131 Woodbridg e ................... .
5.00 269 Olive Branch ·······-·········
134 Vacaville ·················-·····
10.00 272 Pasadena ........................
136 Pacific ............................. .
15.00 274 Arroyo ........................... .
139 Crockett ..........................
5.00 279 Hanford ..........................
143 Franklin ..........................
25.00 282 Calayomi ....................... .
144 Oriental ..........................
5.00 283 South West ................... .
150 Molino ............................. .
5.00 285 San Miguel ·········-·········
156 Woodland ·········-·--··········
12.50 286 Paso Robles ....................
166 Excelsior ........................
5.00 290 East Gate ........................
167 Alameda ..........................
10.00 292 Los Gatos ........................
168 Redwood City ................
25.00 293 Orange Grove ............... .
169 Mission --···········-·············
15.00 297 Dunsmuir ....................... .
175 Antioch ·····-················-···
25.00 299 Liberty ........................... .
178 Phoenix ·········-····-·········
12.50 300 Redlands ·········-·············
180 Peta~uma :···················-··
5.00 301 Ontario···········'·······-······
181 Russian River ................
5.00 305 Azusa ···-····················-····
187 Keith .....:.......---···-·········10.00 306 Ashlar ..............................
188 Oakland ..........................
12.50 313 Tehachapi ·········-···········
191 Marin ............................ .
5.00 314 Temescal ........................
192 Santa Barbara ............. .
10.00 315 Norwalk·········-···············
193 Ferndale ·····-················-·
10.00 317 Fallbrook ........................
194 Mountain View ............. .
5.00 319 Hollenbeck ....................
195 Buckeye ......................... .
10.00 321 Alisal ............................. .
196 San Simeon ···········-·······
10.00 322 Alhambra ........................
198 Wilmingto n ....................
5.00 324 Corona ............................
199 Hartley---······················
5.00 326 Needles ............................
···--·
·············-·····
Truckee
200
10.00 327 Long Beach ·········-·········
203 Confidence ......................
15.00 328 Redondo ......................... .
-·
·········-········
206 Stanislaus
10.00
331 Pacific Grove ................
-···
208 Rio Vista ···················
10.00
336 Fruitvale ........................
·····-·······-··
209 King David's
10.00 337 Carquinez ..................... .
210 Friendship ......................
10.00 339 Fullerton ...................... ..
211 San Benito ......................
10.00 341 Oxnard ·--·-···----·-------·..··
212 South San Francisco ... .
5.00 343 San Fernando ............... .
215 Oak Grove -····················
10.00 344 Starr King .................... ..
217 Monterey ·········-··--··-···
10.00 346 Palo Alto ....................... .
218 Mosaic ..............................
7.50 347 McKinley ....................... .
219 Speranza Italiana .........•
10.00 348 San Bernardino ........... .
220 Downey ......................... .
5.00 349 Sequoia ...................- .......
222 Roseville ···-···················
12.50 351 Palestine ........................
224 Bakersfield ....................
10.00 353 Pinole .........- ...................
225 Brooklyn ...............•........
25.00 356 Mill Valley ....................
·····•
..
226 San Mateo ···-····-···

411
Amount
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
40.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
45.00
5.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
7.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
133.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
12.50
12.50
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
17.50
25.00

412
No. Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount

No.

Lodge

360 San Francisco ............... .
12.50
362 Charity ........................... .
7.70
366 Las Palmas ................... .
5.00
367 South Pasadena ........... .
25.00
369 Ocean Park ................... .
5.00
371 le Progres de L'Oceanie
25.00
370 Amity ............................. .
10.00
372 Gardena ......................... .
25.00
374 Jewel ............................. .
5.00
375 Richmond ..................... .
12.50
376 Francis Drake ............... .
10.00
377 Artesia ·········-·················
16.50
378 Mizpah ........................... .
10.00
379 Fillmore ......................... .
15.00
382 Highland Park ............. .
5.00
384 El Centro ....................... .
10.00
385 Dinuba ........................... .
15.00
387 Coalinga ....................... .
110.00
388 Parnassus ....................... .
10.00
393 Balder ............................. .
50.00
394 University ..................... . 132.10
397 Rising Light ................... .
9.00
400 Burlingame ................... .
20.00
402 Brawley .......................... .
10.00
403 Yerba Buena ................. .
5.00
405 Moneta ........................... .
17.50
407 La Mesa .......................... ..
5.00
409 Honolulu ....................... .
25.00
410 Charter Rock ............... .
10.00
411 Perris ............................. .
10.00
415 Silver Trowel ............... .
10.00
416 Lindsay ........................... .
53.00
421 Inglewood ..................... .
25.00
426 Mid way ......................... .
10.00
427 Chino Valley ................. .
5.00
428 San Dimas ..................... .
11.00
429 Pittsburg ....................... .
5.00
431 Alpha ............................. .
15.00
433 Hammonton ................. .
25.00
434 Maricopa ....................... .
5.00
435 Fairmount ..................... .
10.00
438 Acacia ............................. .
5.00
440 Standard ....................... .
5.00
441 Coronado ....................... .
5.00
447 Torrance ......................... .
10.00
448 Mount Diablo ............... .
5.00
460 Mount Oso ..................... .
15.00
461 Argonaut ....................... .
10.00
462 Paul Revere ................... .
5.00
463 Morgan Hill ................... .
18.96
466 Libertas ......................... .
10.00
467 Culver City ................... .
20.00
468 Rockridge ....................... .
5.00
471 Delta ............................... .
10.00
473 Blythe ............................. .
5.00
477 Temblor ......................... .
10.00
478 Thousand Oaks ........... .
15.00
479 Golden Rule ................. .
10.00
483 Bell ................................. .
10.00
484 Albert Pike ................... .
10.00

486
487
488
489
491
493
494
499
500
502
503
507
510
511
513
514
516
518
520
521
525
526
527
528
530
531
539
540
543
546
550
551
552
555
558
561
563
564
574
576
578
580
581
589
590
592
593
594
595
596
603
608
609
619
620
621
623
634
635
638

Caledonia ....................... .
Vallejo ........................... .
Patterson ....................... .
East Bay ......................... .
Woodstock ..................... .
Atascadero ..................... .
Acorn ............................. .
Capital City ................... .
Roosevelt ....................... .
Harbor ........................... .
Point ................................ .
El Segundo ................... .
Cupertino ....................... .
Sunnyvale ..................... .
Cahuenga ....................... .
Argonne ......................... .
Taft ................................. .
La Jolla ......................... .
Ionic ............................... .
Piedmont ...................... ..
George Washington
Bay City ......................... .
Covenant ....................... .
Beverly Hills ................. .
Sun Garden ................... .
Alexandria ..................... .
Belvedere------·--·-----········Queen Beach ................ ..
Signal --···--------·················
San Gabriel ................... .
Seaport ···--·········-------·······
Lakeshore ..................... .
Semper Virens ............. .
White Pine ..................... .
Point Firmin ................. .
East San Diego ............. .
South Park ................... .
Foothill ......................... .
S. W. Hackett ............... .
El Cajon Valley ........... .
Progressive ................... .
Santa Maria ................... .
Security ......................... .
Kauai ............................. .
Compass ......................... .
Tujunga ......................... .
All States ....................... .
Service ........................... .
Alexander Graham Bell
Guardian ....................... .
Dimond ......................... .
Granada ......................... .
Provident ....................... .
Neptune ......................... .
Point Loma ................... .
The Gardens ................. .
Menorah ......................... .
Victorville ..................... .
Riverside ....................... .
Indian Rock ........... ~----···-

413

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amount

No.

Lodge

17.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.11
15.00
50.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00
31.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
6.85
10.00
25.00
15.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
15.00
10.00

641
643
644
645
648
650
661
662
665
668
669
673
674
675
676
679
680
681
686
688
690
711

James A. Foshay ..........
Alta Loma ......................
Lomita ............................
A. F. E. Irwin ..............
Damascus ........................
La Brea ..........................
Malta ..............................
Henry Knox ..................
Kaweah ..........................
San Gorgonio ................
John P. Jarman............
Far West ..........................
Los Cerritos ..................
Modesto ..........................
Willow Glen ..................
Canby Cross ..................
Carmel ............................
Dos Palos........................
Albany ............................
Oildale ............................
San Carlos ......................
Rim of the World ........

: ~

'.

Amount
10.05
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
60.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

No.

Amt.

Calaveras ............................83
San Pedro ............................ 89
Whittier ................................ 91
Palo Alto ..............................93
Fidelity ................................96
San Gabriel ...................... 100
Redondo ............................ 101
Marin .................................. 102
Mill Valley ........................ 108
El Centro ............................ 109
South Pasadena -------·····----112
Coalinga ............................ 114
Sebastopol ........................ 117
Hollywood ........................ 120
Huntington Park .............. 127
Inglewood ..........................131
Searchlight ........................133
San Fernando .................... 136
Wilmington ----------------------141
Roseville ............................ 146

2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
g:~~

Chapter

1

5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50

Total ..........................................$291.25

Total ...................................... $3,921.36
COMMANDERIES. K. T.
CHAPTERS R. A. M.
Chapter

No.

Amt.

Sonora .................................... 2 $ 5.00
5.00
Sacramento ..........................3
2.50
Nevada .................................. 6
5.00
Shasta .................................... 9
2.50
Sutter .................................... 11
5.00
Cyrus .................................... 15
2.50
Grass Valley ...................... 18
1.25
Petaluma ............. ----------------22
5.00
Delta ....................................27
5.00
Martinez ..............................31
5.00
Naval .................................... 35
7.50
Siloam ..................................37
2.50
Santa Cruz .......................... 38
25.00
Visalia ..................................44
5.00
Santa Rosa ......................... .45
10.00
Dixon .................................... 48
5.00
Ventura ................................ 50
5.00
Humboldt ............................ 52
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
St. Helena ............................ 63
2.50
5.00
37.50
5.00
Pomona ................................ 76
5.00
Ferndale .............................. 78

~fr~~u::--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Jg
~~~~~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J!

Amt.
Commandery
No.
California .............................. 1 $ 12.50
5.00
Sacramento .......................... 2
5.00
10.0Q
2.50
5.00
Marysville ............................ 7
5.00
San Jose .............................. 10
5.00
Chico .................................... 12
8.75
Santa Rosa .......................... 14
5.00
Naval .................................... 19
5.00
Watsonville ........................22
7.50
St. Bernard ..........................23
5.00
15.00
5.00
San Luis Obispo ................27
10.00
Pasadena .............................. 31
10.00
Mt. Shasta ............................32
15.00
Ukiah .................................... 33
10.00
Southern California .......... 37
2.50
Santa Cruz ......................... .44
5.00
Palo Alto ............................. .47
10.00
Alhambra ........................... .48
10.00
5.00
15.00
Hollywood .......................... 56
5.00
San Pedro ............................60
10.00
Calvary ................................ 62

~!~~~~<:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~

~?;~ii~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~

!~~~~~r ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~

Total .......................................... $208. 75

414

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

COUNCILS R. & S. M.
Council
No.

Amt.
Sacramento ....•.....................1 $ 5.00
5.00
Gateway ··---·····················13
5.00
Pasadena ·--····~··············-··16
2.50
Santa Cruz ·--·····-····- ·····17
Alhambra .............................25
5.00
San Luis Obispo ................38
2.50

HOMES STATISTICS

MISCELLANEOUS

Amt.

Fraser Circle ---······--··-···-··-' 28.00
Midway Square & Compass
Club ···-··············-····················· 25.00
Paul M. McCue P.M. (388)........
3.00
W. W. Whitney (434) ................ 25.00
E. H. Stevenson (417) ................ 50.00
Total ···---·········- ··---···-' 25.00 · Jack Nuttall ............... _............... 25.00
633 Club ...................................... 15.00
A.&A.S.R.
Trowel Club of Texaco ............ 12.00
Amt. J. P. Hazel
& B. F. Galbraith....
1.00
California Lodge of Perfection $12.50 Ladies' Auxiliary of Palo
Fresno Lodge of Perfection........ 50.00
Alto Commandery No. 47 ...... 25.00
Peninsula Bodies ........................ 20.00 Jean A. Devoy (621) .................. 5.00
Sacramento Bodies ...................... 12.50 William E. Ellis .......................... · 5.00
Ray Rust (572) -·····················-··· 10.00
Total -·--······-- ··-··-················-f95.00 Henry L. Woodland .................. 50.00
Albert C. Vieille (415).............. 5.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS'
Santa Maria Chapter No. 552,
ASSOCIATIONS
Order of De Molay.................. 10.00
Amt.
Santa Maria Assembly No. 92,
Order of Rainbow for Girls.. 10.00
420th District ····-···-····- ······--···· 10.00
542nd District .............................. 22.30 Irma Rhodes ................................ 25.00
550th District .............................. 10.00 John Wesley Heidt (61) .......... 5.00
608th District .............................. 42.56 S. E. Noyes.................................. 25.00
614th District .............................. 53.00 C. S. Andersen .......................... 25.00
628th District .............................. 100.00 I. C. Whitley
................................ 5.00
Santa Clara Valley (Districts
Stanley J. Fisher....................
25.00
53, 54, & 124) ·························· 5.00
Miquelito Circle ........................ 5.00
Total ..........................................$242.86 De Molay Mothers' Club of
Hollenbeck.............................. 5.00
Paramount Square Club .......... 25.00
ORDER OF JOB'S DAUGHTERS
No.
Amt. High Twelve Club .................... 113.50
Low Twelve Club .................... 25.00
Bethel _.- ·········-··-·----···6 $ 10.00 Jessie A. Dawson........................ 10.00
Bethel .................................. 76
25.00 F. L. Stamey .............................. 50.00
Bethel ................................136
5.00 Vernon C. Noble........................ 5.00
J. E. Vuillot (418) ...................... 4.00
Total -·-····-··-··-········-----$ 40.00 M. A. Denser .............................. 2.00
Mr. & Mrs. W. S. Walker..........
5.00
CHAPTERS, O. E. S.
Chapter
Amt. S. B. A. D. Masonic Club.......... 3.45
No.
L. A. Post Office Labor
Management .......................... 2.00
Mercedes ···--··-··-·············126 $ 10.00
25.00 General Petroleum Corporation
Jasmine ···-········-·-··-·······145
Employees' Contributions .... 18.00
20.00
Tehachapi ···················-·····188
10.00 Fish Mongers' Club .................. 19. 75
Santa Clara ·············-·········195
10.00 Brook Valley Community ...... 14.50
San Rafael ···············-······.215
10.00 Sidney
Mill Valley -·········-··········.219
Cherniss ···-··············· 10.00
2.50 John M.A.Spenser.......................
Atascadero ·················-·····344
. 5.00
10.00
Siloam ···-·--······-·············4-06
Thos. A. Hill ................................ 30.00
10.00
Melita ···-···························467
10.00
Palestine ··········-···············.210
Total -·-··-··---··-··-··-·•-··-fll7.50

415

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Total ···~···-································$766.20

NUMBER OF RESIDENTS AS OF JULY 31, 1952
Decato Home:

Men

Residents, August 1, 1951 ................................ 116
Admitted ............................................................ 28
Died and Withdrawn........................................ 29
Residents, July 31, 1952.................................... 115
Covina Home:

Boys
Residents, August 1, 1951.................................. 34
Admitted ............................................................ 10
Graduated and Withdrawn.............................. 11
Residents. July 31, 1952.................................... 33

Women Total
172
30
28
174

288
58
57
289

Girls

Total

25
13
9
29

59
23
20
62

PER CAPITA COST
Statement of Per Capita Costs (Statistical) for the Fiscal
Year Ending July 31, 1952
Decato Home:
Cost of Maintenance ...................................................·.......$327, 414.90
Average number of residents.......·························-············
288
Average ~perating cost per month...................................... 27,284,57
Average cost per day ...............:..........................................
909.49
Average cost per resident per year......................................
1,136.85
Average cost per resident per month................................. .
94.74
Average cost per resident per day ......................................
3.16
Average number of employees...·-··············--···················
·92
Covina Home:
Cost of Maintenance ····················-·············-····················-$153.563.42
Average number of residents..............................................
62
Average operating costs per month.................................... 12,796.95
Average cost per day..........................................................
426.57
Average cost per child per year...................,......................
2,476.83
Average cost per child per month........................................
206.40
Average cost per child per day............................................
6.88
Average number of employees......................:.....................
30

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CONTRIBU TIONS TO SPECIAL FUNDS

ANNUAL RETUBNS -1952
Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Grand
Homes Contribution Contrib.
No.
Lodge
Lodge
1 California ·-·······················
$ 905.80 $ 407.25 $ 300.00 $ 11.00
7.00
175.00
114.00
2 Western Star ....................
265.20
38.00
1,025.00
585.75
1,352.60
3 Tehama ...........................................
13.00
325.00
165.75
5 Benicia ····--··-··--.......................
386.60
4.00
125.00
179.25
8 Tuolumne ·······-············-·
399.40
24.00
625.00
320.25
9 Corinthian ........................
751.20
18.00
475.00
903.60
398.25
10 San Jose ............................
26.00
' 700.00
868.80
373.50
12 Yount -·-························-6.00
150.00
286.00
123.75
13 Nevada ·-········-··········---·
8.00
158.25
200.00
368.60
14 Tem~e ..................................................
6.00
243.00
150.00
539.40
16 Eure a ...................................... __ _.
1.00
25.00
84.75
183.80
17 La Parfaite Union -··-··
36.00
79.80
18 Mountain Shade ..............
42.00
588.75
1,075.00
1,378.00
19 San Joaquin ....................
39.00
975.00
599.25
1,395.40
20 Washington ......................
12.00
300.00
348.75
777.00
21 Hawaiian - ............... _....... . .......
13.00
325.00
528.75
1,173.00
22 Occidental ...................................
4.00
100.00
237.00
520.60
23 Madison ..................................................
2.00
75.00
150.75
328.60
24 Mariposa ..................... _..................
1.00
25.00
44.25
101.40
25 Georgetown ·-··········-·····
12.00
300.00
191.25
433.00
26 El Dorado ·············-···········
9.00
225.00
99.75
236.80
27 Trinity ·························-···
22.00
575.00
485.25
1,103.20
30 Golden Gate ···-·-··-··-···
3.00
75.00
83.25
192.60
32 Gold Hill ..........................
2.00
50.00
54.00
127.20
33 Ophir ........... ........................................
46.00
1,225.00
738.75
1,704.00
35 San Diego ........................- .... ......
4.00
150.00
180.75
394.60
37 Howard ...............................................
19.00
625.00
390.00
905.00
38 Santa Cruz ·············-···-····
24.00
625.00
548.25
1,242.60
40 Sacramento ...................................
11.00
275.00
288.75
657.00
41 Martinez .................................... ........
33.00
950.00
558.75
1,281.00
42 Los Angeles ·····-······-·······
10.00
300.00
69.00
174.20
43 Hiram·······-·······················
7.00
200.00
302.25
662.80
44 Mount M:oriah --········---21.00
525.00
135.75
339.60
45 Crescent -··-·····-··············
2.00
50.00
39.00
87.20
46 Texas ................................. .....................
9.00
225.00
78.00
50 Forbestown ......................
187.40
2.00
75.00
67.50
148.00
51 IDinoistown ......................
10.00
275.00
165.00
55 Suisun -··········-··-·····-······
390.00
10.00
250.00
54.00
147.20
56 Volcano .......................................... _...
19.00
525.00
451.50
57 Santa Rosa ........................
1,015.20
21.00
525.00
533.25
58 Union ·-··-·-··-.....................................
1,195.60
46.50
59 Gravel Range ..................
101.20
4.00
150.00
155.25
60 Plumas -··-·····-···-···-······
343.20
32.00
800.00
762.75
61 Live Oak ···········-········-···
1,705.20
25.00
650.00
169.50
64 Natoma·············-···········-··
417.60
3.00
75.00
60.00
65 Amador ...................................................
137.00
21.75
66 Forest .............................................................
46.40
23.00
575.00
473.25
68 Morning Star ···········--···
1,078.60
26.00
650.00
246.00
70 En~ise -········-··--·····
597.80
4.00
100.00
55.50
76 Bear ountain ................
125.40
1.00
86.25
78 Calaveras ..........................
186.00
29.00
725.00
349.50
79 Humboldt ...........................................
834.60
4.00
100.00
67.50
80 Ione ·--··--·························
154.00
9.00
225.00
69.00
81 Yolo "·····-······--······-·········
169.20
10.00
250.00
174.75
402.80
84 Vesper ....................................................
46.00
1,150.00
877.50
87 Naval .......................... . .................................
2,015.00
1.00
50.00
24.00
89 Rose's Bar ···-···················
52.20
3.00
75.00
42.00
94.60
·91 North Star ........................
9.00
275.00
96.00
93 St. Helena ........................
226.80

COVINA SPECIAL FUND
George L. Mee. .................................. ~............................................ 800.00
20.00
Adolph Koshland ························-················································
Charles Kottenhagen ························-·················--······················· 127.24
29.36
Ruth Ass'n. of Southern California..•.......•......................... _........
209.76
...................
.........................
..........•.............
Club
Masonic
Desert
50.00
Estate of Jens A. Madsen..............................................................
" " Harold W. Goodenow.................................................. 127.00
'' '' Mary B. Taylor......................................................................................................... 418.18
" Abraham B. Sholl .......................................................... 2,252.00
" .. Madison T. Owens ............................. ~ ..................................... 11, 794.84
'' Kate Genther ··························'·······································34,437.49
" Eugene Dufau ................................................................ · 1,000.00
" David Osterheld ............................................................ 1, 725.14
" " Fred Niedermeyer ............ 0......................................................................................... 500.00
" Harry I. Bayers.............................................................. 387.44
'' '' Mary E. Donald ............................................................................................................ 9,319.10
DECOTO SPECIAL FUND
50.00
Estate of Jens A. Madsen ...................................•........................
" " Mary B. Taylor .............................................................. 836.36
" Alice L. Cook ................................................................ 4,597.66
" Daisy K. Gilmore .......................................................... 8,367.55
'' '' George B. May ...................................................................................................... 296.67
" F. H. Palamountain ...................................................... 1,000.00
BUILDING FUND
Niels Schultz .................................................................................. 2,999.79
Estate of Isabelle M. Amott ........................................................ 1,899.00
" " Theresa Johnson ............................................................ 143.35
" Carrie F. Rednall .......................................................... 500.00
" Clement G. Smith .......................................................... 188.01
" Philip Johnson···························································-··· 1,129.89
" Daniel E. Boone ............................................................ 200.00
" John H. Hall .................................................................. 1,000.00
" Ida P. Goodyear ............................................................ 8,041.14
" Jam es S. McCandless .................................................... 1,358.58
" John Tonningsen .......................................................... 6,073.79
" Fernando C. Brockelman .............................................. 4,185.75
" Melville L. Dreyfous ...................................................... 2, 438.53
" Emmett E. Edmonds ...................................................... 5,181.94
78.75
'' '' M. K. Marshall...........................................................................................................
34.01
..............................
...................................
.
Bailey....................
G.
., •• Warren

..

_.

-

-

-

417

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodge
95 Henry Clay ......................
98 Hornitos ·-····-···················
99 Yosemite ·-····-·················

rn~ g~m~···::::::::::::::::::::::::::

104 Lexington ........................
106 Arcata ·····-············-··--·····
110 Pajaro ···-·-·····················
111 Chico ·-··-······-··-····-·······
112 Summit ·-····-··-·····-·..····
113 Eden ·-··-··-···-··-··-···
117 Concord . ·············-··-··-·····
120 Fidelity ···············-······-···
122 Alamo ······-·················-·····
123 Sotoyome ·-··········-····-···124 Table Mountain ·-···········
126 Lafayette ·-···-···-··-···-···
127 Hermann ·······-··-·············
128 • Visalia ·················-···········
129 Nicolaus ........... _.._...........
131 Woodbridge ......................
132 Sincerity ..........................
134 Vacaville ..........................
135 Valley ...................- ...........
136 Pacific ...................- .......... .
139 Crockett ·-············.............
140 Curtis ·-··..-····-····--··-····...
141 Grafton .................._ .......
143 Franklin .................- .........
144 Oriental ·-···......................
145 Vitruvius ---········-··---·--··
146 Abell ................. _............ .
147 Eel River ·······-···---··-----·
149 Lassen _____ .....................
150 Molino ..............................
156 Woodland -····--·····-··-··--·
161 Keystone ..........................
164 Harmony ....................·-···
166 Excelsior -···---····-···········
167 Alameda ·-··---·--·-······--···
168 Redwood City .....- ...........
169 Mission ..............................
173 Elk Grove ....... _.. _...........
174 Drytown -··--··---.........
175 Antioch_............................
178 Phoenix ·······-----------·······
179 Mendocino ·-···-··"·--..·····
180 Petaluma ,_.............·-···181 Russian River ..................
182 Arbuckle ..................- .....
183 Clear Lake ........................
184 Sierra Valley ....................
185 Claiborne ..........._.............
186 Evening Star ............._.....
187 Keith ·····---··--····-····-·····-188 Oakland _ ........................
190 Northern Light ............... .
191 Marin ...............- .............. .
192 Santa Barbara ................
193 Ferndale ·-··-...................

Grand
Lodge
138.40
167.60
814.60
155.20
589.40
954.20
552.20
654.80
851.80
75.60
755.00
647.00
904.40
760.80
301.80
330.40
373.60
343.60
960.00
180.20
286.80
163.80
374.40
162.00
984.00
950.20
128.20
192.80
235.80
633.00
210.60
488.80
427.40
411.40
264.80
481.60
47.40
43.40
786.60
322.80
1,008.80
1,148.40
225.00
94.00
601.00
1,073.40
200.00
579.60
201.80
134.60
127.60
62.40
110.40
98.60
290.60
1,565.60
134.80
896.40
570.00
166.60

MMonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
59.25
75.00
3.00
75.75
25.00
1.00
345.75
750.00
30.00
50.00
2.00
69.00
13.00
258.00
350.00
417.75
525.00
19.00
725.00
28.00
222.75
279.75
575.00
23.00
32.00
358.50
825.00
34.50
315.00
26.00
700.00
22.00
273.75
600.00
411.75
225.00
8.00
317.25
950.00
35.00
137.25
100.00
4.00
12.00
138.00
300.00
162.00
200.00
8.00
154.50
150.00
6.00
423.75
500.00
20.00
80.25
75.00
3.00
129.75
75.00
3.00
3.00
73.50
75.00
225.00
8.00
160.50
3.00
71.25
75.00
14.00
442.50
350.00
11.00
429.00
275.00
7.00
225.00
54.00
4.00
100.00
84.75
5.00
125.00
103.50
12.00
281.25
350.00
3.00
75.00
94.50
8.00
216.00
250.00
17.00
425.00
179.25
21.00
525.00
171.75
175.00
7.00
114.75
11.00
210.75
275.00
21.75
2.00
50.00
18.00
9.00
225.00
357.00
15.00
375.00
133.50
37.00
925.00
426.00
18.00
450.00
513.00
101.25 .
6.00
150.00
4.00
100.00
37.50
20.00
251.25
500.00
20.00
550.00
475.50
3.00
90.00
75.00
20.00
525.00
252.00
4.00
125.00
88.50
1.00
25.00
60.75
3.00
75.00
57.00
29.25
2.00
48.00
50.00
2.00
50.00
42.00
2.00
100.00
132.00
20.00
525.00
705.75
1.00
62.25
25.00
13.00
375.00
400.50
12.00
325.00
251.25
1.00
25.00
75.75

419

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
194
195
196
198
199

•

Lodge

Mountain View ·-····-·..··
Buckeye ......- ...... _ .........
San Simeon ...........- .........
Wilmington .....___., __
Hartley _ .........._ .._ .........
200 Truckee ............................
201 Silveyville ..........- ........
202 Pentalpha - ..·-··--.........
203 Confidence _ .....................
204 Salinas ... ____.,___ _
205 Olivet ........... _ .. _, ___ _
206 Stanislaus _ .......- ....- ...
. 207 Anaheim -··--·----.......
208 Rio Vista ................. _.......
209 King David's ....................
210 Friendship _ .........- ....._
211 San Benito ................_ .....
212 S. San Francisco.-...........
214 San Buenaventura ..........
215 Oak Grove ........................
216 Doric ...........-····-·-·-·..
217 Monterey ......_ .................
218 Mosaic _ ............ _ __
219 Speranza ltaliana ..........
220 Downey ............................
221 Inyo ----..· - - - - - 222 Roseville ..........................
224 Bakers1leld .._ .......- .......
225 Brooklyn .......- .................
226 San Mateo ........... _ ..__ _
228 Athens ....... _........- ...- ...
229 Solano ............_ .........._.....
230 North Bfltte .................- ...
231 Covelo ..............................
232 J,anesville _ .. _..........-.....
233 Calistoga _ ........- ...........
234 Hope ..................................
235 Surprise Valley _ ...........
236 Hills Ferry ....·-·-·----·
237 Guadalupe -·--·..-···-240 Colusa ................................
241 Santa Ana - ..--..····-···..
242 Magnolia -·--..- · - 243 Eucalyptus ·--·---..-·.
244 Alcatraz ...............---·245 Laurel ........................._ ....
246 Pomona --·--··-·---247 Fresno .....---·--·-·-·-248 Alturas ...- .....................250 Adin ..................................
253 Landmark ......_ ..,_..__ _
254 Reading ......._...................
255 Welcome _ ..................-256 Lodi ....................................
258 Penrhyn .....--·-..-·-··
259 Evergreen .....- .........- ...
260 King Solomon's ..............
261 Tuscan ........----·---..-·
262 Lompoc .................- .......
"264 Hesperian .................- ...

Grand
Lodge
579.80
240.00
157.20
1,020.80
387.60
188.80
253.60
883.20
88.60
917.00
207.00
1,058.20
740.20
261.20
702.80
1,207.40
270.80
426.40
666.80
1,048.60
813.60
434.80
311.80
499.20
1,020.60
274.60
584.40
1,354.40
1,003.40
881.00
269.40
935.20
354.00
97.80
299.00
198.60
212.40
124.60
253.60
290.20
267.40
986.20
663.80
772.00
1,067.00
420.20
651.40
1,199.00
300.20
185.00
199.80
357.60
358.20
656.00
237.40
1,072.80
815.40
142.00
323.20
623.20

Muonlc $25.lJO Homes

Homes
253.50
105.00
72.75
433.50
177.00
77.25
113.25
402.75
38.25
397.50
86.25
466.50
324.00
114.00
306.00
539.25
122.25
183.00
294.75
469.50
364.50
189.75
137.25
226.50
428.25
120.75
258.00
599.25
449.25
371.25
115.50
417.75
150.00
43.50
120.00
87.00
93.00
53.25
113.25
125.25
119.25
436.50
298.50
337.50
472.50
177.75
291.75
525.00
132.75
78.75
88.50
154.50
155.25
288.75
108.00
471.00
355.50
63.75
140.25
267.75

Contribution
350.00
100.00
25.00
850.00
75.00
300.00
75.00
225.00
50.00
475.00
250.00
725.00
525.00
175.00
450.00
450.00
100.00
275.00
375.00
425.00
375.00
350.00
175.00
175.00
1,175.00
125.00
375.00
650.00
400.00
825.00
275.00
375.00
350.00
25.00
350.00
100.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
125.00
75.00
500.00
400.00
550.00
575.00
425.00
250.00
675.00
200.00
125.00
50.00
250.00
175.00
350.00
25.00
800.00
500.00

$1G.W.
Contrib.

75.00

12.00
4.00
1.00
32.00
2.00
12.00
3.00
9.00
1.00
19.00
9.00
24.00
20.00
7.00
17.00
17.00
3.00
11.00
13.00
16.00
15.00
12.00
6.00
7.00
43.00
5.00
14.00
24.00
16.00
30.00
10.00
14.00
14.00
1.00
14.00
4.00
5.00
3.00
4.00
4.00
3.00
16.00
13.00
18.00
20.00
17.00
9.00
26.00
8.00
5.00
2.00
9.00
7.00
11.00
1.00
28.00
19.00
3.00

250.00
550.00

21.00

8.00

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Grand
Lodge

Lodge

265 Orland -····················-·····
266 North East ···--····-···-··-·
267 Galt ·····-··--····-····-···········
268 Durant ···················-····-···
269 Olive Branch ..................
271 Snow Mountain ..............
272 Pasadena ·············-··-····-·
273 Anchor ·············-···-·········
274 Arroyo ·-·-········-···-····-···
275 Oakdale --······-········-··-···
277 Sehna ..................................................
278 So. California ..................
279 Hanford ···················-·······
280 Madera ..............................
281 Mount Shasta ·-··--······-·
282 Calayomi -····-····-···--·····
283 South West ......................
285 San Miguel ·····-·········-···
286 Paso Robles ···-··-··-··-·····
287 Winnedumah ·-····-·········
288 Maxwell ·-····-····-·············
289 Elsinore ·····-·····-··-····-···
290 East Gate ......._...............
291 Santa Paula ....................
292 Los Gatos ..........................
293 Orange Grove ..................
294 Traver ---·-····-···--······-·
295 Mt. Jackson ···········--·······
296 Silver Gate ·······-············
297 Dunsmuir ·-··········-·········
299 Liberty ·-·······-···-··-·········
300 Redlands -··········-···········
301 Ontario ···········-···-······-···
302 Santa Lucia ......................
303 Porterville ........................
304 Reedley ···················--·-···
305 Azusa ·-···-·············-·········
306 Ashlar ................................
307 Santa Monica ..................
308 Monrovia ·-····-········--·····
309 Delano ·-················-······-·
310 Sisson .........................:......
312 Los Banos ···········--··--···
313 Tehachapi ·····-···--··-·····
314 Temescal ·-··-···-·-··--··-·
315 Norwalk -··········-··-·······
316 Sanger ..............................
317 Fall brook ·-······-······-···
318 Emanuel -··--··------~-·
319 Hollenbeck ·····-·-···········
320 South Gate ·-·-···············
321 Alis al ·-··········-······-··-···
322 Alhambra ··-··--··-··:-.....
323 Whittier -···-····-··-~-324 Corona ·-····-·······. ·-·····-···
325 Consuelo ·············-····. ·-···
326 Needles·-······-·····-·-··-··
327 Long Beach ......................
328 Redondo ···········-··-··---···
329 Vallee de France ............

260.40
97.40
146.40
857.80
528.60
69.60
. 879.20
948.40
275.60
320.80
392.60
807.00
354.40
456.80
159.00
109.20
791.20
124.40
450.80
381.60
121.20
258.60
1,318.80
590.20
563.20
440.60
252.80
225.80
2,132.00
503.80
523.00
730.80
691.20
265.20
812.20
285.60
453.00
481.40
628.80
508.80
384.00
171.60
263.00
350.60
383.40
471.20
562.60
279.00
128.60
1,690.00
1,022.80
236.20
1,085.80
1,215.00
780.80
444.60
579.40
979.00
902.40
196.00

Masonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W.
Homea Contribution Contrib.
6.00
150.00
115.50
1.00
25.00
40.50
6.00
150.00
59.25
10.00
250.00
392.25
9.00
275.00
229.50
2.00
50.00
30.75
9.00
275.00
399.00
37.00
975.00
404.25
12.00
300.00
117.00
5.00
125.00
141.00
11.00
300.00
169.50
8.00
225.00
363.75
7.00
200.00
156.75
8.00
200.00
197.25
4.00
100.00
67.50
4.00
100.00
46.50
33.00
900.00
327.75
9.00
225.00
48.00
14.00
400.00
189.75
22.00
550.00
154.50
2.00
50.00
54.00
3.00
75.00
117.00
16.00
400.00
594.75
15.00
450.00
260.25
23.00
600.00
230.25
9.00
225.00
195.75
2.00
75.00
114.75
5.00
125.00
99.75
77.00
2,075.00
911.25
9.00
225.00
223.50
10.00
250.00
232.50
11.00
350.00
324.75
31.00
825.00
286.50
12.00
300.00
110.25
20.00
525.00
354.00
9.00
275.00
120.75
18.00
475.00
191.25
12.00
300.00
209.25
9.00
225.00
283.50
12.00
325.00
219.75
6.00
175.00
172.50
2.00
50.00
79.50
5.00
125.00
116.25
11.00
275.00
150.75
9.00
250.00
168.00
16.00
425.00
196.50
14.00
350.00
244.50
16.00
425.00
108.75
1.00
25.00
57.00
22.00
550.00
765.00
4.00
125.00
467.25
6.00
150.00
102.75
22.00
600.00
428.25
32.00
925.00
528.75
18.00
500.00
343.50
9.00
275.00
195.75
4.00
175.00
261.75
19.00
475.00
435.00
26.00
800.00
385.50
1.00
25.00
90.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

•

330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
389
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394

Lodge

Kilauea ..:...........................
Pacific Grove ..................
San Pedro ........................

~~~~;···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

West Gate ......................Fruitvale ..........................
c arqumez
. ·····-··········-···San Jacinto ······-····-···-··
Fullerton
Oxnard .... :::::::::::::::::::::~~
San Fernando ·-···-·····-···
Starr King ·-···-···-··--···
Brentwood ·-··············-·Palo Alto ··-···-········-··-·McKinley ..........................
San Bernardino ..............
Sequoia ···--··-····-····-·····
Palestine ·-····-····-···········
Sunset ·-···-·········-·-·····--·
Pinole ·-···-··--····-··-···-Presidio
Hollywoo;r·:::::::::::::::::::::
Mill Vallek -·············-·····
Buena Par ......................
Golden State ....................
Loyalton ..........................
San Francisco ..................
Fort Bragg ·················-·····
Charity -····-···············-····
Berkeley ·-··--···············Willits ................................
Las Pahnas · -···-···-······:..
South Pasadena ..............
Unity ·-··--···-···--·---···
Ocean Park ·····--······-··Amity .......................:..... _
le Progres de L'Oceanie
Gardena -·--·········--···-··
West Los Angeles ..........
Jewel ·······-···-·····-····-···Richmond ·-········-····-·····
Francis Drake ..................
Artesia ···········-···-····-··Mizpah ················-····-··Filhnore ·-····-··-··-·-···Huntington Beach-·-····
Oceanside -····-··-·-Highland Park -··-····-···
Orosi -·--·-····-··-··-··-··El Centro ·····--····-··--··Dinuba ·--·-··-·-·-····-·Coalinga ·-···-····-··-··-···
Parnassus
Palos Verde-;·==:____
Imperial -·-··----~·-··East Belt -···-·---···-·West Lake ·-··-·········-···
Balder ·-··--······-··-··--···
University -··-··-···-··-

Grand
Lodge
386.20
446.80
847.60
155.60
524.60
1,754.80
1,481.00
337.80
177.80
630.40
654.20
946.00
861.40
229.00
1,236.60
844.20
1,219.80
1,802.80
1,001.80
632.20
267.00
861.40
2,051.80
747.20
400.20
1,366.40
160.20
525.20
212.80
255.60
1,077.60
271.00
1,754.40
987.60
1,061.80
853.00
1,201.60
770.80
600.40
687.60
329.00
878.40
604.80
300.60
722.60
387.20
537.60
653.60
1,091.20
245.00
739.40
496.80
677.60
1,300.40
1,139.80
216.00
142.80
1,513.40
849.20
1,002.80

-

421

Masonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W.
Homea Contribution Contrib.
150.00
174.00
5.00
250.00
193.50
9.00
372.00
450.00
17.00
25.00
1.00
68.25
229.50
425.00
15.00
763.50
1,025.00
40.00
663.75
450.00
17.00
5.00
148.50
150.00
4.00
77.25
100.00
280.50
17.00
425.00
286.50
300.00
12.00
401.25
925.00
36.00
389.25
8.00
200.00
101.25
150.00
5.00
537.00
875.00
28.00
365.25
525.00
21.00
523.50
750.00
29.00
804.75
725.00
27.00
444.75
525.00
21.00
282.75
225.00
8.00
120.00
100.00
4.00
385.50
275.00
11.00
898.50
1,300.00
47.00
327.75
375.00
15.00
525.00 .
166.50
20.00
618.00
450.00
17.00
72.75
2.00
50.00
234.00
225.00
8.00
96.00
3.00
75.00
113.25
125.00
5.00
484.50
13.00
325.00
116.25
225.00
9.00
41.00
753.00
1,100.00
432.00
750.00
27.00
22.00
467.25
675.00
375.00
475.00
18.00
518.25
775.00
28.00
14.00
350.00
343.50
29.00
246.75
825.00
19.00
300.75
475.00
9.00
142.50
250.00
8.00
400.50
200.00
18.00
257.25
475.00
11.00
124.50
275.00
323.25
250.00
10.00
2.00
177.75
75.00
15.00
375.00
233.25
26.00
267.00
725.00
481.50
525.00
19.00
7.00
105.00
175.00
22.00
550.00
318.00
325.00
13.00
216.00
20.00
293.25
525.00
33.00
875.00
558.00
12.00
519.75
350.00
5.00
93.75
175.00
66.00
13.00
689.25
400.00
18.00
450.00
372.75
12.00
325.00
456.00

422

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
395 Turlock - · · - - · - - 396 Apollo ···········-· ···-·--··397 Rising Light -···-·-·· -·
399 Fraternit y · - - - - 400 Burlin~ame --·-··--· -401 Bay View ------· ·
402 Brawley -··---- ··-·403 Yerba Buena·- ··-··-·-404 Glendora -··----·· ---405 Moneta -·-·---· ---···
406 Burbank - - - · · - · - 407 La Mesa ······-··········-·······
408 Sierra Madre -·--·-409 Honolulu ·-···--·· -··410 Charter Rock - ·- - 411 Perris -···-···-·· --·---···
412 Calexico - - · - 414 Arlingto n----··-· ·-·····
415 Silver Trowel ---··-416 Lindsay ·-···-··-· ··-···
417 Clovis - · - - · · - - 418 Elysian ···-···-··- -···-·419 Upland
420 Kerman ............................
421 Inglewoo d -···-··-· ·--422 Eagle Rock -··--··--- -423 York ·-·---- -···--424 Exeter ---···- ·--··425 Holtville -··-··-·· -···426 Midway -··-··-- --··
427 Chino Valley···· ·-···-···-···
428 San Dimas··· --··-··-··- ··429 Pittsburg -·-··-···- --·430 Mccloud ····-·-··-·· -··-·431 Alpha ···--··--· --··-··-·
433 Hammon ton ·----···- 434 Maricopa ···-··-····-··-··-···
435 Fairmoun t -·-··-- -436 Claremon t ···-··-··-· ·-···
437 Lancaste r -·-·-··- ---438 Acacia ···-··-·- ·---···
439 Tyrian ·········-····-······-·····
440 Standard ····-·-·· --·-·
441 Coronado -·-··--· -····
442 Blackme r ----··-· ·-··443 Schofield ····-·-··- ·-··-·
444 Carpinte ria --··-··-- -445 Wilshire ····--·-· -·--·
446 La Puente · - - - - - ·
447 Torrance ·······················-·
448 Mount Diablo -·-·---449 Park ···-··- --·--450 Van Nuys · - - - - - 451 Montebel lo ·--·----·· -···
452 San Pasqual · · - - 453 Bethlehe m ·····--· -·-

454 Crocker
455 Golden West - - - - · 457 Ramona - - - - 458 Henry S. Orme ···-··-·-

Grand
Lodge
672.40
760.00
1,729.80
739.40
1,141.80
1,078.80
350,60
1,527.60
254.40
1,135.80
1,200.00
923.60
249.00
663.60
571.80
242.80
257.60
582.00
663.20
366.80
786.00
755.80
353.40
209.60
1,211.80
867.60
589.00
358.40
228.00
808.00
236.20
276.00
529.00
164.80
830.60
97.60
295.60
793.80
191.60
560.40
96.80
313.80
583.60
676.80
2,184.20
462.20
193.80
965.80
258.00
682.00
578.00
834.00
1,452.20
1,024.20
859.20
479.00
684.80
960.00
840.00
1,149.40

Maaonlc $25.00Ho mu $IG.W.
Homea Contribution Contrlb.
17.00
475.00
288.00
10.00
250.00
341.25
39.00
1,025.00
759.75
8.00
225.00
336.75
30.00
800.00
489.75
34.00
875.00
459.75
8.00
225.00
154.50
34.00
975.00
664.50
4.00
125.00
111.75
10.00
250.00
519.75
45.00
1,350.00
510.00
38.00
1,000.00
383.25
5.00
250.00
108.75
12.00
350.00
293.25
4.00
100.00
261.00
4.00
125.00
107.25
2.00
50.00
117.00
11.00
275.00
258.75
15.00
400.00
290.25
4.00
100.00
163.50
31.00
825.00
330.00
13.00
325.00
336.00
6.00
175.00
153.00
10.00
250.00
87.00
35.00
875.00
523.50
16.00
500.00
383.25
19.00
500.00
255.00
6.00
150.00
160.50
1.00
25.00
105.00
6.00
175.00
367.50
6.00
175.00
102.75
3.00
100.00
123.75
18.00
450.00
221.25
3.00
75.00
73.50
13.00
325.00
372.00
45.75
6.00
150.00
132.00
15.00
375.00
354.75
3.00
100.00
87.00
37.00
1,025.00
216.75
1.00
25.00
43.50
8.00
200.00
133.50
12.00
300.00
259.50
22.00
600.00
287.25
85.00
2,250.00
924.00
19.00
475.00
192.75
2.00
50.00
88.50
31.00
800.00
414.75
3.00
75.00
116.25
17.00
450.00
296.25
26.00
675.00
240.00
13.00
375.00
371.25
58.00
1,725.00
590.25
36.00
900.00
432.75
19.00
600.00
372.75
2.00
75.00
221.25
15.00
400.00
298.50
15.00
375.00
431.25
25.00
675.00
360.00
21.00
550.00
509.25

No.

Lodge

Riverban k ···················-···
Mount Oso ........................ .
Argonau t ···················-·····
Paul Revere ·······-······-···
Morgan Hill ....................
Alta Vista ........................
Center ·····-··-···- ·······-·Libertas ·········-·················
Culver City ··-········· --·Rockridg e ···················-···
Yorba Linda···· ·············-·
Lincoln ···-··············-·······
Delta ···-····-··· -··-·····-Maui ·········-··················-···
Blythe ····-··············-·······
Victory ·····-·······················
America ·············--···········
Coachella ·····-········-·······
··-···-··
477 Temblor ···--··-··-··
478 Thousand Oaks .........:... .
479 Golden Rule ·············-·····
480 Fellowsh ip ·····-······-·······
481 Mt. Davidson ·····-···········
482 Clarence F. Smith ..........
483 Bell ·····-·--··················-···-·
484 Albert Pike ·········-··-·······
485 Chowchi lla ......................
486 Caledoni a ·····-············-···
487 Vallejo ·-················-·········
488 Patterson ·········-········-···
489 East Bay ..........................
490 Corcoran ···················-·····
491 Woodstock ····-··················
492 Garv~a ......................... .
493 Atascade ro ·····-··-···········
494 . Acorn ................................
495 Lebanon ............................
497 Fremont ............................
498 Stockton ···················-·····-499 Capital City ····--·-···---·--··
500 Roosevel t -·-··········--·····501 Westwoo d ·····-·················
502 Harbor ·····--··--····-····-·····
503 Point ·········-············--········
504 Seaside ···--········--··-····--·
505 Silver Cord ..................... .
506 Mount Olive ···············-···
507 El Segundo ......................
508 Joppa ·-·--········-········-·-·.
509 Benjamin Franklin .......
510 Cupertin o ·····-·················
511 Sunnyva le ....................... .
512 Palms ............................... .
513 Cahueng a ........................
514 Argonne ............................
515 ·Vermon t Square ............
516 Taft ·········-····-··--···--·-·····
517 Mount Vernon ............... .
518 La Jolla ........................... .
519 Euclid ····-··-··- ·----,·-

459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476

Grand
Lodge
242.60
510.80
725.60
1,037.80
266.80
446.40
904.20
1,057.40
592.20
794.60
261.00
577.20
830.40
406.60
245.40
485.60
833.20
357.80
247.20
850.80
1,070.20
539.60
672.20
613.40
1,109.20
433.20
278.80
845.80
651.40
192.80
664.80
215.80
751.00
510.40
192.40
1,013.00
658.00
893.00
321.60
928.20
355.20
460.60
979.00
487.00
817.20
792.00
1,651.60
638.00
139.20
608.00
295.80
540.00
768.80
940.00
629.20
902.80
527.40
379.80
522.20
660.60

423

Masonic $25.00 Homu $IG.W.
Contrlb.
Homea Contribution
125.00
5.00
105.75
227.25
275.00
10.00
323.25
14.00
375.00
452.25
23.00
600.00
3.00
118.50
75.00
198.00
10.00
250.00
18.00
395.25
450.00
453.00
850.00
34.00
12.00
260.25
425.00
12.00
357.00
350.00
7.00
112.50
150.00
8.00
256.50
200.00
25.00
363.00
625.00
4.00
184.50
125.00
104.25
8.00
250.00
6.00
218.25
150.00
14.00
372.75
350.00
11.00
148.50
300.00
4.00
110.25
100.00
26.00
369.75
750.00
29.00
462.75
775.00
6.00
244.50
150.00
11.00
297.75
275.00
9.00
273.00
250.00
42.00
470.25
1,100.00
7.00
200.00
192.75
12.00
118.50 ·
425.00
17.00
373.50
450.00
12.00
300.00
288.00
4.00
84.75
100.00
9.00
275.00
298.50
12.00
92.25
300.00
15.00
318.75
375.00
6.00
175.00
228.00
3.00
150.00
85.50
12.00
375.00
450.00
12.00
292.50
325.00
18.00
390.00
475.00
5.00
125.00
143.25
36.00
925.00
380.25
9.00
225.00
155.25
11.00
275.00
203.25
18.00
427.50
450.00
22.00
550.00
198.75
9.00
225.00
369.00
12.00
352.50
325.00
19.00
475.00
743.25
29.00
775.00
258.75
4.00
100.00
61.50
21.00
600.00
266.25
13.00
325.00
126.00
14.00
425.00
236.25
26.00
700.00
332.25
19.00
500.00
412.50
2.00
125.00
290.25
11.00
300.00
403.50
10.00
275.00
231.75
8.00
225.00
167.25
27.00
825.00
211.50
12.00
325.00
289.50

424
No.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

520 Ionic ·········-········-····-···-·
521 Piedmont ..........................
522 Sunrise ··················¥··········
523 Bellflower ·········-···..········
524 Catalina Island ............... .
525 George Washington ......
526 Bay City ............................
527 Covenant ..........................
528 Beverly Hills ..................
529 Loyalty ..................·-·······
530 Sun Garden ..............!.......
531 Alexandria ......................
532 Smyrna ............................
533 Azure ................................
534 Forest Hill ........................
535 Alexander Hamilton ......
536 Seal Rock ..........................
537 Utopia ..............•.•.............
538 Ascot ..................................
539 Belvedere ........................
540 Queen Beach ....................
541 Henry Morse Stephens..
542 Lankershim ..................... .
543 Signal ........................•.......
544 Glendale ................••••......
545 Jonathan ..........................
546 San Gabriel .....•............•..•
547 Arcadia ............................
548 Triangle ............................
549 Justice ..............................
550 Seaport ..............................
551 Lakeshore ........................
552 Semper Virens ................
554 Educator ............•............•
555 White Pine ......................
556 • Fairfax ............................. .
557 Hermosa ..........................
558 Point Firmin ................... .
559 Craftsmen ........................
560 Plymouth ..........................
561 East San Diego ................
562 Pyramid ............................
563 South Park ......................
564 Foothill ............................
565 West Adams ....................
566 James A Garfield ..•...•...
567 Searchlight ......................
568 Park Boulevard ............. .
569 Chateau Thierry •...........
570 Military Service .......•......
571 Francis K. Shattuck ......
572 James Madison ..............•.
573 Hillcrest ............•...............
574 S. W. Hackett ..................
575 Fort Crook ........................
576 El Cajon Valley ........•.....
577 Sunnyside ........................
578 Progressive ......................
579 Warren G. Harding ......
580 Santa Maria -···-·-··-··-·

Grand
Lodge
1,515.60
476.40
557.40
748.80
241.80
812.80
646.60
564.20
898.20
878.80
921.40
266.40
223.00
424.00
325.00
463.00
324.40
1,187.80
590.40
369.80
307.20
567.80
1,399.60
864.60
1,258.20
348.40
821.40
768.60
455.40
633.20
392.00
467.20
492.80
653.00
161.40
704.60
571.20
605.80
718.40
666.00
1,287.60
514.80
695.80
1,467.40
521.80
392.60
801.00
733.60
609.40
574.80
442.20
. 604.60
128.40
970.00
279.60
526.20
780.60
875.40
979.80
181.60

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
60.00
1,675.00
627.00
5.00
175.00
216.75
10.00
250.00
250.50
800.00
31.00
309.75
1.00
25.00
111.00
16.00
500.00
354.75
17.00
475.00
274.50
8.00
200.00
252.75
24.00
750.00
387.75
39.00
1,025.00
362.25
13.00
375.00
408.00
4.00
125.00
119.25
11.00
300.00
90.00
11.00
325.00
187.50
9.00
250.00
138.75
18.00
475.00
195.00
5.00
125.00
145.50
17.00
475.00
527.25
14.00
400.00
261.75
5.00
150.00
163.50
3.00
75.00
140.25
11.00
325.00
253.50
61.00
1,775.00
574.50
20.00
550.00
375.75
45.00
1,425.00
526.50
9.00
250.00
149.25
48.00
1,250.00
333.00
37.00
925.00
308.25
15.00
450.00
190.50
12.00
300.00
279.00
5.00
125.00
176.25
11.00
275.00
204.00
17.00
425.00
208.50
18.00
525.00
285.00
1.00
25.00
74.25
36.00
975.00
282.00
18.00
475.00
237.75
8.00
200.00
272.25
14.00
350.00
318.00
16.00
450.00
288.75
52.00
1,350.00
544.50
9.00
225.00
223.50
8.00
200.00
309.75
76.00
2,000.00
576.75
11.00
325.00
231.00
8.00
225.00
173.25
18.00
450.00
352.50
20.00
525.00
315.75
16.00
400.00
265.50
11.00
275.00
257.25
6.00
150.00
200.25
11.00
325.00
270.75
4.00
100.00
55.50
28.00
775.00
420.00
5.00
125.00
124.50
42.00
1,050.00
207.75
12.00
300.00
349.50
19.00
475.00
381.75
51.00
1,300.00
396.00
1.00
50.00
83.25

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
581
582
583
584
585
586
587
588
589
590
591
592
593
594
595
596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
640
641
642

Lodge
Security ............................
Rialto .............................. _
W·a sco ................................
Harding ............................
Manchester ......................
Garden Grove ................
Valley Forge ....................
El Sereno ..........................
Kauai ................................
Compass ....•..••............•..•.
Escalon ............................. .
Tujunga ............................
All States ..........................
Service ..............................
Alexander Graham Bell
Guardian ......................... .
Pearl Harbor ....................
Carmelita ................•.......
Lynwood ......................... .
Grizzly ............................ ..
Melrose ............................
Dimond .......................... ..
Jubilee ...................•..........
Glassell Park ..................
Sojourner ........................
Granada ..........................
Provident ........................
Elmhurst ......................... .
Canoga ..............................
Temple City ....................
Three Pillars ................... .
Larchmont ..................... .
Hemet·····-········-···············
R. E. Doiley •.....••..............
Big Bear ....•...................•.
Southland ....................... .
Neptune ............................
Point Loma ......................
The Gardens ....................
Atwater ............................
Menorah ............................
Fortitude ......................... .
Angeles Mesa ..................
Chula Vista ..................... .
Lamanda Park ................
Truth ................................
Fairview ..........................
Ingleside ......................... .
Benevolence ....................
Normal Heights ..............
Poinsettia ........................
Victorville ....................... .
Riverside ..........................
John Marshall ..............•.
Palisades ..........................
Indian Rock ....................
Composite ........................
Veritas ...................- ........
James A Foshay ···-······
La Cumbre ......................

Grand
Lodge
666.60
307.40
521.60
418.80
626.40
385.40
612.60
760.20
201.00
466.40
227.00
436.20
891.00
1,275.80
465.00
1,478.20
1,004.80
579.20
702.80
238.20
400.20
488.60
562.20
704.60
354.20
1,304.20
746.80
435.40
415.80
674.00
710.00
678.00
276.40
348.00
262.40
559.80
487.80
1,034.00
755.80
626.40
1,464.40
351.00
1,156.00
793.40
465.20
432.00
454.60
346.80
469.20
1,098.40
1,071.00
355.20
652.00
488.80
641.40
348.40
694.00
188.80
402.20
436.00

425

Masonic $25.00 Homes $1G.W.
Homes Contribution Contrib.
293.25
325.00
13.00
119.25•
450.00
18.00
425.00
225.75
15.00
182.25
325.00
12.00
273.00
425.00
17.00
164.25
400.00
16.00
274.50
9.00
250.00
18.00
320.25
475.00
93.75
25.00
1.00
198.00
450.00
17.00
97.50
7.00
175.00
192.75
300.00
9.00
397.50
400.00
14.00
546.00
1,075.00
40.00
202.50
250.00
10.00
624.00
1,475.00
56.00
426.00
29.00
750.00
249.00
400.00
16.00
291.00
29.00
775.00
106.50
100.00
4.00
177.75
250.00
8.00
214.50
10.00
275.00
252.75
225.00
8.00
304.50
22.00
600.00
155.25
10.00
350.00
556.50
35.00
925.00
321.00
400.00
14.00
183.00
15.00
375.00
178.50
325.00
12.00
285.00
23.00
700.00
303.75
19.00
500.00
300.00
12.00
300.00
119.25
6.00
150.00
150.00
250.00
10.00
115.50
125.00
5.00
238.50
18.00
425.00
204.75
21.00
525.00
1,725.00
405.00
64.00
321.00
27.00
700.00
250.00
276.75
10.00
65.00
1,750.00
610.50
150.00
12.00
300.00
42.00
1,100.00
487.50
49.00
1,275.00
310.50
192.75
20.00
550.00
18.00
450.00
183.75
203.25
9.00
225.00
12.00
144.75
325.00
207.75
8.00
200.00
468.00
35.00
950.00
465.00
22.00
700.00
14.00
425.00
147.75
281.25
18.00
525.00
15.00
212.25
375.00
14.00
284.25
450.00
156.75
6.00
150.00
26.00
650.00
288.75
88.50
50.00
9.00
250.00
177.75
11.00
187.50
325.00

426
No.
643

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Alta Loma ·····-······-·········
645 A. F. E. Irwin ..................
646 Metropolitan ·········-·········
647 Hawthorne ·········-···-·····
648 Damascus ·········-········-·····
649 Florence ·····-·····················
650 La Brea ·····-··-··-····-·······
651 Menlo Park ......................
652 Crescenta Valley ............
653 Fontana ·····-··-········-··-···
654 Jordan ···················-··-·····
655 Monte Vista ·········-·········
656 Citro! ···--··-··········· ·-·-···
657 John D. Spreckels ..........
658 Livingston ·············-·········
659 La Habra ..........................
660 Baldwin Park ···········-·····
661 Malta ··-·---··-····-·· -··-···
662 H!!~Y Knox ......:..·---···
663 OJ al ···················-·· ··-·········
665 Kaweah ···············-···········
666 Reseda ·-·-··-···-··-·· -···667 Meridian ···············-··-·· -·
668 San Gorgonio ..................
669 John P. Jarman ···--·······
670 Greenleaf ·········-···············
671 San Clemente ..................
672 Laguna Beach ···--··-·······
673 Far West·········-···············
674 Los Cerritos ············-······
675 Modesto ···-··-········-·· --·
676 Willow Glen ·········-·········
677 Liberal Arts ....................
678 Altadena ····-··-··--··-·· -·
679 Canby Cross ..................... .
680 Carmel ·····-··-···················
681 Dos Palos ····-···-··-··-·· ···
682 Barstow ·····-········-··-· ·-·683 Redwood Empire ····-······
684 Trana ·······-·-··- -··685 San Marino ····-·······---···
686 Albany ·-······-···················
687 Vista ···--··-··--·-·· -··-··688 Oildale ·········-··-···············
689 Pohona ····-·····-····-···········
690 San Carloa ·····-······-···-·· ·
691 Indian Wells Valley ..... .
692 Travelers ···-··-·······-····· ··
693 Palm Springs ···-··-··--···
694 San Antonio ···-····-···--·
695 Meudell ·······-··--··-··- ·-···
696 Crossroads ·--··-··-·-··-·· ·
697 St. Elmo ···-··-··-··-··-·······
698 Wm. D. Stephens·-··-· ······
699 Bixby Knolls -·-··-···
700 Ponderosa ·············-··-·····
701 Santa Ynez Valley ........
702 Rosemead ···-··-··--·-··703 Westchester -·-·-··-··-·-

644 Lomita ..............................

Grand
Lodge
635.80
438.00
468.40
246.20
734.60
976.00
811.60
437.00
44.20
753.00
528.60
643.00
993.80
317.40
1,069.80
338.00
311.00
306.20
365.20
752.00
209.00
207.80
599.20
879.20
380.80
417.60
984.00
157.80
339.00
586.60
593.80
767.20
536.40
557.80
771.40
232.60
302.00
202.40
517.40
170.00
214.20
521.20
355.60
428.00
293.00
124.00
464.00
497.20
303.80
254.80
288.20
221.00
392.20
167.80
147.60
381.20
368.60
140.60
149.80
404.80

Masonic $25.00 Homea $1G.W.
Homea Contribution Contrib.
17.00
500.00
276.00
21.00
550.00
180.00
12.00
300.00
205.50
10.00
250.00
102.75
37.00
975.00
297.00
35.00
900.00
416.25
22.00
550.00
353.25
6.00
175.00
195.00
20.00
525.00
181.50
25.00
700.00
311.25
25.00
675.00
218.25
23.00
575.00
273.75
37.00
1,000.00
426.00
17.00
450.00
130.50
23.00
725.00
471.00
20.00
525.00
127.50
11.00
275.00
131.25
19.00
525.00
121.50
9.00
225.00
159.00
22.00
650.00
326.25
12.00
325.00
82.50
8.00
200.00.
88.50
36.00
925.00
230.25
25.00
625.00
376.50
7.00
200.00
167.25
9.00
250.00
184.50
44.00
1,375.00
393.75
11.00
300.00
58.50
13.00
300.00
146.25
12.00
300.00
252.00
33.00
850.00
238.50
10.00
250.00
339.00
28.00
700.00
220.50
27.00
725.00
231.00
20.00
600.00
333.00
2.00
50.00
102.00
12.00
400.00
131.25
9.00
225.00
85.50
19.00
525.00
209.25
8.00
200.00
67.50
4.00
100.00
95.25
11.00
275.00
230.25
15.00
400.00
147.00
22.00
650.00
176.25
9.00
250.00
123.75
6.00
150.00
48.75
27.00
700.00
180.00
22.00
575.00
196.50
15.00
400.00
118.50
16.00
450.00
103.50
29.00
800.00
99.00
15.00
375.00
86.25
24.00
675.00
144.00
10.00
250.00
62.25
17.00
475.00
53.25
34.00
925.00
136.50
29.00
775.00
124.50
9.00
225.00
49.50
9.00
250.00
58.50
41.00
1,200.00
129.75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Lodge

704 Orinda ·············-··-··-·······
705 El Cerrito ···-··-··-··--··- ·
706 Hunters Point Naval ·-·
707 Lake Tahoe ···-·-··-·-708 Seafaring · · - - - 709 Lorenzo - - · - - · - 710 Anacapa..........·-··············-·
711 Rim of the World.--··-··- ·
712 Los Altos ···········-···············
713 Castro Valley-··················
714 Blue Lakes······-· ···-··--·
715 Magnolia Park ·······-·····U.D. Belmont Shore ·-····-··-···
U.D. Wayfarer ·······- ····-·······-·

Grand
Lodge
155.80
197.00
263.80
68.60
301.20
266.00
190.20
149.60
132.60
191.80
161.60
185.60
154.60

Total.·-- ··----- 355,356.00

427

Muonic . $25.00 Homu $1G.W.
Homu Contribution Contrib.
250.00
62.25
8.00
625.00
63.75
24.00
950.00
84.75
34.00
125.00
27.00
2.00
650.00
21.00
114.00
625.00
24.00
86.25
625.00
61.50
20.00
250.00
9.00
53.25
325.00
45.75
11.00
450.00
18.00
58.50
575.00
49.50
~1.00
950.00
53.25
32.00
1,500.00
35.00
45.75
375.00

153,952.50 252,150.00

9,335.00

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

GENE RAL

429

APPE NDIX
Page

Standin g Committees ··························································-·········--·.- 430
Special Committees ·····································································-····-- 433
Constitutional Boards ..........................................................................•• 436
Directo rs Masoni c Club Houses .......................................................... 437
Registration and Mileage Paymen ts .................................................... 438
List of Constit uent Lodges ········-······-·--·············································· 478
Extinct Lodges ··•·····························································---···-······~ 489
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organiz ation.............................. 493
List of Inspectoi;s ····························································-·"-··-··-········· 499
Foreign Grand Lodges ·····-····-.····························································· 502
Alphabetical List of Lodges .................................................................. 507
Report of Committee on Correspondence .......................................... 515

430 .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

STANDING

PAY OF MEMBERS

COMMITTE ES

JURISPRUDENCE
George_L. Jones (23).-- --·-- · -·····----····-·······- ·--- -·-··-··-Nevada City
Earl Warren (349) ·-- · -- ··--··--···-·-······-- -State Capitol, Sacramento 14
John W. Shenk (367)-- - -- - - ···--··- -- · ·-· -- -State Building, San Francisco 2
Oscar Lawler (290)---··········-··-·········-··-···800 Standard Oil Bldg. Los Angeles 15
John R. Moore (667)------·····-·-······· ---··········-453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Arthur Paulsen (27 )--·-······--···············--··· ··-·---·-·--····- ··- - ···-·-·-·-- ···-Weaverville
1102 State Bldg., Los Angeles 12
Louis C. Drapeau (633)____
Wakefield Taylor........................................................................ 1270 Escobar St., Martinez
·
(M. No. 41)
J. L. Missall.................................- ......................... 1325 Lochbrae Rd., No. Sacramento 15
(Sr. W. No. 579)

POUCY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .(202)-----·-···..- "'"--tiB S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Will H. Fischer (445) ...............- ............................... 123 S. Mariposa Ave., Los Angeles 4
_____725 Bank of America Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Wm. B. Ogden (355)-.
- - ·---- ...Aaaodated Realty Bldg., Los Angeles
Rollie W. Miller (352)
Leslie E. Wood (609) ········- ·-·········- -····························-··-···--611 "J" St., Sacramento 14
Chester H. Warlow (247)-·····-------- -lOIM Security Bank Bldg., Fresno 1
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ............................................2071 Escarpa Drive, Los Angeles 41
Lake Forest Drive, Daly City
·
John C. Wiesner
(M. No. 1-ff)
_-Dizon
Denton C.
No. 201>"
.(Sr.

··--- - -----49
-- _______
Barker- ----·---w.
FINANCE

Oaude H. Morrison (35) ·- ················-·····- ···································Box 1311, San Diego 12
M9 San Vicente Rd., Arcadia
F. Wesley Davies (577)._____
Edward H. Siems (560) .....................................................- ......1106 Broadway, Oakland 4
Phil N. Myers (430)---- ·--······-···········--······· -···-··-132 Bolt St, Playa del Rey
Ben C. Corlett (12).·-··--·····- -·-··-··-·-····-464 Califomla St., San Francisco 20
···- - -···--·-Downtevflle
Ben H. Peterson.- - - -·-·
(M. No. 18)
Kline J. Wi111ama......- ..---···-------·6 10 Monterey St., San Luis Obispo
(Sr. W. No. 209)

GRIEVANCES
County Court House, San Diego
Joe I. Shell (35)----····-·
Albert F. Ross (254) ..................................................-··········--···-··············.Box 759, Redding
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) ...._.......................... _... _...............111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Ralph E. Hoyt (268) ....·-··--··················-··········--·······················89 Hillcrest Road, Berkeley
-700 So. Poinsettia Ave., Compton
Ralph K. Pierson (273)
6H Bishop Dr., Santa Rosa
.
F. Leslie Manker----·--······ ··--·--·
(M. No.57)
A. F. Baugbn....·-···------'-16 18 No. Laa Palmas Ave., Los Angeles 28
(Sr. W. No. 662)

431

Loyd C. Campbell (352).·-··········-··- -··-····- ---···- ······--···--5741 S. 1st St., Vernon 11
John V. Bacigalupi (191) ...... _ ______.......,________ _... 108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
Howard Edwards ( 578 )- -...................- ......5328 Ellenwood Drive, Los Angeles 41
eith W . Schlaegel (372).~----··--··'-·--···----·-·-·-····--·--·.1621!> Sp. Main St., Gardena
116 No. Maine Ave., Long Beach
John H. Ferguson (327) ..·--··--·
John R. Herman..........._.............................______ _ ___ ,2()() Howard St., San Francisco 5
(M. No. 22)
Earl E. Lindley......._................................- ...···--·······_R.ura) Route, Redwood Valley
(Sr. W . No. 146)

R

CHARTERS

P. 0. Box 91, Mendota
Glenn C. Holmes (681) .....-···-··--·---··--- ---Wm. R. Hervey, Jr. (202) - ........................... __ :f58 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Wm. J. Williams (685) ----···-----······'--···----·····1476 Bradbury Road, San Marino
Harold Meyer _(481) ......................................................2243--3.fth Ave., San Francisco 16
Ralph W. Collins (566) ..- ..............- ..............._ ..._______811 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 17
Milford B. ArmstronQ- ------··-·- -----------·----·--·--1316 Laguna Ave., Burlingame
(M. No. 400)
Brown ~leY·-····---··--·--·-····--··-------··----···--···------··--·······-------1952 Marin, Berkeley 7 ·
(Sr. W . No. 573)
BY-LAWS
Oakley K. Morton (259) ...................- ...............- ..........................:.•._Courthouae, Riverside
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ..........................................................................................Mariposa
Wm. W . McKee (642) ...-----··----·-·-··-·----·-··17 Oriole Road, Santa Barbara
··--·-- 910 N. Foothill Road, Beverly Hills
Robert C. Peyton (392) ____
Lee T . Mullen (392) -------······---·---- --- -............306 W. 3rd St., Los Angeles 13
Joseph A. Pinkston..............................................................................705 Vestal, San Jose 12
(M. No. 669)
Folmar Blangoted........................................................ 13075 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 49
(Sr. W . No. 506)

RETURNS
Henry G. Mathewson (514) ............. -·····-··-~--------·---·869 Walnut St., Alameda
Francis J. Herz (464) ......- .............·--···-···-·--·--···-··..2358 - 14th Ave., San Francisco
William G. Buxton (429) ........................ --··----·--····-·-·----- 1321 Maple St., Pittsburg
Dan Bosschart (435)----------------·- ·----···-------··- --····23670 Ravensburg Ave., Los Altos
Walter F. Schag (521) _________............-----·--·---523 Haddon Road, Oakland
Edward A. J~·-····----·-··-·--···--· ·---·-··-·----····...324 1 Sterling Ave., Alameda
(M. No. 215)
.
Paul E. Bernard................................- ..·-··-····-·---·--··-------·········--.Box 288, Butte City
(Sr. W . No. 245)

CREDENTIALS

LIBRARY

Louis Sutter (225) ......................................................- ..- ......69 Sutter St, San Francisco 4
Wilbur D. Crosby (704) .....-·····--····-····-········- ····- ···-···3 Moraga Hiway, Orinda
Chapman Ranch, Fullerton
C. Stanley Chapman (339)
Thomas F. Mason (198) - - -·- -··-·--·-··- ---·--916 N. Edgemont, Los Angeles
Carrol A Trefts (403)---··--·---··--··- ···-···----··--899 Glendome Circle, Oalcland 2
Carl Walter---··--·-·--- ---·-····--···-·175 Woodsworth Ave., Redwood City
(M. No. 461)
3S3S Longridge Ave., Van Nuys
Reginald Fudge(Sr. W. No. 450)

A. C. Currie (362) ·-·-··--·--····-·-·- ---··--·-··-·-P· 0 . Box 325, Campbell
Joseph A. Bennett (22) ... ·- ···-·--····--·--··-----··H 4 ldora Ave., San Francisco 16
Ward M. Boring (396) .... ·-----·---····-----···---~---550 E. 20th St., Oakland
Harry M. Bradford (243) -----·· ----- ·-··----···-----f81 First St., Hayward
Marvin D. Martin..................................................................2854 Shasta Rd., Berkeley 8
(M. No. 541)
Philip R. Chapin... ____ _________ ..._: _ ____________ ..2259 - 15th St., San Francisco H
(Jr. W. No. 388)

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CORRESPONDENCE

Newcomb Condee (614)-.........................................- .......Superior Court, Los Angeles 12
Oscar C. Olsen (366) ...........·-·······-···························2095 - 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
Herbert G. Polhill (327) ........- ..405 Farmers & Merchants Bank Bldg., Long Beach 12

~.tl~~c~~c;~hi J5i -~-~-~-~-~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~-~-~-~:-~-~~-~~-~-~~--~~--~3:~~!

Erret J. Smith ·-·············-········-··-··················-···-················-·--·-····1717 Harrison, Fresno
(M. No. 530)
.
Oden W. Hansen...........·-······-·-·--·········-·-····--····························P. 0. Box 22, Fieldslanding
(Sr. W. No. 79)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL

433

COMMITTEES

MASONIC HISTORY
Leon 0. Whitsell (293) ..........·-·························-··----····---···-·College of Pacific, Stockton 4
Charles R. Ingram (23) ........·.·····-········-·····-·-····-····-···-····1238 E. Cota St., Santa Barbara
Wilson E. Newlon (541) ..........................•__;•..•-·-··-·--··--··981 Miller Ave., Berkeley 8
Samuel Steelman (325) ..................................................650 So. Spring St., Los Angeles H
0. J. Wohlgemuth (122) ....·-··············-····-··········--···-P. 0. Box 246, Walnut Creek
Arthur H. Triggs (401) ...................-····-··-···-·-·-·-··-····2117 Funston Place, Oakland 2
Carl W. Brainard (579) ...........___ ...,____
.P. 0. Box 834, Sacramento
¥ ____

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES

l\ndrew Burke (549) ..·-·---····--···-··-··-············-··25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Samuel F. Worswick (494) _................................................ 1433 Madison St., Oakland 12
A.lfred F. Breslauer ( 344) -··-······-·····-··-····-·····~-·------·1 11 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
E. Lloyd Hanson (494) ··········-···············-··························· 1175 Wellington St., Oakland 2
Lester S. McElwain (403) .....................•...•..................---··········-1419 Broadway, Oakland
David Thomson............................................................ 1842 Jefferson St., San Francisco 23
(M. No. 1)
Philip M. Bovero......................................................2222 - 39th Ave., San Francisco 16
(Sr. W. No. 374)

MASONIC INFORMATION
Henry W. Coil (635) -··········-·············--·····-··-·····-···----···- ..Box 512, Riverside
Alvin Wendt (506) ........... '····································-·······-·-~-Route 2, Box 3556, Aptos
Robert F. Shippee (458) ...·-·····-··•················-·-··········408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CONSTITUTION MONTH OBSERVANCE

:::Hnton T . Duffy (191) .. _ ........ _________ ........._____ 1122 Sir Francis Drake Blvd., Kentfield
Darrell R. Purcell (40) ........................:...............1523 Los Molinos Way, Sacramento 19
Mark A. Green (320) ..........................•..... ______ _523 S. Rampart Blvd., Los Angeles 5
:Jlen C. Holbert (441 ) ····--···-·······-······················-·-·····2360 Presidio Drive, San Diego
William D. Verbarg....................................:.........•...31 Marietta Drive, San Francisco 16
(M. No. 354)
:iarold N. Rkhards..............................................- ........ 1880 - 10th Ave., Sacamento 18
(Sr. W. No. 20)

Ralph C. Hine (242) ......·-·····································--2211 Las Rosas Lane, Santa Barbara
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) .·--···-············--··--···---1 14 Manor Drive, Piedmont
Howard B. Melendy (79)---··-········-··---··-····----····--·-P. 0. Box 197, Eureka
William C. Dale (84) ··---······------········-·-··-········--·--·-······--1315 Lincoln St., Red Bluff
Frank E. Judy ( 143) ···-·····---·············-·--···--····-·-··---1723 - 11th Ave., Sacramento
H. Guy Walford (486).·-·····-·-······-·········-··--·--····-···--·--.533 Adams St., Bakersfield
Archie D. Mitchell (301) .......-··-·-···-·-·-···--·--·-.-····.126 Harvard Place, Ontario
Obed W . Carr (303) ......·-··----··-···-··-·--···-·---····-·-···-833 Reeves Plate, Pomona
Willard A. Braasch (206) ....................--··-················-··-··--···9231 Hollywood, La Mesa
Herbert C. Coney (80) ..........·-································-··-···-·-·--.Annadel Ranch, Santa Rosa
John H. Brooke•(562).--·············-··········-·············-·······~50 Farragut Ave., San Francisco
Chester M. Gjerde (319) ........•.................•.........________ _617 West 7th St .. Los Angeles
Donald E. Blauert (99).·--···-··-················-·-··--···'···-·········--·-·---···.141 E. 23rd St., Merced
Ralph Sparling (324)·-····-····························-·······-····-·········895 So. Grand Ave., Pasadena

NECROLOGY

PUBLIC SCHOOIS WEEK

~oy C. Bryan (513) ............·-··-·--······-·-··············829 Longwood Ave., Los Angeles 5

George D. Gavin (144)----~---·-·-·····-···--····-····70 New Montgomery St., San Francisco
Robert A. Odell (418) ........-···········-············-·······1011 Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles 14
Lowell K. Baine (244) .............................................................._42!6 Webster St., Oakland
Forrest H. Keck (178)._......-.---·--····-······-·····-·..306 Edgerton Drive, San Bernardino
Roy L. Sawyers (418) ----·--·--·--..-·····--····--·---·-·-···---~52 El Rito, Glendale 8
Hersha! J. Lay (378) ...............:.................................__ t21'f8 Califa St., No. Hollywood
Perry H. Barrett (699) .............................·--··-····-·······-····.l87 Orlena Ave.. Long Beach 14
Harry L. Buckalew (366) .......·-··········-············.--·---·..····~-···1019 No. Van Ness, Fresno
Thomas E. P. Woods (487) ...........................'--·····-······-··--·--·-···-····.tOS Buss St., Vallejo
George K. Palmer (442) ........................................................3509 Dove Court, San Diego 3
Clarence C. Smith (226)·-··············-·······-········-·-·········--·····-856 Prospect Row, San Mateo

LODGE FINANCING

~ward J. Blickfeldt (535) ···························-···-··-···············.590 Hargrave St., Inglewood
E:. Herbert Phillips (349) ...·-·································-·················3S4 - 17th St., Oakland 12
Walter Pybon (166) .. -·-··········-·······-··-···········-··46-i California St., San Francisco 4

~oss K. Roper (360) ......·-·······································-··············1457 Gilbert St., Hayward

:<'rank Everett (646) __ ,....................-----·······'········.3282 Veteran Alle., Los Angeles 34
:<'elix P. Lassalle ·········-·········---·······················-·····27 Lexington St., San Francisco 10
(M. No. 17)
:iomer E. Rathbun .......................................................................333 E. Acacia, Glendale 4
(Sr. W . No. 368)

RITUAL

:O:lbert W. Davis (571) ·-·-··-······-········--·-··················-···.2908 Russell St., Berkeley 5
:::Iare B. Campbell (230)·-····················--·············-········-···--_Jlt. 1, Box 162, Gridley
falph M. Foote (135) .... - ..---···---········--··-·········--······----·-··-&x 722, Linden
11.rthur J. Kahn (462) ..-···--·---·-······-·-·-····--·20+t Bryant St., San Francisco 10
~aymond G. Taylor (466 )--·····-·······---·-···-····-··········-···········Box 887, Bakersfield
::iuy B. Mize (368) ...---···-·---------...- ..--1238 Idlewood Road, Glendale 2
1\.ugust H. Allen (241) ..........·-···-----··--···------·········614 McClay St .• Santa Ana

SOCIAL SECURITY AND UNEMPLOYMENT TAX
R. P. Wisecarver (478) ............·--·····-···---····...315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
James E. Hammond (568) ................................................. .111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Robert R. York (349) ...............--·····················-·----··--1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

435

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DE MOLAY

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEREMONIF.S

Raymond S. Kimbell (22l.------·--·-·-···-246 Taraval St., San Francisco 27
Thurman D. Moyers (366).---·-·-··--··-···-··--···--830 Normal St., Fresno 4
Kay_V. Smith (580)-···---··----·-----··--4127 Stephena, San Diego 3
F. Harold Butterlleld (635)---·········-···-·-···-·-··-····-··-···Court House, Riversilie
Henry Honaker (566) .......- ...................................................309 W. Palm Ave., Compton
Walter Flierl .(243)-···--··----···--············-········-···P• 0. Box 123, Hayward
Francis W. Peters (319)-•.···-·-····-·-·········----··547 Oakford Dr., Los Angeles 22
Edwin R. Brooks (431)---·--·······-·····--·--··-··717 Blue11 Ave.. Richmond
Alvin E. Oark (40)---···-·-····-····--·--···--·················-J19 K St., Sacramento

Ellsworth Meyer (677)-----2071 Escarpa Dr., Los Angeles 41
Elbert W. Davis (571)-······-····-··----·'---2908 Russell St., Berkeley 5
Roy C. Bryan (513) ....................-·-··-···-·-··-··----829 Long'WOOC:I Ave., Los Angeles 5

SPECIAL COMMITI'EE TO STUDY INSURANCE PROGRAM
Herbert Nelson (556) ·····-···-·-············---·----RU. Building, San Francisco 4
Arthur F. Strehlow (215) ...·-·········-······-··-···-----· _ ... 1801 Hyde St, Alameda
Horace F. Cagwfn (356)-----···-····-·-·-··----320 Market St., San Francisco

COLUMBIA 1EMPLE
Ira W. Coburn (216) ·----·-·----..2.ffO Marij>Osa St., San Francisco 10
Fred Inge) (514)---·-··--··--·-·-·-·····--··-·--20 Eaten> Ave., San Frandaco
Cecil B. Mathews (8).---·-·-···-··-·---··-·-··--···-··--····-~x 936, Sonora
Arthur E. CJlDk (8)
-·······----·····----·-·····-···--·Sonora
Chester M. Smith (52S)--···--··-·--·-······-·-···---8.f0...4th Ave., San Bruno
John A. Dull (421)
··--··-···--3730 W. 59th St., Los Angeles 43
Carl U. Zachrisson (lff) ..-··--····--------·-ti - 25th Ave., San Francisco
G. C. McKinley (3)--·-··-·--·····-··--·-----··---..Aaeuor's Office, Sacramento

SPECIAL COMMITI'EE ON JUDGE ADVOCA1E
Frank B. Belcher (445)--..
---510 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Earl B. Myers (673) .................................- ............315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Merton M. Jacobs (120) ............................ - .................. _.593 Market St., San Francisco 5
Ralph Heckler (506) .............................. __ .._ .......6334 Goodland Place, No. Hollywood
George Washburn (556) .
_19 Bank Street, San Anselmo

SPECIAL COMMITI'EE ON OVERSIZE LODGES
MEMORIAL BUILDING
Edward H. Siems (560)
1106 Broadway, Oakland 4
Otto H. Fischer (215)--·····-··········---·-···-··-··----2121 Diesel St., Oakland 6
John C. Bovey (166)..
····-·---··--464 California St., San Francisco 20

Cyril W. McCleao (349)---···-····-··············--·4<11 Central Bank Bldg., Oakland 12
Edward T. Koford (57)---····--··-··--···....Bank of America Bldg., Santa Rosa
Frank Barboni (128) __
. ---·-----·--·--···
Box 414, Visalia
William C. Neuendorff (542) . _______ ___p, 0. Box 292, No. Hollywood
William Bachman (462).----··
1611 Pine St., San Francisco 9

INVESTMENT COMMITI'EE

SOJOURNERS COMMITTEE

Francis V. Keesling (1) - . .
·----..315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4.
Paul A. Pllueger (370) ............................................................ Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Claude H. Morrison (35) ...............................................................Box 1311, San Diego 12
Charles E. Moore (630)-····-·-··········-·-··-············-··-•
.._..P. 0. Box 658, Los Gatos
Ralph H. Head (352) ....·-·-··-·-··-·P• 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54

Chester R. MacPhee (455) Chairman........................ 1048 Valencia St., San Francisco 10
Nadell E. Jensen (635) Co-chairman..........................................3285 Lemon St., Riverside
Anthony J. Oliver (509) ..........................................2377 Castllian Drive, Los Angeles 28
George A. French (25) .............................................................. P. 0. Box 272, Georgetown
Gene C. Otwell (705) ·······-···-············································-·.759 Creston Road, Berkeley
James W. O'Bryan (451) ......................................................711 West Arden, Glendale 2
Charles E. Bradley (479)
--·-·
401 Patch Ave., San Jose 28
H. Guy Walford (486)..................
St3 Adams St, Bakerslleld
Conley L. LaForce (633).·--·--···-·-··-··-···--.108(13 So. La Reina Ave., Downey
Joe A.. Taylor (307)--·-···--·-··---....2217, 21st St., Santa Monica
Arthur L. BeU (405) ........................................- .................... 7228 LaSalle, Los Angeles 47
Marcus A. Woodward (647) ._.._
99 Suffolk Ave., Sierra Madre
Wayne Gleason (500.----···-··--·-··...
P. 0. Box 628, Westwood
E. Theodore Ford (700) ----·
f2I Seford Ave., Fresno 1
Ja.mes Henderson (552)--·-··-·--··
·
1212 H St., Eureka
John A. Martin (265)________
.
····---Hamilton City
Harold J. Kircher (35)-······-·····--·-··--418 La Creacentia Drive, San Diego 6
H. H. Hendron (613) ..........................................................................1601 J St, Sacramento
Fred H. Blanchford (373)-··-····--···-··--·-·---·-·10666 Ohio Ave., Los Angeles 24

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
Arthur W. Brouillet (H9)
M. Jay Jensen (454)

·
__..._1 114 Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 3
____;_________----e/o Olivet Memorial Park, Colma 25

~~;a!_
"}Y~~~e(J~f ~--················ ····-·:·====-~~--~s~~~oFI~~:~··i::_, Filikl~d ~
John R. Garside (347) ....................................................505 Washington Ave .. Richmond

Ralph M. Small (554) ---.--·-···~··--·-..2983 - 26th Avenue, San Francisco

SPECIAL COMMITI'EE ON PUBLICATIONS
James F. Dougan (389) --..---···--···---····--·---4210 Linden Ave.. Long Beach 7
Arthur S. Crites (224) - - - · - - - - - - - - - - 1 0 0 1 Oleander St., Bakersfield
Arthur W. Brouillet (449)
·
1114 Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco 3
J. Everett Houser (504)
-·----&H Security Bldg., Long Beach 2
Laurence Edward Dayton (61) --·······---·-·····-1832 Magellan Drive, Oakland 11

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CONSTITUTIONAL

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BOARDS

437

DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUB HOUSES

ENDOWMENT BOARD

BERKELEY

Ernest G. Bashor (352)-····--··················----3161 Los Feliz Blvd., Los Angeles 39
Edmund A. Lockett (599) ......·-·····················-·········-···..552 So. Raymond St., Pasadena 2
Charles E. Moore (630)-------··--··----..P. 0. Box 658, Los Gatos
Ira D. Wheeler (637) ...:........'················--···-·-·-···········--_..Box 891, Santa Monica
Omo E. Tyler (442) ............................................................3921 Kansas St., San Diego 4
Clovis J. Robert (202) .........·-······-·-·················-··-····576 San Marino Ave., San Gabriel
Lester A. Price (379)---·---···············-·······-························-·····-458 Saratoga St., Fillmore
John M. Gordon (202)-····················-···-·····-····-·········3446 Amesbury_ Rd., Hollywood 27
Byron Coleman (453) ····-····-············-·················---220 Montgomery St., San Francisco
Leonard R. Avilla (346) ................................................ 1717 Middlefield Road, Palo Alto
Harry A. Nauman, Jr. (58) •.......·-·-···-··..·--·-····-···-·····--..2021 - 28th St., Sacramento
Rue W. Sims (188) ... _......-·-········-······-..···-·-···-··-898 Rodney Drive, San Leandro
Norbert Mixter (424) .....................................·---'···-·-··............_...:zot E. Pine St., Exeter
Marion A. Long (465)-'-~---···············--·····..·-···--···-···----..324 College Ave., Fresno
John Kahler (604)-.......................- ...........- ................. 1324 No. Lowell St., Santa Ana

Walter T. Helms (347)---•-···..···············--·---·-···-···-······-······Box 1702, Richmond
Carlisle D. Nielsen (541)--·-···-··-···---------170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley
R. P. Wisecarver (478) ····-·······---···-·--:......--315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Russell C. Horstmann (336) ......·-·················--·-···-·····-···-···--..560 - 57th St.. Oakland 9
Frank R. Killinger, Ir. {_336) ..................·-·-·······-····-···----···1221 Walnut St., Alameda
Leo E. Sievert (685 ..·--·····--·-·····-------114 Sansome St., San Francisco 4
Paul S. Boren (551 .........·--······--·····--·····----···...- ... 1947 Tiffin Road, Oakland
Carl B. Munck (564) ..............:....-------··-····--·-·····-Hl9 Broadway, Oakland 12

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Chas. M. Wollenberg, President (344) ...- ..............2070 Paciftc: Ave., San Francisco 9
Leonard Gross, Vice-President (654) ......................................-7411 E. Third St.. Downey
Chas. Albert Adams (166)-----··-·-·······--··..···········-Monadnock Bldg., San Francisco 5
L. Harold Anderson (346) ···-·······..··-·····-·--···············245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Ralph H. Head (352)-·-·-··········:....P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Myron E. Smith (394)-·-·····..····-····.. ·-···-···~--·--··617 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 17
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ·-········-····-·····-.........- ........-623 So. Hope St.. Los Angeles 17
Henry C. Clausen (630)---·······-·················-·····-.315 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) ..............................................510 W. 6th St., Los Angeles 14

BOARD OF CONTROL
Jack C. Butler (58):....--···-·····-·------···-·--·P· 0. Box 501, Carmichael
John T. Martin (657).·-··-····-··········-······..-· ......................-350 Cedar St., San Diego 1
Guy A. Tolle (577) .............- .....................................200 E. Slauson Ave., Los Angeles 54
Harry F. White (347)-..- ........................................................1261 Broadway, Fresno 21
Reginald M. Mills (61) ......•........- ..............................--1061 Market St., San Francisco 3

WS ANGELES
Ellsworth Meyer, Chairman (677) .....................-2071 Escarpa Drive, Los Angeles 41
A. Curtis Smith, Vice-Chairman (618) ....- ................211 No. Elm Drive, Beverly Hills
C. Earle Crane, Secretary-Treasurer (528) ..............8915 Burton Way, Los Angeles 12
Clyde C. Shoemaker (566).-----··-··---·-117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
John A. Klarquist (HS)----·-···--·-··------618 So. Western Ave., Los Angeles 5
Elvin C. Drake (677) ...........·-·-··-············-···.1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ............................................4155 Greenbrier Road, Long Beach 8
Marion A. Duncan (327).--··-··-·······-··----1505 Armando Road, Long Beach 7
John M. Askin (278)---·-····--····-·-··-·······-··-···-···833 So. Wall St., Los Angeles 14
Howard M. Wilson (677) .........................- .........357 No. Crescent Drive, Beverly Hills
Herbert H. Cooper (614) ..- ........- ..........................--.. 1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25
Frank H. Reinsch (677) .....................................-._...... 1322 No. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Chas. E. Listenwalter (392) ................................_ ...375 So. Rimpau Blvd.. Los Angeles 5

438

NUDe of Loclae

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS

NUDe of Loclae

No. of Loclae

Representatives

Mileaae Allowed

California - - - - - - N o . t._David Thomson. Master
Malcolm S. Teller, Senior Warden
Howard M. Mc.Kinley, Jr., Junior Warden
Francis V. Keesling, Past Grand Master and
Grand Treasurer
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P. M. and Inspector
Dorsey E. Marsh, Past Master
James Hurst, Past Master
Ralph Ernest Mott, Pa8t Master
Lee Crawford, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge, Past Master
Western Star ···-·----No. 2.... Charles E. Hall, Master--·-·····-··········---$ 31.82
Tehama · - - - - - N o• .3._.Harry E. Sollenberger, Master-----····- 7.24
Horace R. LaFortune, Senior Warden
Ralph B. Sutton, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P. M. and Inspector.... 7.24
Gerald C. McKinley, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia -·------__No. 5_Gary H. Conlin, Master
Walter C. Roy, Senior Warden
Svend 0. K. Sorensen, Junior Warden
Dwight E. Wood. Past Master

3.10

Tuolumne -·······--···---No. 8.._Urban N. Halliday, Master--····-······-······· 10.86
Elmer R. Merrihew, Senior Warden
Marcel M. Baer, Junior Warden
Charles C. Hale, Past Master and Inspector.. 9.66
Corinthian ---·~· 9....Aaron Burt, Master---·----·---··-·------------ohn C. Mayer, Senior Warden
ames W. Robinson, P. M. and Inspector......
George W. Williams, Past Master

J

439

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

8.30
8.30

San Joae ·-··-··--···--..No. 10.... ~fu!t ~:m:~n~~ w;;~................ 3.92
George E. Biggs, Junior Warden
Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
Chas. W. Down, Past Master
Yount -···---·----···No. 12-George 0. Potter, Master..--···---·--··- 3.20
Charles U. Price, Senior Warden
Orville W. Johnson.Junior Warden
Jack Mast. P. M. an Inspector--·----··--- 3.20
No. 1.3....Thomas H. Taylor, Master----·-·---· 12.34
Nevada
Laurence E. Noyea, Junior Warden
remple --·--··---··No. H ....Theodore L. Picco, Senior Warden.............._ 3.00
John N. Evans, Past Master
Victor F. Lindahl, Past Master
Eureka - - · - - -..-No. 16-Edward D. Pillsbury, Master---···-- 7.30
Ralph N. Barryman, Senior Warden
7.30
Burrell C. Juli, P. M., and Inspector-..........La Parfaite Union ............ No. 17._.Felix Lassalle, Master
Rene Monbelgt. Senior Warden
Henry Labatallle, Junlor Warden
Andre L. Armand, P. M. and Inspector

No. of Loclae

:Representatives

Mileaae Allowed

Edouard J. Lagarde, Past Master
Rene Canonica, Past Master ·
James F. Smith, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfantl, Past Master
Charles H. Vlgule, Past Master
Jules Ramond, Past Master
Mountain Shade ..............No. 18.... Ben H. Peterson, Master---·-·-----····--·-·--· 22.68
Gordon E. Tucker, Junior Warden
San Joaquin ......................No. 19.... Elmer S. Duckworth, Senior Warden...-....... 6.86
Wesley A. Simard, Junior Warden
John H. Southwell. Past Master
Washington .................. _..No. 20....William E. Gray, Master-......................... 7.24'
Harold N. Richards, Senior Warden
Hawaiian ..........-···----No. 21....Gordon E. Smith, Senior Warden........:.......- 331.20
Occidental -··----·····--No. 22-John R. Hermann, Jr., Master
John A. Mord, Jr., Senior Warden
Hiram D. Blanchard, Junior Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
William E. Bouton, Past Master
--·--··- 12.34
Madison ........- ..- ...........No. 2.3....Tom Leggs, Master
Henry Drleth, Senior Warden
Earl D. Wheaton, Junior Warden
George L. Jones, Past Grand Master...... _.. 12.34
Edward Farley, P. M. and Inspector.....-... 12.34
Mariposa .......·-·--.......No. 24....Daniel Kleiman, Master _.............................. 22.80
James P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown _____ _No. 25....Marion G. HenneM, Senior Warden;......- - 8.90
El Dorado .~ ............- .....~.No. 26.... L. H. Holland. Master.-....----·--·-----·---·Donald Veerkamp, Senior Warden
John Simpson, P. M. and Inspector........-....
Vernon E. Allen, Past Master
Trinity ---·-·-..--~No. 27....George L. Burger, Master---··--·-·--·--·
Arthur Paulsen, Put Grand Master............
Golden Gate ·--·-·-··--...No. 30_.Raymond H. Bradley, Master
Howard J. Smith, Senior Warden
Clifford K Hamilton, Junior Warden
Randolph M. Rosso, Past Master
Gold Hill -·--....- ....-.No. 32....Albert S. Bates. Junior Warden.... _.............
Ophir ........-·-----No. 33.... Not Represented
San Diego --·---....... _No. 35.... Harold J. Kircher, Ma.stu-----·---Fred J. H. Rickon, Senior Warden
William K. Ehmclce, Junior Warden
Claude H. Morrison, Past Grand Master......
Joe L. Shell, Past Master.............................Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master
No. 37....Byron M. Lewis, Senior Warden.-.....___
Howard --·---Santa Cruz _ ....___No. 38 .... Ernest W. Roger,
Loren C. Johnson, Senior Warden
Henry_!(aiser, P. M. and lnapector................
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master
Gustaf E. Wahlberg, Past Master
Roy L. Mayfield, Past Master

Muter.-------------

11.96
11.96
29.38
29.38

9.00
50.84
50.84
56.84
33.56
6.32
6.32

440

.

Name of lodge

No. of lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Sacramento ......................No. 40....Eugene Huston, Master..................................
Forrest E. Robinson, Junior Warden
Harry M. Baker, Past Master
Nathan Gartner, Past Master..........................
Walter E. Stoddard, Past ~ster
Darrell R. Purcell, Past Master
Martinez .......................... No. 4L..Wakefield Taylor, Master.... :.........................
Winfed M. Wright, Senior Warden
George T. Barkley, Junior Warden
Benjamin P. Schleifer, Past Master

7.24
7.24
2.30

Los Angeles ......................No. 42.... Saul Amdur, Master...·--·····························' 47.56
Jack Leslie, Senior Warden
Hiram ................................No. 43....Jack I. Lowe, Senior Warden.......................... 9.80
Mount Moriah ..................No. 44...Jrwln J. Robertson, Master
Robert E. Howser, Senior Warden
Jack W. Leishman, P. M. and Inspector
Edwin E. Keough, Sr., Past Master
Alphonse F. Mailloux, Past Master
Daniel B. Richards, Past Master
Crescent •...........................No. 45.... Howard J. Benner, Senior Warden................ 32.86
William H. Verser, Junior Warden
Texas ..;,.....- ...·-·-···········No. 46....Ray 0. Gervais, Master_............................... 5.60
Forbestown ...................... No. 50.... Benjamin A Taylor, Master........................... . 12.22
John D. Vance, Past Master
Illinolstown ..._ ............. No. 51 ....C. W. Manuel, Master.................................... 19.60
Suisun ................................No. 55....Ward C. Sheldon, Master.............................. 4.02
Volcano ---·········..............No. 56....Charles A. Slack, Representative.................. 8.50
Santa Rosa ........................ No. 57....F. Leslie Manker, Master.............................. 4.18
Charles C. Warren, Senior Warden
Shirley K. McMullin, Junior Warden
L. Everett Richardson, P. M. and Inspector.. 4.18
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
Carvil W. Marlaff, Past Master
Lee C. Shea, Past Master
Edward T. Koford, Past Master
I. Gregg Williams, Past Master
Union ................................No. 58....John K. Dixon, Master.................................. .. 7.24
C. Herbert Mullen, Junior Warden
.P. Bascom, Past Master
ack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range -················No. 59....Ellis E. Royat, Master.................................... 18.00
Erle Wm. Nelson, P. M. and Inspector......... . 8.30
Plumas .............. _ ........... ~.No. 60.... Marlon B. Myers, Master.............................. 27.96
William Slaten, Senior Warden
Orval A. Myers, P. M. and Inspector......... . 27.96
Live Oak ..................:.........No. 6L..John R. Thomson, Master
William J. Harris, Senior Warden
John W. Telford, Junior Warden
·
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Oarence A. Severin, Past Master
Laurence E. Dayton, Past Master
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Natoma ..............................No. 64....Hugh B. Mackay, Senior Warden................ 8.34
Amador -·--············--····No. 65....Evo Vasilovich, Senior Warden.................. 10.44

J

441

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of lodge

No. of lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Forest ..........................- ...No. 66.... Not Represented
Morning Star ....................No. 68....Alfred H. Knak, Master..................................
George A. Fletcher, Senior Warden
Alvin V. Abbott, Junior Warden
Enterprise .........................No. ·10.... 0race A. Kelly, Master........._......................
Tames H. Barr, Junior Warden
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Phillip M. Heisch, Past Master....................
Bear Mountain ..................No. 76.... Roland M. Grexton, Senior Warden............
Calaveras ········-·········-···No. 78.... Harry Conger, Senior Warden....................
Humboldt ........................~No. 79....0den W. Hansen, Senior Warden..................
Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
lone .................................... No. 80....Walter G. Herman, Master............................
·J. Wesley Slbole, P. M. and Inspector..........
Robert D. Cooper, Past Master
Yolo ..................................No. 8L..Eugene N. Winters, Master................. -........
Vesper ..............................No. 84.... Vernon Betty, Senior Warden........................
Naval ................................No. 87.... Donald H. Bricker, Master............................
Osce 0. Jenkins, Senior Warden
Melvin C. Nelson, Junior Warden
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Paul E. Meyers, Past Master
Melvin C. Baker, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Joseph Andersen, Past Master
Milton I. Dawson, Past Master
Ernest C. _Fugler, Past Master
Rose's Bar ........................No. 89.... Not Represented
North Star ....~ ...................No. 9L.. Not Represented
St. Helena ........................No. 93 .... Elwood J. Mee, Master....................................
Frank L. Wood, Senior Warden
Howard K. Cole, Junior Warden
Henry Clay ...................... No. 95.... Robert L. Fry, Senior Warden................. .'......
John N. Owens, Past Master
Hornitos ...........................:.No. 98....James W. Short, Senior ·warden..................
Wilson E. Lathrop, P. M., and Inspector......
Yosemite ...........................No. 99....Donald E. Blauert, Master..............................
Leland D. Boysen, Senior Warden
Arne N. Ornberg, Junior Warden
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Master..................
Oay ................................No. 101....Herb W. Haberkorn, P. M. and
Representative ..............................................
Oroville ....................:.....No. 103.... Harry L. Pyke, Senior Warden......................
Lexington ........................No. 104....Brian R. Wofford, Master..............................
E. Earl Crawford, Senior Warden
Arcata ............................ No. 106.... Frederick J Wadley III, Junior Warden......
James E. Merton, Jr., Past Master
Pajaro ..............................No. 110....John W. Sheffield, Master..............................
Chico ................................No; 111....Wm. C. Brouillard, Master.......-..................
Lloyd D. Mcintyre, Senior Warden
Henry Drobny ,Past Master
Summit ............................No. 112.... John B. Groh!, Master......................................

6.86
9.80
9.80
9.66
9.68
30.78
9.64
9.64
7.24
24.16
2.70

5.36
8.44
22.80
19.34
19.34
22.80
20.66
12.22
47.56
31.86
7.92
21.60
9.10

442
Name of lod&e

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
No. of Lodae

llepresentativa

Mllcaae Allowed

Eden ---··-·-········-··No. 113.... Edward A. Theile, Master
H. Dean Polsal, Senior Warden
Harold L. Evans, Junior Warden
Elwood D. Bona, Past Master
Concord --·-····-··--_No. 117•..L. Kenn~ Tofft, Master-------··················
Forrest P. Stead, Senior Warden
Joseph H. Dewey, Junior Warden
Fidelity ·······-··-····---···-No. 120.... Mark H. Nusbaum, Master
Irving A. Berliner, Senior Warden
Reuben E. Gilbert, Junior Warden
Henry Levy, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Abraham Jacobs, Past Master
Merton A. Jacobs, Past Master
Cyril Weeks, Past Master
George K. Manheim, Past Master

7.24

····-···-··-·-Alamo -----··-·----No. 122..-Fred Champion, Muter
R. F. Cutler, Senior Warden
0. J. Wohlgemuth, Junior Warden
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Muter
E. D. Charlton, Past Master
Ralph M. Hind, Past Master
Paul F. Ruff, Past Master
Floyd L. Stephens, Past Master
Sotoyome ···-··-··-··-··No. 123.._C. Robert Plasberg, Master---····-·······
Truman H. Clark, Senior Warden
Robert W. Weston, Past Master

3.00

5..34

Table Mountain ···-··-·-No. 124....l<::et1·/.rM~;Y~s.~:!.i~;·ward~~-··········-··· 23.30
LaFayette ···-···--····-····-No. 126.. _Warren Y. Hillard, Senior Warden............ _ 4.58
Lloyd R. Jackson. Junior Warden
Henry L. Singmaster, Past Master
William C. Heatly, Past Master
Hermann ·······-·--···-···No. 127.... Willy H. Gehrke, Master
Alfred Floer, Senior Warden
Oscar P. Bachmann. Junior Warden
John Behrens, P. M. and Inspector
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
H. Porter, Muter.·--·-··-·················· 27.38
Gale
....
128
·---·--·-·······No.
Visalia
Marvin 0. Wininys, Senior Warden
Mitchell Lunstra, Junior Warden
James B. Lawson, P. M. and Inspector.......... 27.38
John W. Ward, Past Master
John W. Manuell, Past Master
F. Ross Fleming, Past Master
Gilbert R. Morris, Past Master
NicolaUB ···--···--···-·_No. 129..-Herbert N. T. Bowden, Jr., Senior Warden 10.08
Woodbridge -·---··---No. 131....Alstona Coblenz, Master·---····················· 7.50
Palmer A. Wells, Senior Warden
Thos. L. Walker, Junior Warden
W. Correll Smith, P. M. and Inspector..... . 7.24
Sincerity -·-··-····-···No. 132-.Joe Hayes. Senior Warden--······-·············· 31.30
Vacaville __________ _No. 134....Jack Richetta, Mamr---·--·-·····--·····-· . 5.24
Clyde W. Penaluna, Senior Warden
Ted Emmington, Junior Warden

Name of lod&e

No. of Lodae

Jlepresentativa

443
Milcaae AIIO'ftd

Valley ··---············-·----No. 135....W. W. Hill Master·---·······---···-·--- 7.82
Ralph M. Foote, P. M., and Inspector.·-······ 7.82
K. Wolff, Jr.. Senior Warden
136._Harry
Pac!Bc -·--·····---·····.No•
Albert F. E. Hallett, Sr., Junior Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Herman W ertsch, Past Master
Charles E. Jackson. Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Eugene E. Elkus. Past Master
Crockett --··-·····----No. 139....Theodore E. Klein, Master
Ballard White, Jr., P. M. and Inspector.... _ 22.68
William A. H. Fleischer, Past Master
Frederick J. Mahr, Past Master
James Low, Past Master
Ralph L. Mallett, Past Master
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
Richard E. Schreiber, Past Master
Wilbert H. Mason, Past Master
Charles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Curtis ··---········-·····---No. HO.... L. 0. Duesler, Senior Warden.....-······--····- 5.20
James H. Black, Past Master
Grafton ·-·-··········-·-···-··No. BL.George J. Flick, Senior Warden.................--. 7.34
Franklin --·-··-·---No. H3.... Edward T. Lyon, Senior _W arden.--·········- 8.10
Oriental ·-·- ··-·----No. 144....John C. Wiesner, Master
Donald T. Owens, Senior Warden
Walter E. Sanner, P. M. and Inspector
Carl U Zachrisson, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
Vitruvlus ·--~---·-··-No. 145.... Harold Johnstone, Master-···-···--·····-··--·- 2.60
Orrin Buell, Junior Warden
Abell ·········--------No• 146.... Earl E. Lindley, Senior Warden......·-········-· 9.04
Elmer M. Hopper, P. M. and Inspector...... _ 9.04
Eel River ··········--···-No. H7_.. Mair: A. Goble, Junior Warden.·--··-·····-·· 29.34
John E. North, Past Master
Lassen _______ __No. 149.... Geo. N. McDow, Jr., Muter-----·-·······- 32.28
William N. Sutherlin. Senior Warden
Elmer Glen Van Tassell, P. M. and Inspector 32.28
Fred W. Bode, Past Master
Molino ····----·-···-···-··No. 150._.John A. Mohler, Senior Warden..............·-··· 23.24
Allen Randolph Frink, Junior Warden
6.96
Woodland ·······-·---·-No. 156..-0rvis F. Agee, Muter.
L. C. Rowland, Jr., Senior Warden
George L. Stivers, P. M. and Inspector..·-··· 6.96
Keystone -··---···--No. 161....John D. Huston, Senior Warden.................. 9.26
Harmony ···-···--·--No. 164....Wesley E. Dietrich, P. M. & Representative 22.80
Excelsior -·-··-······--No. 166.... Herman W. Bolte, Master
Joseph R. Edmiston. Senior Warden
Ralph Edwin Flathmann, Junior Warden
Charles A. Adams, Past Grand Master
William Blair Riir:on, Past Master
Walker Peddicord. Past Master
Joseph C. Kohlbecher, Past Master

444
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Alameda ·············--·········.No. 167....William H. Rogers, Master............................ 2.50
Clark Redeker, Senior Warden ·
Redwood City ···········-···No. 168.... lra A. Boynton, Master.................................. 2.00
Cecil F. Rouse, Senior Warden
Emery L. Bionaz, Junior Warden
Mission ··················--:..•...No. 169.... Donald Q. Luce, Master
Arthur W. Demaree, Senior Warden
James D. Skidmore, Junior Warden
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
John C. Strickler, Past Master
Geo. A. Hansen, Past Master
Elk Grove ·················--·No. 173.... Glen M. Beeman, Senior Warden.................. . 8.74
Drytown ··············-···-···No. 174.... H. E. Steinsick, Senior Warden.................... 8.86
Antioch .......................-No.. 175.... H. V. St. Clair, Master...........-....................... 4.12
E.W. Lynn, Sr., Senior Warden
T. F. Brown, Jr., Junior Warden
Phoenix .........................._No. 178.... Guy W. Whelchel, Master............................ 52.26
Ralph Linfesty, Past Master
Mendocino ·······-·······-····No. 179.... Richard A. Werner, Junior Warden.............. 21.38
Petaluma ........................No. 180....Charles W. Gorman, Master............................ 3.04
Jay C. Milner, Senior Warden
George W. Lee, Past Master
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
Russian River ...............,.. No. 181.... Wilbur A. Martin, Senior Warden................ . 4.28
Carroll C. Doane, P. M. and Inspector.......... 4.18
Frederick E. Bockstroh, Past Master
Arbuckle ················-······-No. 182.... Not Represented
Clear Lake .................... _No. 183.... Willet H. Shavl, Master..:............................... 5.30
George R. Mitchell, Junior Warden
Sierra Valley ..............___ No. 184.... Arthur M. Strang, Representative.................. 29.96
Claiborne --··--···-···········No. 185.... Not Represented
Evening Star ..................No. 186.... Not Represented
Keith .....•.........................•No. 187...James E. Mercer, Senior Warden.................. 6.32
Junior G. Wilson, Junior Warden
Oakland ..........................No. 188.... Will A. Allen, Master
James K. Wilson, Senior Warden
Elmer F. Elsen, Junior Warden
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Grand Master
Melvin L. Graves, Past Master
Rue W. Sims, Past Master
Northern Light .............. No. 190.... Thomas B. Copeland, Inspector &
Representative .............................................. 24.16
Marin ..............................No. 191.... Murray Baxter, Master
George T. Rowse, Senior Warden
Joseph C. Meagor, Junior Warden
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Russell H. Warden, Past Master
Charles T. Smith, Past Master
Clinton T. Duffy, Past Master
Santa Barbara ·········---···No. 192.... 1. S. Austin, Master-..................................... 37.74
· Robert T. Austin, Senior Warden
Gordon E. McAdams, Junior Warden
Alfred W. Kincaid, Past Master
Edward G. Dodge, Past Master
Albert B. Christensen, Past Master
Eliot Haberlitz, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

445
Mileage Allowed

' Ferndale -~.......................No. 193....James N. Barnes, Senior Warden.................... 29.74
Mountain View .........:..•.No. 194.... Frederick M. Chappell, Master.....................: 3.50
Edward J. Neff, Junior Warden
J.B. Bartle, Past Master
Buckeye ...................,......No. 195....W. Lloyd Adams, Malta---···-······--·········· 6.32
Milton H. Sharp, Past Master
San Simeon ....................No. 196..,.James F. Fry, Senior Warden.......................... 28.08
Marcus L. Waltz, Past Master
Nigel, Keep, Past Master
Wilmington ···•········-'"'····No. 198....William H. Orwig, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Clarence A. Stark, Junior Warden
Thomas F. Mason, Past Master.....-............... 47.56
Hartley ............................No. 199.... Edgar H. Quigley, Senior Warden.............. 6.40
Guido de Ghetaldi, P. M. and Inspector........ 6.40
Ralph V. Devoto, Past Master
Truckee ...- ...................- .•No. 200.... J. D. Anderson, Senior Warden.................-. 24.96
Silveyville ...................... No. 201....Ralph H. Moss, Master-...-------············----····· 5.52
Denton C. Barker, Senior Warden
Rowland Moss, Past Master
Herbert E. Pearson, Past Master
Eggert Rohwer, Past Master
Pentalpha ..................____No. 202..-James C. Ayres, Master-.......-....................... 47.56
·Al L. Zehrung, Senior Warden
Earle Stevens, Junior Warden
William Rhodes Hervey, Past Grand Master 47.56
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr., Past Master.... 47.56
Howard H. Arnold, Past Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
John M. Gordon, Past Master
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
Confidence .....!.-.............No. 203.... Eugene E. Dong, Senior Warden.................. 8.74
Paul C. Kondla, Past Master
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas ............................No. 204....Chester E. Dunn, Master................................ 9.26
Glenn W. Wilson, Senior Warden
W. Geo. Mossier, Junior Warden
Stanley L. Burchell, Past Master
Olivet ........................- ....NQ. 205....Charles F. Rochford, Master............................ 22.56
Stanislaus ........................No. 206..,.Clyde D. Prickett, Master...-......................... 8.32
Roy E. Greenlee, Junior Warden
Ellis R. Vine, Past Master
Anaheim ···-~·-··········-·--·No. 207....George W. Alden, Master_............................ 48.66
·
Harvey E. Kirk, Senior Warden
Warren C. Hodges, Past Master
·
Rio Vista ·-----····•-·-------No. 208.... Ernest S. Hierlihy, Senior Warden................ 7.24
Jackson J. Bailey, Junior Warden
King David's ..................No. 209...,Kline J. Williams, Senior Warden.................. 28.08
Gail B. Goddard, Junior Warden
Casper J. Weir, Jr.. Past Master
Friendship ......................No. 210....Robert C. Bodwell, Master.............................. 3.92
Arthur W. Simpson, Senior Warden
· Morris Thush, Junior Warden
Lawrence A. Campbell, Past Master
William P. Truran, Past Master
John F. Knight, Past Master

446
Name of Loclge

No. of Loclge

llepraauatives

447

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mlleqc .Allowed

San Benito ··-··-··--·-No. 211.._Albert W. Hinz, P. M. and Repruentadve..
Herman A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Francisco .. _No. 212..-Homer M. Rothery, Master
George L. Agosti, Junior Warden
George A. Lastein, Past Master
Roger Fernandez, Past Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Pa.st Master
San Buenaventura ........No. 2H-William L. Macomber, Master·--···········--····
Walter R. Stellar, Senior Warden
Claude J. Graham, Junior Warden
Lyman l!. Hallowell, Senior Grand Deacon
Lemuel L. Coy, Past Master
Oak Grove ·--·-·-·--No. 215-F.d A. Johnson. Master
T. J. Carlile, Junior Warden
William Nankervis, Jr., P. M. and Inspector
H. P. Strachan, Past Master
Homer A. Buck, Past Master
0. H. Fischer, Past Master
Mansfield Garratt, Past Master
Doric -·-·--·--·-····-No. 216._.lra W. Coburn, Past Master
Monterey ---····-··---No. 217_.Homer Lovejoy, Senior Warden.....·-····-····
Mosaic ·-···-···-··-·--·No. 218.... Bartlett P. Carter, Senior Warden_·-·-········
Speranza ltallana -··-··No. 219.-James Carnesecca, Master
Nino Cerruti, Junior Warden
John M. Icardo, P. M. and Inspector
John Isola, Past Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
John Icardi, Past Master
Downey -·-··---·-·_No. 220_.Joseph C. Johnson, Master--··-·-·---·ohn McLauchlan, Senior Warden
.
A. Lee Gauldin, Past Master
Inyo --··-·--··--···No. 221.... Gustave Marsile, Senior Warden............·-···
Rosevi1le -···----No. 222.... F.dmond L. Sparks~ Master-··--···-·-·-·····-Bakersfield -·····-···--·No. 224....Rlchard H. Stanier, Master-···-·-······-·-·-·
William M. McKenney, Senior Warden
Hal A. Mishler, Junior Warden
Arthur S. Crites, Past Grand Master-··-······
Orvllle L. Coburn, P. M. and Inspector..._..
Jack L. Van Zant, Past Master
Mike S. Oldershaw, Past Master
Albert E. Burton, Past Master
Brooklyn ···-··-·-······-···No. 225.... George E. Home, Master
Searl T. Mathiesen, Senior Warden
Kenneth W. Sheide, Junior Warden
Roy S. Lenthall, P. M. and Inspector
Roy P. Anderson, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo --······-No. 226._0arence C. Smith, Master
Hubert A. Nuding, Senior Warden
G. Howard Cardiff, Junior Warden
Westley P. Jones, Past Master
J. R. Eubanks, Past Master
Richard E. Giesin, Past Master

6.10

39.98
39.98

9.94
3.92

47.56
55.16

8.74
32.48
32.48
32.48

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepresenwiva

Mileqe Allowed

Athens

-··-····-····----No. 228....August Rutlshauser, Master-·-·-········- ·-

S.10

Solano

··-···············-·····-No• 229.... F.dgar T. Buhn, Master--~----·················

2.70

Robert R. Haussler, Senior Wardea
Gus A. Haussler, Past Master

&!win B. Pierce, Senior Warden
Henry A. Mini, Jr., Junior Warden
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
Harry W. Brown, Past Master
North Butte -·-·····--··-No. 230.... Verne R. Wilcox, Senior Warden................
Clare B. Campbell, Asst. Grand Lecturer....
Joseph H. White, P. M. and Inspector..........
Covelo ········---..---.No. 231.... Not Represented
Janesville ···-··-··-·-·__No. 232.... Not Represented
Calistoga --··-·_:·-·-No• 233_Thomas P. Engleman, Junior Warden.......-..
Hope ·······-·-----No. 234....Charles H. Prance, Senior Warden......... __
Surprise Valley --····--No. 235._.Not Represented
Hills Perry ···-····-·-····-No. 236-.. Richard Andersen, Senior Warden.........·-····
·
Winn I. Giddings, Junior Warden
William S. Thompson, P. M., and Inspector
Guadalupe ········-·····-·····No. 237....Jack C. Sleath, Master_···--·········-··············
Douglas H. Martin, Senior Warden
Harry S. Smith, Junior Warden
Henry Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa ·--·-···---.....No. 240.._George W. Sellman, Sr., Senior Warden....
Santa Ana --·-····-No. 241....Prauk L. Bowman, Master----~-Mason E. Teter, Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen, Asst. Grand Lecturer....
Albert P. Hill, Past Master
Burrell A. Wilson, Past Master

11.50
11.50
11.50

6.0i
29.96
8.86
8.86
30.56

10.88
49.82
49.82

Magnolia ·······-······-··-···No. 242....Charles B. Weaver, Master-·-·--·-··--···· 37.74
eph B. Sudduth, Senior Warden
thro C. Moore, Junior Warden
lph C. Hi~e. Grand Orat«---··-·-·- 37.74
Ralph B. McNall, Past Master
. Eucalyptus -·····-···--..No. 243....Leo O. Thayer, Master
Max C. Paine, Senior Warden
Arthur Woodruff, Junior Warden
Elmer G. Quinn. P. M. and Inspector
Anthony P. Taylor, Past Master
Pred H. Horwood, Past Master
Joseph B. Prowse, Past Master
Alcatraz ·······-···-·-·-No. 244.._Beverley C. Sutliff, Master
Alfred Olsen, Senior Warden
William G. Searcy, Junior Warden
Lowell K Baine, Past Master
Vernon J. Coley, Past Master
Avis A. Campbell, Past Master
Paul E. Bernard, Senior Warden.·-···-·····- 20.28
....
245
Laurel ----·-····-_No•
Harvey Thompson, Past Master

lli

Pomona -·-·---·--No. 246-Gilbert E. Christianson. Muter_.··········-··· 50.38
Cecil A. Amberson, Senior Warden
Ellhu Grant Johnson, Junior Warden

448
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

449

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Fresno -··························No. 247.,.. Roy R. Crawford, Master................................
Paul H. Lacy, Senior Warden
·
Harry D. Watkins, Junior Warden
Chester H. Warlow, Past Grand Master......
Dan B. Hurlbut, Past Master
Harry F. White, Past Master
A. W. Carlson, Past Master
Alturas ····················-·-··No. 248.... Robert McGarva, P. M. and Inspector..........
Adin ·········--····--············-No. 250.... Not Represented
Landmark ··············-·······No. 253.._Ralph N. Davis, Senior Warden....................
Reading ..........................No. 254.... William C. Knauer, Master............................
William H. Schooler, Senior Warden
Albert F. Ross, Past Master............................
Welcome ···················-···No. 255.... Rolland M. Wolfgram, Master..................-..
·
William J. Dias, Senior Warden
J. Ralph Dawdy, P. M. and Inspector............

Name ol Lodge

23.76

Pasadena

40.32
7.76
26.98
26.98
27.26
27.26
7.24

Penrhyn ···-···········-······No. 258....Frank A. Nute, Master..•..·-····-·-----·············---Harvey H. Carlisle, Jr., Past Master
Evergreen ................:.....No. 259.... Sherman G. Babcock, Master..........................
Herbert J. Hackett, Senior Warden
Willard G. Babcock, P. M. and Inspector....
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master....................
King Solomon's ..............No. 260.... Russell H. Colliander, Master
Chester E. Lonkey, Senior Warden
Gerald E. Cook, Past Master
Ulyssess G. Patropulas, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Henry E. Bennett, Sr., Past Master
Tuscan ·----····--·--·--No. 261.... Harry B. Witter, Junior Warden..................
Lompoc ···················-·······No. 262. .".. Henry N. Martin, Senior Warden................
0. B. Chamberlain, Past Master
Hesperian ·······-··········-···No. 264....Jack P. Fraser, Master..·--····-·····-·····-·······-·-·
William D. Wisener, Senior Warden
Elmer E. Voight, Junior Warden
Floyd H. Watson, P. M. and Inspector........
Henry Drashner, Past Master
Orland ·············-·······-···No. 265.._John A. Martin, Senior Warden. ................:..
Northeast ·········--······--No. 266_John H. Mankin, Master...·--·--·-···········----·-····
Henry Kober, Past Master
Galt ·····················-···-·---No. 267__ Harry A. Caster, Senior Warden
Durant ············--············No. 268_.Leonard H. Ford, Jr., Master
Charles R. Ratkovich, Junior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P. M. and Inspector
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
B. J. Ross, Past Master
Olive Branch ··-···-···--····No. 269.._Vedder R. Moffatt, Senior Warden..............
Snow Mountain ······-······No. 271.... Ralph A. James, Junior Warden....................

9.54
52.24
52.24
52.24

10.18
33.02
30.56
30.56
21.46
43.12

27.38
10.34

Representatives

Mileqe Allowed

-·······-··-·-·No. 272.._Louis A. Rog_ers, Malter.·---····-····-·-··--··- 48.60

Leonard A. Taylor, Senior Warden
T. William Heidner, Junior Warden
Anchor --······--·-····.No. 273._.Floyd E. Vincent, Master...•·--·-··-·······-·-···- 47.56
Lambert H. Brummeler, Senior Warden
Ralph K. Pierson, P. M. and Inspector....:..... 47.56
Theo. Newtson, Past Master
C. F. Burke, Past Master
E. C. Irvin, Past Master

23.76

Lodi ··-······························No. 256.... William L. Irey, Master.·-·····························
Richard D. McClure, Senior Warden
J. Kenneth Bybee, Junior Warden
'r. Glenn Wright, Past Master
Earl Johnson, Past Master

No. of Lodge

·I

Arroyo ···-··-·--····-·-·····No. 27L.f.:1~s ~- ~~~~~~'. ~:f:w~~---········-·-·····
Francis G. Long, Junior Warden
Harry E. Davis, Past Master
Oakdale --····--·····-··-··No. 275.... Samuel S. Stewart, Master•.·-·--···---··--······Bert Ivan Borchers, Senior Warden
.
Hughie C. Coslet, Junior Warden
Selma ·--·--···-···-·······No• 277.... Gllbert C. Darnell, Senior Warden................
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
Southern California ......No. 278.... Paul H. Miller, Master.......·----·-·-·-····--····
Adolphe R. E. Roome, Senior WarcleD
Willis F. McComas, Junior Warden
Charles J. Medler, Past Master
Hanford ···--··-·-··········No. 279.... William S. Cobb, Senior Warden..................
Edwin H. Linville, Junior Warden
William T. Bernstein, Past Master
Madera --·--····-·-··---No. 280....Robert B. Shuman, Senior Warden...·--··-·---·Boyd B. Givens, Junior Warden
Mt. Shasta -·--·-····-····No. 281.._James Martin, Master·----·-·--····----········------Marion H. Greenhalgh, Senior Warden
William C. Gover, P. M. and Inspector........
Callayoml ··----!···--·-·-No. 282.... Raylleld F. Moody, Jr.. Senior Warden........
Vernon Darby, Junior Warden
Kenneth V. Palmer, Past Master
South West ______No. 283.... Thomas E. Anderton, Junior Warden..........
San Miguel ······--····No• 285-.. Raymond Miller, Senior Warden ....•...•____
Orin Compton, P. M. and Inspector...---···
Paso Robles ·--··--·No. 286.... Martin W. Kuehl, Senior Warden.......·-······
Winnedumah --·····-No. 287__ Arless C. Huddleston, Senior Warden.-.......
Wilfred W. Partridge, P. M. and Inspector
Maxwell ··········-·······-.:.No. 288.... William C. Estill, Senior Warden...-...........
Leland E. Wallace, P. M. and Inspector......
Elsinore _______No. 289.... Dale E. Wilterding, Senior Warden...•.•... _.
&st Gate __________.No. 290.... Mu:well J. Cameron, Master---·-·-····--·
John A. Crosby, Senior Warden
Roy G. McFarland, Junior Warden
Oscar Lawlor, Past Grand Muter·---·-··-···
Emlyn W. Reese, Past Master
Daniel M. Hollar, Past Master
Santa Paula ·--·-···-·-·..No. 29L.. Merwin H. Lee, Master-·-·-----··-Robert A. Hardison, Junior Warden
Gustaf A. B. Quick, P. M. and Inspector.-...
Los Gatos ···-·-···-····--··No. 292.._Raymond V. Jaymot, Master---··--·····--··
Bernard J. Cline, Senior Warden
Loren A. Lloyd, P. M. and Inspector............
Frank E. Jameson, Past Master

28.88

9.38
25.10
47.56

26.58
22.30
26.04
26.04
5.00
50.84
24.44
28.08
25.24
55.16
55.16
10.88
10.88
53.04
47.56

47.56
41.34
41.34
4.82
4.82

450
N1me of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Orange Grove ···-···········No. 293.... Kenneth A. King, Master•...............·-······'······
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Grand Master..........
John S. Lampert, Past Master
Traver --···-··-···········No. 294 .... Lyle A. Scheline, Senior Warden.·--·········
Mt. Jackson ········--········No. 295.... Charles A. Johns, Senior Warden..................
Suver Gate ······-········-··No 296 Obe F. Rickerson, Master................................
'.
··-Karl J. Bauman, Senior Warden
Henry F. LaRose, Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, P. M. and Inspector..............
Dunsmuir ........................No. 297._Not Represented
Liberty ······-··········--········No. 299.... ~:hl~dL~M~ff~~~·p~~ii~t~~- .................:....

49.82
6.86

25.50
5.00
50.84
50.84
3 64
·

John T. Allen, Past Master
Byron A. Moore, Past Master
H E Sandel, Senior Warden........................ 52.92
Redlands ..........................No ' 300····E~g~e
R. Johnson, Junior Warden
Ontario ···-······--······-··-·-No. 301.... Cesar J. Cattaned, Master.·-·········--·············
Reynold C. MacDonald, Senior Warden
J. Philip Hamilton, Junior Warden
Santa Lucia ....................No. 302.-Elmer Wayne Eade, Master..........................
.
.
Isaac J. Watts, Past Master
Porterville ····•··-·············No. 303_..John W. Baker, Master.·---················--············
Byron G. Wade, Senior Warden
Reedley ............................No. 304.... David B. Harris, Representative....................
Azusa ···---··--·----·..No. 305.-Raymond W. Kelley, Master..- · -·- ···-·······
Frank H. Shomber, Senior Warden ·
Stephen E. Skidmore, P. M. and Inspector..

Ashlar ···-··-·---····-······No. 306...•IJ:ih!r~H~St~:<l1~:U~:"ci-;;~·w~~d~~---·······-·
Robert W. Nicol,
M. and Inspector..........
Santa Monica ···-··-·····:.No. 307.... Parley J. Davis, Master..................................
Ralph Pratt, Senior Warden
Joe A. Taylor, Junior Grand Steward............
Lawrence A. Smith, Past Master
No 308 Harry N. Calhoun, Master•..~---·--···-·······--··
Monrovia
······--·····-········· · -··c. Richard Dreyer, Senior Warden
H. Victor Clark, Past Master
Delano ·-········---···-No. 3()9_•• Willlam J. Hurley, Master.........,....................
.
Gladney L. Hamilton, Senior Warden
Roy W. Adams, Junior Warden
Sisson ..........·--·--·-·.No. 310....Ralph N. Holden, Junior.Warden..................
Los Banos ······-··-·-·-··No. 312._.Harry Bellamy Said, Master....•....·-········-···-·
Philip C. Wilson, Senior Warden
Tehachapi ··-··--·-·······-·.No. 313-George W. Bennett, Master................ _..........
Earl E. Whitney, Senior Warden
G. Koutroulis, Past Master
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master
Temescal ··----······No. 3H....Harris Kieser, Mmter-----·-····-··- ---·
Grant H. Palmer, Senior Warden
Clarence L. Koch, Junior W ardeo
John E. Kirkpatrick, Pa.st Master
Norwalk ...- ......;._____No. 315.... Wm. Lloyd Galbraith, Master........- ..:...........
Chas. D. Dorman, Senior Warden
Sanger ·-·······-·········-····No. 316..•• Not Represented

P.

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

50.78
10.60
29.24
25.60
49.58
49.58
52.24
49.58
47.56
47.56
47.56
29.94
32.68
7.48
36.38

52.42

47.56

N1me of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileqe Allowed

Fallbrook ......................•.No. 317.... Eddie Jenkins. Representative........................
Emmanuel -··············---No. 318.... Lewis E. Reynolds, Representative....:·-'.·······
Hollenbeck -············-··-No. 319 .... Frank Markley, Senior Warden................... .
,
Roy A. Wohlfarth, Junior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P. M. and Inspector................
Leon C. Glendenning, Past Master
Conrad E. Follendore, Past Master
South Gate ···---···-----.No; 320.._Elwyo W. Stevens, Master._•........................
Carl W. Gross, Senior Warden
Edward J. Olsen, Junior Warden
Mark A. Green, Past Master
David H. Terry, Past Master
Alisa) ..................••.:._.....No. 321....Willard C. Bartsch, Master-......••...............•.•
Herbert T. Wilde, Senior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra ··-············--··-No.· 322.._Henry L. Kidwell, Master...·-·--·-··--······---·····
James L. Marriott, Senior Warden
Gordon C. L. Ross, Junior Warden
Francis M. Freeborn, Past Master
Whittier ·-·'···········-······-··No. 323.... Frank C. Hadley, Master.......................- .......
Laurence L. Raggio, Senior Warden
George C. Abrahamson, Junior Warden
Edward Guirado, P. M. and Inspector•.........

55.20
12.66
47.56
47.56
47.56

3.36
47.56

48.78

48.78
48.60
Corona -··············---·-----·No. 32L. ~~z~ar,of~M~w~:r~;\v~~<l;~---··········-·
Edward H. Rowins, Past Master
Cedric R. Strafford, Past Master
Walton Talley, Past Master
Consuelo ···-··r··········-··-·No. 325.._William E. Harding, Senior Warden............ 52.04
Needles ·-·······--····--·····-·No. 326....John W. Welker, Senior Warden.................. 52.38
Carl C. Mikesell, P. M. and Inspector.......... 52.38
Thomas C. Wood, Past Master
Long Beach ....................No. 327....Wenzel Fabera, Master----···--······················ 47.56
Carl Morton, Senior Warden
Clark H. Shaw, P. M. and Inspector............ 47.56
Herbert G. Polhill, Past Master
Redondo ....................- ...No. 328.._George S. Fairbrother, Master........................ 47.56
· Oris F. Snyder, Senior Warden
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
Vallee de France ............No. 329._Andre L. Caen, Master.....·---·········-··············· 47.56
Paul Foncel, Senior Warden
Jules Bouyere, Junior Warden
Charles A. Thomasset, P. M. and Inspector 47.56
Edgar H. Jacot, Past Master
Maurice Vanbroeck, Past Master
Kilauea ····················--···No· 330.... Walter S. L. Loo, Senior Warden................ 362.40
Charles Alfred Shepherd, Past Master
Pacific Grove --············-No. 331.."Charles E. French, Master·····-········-······-····· 10.08
Arch Balchin, P. M. and Inspector..........,..... 10.08
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
· San Pedro ······-·-·········-No. 332.... William H. Hall, Maater............·-············-·- 47.56
John C. Stewart, Senior Warden
John Ramsay, P. M. and lmpector................ 47.56
Alta ··-··-······-······----···No. 333.... William B. Evans, Master..•- .....•....•.•....•.....•• H.10

153

GlAND LODGE 0P CAUPORNIA

"152

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Hime of Lod,e

Name ol Lo4&C

C.Ovhia

No. of I.oclae

~tadva

MJleqe All4nre.I

M. Jobe, Senior WardaL---···········--· 19.S8
···-··-··--····--·..No. 33L.G.
A. R. Lynn, Junior Warden

West Gate ···--········--·-No. 335.... Klrt B. Crockett, Muter••......·-··-··-··"··········· 47.S6
Jay E. Baum, Senior Warden
Max Lichtenstein, Put Muter
John M. Hayden, Past Maatu
Fruitvale --·······-··-·······No. 336.... Walter A. Rose, Muter
Harold E. Fellows, Senior Warden
Frank R. Killinger, P. M. and Inspector
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Harold 0. Sjoberg, Past Mast~r
Paul A. Brom, Past Master
Rud01ph Jenny, Past Master
2.42
Carqulnn -···--·-·--No. 337.. _Glen N. Whitson. Senior Warden................
Thomas H. Cotton. Repraentative
Harvey R. Browning, P. M. and Inspector.. 2.42
Wllliam S. Brunning, Past Master
Clifford W. Beal, Past Master
Charles A. Gray, Past Master
San Jacinto ··-·--·-·-··No. 338-George A. Brown, Master--·····-··-·-·-··-··· 56.91
Fullerton ················-······~o. 339._Albert S. Murray, Master--········-·····-··-·- 48.s-f
Wiiliam T. Rodger, P. M. and Inspector...... 49.46
C. Stanley Chapman, Past Master................ 48.s-f
O:ir:mrd ··-···-·--·--·-·No. 341-George W. Haughton, Jr., Master.................. 40.78
Carl E. Mumper, Senior Wardell
Francis M. Hanington, Put Master
Kenneth Savage, Master--·-·-············ 43.M
J.
....
343
··-···-·--No.
Sau Fernando
Thelmas L. Biddison, Senior Warden
.William H. Harris, Past Master
Daniel J. Breslauer, Master
....
344
Starr King -·-···-·---···No·
Homer E. Stewart, Senior Warden
Charles Becker, Junior W-arden
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
Hailnan L. Wayne, P. M. and Inspector
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Arthur Salomon, Past Master
Michael V. lgnotz, Past Master
Carl C.Ohn. Past Master
Hal Curtis, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
A. H. Barkoff, Past Master
Charles 0. Munson, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Muter
Brentwood ·-·---.-No. 345....Russell A. Partridge, Muter_.__........_ _. S.06
Fred R. Abbott, Senior Warden
Fabin Richart. Jr., Junior Warden
William R. Turner, Paat Muter
' ,
I,
Albert A. Sales, Past Master
.
I
Karl S. Abbott, Past Master
Palo Alto --·--···--·No· 346.... John J. Williams, Master-·-··-················ 3.28
H. Perry Smith, Senior Wardell
Herbert E. Simons, Jumor Wardell
Robert N. Walker, P. M. and lnapectgr.·-··· 3.21
Adam B. Morten. Past Muter
George E. King, Past Muter
L. Harold Anderson. Past Master

No. ol Lodae

llepraentadves

Mileqe Allowed

McKJnJey --··--·--No. 347.... Fred R. DeBarrows, Master
C. Clare Thomas, Senior Warden
Clifton B. Jones, Junior Warden
Rolla L. Eubanks, P. M. and Inspector
Kenneth H. McCutcheoa. Past Master
ph S. Alameda, Past Master
hn D. Williams, Past Master
alter T. Helms, Past Master

W

Saa 'Bernardino ···-·····-~o. 348.... Al G. Vaughan, Masta-·-··-····-·-······
Oare C. Layton, Senior Warden
William T. Hunter, Past Master
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Walter L. Culver, Jr., Past Master
Stquofa

0wen R. Andker, Master
--·---·-.No· .M9__Lawrence
E. Muntz, Senior Warden

Charles A. Rummel, Junior Warden
Earl Warren, Past Grand Master·-·'·············
Henry S. Savage, P. M. and Inspector
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
E. Homer DeFoe, Past Master
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
E. Herbert Phlllips, Past Master
Palestine

52.21

7.21

0. Altenburger, Master·-··--·'···-··-··· 47.56
-···--·---··-No. 351....Adolph
Robert P. Tuttle II
W. Sprigg Brown, Past Master
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Will H. Light, Past Master

Sun.set ··-·-·--··--.....No. 352.-.Kenyon C. Burch, Master-·-··-···----- 47.S6
Jfhn H. Hardy, Senior Warden
·
ollie W. Mlller, Past Grand Muter............ 47.56
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master...- .....•........: 47.56
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
2.00
Ptaole ·····---···········-·-·No· 353....Charles A. Brundige, Master_··--······-···-Hugh H. Young, Senior Warden
Chester C. Qark, Junior Warden
Pnaidio ··········-····-·····No· 3S4.... William D. Verbarg, Master
Grant Whitaker, Senior Warden
Joseph M. Ruggiero, P. M. and lmptctor
Edward H. Wilkens. Past Master
Hollywood ·--·-·-·-··-No. 355....Ralph L. Logan, Muter-·--···-·-····-·-······· 4156
Harold A. Mayer, Senior Warden
Robert T. Gilmore, Jr., Junior Warden
William B. Ogden, Past Grand Master........ 47.S6
Leo E. Anderson. P. M. alld Inspector........ 47.56
Neil Tate, Past Master
Walter"F. Burbank, Past Master
John T. Bond, Past Master
Samuel Steelman, Past Master
D. F. Black, Past Master
S. A. Macdonald, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Mill Valley ······----.No. 356._Damon C. Burria, Muter
Albert W. Mllier, Senior Warden
Ralph E. Brott, Junior Warden
Kent 0. Seymour, P. M. and lnapector

454
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Represmllltives

455

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEE~INGS OP THE

Mileage Allowed

Wesley V. Smith, Past Master
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Prank C. Herrick, Past Master
Buena Park ....................No. 357.... Kenneth B. Jones, Senior Warden................
Ted R. Siems, P. M. and Inspector..............
Golden State ..............._No. 358.... Pelix L. Dauriac, Senior Warden. .................
Win.field R. Cram, Past Master
Loyalton -·---···············--··No. 359.... Donald G. Patton, Muter..............................
San Francisco ................No. 360.... Charles C. Brewer, Master
Everett E. Burnworth, Senior Warden
Herbert B. Dean, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Asst. Grand Secretary
Alfred C. Skaife, Past Master
Alfred B. Edwards, Past Master ·
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Ross K. Roper, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
Melvin A. Earley, Past Master
William P. Jebe, Past Master
V. Elmo Perry, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
Port Bragg ......................No. 361 .... William R. Anderson, Senior Warden........
Harry Burrows, P. M. and Inspector............
Charity ............................No. 362.... E. A. Merrill, Muter......................................
William B. Enochs, Junior Warden
A. C. Currie, Junior Grand Deacon..............
L. E. Hendricks, Past Master
George S. Robson, Past Master
F. Wilbert Mitchell, Past Master
T. A. Robinson, Past Master
Chas. E. DeSelle, Past Master
Berkeley ......................:...No. 363.... William L. Duff, Master
William H. Adams, Junior Warden
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits ···- ··-··-······-·····..No. 365.... Arthur W. Safford, Master......,..................:..
Las Palmas ···-·······--······No. 366.... A. R. Addington, Senior Warden. ... _............
R. D. Hargrave, Junior Warden
Rhine G. Meyering, Past Master
J. A. Hopper, Past Master
W. R. Tanzer, Past Master
Oscar C. Olsen, Past Master
South Pasadena .......- .....No. 367.... Guy R. Kendall, Muter..................................
Ralph W. Cutler, Senior Warden
Thomas Grice, Grand Chaplain......................
P. J. Thompsett, Past Muter
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity ..............................Na. 368....Arthur A Coughlin, Master....•.....................
Homer E. Rathbun, Senior Warden
Arthur J. Bullock, Junior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Assistant Grand Lecturer........
Phillip B. Stone, Past Master
Walter H. Righter, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

llepresentlltins

Mileage Allowed

Dwight C. Freeman, P. M. and Inspector,... 47.56
Prank C. Wolff, Pa'St Master
48.32
48.66
47.56
31.04

18.50
18.50
H2

H2

12.60
23.76

48.60
40.78
47.56
47.56

Ocean P~rk ··- ···--······--··No. 369...• ~JlLa~~g.~-W~d~;··········-- 47.56

Amity -·-··----- - - N o . 370.-Harold W. Muller, Master
Paul A. Pffueger, Asst. Grand Treasurer
Maurice E. Coffey, P. M. and Inspector
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
Rudolph P. Lange, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
Le Progres de l'Oceanle No. 371 William P. Coleman, Senior Warden.......... 331.20
Alexander D. Potts, P. M. and Inspector...... 331.20
Gustav C. Bechert, Past Master
G. Warren Clark, Past Master
Gardena - - ··-·-·-···- ··No. 372....John G. Snider, Master·····--···-····--···--···-··- · 47.56
Philip P. Lucas, Senior Warden
Keith W . Schlaegel, Past Master.................. 47.56
William W. Pitman, Past Master
George Cunningham, Past Master
West Los Angeles ........No. 373.... Pred H. Blanchard, Master............................ 47.56
Harold L. Shekell, Senior Warden
Ernest A. Wells, Past Master
Dwight R. Watts, Past Master
Harry T. Robinson, Past Master
Jewel ................................No. 374.... Willard C. Schaaf, Master
Philip M. Bovero, Senior Warden
William A. Van Ornum, Junior Warden
Charles E. Anderson, Grand Organist
Herbert H. Schultz, P. M. and Inspector
Louis P. Mayer, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
J. H. Adams, Past Master
Ernest Holt, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
A. R. Engel, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
S. C. Leonhaeuser, Past Master
Richmond ....- .................No. 375.... Lauritz J. Schell, Master
Walter F. Beige!, Junior Warden
James L. Halley, Past Master
Emil K. Bender, Past Master
Wm. C. Johnson, Past Master
James H. Conner, Past Master
Harry E. Morris, Past Master
Francis Drake ................No. 376.... William H. Dawson, Master
Willi~ I. Parmer, Junior Warden
Artesia ··-···············-·--No. 377.... George A. Wright, Master-..- .....................
William E. Haynie, Senior Warden
Mizpah ······--·---_No. 378.... Gordon W. Guinn, Master..........- .................
·
Harry P. Heidenreich, Senior Warden
George W. Perkins, Junior Warden
Charles W. Lunsford, P. M. and Inspector..
Fillmore ....................__No. 379.... Eddie E. Perkins, Muter----············--·Robt. E. Linvill, Senior Warden
Jerry W. Garrison, Junior Warden
Lester A Price, Past Master
Herman J. Haase, Past Master

47.56
47.56
47.56
42.14

456

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.457

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NIUlle ol Lodge

No. of Lodge

hprcse11tsliftl

Mileqe Allowed

Huntington ~ach ····-··--No. 380.•.. Marshall A. Tinsley, Muter·-··-·--···-···
David D. Winter, Senior Warden
Oceanside ·--·--······-·-·No. 381.._M. Elmo Nearhoff, Senior Warden..·-·····--·--Kenneth C. Stanley, P. M. and Impector....
Highland Park ······-········No. 382..-Robert R. Latimer, Master.---·-···············Herbert J. Haupt. Senior Warden
Harold P. Weller, Past Master
Oros! ·-·---·-··------·--·--No• 383.... Leroy H. McBee, Senior Wanipl..................
El Centro ··----~--No. 384.... Donald L. Young, Master....·-·-············--·Norbert P. Tester, Senior Warden
Charles H. Knight, P. M. and Inspector........
Dinuba ------··--···--·-·No. 385.... Harmon B. Haycraft, Senior Warden._.......
Clarence L. Fraser, P. M. and Inspector......
Coalinga ·----·--·-----No. 387.... Charles E. Venard, Senior Warden..·-·--James 0. Bailey, Junior Warden
Parnassus ...............:.........No. 388.... George W. Gaffke, Mester
Karl F.Koenlg, Senior Warden
Philip R. Chapin, Junior Warden
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
Thomas Hurley, Past Master
James E. Finley, Past Master
Homer D. Robertson, Past Master
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389.... Neal K. McCutcheon, Master........................
Milo H. Fernald, Senior Warden
lm~rial .......:....______...No. 390.... Carl C. Snider, Junior Warden.... _..............
East Belt __________ No. 391.. .. Gamet H. Bergman, Senior Warden............
West Lake ________No. 392.... R. Bruce Murchison, Muter----···-····-·---······
Lloyd V. Smith, Senior Warden
John E. Hill, Past Master
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Charles W. Jackson, Past Master
Charles E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Robert C. Peyton, Past Master.......-............
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master............................
Stanley Cowin, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
C::lyde E. Hopkins, Past Master
William A. Reynolds, Past Master
Balder ·-··-----·-·-···No. 393.... Cass G. Running, Master
Alvar F. Larson, Junior Warden
Walter Anderson, Past Master
Walter Blomberg, Past Master
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master

47.56
54.40
54.40
47.56
26.74
67.94
67.94
26.H
26.H
28.20

47.56
70.72
11.88
47.56

4756
<t7.56

University .....- ..............No. 394.... Herbert C. Rudolph, Master..·----·------·-----·-· 47.56
William E. Patterson, Senior Warden
Ralph H. Alexander, Past Master
Turlock ···-···-···------·····No. 395.... Lester M. Talkington, Master........................ 9.38
Earl P. Heidt, Senior Warden
Robert B. Gartin, Junior Warden
Apollo ___:....................:.No. 396.... Ward M. Boring, Master
Clarence L. White, Senior Warden
Karl D. Haberern. Junior Warden
Wilbert S. Condon, Past Master
Clifford H. Noyes, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repraeumlives

Mileqe Allowed

Carl E. Thau, Past Master
John L. Danns, Past Master
L. Keith Barnard, Past Master
Rialng Light ....................No. 397.... Harry L. Maxwell, Master_......................... 4756
Charles W. Tritt, Senior Wardm
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity ·------··--·······No. 399....Edward Wayne Lenz, Master........................ 3.92
WUliam J. Cole, Senior Warden
Ray W. Mcintyre, P. M. and Inspector........ 3.92
William P. Johnson, Past Master
Burlingame ······--·-··No. 400.... Milford B. Armstrong, Master
Paul T. Hotchkiss, Senior Warden
William J. Crosby, Junior Warden
S. Leslie Hawken, P. M. and lmpector
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View ---··----····-No. 401....E. H. Dopp, Senior Warden
W.W. Steiner, Junior Warden
Arthur H. Triggs, Grand Marshal
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
W. L. Carver, Past Master
Joseph P. Rom, Past Master
Brawley ....................- .••No. 402....~!!c~.L~~~~~!~~~n~~W~e-;;--···--·· M.32
Jean H. Park, Past Master
Yerba Buena .....- ........ No. 403.... Clarence F. Frane, Master
Walter V. Durst, Senior Warden
Carroll A. Trefts, Past Master
Lester S. McElwain, Past Master
Charles W. Snook, Past Master
Glendora __________ No. 404....Everett C. Shipman, Senior Warden............
John F. Wolf, Junior Warden
Fred T. Moore, P. M. and Inspector.....~........
Moneta _ ........................No. 405.... Arthur L. Bell,
Louis A. H. Brinker, Senior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, P. M. and Inspector..
George F. Watrous, Past Master
Burbank _______No. '406.... Daniel F. Haworth, Senior Warden............

49.82
49.82

Muter---------------··--- 47.56
47.56

4756

No. 407.... Earl K. Holmes, Master -·--·------·---····--·-· 50.84
Wilbert A. McBride, Senior Worden
Austin D. Hinck, Junior Warden
Sierra Madre ·-------No. 408.._Thomas C. Pollgreen, Muter........................ 47.56
Harry B. Humphreys, Senior Warden
James W. Moore, Junior Warden
Honolulu ·-----·---··.No. 409.... Francls W. Wright, Senior Warden............ 331.20
Alvin E. Mellin, Past Master
Charter Rock ..................No. 410.... Delbert Marriott, Master
Clare W. Wllson, Jr., Senior Warden
Delmar G. Bailard, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Wm. D. Wisdom, Past Master
Clare W. Wilson, Past Mester
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
411 .... R. D. Hoo~r. Junior Warden....._............. 56 ..f<t
Perris
R. H. S~ncer, Past Master
Fred J. Bonner, Past Master
La Mesa ..

------------No.

458
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Represeotati•a

Mileqe Allowed

Calexico ···········--···'--···No. 412-Laurance H. Young, Master.·-·········--··---···· 66.06
Hurbert Gutierrez, Senior Warden
Arlington ···········-···········No. 414.... George B. Richards, Senior Warden.............. 47.56
Carl F. Peters, P. M. and Inspector................ 47.56
Silver Trowel ·········--·No. 415.... George W. Moore, Master............................ 47.56
Howard C. White, Senior Warden ·
Irvin Shulkin, Junior Warden
Lindsay .....................- •..No. 416.... Alva A. Daniells, Senior Warden.................. 28.44
Cyril M. Scott, Junior Warden
Clovl.s ···-··-·-···-·····--·.No. 417._Richard L. Bradford, Senior Warden............ 24.96
George E. Talbert, Past Master
Julius C. Galliano, Past Master
Elysian ···-···---·····-··No. 418.... George B. Danbacher, Master--····-··--··-··-···- 47.56
Gordon C. Robinson, Senior Warden
James M. Hammack, Junior Warden
HenryD. Coley, Past Master
Fred W. Orgar, Past Master
Upland ···--·-······-·-···-···No. 419....Jack E. Shrum, Senior Warden...................... 50.90
Howard W. Morrison, Junior Wjll'den
··
Ronald R. Rowe, Past Master
Kerman ···---··-······-···.No. 420.... Don H. Hart, Mast'er..•.........·-··-······-········-···· 14.76
Inglewood ·······-····'--····No. 421....William Robusch, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
John A. Dull, Past Master
Benjamin C. Darling, Past Master
Eagle Rock ···-·-···--No. 422.... Richard H. Clarke, Master..·-··-····-·-··· 47.56
Clyde E. Sewright, Junior Warden
William E. Keogh, P. M. and Inspector...... 47.56
York ··-···---··-···--No. 423....Harold W. Berg, Master.·-·-··-·-·················-- 47.56
Oscar R. Himes, Senior Warden
.
Exeter ···-·-·-··--No. 424....C. Gordon Shepherd, Senior Warden............ 27.88
Holtville ·-·····---···-No. 425....Wesley W. Marquand, Senior Warden........ 65.38
Midway ..........................No. 426....Robert A. Smith, Master•...·-···············-····-···· 33.68
Earl T. Wildharber, Senior Warden
Chino Valley •....-:...... _.No. 427.•..R. M. Groendyke, Senior Warden.................. 50.38
James H. Owen, Past Master
San Dimas--·.........-No. 428....Bert E. Torrey, Senior Warden.................... 49.96
Albert E. Carroll, P. M. and Inspector...... _. 49.96
John G. Soder, Past Master
Pittsburg .......:.._....._ ......No. 429....Vernon C. Christian, Master..·--··················· 4.02
Niels P. Christensen, Senior Warden
.
Harry J. Carton, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson, P. M. and Inspector.... 4.02
Raymond L. Wildes, Past Master
Fred A. Blackwell, Past Master
McCloud ........................No. 430....Raymond F. Ebbe ............................................ 36.12
Charles S. Hogan, P. M. and Inspector........ 36.12
Phil N. Myers, Past Master............................ 47.56
Alpha ......................--No. 431....Joseph B. Trimeloni, Master
Alfred L. Atwood, Senior Warden
Elwood C. Frisvold, Junior Warden
William P. Self, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Hammonton ·······-··-······No. 433....Edward I. Quick, P. M. and Representative.. 8.30

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Represeoiati.es

459
Mileqe Allowed

Maricopa ........................No. 434.... Harold D. Cawelti, Master......................."··--· 33.68
Bertram J. Snedden, Senior Warden
John E. Colbert, Junior Warden
Fairmount .......•..............No. 435.... George H. Carr, Master
Alfred Patton, Senior Warden
Edward R. Pootel, Past Master
-Roy A. Pence, Past Master
Pieter Arnoldus DeVries, Past Master
H. Day, Senior Warden.................. 50.50
Harmon
....
436
.No.
.......................
Claremont
Master.............................. 39.86
Hedgecock,
l,.ancaster ........................No. 437....Carl C.
John C. Sinn, Senior Warden
leonard C. Meyer, Junior Warden
Emil A. Kneip, Past Master
Lawrence A. Walker, Past Master
Wallace Ward, Past Master
Acacia ················--··-········No• 438....Joseph Giltsch, Master ······················--············ 47.56
Karl L. Ratzer, P. M. and Inspector.............. 47.56
Herman Kaestner, Past Master
·
Tyrian ............................No. 439....Delbert E. Luck, P. M. and Inspector......... . 6.96
Stanley Mortensen, Past Master
Standard ..........................No. 44EL.Gregory V. Harrimon, Master
Robert P. Nelson, Senior Warden
John R. Thompson. Past Master
Coronado ........................No. Hl....Thomas L. Walston, Sr., Senior Warden____ 50.84
Albert G. Harris, Junior Warden
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Blackmer ·--·····-·---······-·_No, 442....George K. Palmer, Master................................ 50.84
Oscar H. Nelson, Senior Warden
William L. Kuykendall, Junior Warden
Charles J. Savage, P. M. and Inspector........ 50.84
Warren E. Libby, Past Master
Orno E. Tyler, Past Master
Oscar E. Hanson, Past Master
Schofield ...............:.......... No.. 443....Clark A. Battige, Junior Warden.--·--·--·-·--···· 331.20
Carpinteria .................~....No. 444.... Charles S. Chunn, Master................................ 38.66
Marcus E. Cravens, Junior Warden
Ford Kline, Past Master
Harry C. Vind, Past Master
Wilshire ---·--··········--·--:No. 445....Sylas S. Meyer, Maater.·---·--···-··-··-··· 47.56
Clarence C. Pierce, Senior Warden
Will H. Fischer, Past Grand Master.............. 47.56
Frederic Edwin Clark, P. M. and Inspector.. 47.56
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master.....................:.. 47.56
John S. Hunt, Past Master
La Puente ........................No. 446.... Edwin Zeiler, Junior Warden........·-············· 49.06
Torrance ················-········No. 447.... Mark A. Wright, Senior Warden.................. 47.56
Mount Diablo ................No. 448.... Granville A. Adams, Master.·-······--··-···-----··-·· 3.40
Sam R. Haley, Senior Warden
·
Park . ...............:•.-.,...,.....No. 449,... Sidney L. Solomon, Master
William J. Davis, Junior Warden
A. W. Brouillet, Past Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
, John Ferguson, Past Master
George W. Ritchie, Past Master

461

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

460

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

~""

Mllnae Allo...t

Van Nuys ···-·--·······No. 450.... Boothe A. Toole, Master---·······-·--··-~·- 47.56
Reginald Fudge, Senior Warden
·
Harold S. MonUon. P. M. and lmpector___ 47.56
Montebello -·--····---··No. 45L..J. William Werle, Muter---·-·-····-·- 47.56
Frank L. Sutliff, Senior Warden .
Samuel H. Harris, Put Muter
Merville L. Lamb, Pcut Master
Francis V. Vestal, Past Mcuter
L. D. Cain. Pcut Mcuter
James W. O'Bryan. Past Master
.· -·..:.·--················· 48.60
San Puqlllll -············-···.No· 452.... Ben H. Palmer, Muter.__
Clarence E. Burr, Senior Warden
·
Bethlehem ······-···-······-···No. 453._.Stanley W. Kerley, Master
Arthur R. Sutherland, Senior Warden
Arthur J. Bender, Junior Warden
George M. Orchard, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
John C. Painter, Past Master
Vadie E. Bevers, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Pcut Master

·-··---···--··No. 461....Carl Walter, Master

·
William O. Kuchlenz, Jr., Senior Warden
Theodore H. Balliet, Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, P. M. and Inspector
Ferdinand A. Mosebach, Past Master
Walter S. Flowers, Past Master
ph Bernard. Past Master
oseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
alter R. Bowden, Put Master
Homer Perry Thyle, Past Master

~

Morgan Hill ··-··-······-···No. 463._.Andrew R. Costa, Senior Warden................
William Y. Kirkman, Junior Warden
William L. Whidden, Past Master

5.52

Alta Vlata --------No. 464.... Kenneth G. Blackman, Master
Harry S. Melicker, Senior Warden
Harry L. Wintersglll, Past Master

32.48

R~~~:n?·G~=~~ tecturer............................ 32.48
0

Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Arthur Johnson, Past Master

Culver Oty ···-······-··-No• 467....Joseph J. Merrill, Master-·······-··················
Rockrldge -·..-·-····-··..-No. 468....Baptiste Barthe, Master
Raymond K. Massingill, Past Master

47.56

Henry S. Orme ·······--No. 458.... Hiram E. Reed, Muter..·-···-·························· 47.S6
Paul Nardella, Senior Warden
William B. Mott, Past Master
Milton H. Lang, Past Ma&ter
Robert F. Shippee, Past Master

Argonaut

J

Llbertas ..........................No••:466..•. Morrla R. Watson, Master..............................
Walter W. Wasem, Jr., Senior Warden
Blaine N. Miller, Junior Warden

Golden West ···-····--·No. 455....James Evans, Junior Warden
Earle B. Brehaut, Past Maatu
Adolph P. Bllay, Past Master

Riverbank -··----·No. 459-..Carl A. Schallhorn, Jr., RepttSCDtadve·-·····Mount Oso ·-·--·--~No. 460.... Phlllp Flelslg, Master ··-----·-··-·S. Ray Butolph, Senior Warden

Paul Revere ······-······-·-No. 462 .... John N. Nelson, Master
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Senior Warden
Thomas W. S. Wu, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, P. M. and Inspector
Roy C. Lemoge, Past Master
oel H. Springer, Past Master
acob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master

Center -·-··········-·····-··No. 465....W. C. Hardy, Senior Warden.·-·-····-······· 23.76
0. E. Helm, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P. M. and Inspector......-.. 23.76
Marion A. Long, Past Master

Crocker ·--·····-·····-··No. 454....Joseph E. Allison. Master
Walter J. Gilnack, Senior Warden
Lloyd G. Jones, Junior Warden
Ralph G. Riches, P. M. and Inspector
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Walter C. Schenk, Pcut Master
George Watson, Past Master
Andrew McKeown, Pcut Master
Angus Campbell, Past Mcuter
Roy Wieland. Past Master
Leonard Wester, Past Master

Ramona -··-·-··-·No. 457_Cecil C. Bechtel, Senior Warden...•. _.__
Alvin Wendt. Junic>r Wardaa
Jack E. Anderson, Put Master

Mlleqe Allowed

llepresenud""

No. of Lodge

Nemc el Lodge

5.18
S.18

47.56

No. 469_.Charles A. Warren. Muter---·-····.. ····-··· 47.56
Yorba Llnda
Lincoln ......_: ____No, 470.... Howard Y. Low, Senior Ward~
Delta -·······-·--·-No. 471.._Barle J. Francis, Muter...........-..................... 6.86
Hugh Gordon Marttn, Senior Warden
Dale C. Higdon, Past Master
Loys T. Newton, Past Master
No. 472....Richard E. Stewart. Senior Warden. ........-. 349.63
Maui _ _ _
Eugene P. Jljlne, P. M. and Inspector.-....... 349.63
Blythe ·-····---··--No. 473....F. M. Christian, Master·--····---··-·····-- 60.60
Innis R. Harris, Past Master
Victory -···--·-···--·__No. 474....Kenneth LeRoy Watts, Master
Edwin C. Mathisen, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
Max M. Alexander, Past Master

·-·-···········---No. 475....John T. Johnson, Master·-··--···················..
Warden

47.56

Coachella ··---·...-No. 476....William S. Wool, Muter..........·-··················
Hurkless A. Bullard, Senior Wardaa
Shepard E. Pierce, Junior Warden

58.44

Amtrfca

·

Richard V. Porter, Senior

Temblor ---·-·--·..No· 477....Joseph G. Barnes, Master.·-·--··-··········-··· 32.48
Thousand Oaks ··-·········No· 478....Gerd H. Meyer, Master
Richard W. Moulthrop, Senior Warden
R. P. Wisecarver, Past Master

"462
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of Lodge

B.epresenllltives

Mileage Allowed

Golden Rule ....................No. 479.... Charles E. Bradley, Master ............................ 3.92
0 scar M. Swensen, Senior Warden
Roy E . Bartholomew, Junior Warden
Leon E . Allen, Past Master
Fellowship ........... _ ......No. 480....Charles A. Davidian, Master
James A. Gallagher, Senior Warden
James A. Bottoms, Junior Warden
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Jack V. Shahbazian, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ................ No. 481....Daniel D; Rowlands, Master .
· Carl P. McCarthy, Senior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Deputy Grand Master
Joseph H. Jorgenson, Past Master
Thomas F. Quinn, Past Master
Harold Meyer, Past Master
George A. Sohst, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith ..........No. 482.... Howard . F. Hiltabidel. Master........................ 47.56
·
Lyman M. Smith, Senior Warden
Bell ···-·-~ ........................No. 483....LeRoy F . Slocumb, Master-........................... 47.56
Truman P. Hayward, Senior Warden
H. C. Comaford, Past Master
Frank W . Pearce, 'Past Master
M. E. McCune, Past Master
Albert Pike ...................'...No.- 484.... Robert L. Harman Master
A7.56
·
· Ernest L. Putnam, ' Senior w=;;'d~~--·····-.........
·
Francis M. Greffoz. Junior Warden
Chowchilla ..........•......•....No. 485.... Chester B. Anderson, Senior Warden............ 20.82
.
Roy Forrest, Junior Warden
Caledonia ........................No. 486....James L. Knudson, ~................................ 32.48
Joseph B. Hart, Senior Warden
Eustace E. O 'Connor, Junior Warden
W . Waters Shugart, Past Master
Vallejo ...................- ..- .•No. 487.... Theodore P. Nikkel, Maater........... ................ 2.70
· William T . Hilton, Senior Warden
Charles J. Harris, Junior Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, P. M. and Inspector........ 2.70
Edward Neuman, Past Master
Thomas E . P. Woods, Past Master
Patterson ........................No. 488.... Marvin A. Truman, Senior Warden.............. 7.94
East Bay ........................ No. 489.... Roy R. Clemens, Master
Allerton B. Ebert, Senior Warden
John A. Sobey, Junior Warden
Wm. S. Armstrong, Past Master
Milton G. Horgan, Past Master
Corcoran ....................- ••No.' 490.... Rayford G. Rich, Senior Warden.................. 27.56
Woodstock ....................No. 491....Irving E. Ashton, Master
.
J. Emmett O'Brien, Senior Warden
Charles L. Wilhelm, Junior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
R. Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
· M. Allen Powers, Past Master
George A. Klingman, Past Master
Frank E. Doherty, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvanza ..................:.....No. 492.... Starr H. Baisley, Senior Warden..:................. 47.56

..

"

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

"463

Bepresenllltives

Atascadero .....................No. 493.... GayJord D. Thomas, Senior Warden............ 26.18
L. H. Webber, Past Master
Walter B. Clayton, Past Master
Fred C. Hess, Past Master
Azor F. Kunkee, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
Acorn .............................J4o. 494•... H. Stanley McDaniel, Master
·
C. Arthur Wilcox, Senior Warden
Earl W. Temen, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson, Past Master
Samuel F. Worswick, Past Master
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Ralph M. Scott, Past Master
Rowland B. Reinig, Past Master
Lebanon .................-_.No. 495.... George J. Shenson, Senior Warden.
Horace 0. Warfield, Junior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past-Master
Jack Urban, Past Master
Frank Weinstock, Past Master
Bernard B. Stimmel, Past Master
Fremont ..........................No. 497....Thomas M. Livingstone, Master
Melvin Oredsen, Senior Warden
Frank M. Krause, Junior Warden
Stockton •···········-·-···...No. 498....Lyle L. Foster, Master...._............................... 6.86
Roswald K. Wells, Senior Warden
Emmett Davis, Past Master
Capital City ....................No. 499.... Caleb J. Davis, Senior Warden...................... 7.24
Roosevelt ······-·-............No. 500.... Raymond H. Hakes, Master
Joseph Scannell, Past Master
Westwood ...........----No. 501 ....William L. Beavers, Senior Warden.............. 32.28
Wayne D. Gleason, Past Master.................... 32.28
Harbor ------·-·-·-·-·-No. 502 .... H. Eugene Stevens, Master
Lloyd A. Vincent, Senior Warden
Charles L. Stanley, Junior Warden
Earl A. McCloskey, Past Master
Point ................................No. 503.... Laverne L. L. Laux. Master
Colvin W. Hicks. Senior Warden
Robert V . Waylett, Junior Warden
Seaside ...............---.No. 504....Reuhln W . Cothern. Master............................ 4756
John A. Lord, Senior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P. M. and Inspector.... 47.56
J. Everett Houser, Past Master
William T. Corbusler, Past Master
William J. Courtiour, Past Master
Edwin W. Wade, Past Master
Silver Cord ....................NO. 505....Frank I. Yount, Senior W arden.................... 49.82
Olen F. Turner, P. M. and Inspector............ 49.82
Herschel E. Griffin. Past Master
Mount Olive .................J\lo. 506....Folmar BlanRsted, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Joseph R. Gilbert, Junior Warden·
Russell Northrup, P. M. and Inspector.......... 47.56
Karl V . Johnson, Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
El Segundo ....................No. 507....Lee T. Patterson, Senior Warden................ 47.56
Joppa .......................--..No. 508.... Walter E. Fleharty, Muter............................ 23.76

i6i

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

NlmC ol Loclae
No. ol Lodge
llcpraentatiTCS
Mileqe Allowed
Benjamin Franklin ........No. 509.... Warren L. Colllns, Senior Warden..........___ 47.56
Peter Jan, Junior Warden
Cupertino ···-··-·······-···No· 510.... Harry S. Hawes, Master-····-·-····-·····-··-··· 3.6.f
Lloyd M. Minnich, Senior Warden
Sekul Spalch, Junior Warden
William W. Sharp, Past Master
Sunnyvale -·-·--···---No. St L.Charles W. Peer, Master.---·
3.50
Oyde Waltrip, Senior Warden
Palms --····-- -·--No. 512....Charles 0. Harrier, Master···········-····-·-···· 47.56
David B. Bracken, Senior Warden
Neal J. Baggett, Junior Warden
Cahuenga ------- ·-·..No. 513.... Hal Anderson, Master-·- - -······- ·····- 47.56
George K. Calvin, Senior Warden
Robert G. Swan, Junior Warden
Roy C. Bryan, Past Muter.·-····--- ····-······- 47.56
Chas. R. Kelley, Past Master
Oarence W. Murphy, Past Master
Afvonne - - ·-·-··__No. SH.... Davld M. Taylor, Past Master
Vermont Square ··-····-No. 515.... Laurence B. Ruppers, Master_ ___ __ _ 47.56
J. W. Inzer, Senior Warden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
Ford E. Jackson, Past Master
Taft ···- - - -···-···- No. 516....Roland E. Burbeck, Master----····-- 33.68
Murray Putnam, Senior Warden
Jennings E. Muir, P. M. and Inspector..-... 33.68
Mount Vernon ·······- ·······No. 517.... Edward J. Bird, Master
Alva V. Sligar, Past Master
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
Walter L. Stobing, Past Master
. Richard F. Fletcher, Past Master
La Jolla - -- -- -..No. 518....Wayne G. Mullls, Senior Warden.--········- 50.8.f
Euclid _____ _No. 519....James D. Crittendon, Senior Warden. ......... _ 47.56
Roy G. Mead, Past Master
Ionic ·--·--······-No. 520.... Davld Zeidenfeld, Muter..· - - - -·····-······· 47.56
Harry C. Cherman, Senior Warden
Bruce Avon, Past Master
Edward King, Past Master
George Tarsky, Past Master
Nathan Schwartz, Past Master
Isadore Moore, Past Master
Piedmont ·····-····-····- No. 521.... Porter Evans, Master
Wilson E. Cline, Past Master
Harold E. Hacker, Past Master
Walter F. Schag, Past Master
Sunrise - - - - -- -No. 522.... Ha~ _Rutherford, Muter-- - - 47.56
A. J. Victor, Junior Warden
Hubert L. Hall, Past Muter
Bellflower -······-··-·-··No. 523.... Edward E. Bailey, Senior Warden.·-········-·· 47.56
James F. Willmon. Junior Warden
A. J. McKowen, Past Master
Catalina Island ···-····-·-No. 524.... L. M. Thomas, Muter---·-··········-····- 55.3.f
W. G. Sargent, Junior Warden
H. M. Warner, Past Master
George Washington ......No. 525....Carl Heier, Master
Lauryn H. Taylor, Senior Warden
~.

Adolph H Franzen, Junior Warden
John Johnston. Past Master
Bay City -···-···-·-·······No. 526._Seymour Green, Junior Warden
Aaron A. Lewis, Past Master
Covenant ·-··-····--···No. 527.... 0rrln C. Welch, Muter.
- - -·- - 47.56
Maurice Richardson, Senior Warden
Emmett E. Jordan, Junior Warden
Robert H. Willison, Past Master
Beverly Hills - ··-·--.No. 528_.. Stirman M. Meek. Master-···-·····--··-·· 47.56
Edwin T. Oark, Senior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Senior Grand Warden.._ 47.56
Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
Joe Bookman, Past Master
Llo_yd W. Burris, Past Master
C. Earle Crane, Past Master
Elbert C. Yullle, Past Master
Loyalty ·····················-···No. 529.... Arthur Linsk, Master--·-··- ·········-··-·· 47.56
Manuel Oavin, Junior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., P. M. and Inspector 47.56
Joseph A. Vlsger, Past Master
Sun Garden ...........- __No. S30_0ra A. Johnson, Senior Warden .................... 23.76
Herbert R. Hargrave, P. M. and Inspector.... 23.76
Everett L. J. Coyle, Past Master
Alexandria ·- - -·····- ·- -·No. 531.... Dorsey E. Mears, Master
Walter J. Chisholm, Senior Warden
Cyril G. Hansen, Junior Warden
Ralph C. McArthur, Past Master
Smyrna -·······-··-··- -No. 532.._Guy D. Wharton, Senior Wardea...·····-·········· 8.68
Azure ····-·------·-No. 533._.Eugene L. Piantonl, Senior Warden...·-····- 49.46
John Watson Grigsby, Junior Warden
Forest HUI - ··- --No. 53.f_ Robert H. Rolfe, Master
Frederick A. Lowell, Junior Warden
John H. Tietjen, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton ......No. 535_.George E. Seymour, Master........................... . 47.56
Kenneth Waite, Senior Warden
Edward A. Stone, Junior Warden
Howard B. Berry, Past Master
Edward J. Blickfeldt. Past Master................ 47.56
Roland W. Snow, Past Master
Gordon McHenry; Past Master
Seal Rock ________ _No. 536.... Leonard J. Larison, Master
John P. Yale, Senior Warden
Anthony_A. Andre. Junior Warden
Russell H Sievers, Past Master
Arthur Kuerllten, Past Master
Harrv H. Jacobson, Past Muter
John L. Webber, Past Master
~dwln W. Bode, Past Master
Utopia ·········-··-······-··-···No. 537__ Veme V. Goode, Senior Warden.......-··-···· 47.56
Walter R. Koenig, Junior Warden
Francis T. Nagle, Past Master
George Leask, Past Master
Arthur Beard, Past Master
4756
Aacot ·-·---~----·--No. 538..-~eLk:'&.ffm.
~~- w~

465

.....................

Martin O. Veland. P. M. and lnaptctor••...... 47.56

466
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representations

467

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Milease Allowed

Belvedere ··········-···········No. 539....lltfelvin R. Maxey, Master·-···--······················
Edgar W. Randolph, Senior Warden
Clifford L. Hedrick, Junior Warden
....
Queen Beach ·······-·······-·No. 540 Marshall W. Young, Master......................-..
Lawrence E. Stenger, Senior Warden
George E. Gates, Junior Warden
Fred S. J. Hancock, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens.. No. 541.... Marvin D. Martin, Master
H. Archie McPherson, Junior Warden
Robert H. Taylor, P. M. and Inspector
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
Wilson E. Newlon, Past Master
Mark A. Sewrie, Past Master
North Hollywood ..........No. 542.... Arthur W. Frishman, Master..........................
Carey W. Burch, Senior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P. M. and Inspector............
Clarence A. Ross, Past Master
William C. Neuendorff, Past Master
Joseph R. Ferro, Past Master

47.56
47.56

47.56
47.56

Signal ··--··········-·····-·· -···No. 543.... Fred A. Adams, Muter·-·······-························ 47.56
John A. Kline, Senior Warden
Myron E. Roudebush, P. M. and Inspector.. 47.56
Jesse J. Hill, Past Master
Glendale ·····················-···No. 544....Thomas B. Henry, Master.............................. 47.56
Charles C. Hushaw, Senior Warden
Jonathan ···················-··-No, 545.... Roy G. Keyes, Master
Perry M. Spencer, P. M. and Inspector
·
Chas. M. Hejdegger, Past Master
San Gabriel ....................No. 546.... Charles A. Arnold, Senior Warden................ 48.38
Charles M. McNabb, Junior Warden
Arcadia ........................_No. 547.... Harold B. Disney. Ma"ster.............................. 47.56
Philip Weary, Senior Warden
Triangle ........................,.No. 548 .... Stewart M. Burnett, Master............................ 47.56
Harry H. Kellogg, Senior Warden
·
Glen M. Chitwood, Junior Warden
Morgan M. Smith, Master
....
549
No.
.•...
.........................
.Justice
Samuel Fedeli, Senior Warden
Ralph R. Herdman, Junior Warden
Rush Manbert, P. M. and Inspector
Emmet J. Pierce, Past Master
William W. Barry, Past Master
Percy V. Maury, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
William R. Campbell, Past Master
Frank R. Jackson, Past Master
Geo. David Horn, Past Master
Seaport ............................No. 550.... David M. Boring, Master
Walter H. E. VonKonsky, Grand Lecturer
James J. Yates, Past Master
Walter A. Huber, Past Master
John G. Wullschleger, Past Master
William E. Yocom, Jr., Master
551....
No.
........................
Lakeshore
Ralph H. Moreland, Senior Warden
Ronald H. Johnson, Junior Warden
~oward S. Gerrish, Past Master

N1111e of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Lloyd W. Hanson, Past Master
William E. Yocom, Past Master
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Charles C. Buckley, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Sylvan H. Gyle, Past Master
S~mper Virens ·······-·······No. 552.... James Henderson, Senior Warden. .................
Alexander Duncan, P. M. and Inspector......
Keith Hamner, Past Master............................
Educator ·······-·················No. 554.... Fred R. Milam, Master
Francis D. DeLong, Senior Warden
James A. Davis, Junior Warden
Albert Lorentzen, Past Master
William M. Milligan, Past Master
J. Lloyd Smith, Past Master
R. M. Small, Past Master
John K. MacKenzie, Past Master
Clarence D. Stone, Past Master
D. B. Ryan, Past Master
....
White Pine ....................No. 555 Not Represented
Fairfax ........................ ~...No. 556.... C. Ray Eubanks, Master.
Alfred C. Lee, Senior Warden
William Bickle, Junior Warden
.
Lynn E. Barr, Past Master
Hermosa ···············-····-···No. 557.... David S. Forsyth, Senior Warden..................
Paul Thompson, P. M. and Inspector............
Point Firmin ..................No. 558 .... Leo C. Finn, Master........................................
Louis C. Schwarz. Senior Warden
Craftsmen -···········-····:....No•..S~--t W.·Ji~'k:si!~i!:W,:i:d;;;······-·············-··········

30.78
30.78
30.78

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56

Plymouth ........................No. 560.... Eric F. Anderson, Master
John 0. Reynolds, Senior Warden
Adolph C. Henrikson, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master
James G. Disher, P. M. and Inspector
William G. Thumann, Past Master
Gerald E. Rhine, Past Master
Leon C. Babbitt, Past Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
Richard P. McClammy, Jr., Senior Warden 50.84
..
561..
No.
..............
Diego
East San
Harvey C. McDaniel, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Lawrence F. Buck, Master
....
562
No.
.
.........................
Pyramid
Fred E. Wider, Senior Warden
Julius D. Szakal, Junior Warden
Eugene A. Tipton, Past Master
John H. Brooke, Past Master
German W. Miller, Past Master
Alvin Salmon, Past Master
South Park ........ ............No. 563.... William G. Foley, Muter____ .................... .. 47.56
Deward B. Bayliss, Senior Warden
Herbert Van Riper, Past Master
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
Hugh E. Moor, Past Master
Milton J. Thomason, Past Master
Max Forrest Vail, Past Master

468
Nome of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OP THB
No. of lodae

llepresentati-

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

~Allowed

Foothill ---·---~.No. 564.... Paul S. Davis, Senior Warden
Carl B. Munck, Past Master
Ray A. Farley, Past Master
Ben L. Miller, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master
West Adams -·-······.No. 565-..E. A. Rathbun, Senior Warden.. ______
David Johnson, Past Master
Milo C. Matticks, Master..............................
....
566
No.
........•.
Garfteld
James A.
Alfred 0. T. Opsahl, Senior Warden
Merrill M. Baysoar, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Collins, Past Master-···-·-·· ····..Henry Honaker, Past Master
Gordon A. Boelter, Past Master
Searchlight ...................... No. 567.... Harold L. Reynolds, Master-....................
Otis L. Weaver, Senior Warden
David Perkins, Past Master
Park Boulevard .............. No. 568.... William F. Willoughby, Master
John H. Powell, Junior Warden
Francis A. Roberts. Past Master
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Hlll'!Y D. Hosac. Past Master
Chatean Thierry ............ No. 569.... John A. Morin, Master
Walter W. Beck, Senior Warden
Eugene R. Barnard, Junior Wardne
Howard S. Kaulbach, P. M. and Inspector
• David L. Babcock, Past Master
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570...• Sterling P. Spero, Master
Edward J. Mooney, Senior Warden
William R. Vonn, Junior Warden
W. 0. Tillmannshoefer, Past Master
Chang Wan Lee, Past Master
Otto F. Hansen, Past Master
Louis H. Strohecker, Past Master
Chester 0. Dughi, Past Master
Robert J, Martin, Past Master
L. Briggs, Master
571....Charles
Francis K. Shattuck - ... No.
Harold Knowlton, Senior Warden
Ivan A. Schwab, Junior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Assistant Grand Lecturer
George Jelten, Past Master
Edwin C. Clifford, Past Master
James Madison ..•........... No. 572.... Albert H. Farnes, Master.._ .......................
Harold W. Byers, Senior Warden
HUlcrest -··--·---N o. 573.... Donald F. T. Parkin, Master
E. Brown Zarley, Senior Warden
Geor_ge F. Cake, Junior Warden
Roy L. Buchanan, Past Master
S. W. Hackett ................No. 574.... George E. Adams, Master................................
William M. Flenniken, Senior Warden
Robert E. Whiting. Junior Warden
Port Crook ·--·····-----~· 575.... James Clay Lowery. Senior Warden..............
ames W. Murray, Junior Warden
Otho Stewart, Put Master

Name ol I.odae

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56

No. ol LodF

Jlepreientatins

50.84

33.88

Mileqe Allowed

El Cajon Valley ............No. 576.... Kenneth Leon Wylie, Senior Warden............ 51.80
Fred G. Frank, Junior Warden
Hugh D. Good, P. M. and Inspector.............. 51.80
Sunoylide -·---··-···-N o. 577....Donald Depew, Master-··--·· --·-·····--····- 4756
Charles H. Mounce, Senior Warden
Louis H. Mahler, P. M. and Inspector........-. 47.56
Percy L. Bruner, Past Muter
Guy_ A. Toole, Past Master
F. Wesley_ Davies, Past Master.................... 47.56
Merle R. Helbach, Past Master
E. Calfee, Master.--..- -....... 47.56
Maurlce
....
578
·-~-No.
..
-·-··
Progressive
Paul J. Rivers, Senior Warden
·
Perry R. Borden, Past Mlllta"
Roy 0. Miller, Past Master
J. Howard Edwards. Past Master.................... 47.56
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Warreu. G. Harding ......No. 579.... Neil Wilson, Muter_ _ _..................... 7.24
• Lowa Missall. Senior Warden
ussell Rae, Junior Warden
Carl Brainard, Past Master
Raymond S. Duffee, Past Master
Santa Maria - ..- ............No. 580.... Kay V. Smith, P. M. and Representative...... 50.84
. -·--..--- 32.48
Security ..... ____ _,No, S81-Louis C. Tedrow, Muter
Tom McElheny, Junior Warden
Samuel R. Bauman, Secretary
L. Becker, Senior Warden.................. 52.2i
Marion
....
582
N0;
,
Rfalto · -..- Waxo - .......................No. S83.... Roy S. DeVoe, Senior Warden.---· --····.. 26.58
John L. Prueitt, Junior Warden
Fred C. Pritschke, P. M. and Inspector....,..._ 26.58
Harry H. Pollock, Past Master
Hardiug _ _.___No. 584....David G. Parmelee, Senior Warden_....... ... 47.56
Melvin A. Pixley, Junior Warden
Anson McArthur, P. M. and Inspector.......... 47.56
Louis E. Sage, Past Master
Arthur R. Dixon, Master_____............. 47.56
....
585
_No.
Maochater .................
Edward William Roberts, Senior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz, P. M. and Ins~---- .. 47.56
Garden Grove - .........._No. 586....Lewis W. Wright, Muter--· --·-·-- 49.82
Leonard L. Dobkins, Senior Warden
Walter K. Reed, Junior Warden
Valley Forge _ _ _....No. 587.... Ben D. Barrett, Muter-...--............. ... 4756
Arthur E. Nelson, Senior Warden
•
Chas. S. Barrett, Past Master
47.56
Richard B. Ward, M.Uter...
....
588
No.
.
El Sereno - Leslie H. Laney, Senior Warden
Kaua! - - · - -.......-No. 589.... Robert F. Chalmers, Senior Warden............ .3i9.63
Walter F. Sanborn, Grand Bible Bearer...... 349.63
John G. Weigle, Senior Warden.................... 50.38
....
590
·--No.
-..
·
Compau
Grant E. Bowers, Junior Warden
Escalo11 ...................:...__No, 591....Bailey R. Townsend, Master___................... 8.24
W. Merral Clark, Semor Warden
Dewey Henson, Junior Wardea
Arch T. Roberson, P. M. and Inspector........ 8.24
47.56
No. 592-.Dean V. Lennon, Senior Wardea......- ....Tujwiga

t

47.56

469

470
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

All States ········-··············No. 593.... William 0. Neptune, Master ........................ 47.56
.
Elmer E. West, Senior Warden
·
Lawrence J. McEldowney, Past Master
Service -·······--·····-··;..No. 594.... Morison G. Foster, Master.•..- .................... :.'.. · 47.56
Theodoric C. Linthicum, Senior Warden
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595 .... Charles F. Casteel, Master............................ 47.56
Fred Schunk, Senior Warden
Guardian .....................-.No. 596.... Robert H. Coker, Master-··········-················· 47.56
Frank J. Vieira, Senior Warden
Howard Laurent, P. M. and Inspector............ 47.56
Pearl Harbor ..............•.-No. 598.... Robert B. Mihlbauer, Master........................ 331.20
Carl E. Williams, Past Master
Carmelita .................,..,..•.No. 599.... Wesley C. Hertenstein, Master........~............. 48.60
Lyle H. Cheney, Senior Warden
J. Tyler Parker, Jr., P. M. and Inspector...... 48.60
Jay D. Rinehart, Past Master
Lynwood ........................ No. 600.... Edward T. Simbalenko, Master...................... 47.56
Fred R. Cook, Senior Warden
Charles W. Rattelman, Junior Warden
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly ···············-···········No. 601.... Harry S. Date, P. M. and Representative.... 29.50
Melrose ·······-·········-··-·No. 602.... Talmage G. Latham, Senior Warden............ 47.56
Thomas J. McKimson, Junior Warden
Dimond ··-·········'-·:..···-·····No. 603.... Frank Giles, Master
Jack M. Townsend, Senior Warden
Julian LeSire, Junior Warden
James J. Torrison, Past Master
Jubilee ·-···········-····--·-··No. 604.... Siemeon I. Toelle, Senior Warden.................. 49.82
John Kahler, Past Master
Glassell Park ··--·-·-·;:•.No. 605.... lrwin L. Fisher, Master•..·-··-···············-·········· 47.56
Frank W. Johnson, P. M. and Inspector...... 47.56
Sojourner ············-····-····No. 607...:Paul A. Brown, Senior Warden...................... 49.02
D. Floyd Fugit, Junior Warden
Granada ··-··-·-··--·-.·····No. 608.... tl~;J~~eH:~:!~~i~;·w;~d~~----············ 47.56
·

471

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donald G. Campbell, P. M. and Inspector....
Don S. Lemon, Past Master
Provident ······--··•···-·····No. 609.... Cecil E. Fisher, Master.•...........-.....................
Albert S. Walton, Senior Warden
Elmhurst ······-····-···-···No. 610.... Francis J. Coates, Master
William M. ~utherland, Senior Warden
John T. Young, Past Master
Canoga ··-·······-·-·-·····--No. 61 L.Ralph H. Hansen, Master................................
Wiley T. Forson, Senior Warden
Norris Albert Reavis, Past Master
John D. Barton, Past Master
Temple City ..................No. 612.... Charles M. Coffland, Senior Warden............
Frederick W. Hackler, Junior Warden
William N. Pedder, P. M. and Inspector......
Ben K. Wilson, Past Master
Three Pillars ···········-·····No. 613.... Ray W. Phillips, Master..................................
.
Wallace W. Weiderhold, Junior Warden
Miles J. McClelland, P. M. and Inspector......
Charles E. Frazier, Past Master

48.60
7.24

47.56

47.56
47.56
7.24
7.24

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Larchmont ··-··················No• 614.... Charles B. Morrill, Master .....·-········-············ 47.56
Wesley Hermiston, Senior Warden
George P. Salm, P. M. and Inspector............ 47.56
. Marvin Bixenstein, Past Master
D. Harold Shoopman, Past Master
Newcomb Candee, Past Master...................... 47.56
Hemet ·····················-····No. 615 .... Frank Noblitt, Master -·································· 56.94
Ray R. Bell, P. M. and Inspector.................. 56.94
R. E. Dolley -··········-······No. 616.... John B. Nye, Senior Warden.......................... 47.56
Frank 0. Brostrom, Junior Warden _
Big Bear ............•.....•..-.No. 617..•. A. Clair Pardee, Master...·-··········-·················· 52.24
·
Wayne C. Klein, Senior Warden
L. P. Boyle, Past Master
Southland ·······--·'···········No. 618....William L. Maule, Master.............................. 47.56
C. Stewart Griswold, Senior Warden
C. Arthur Linsley, Junior Warden
Robert Dutton, Past Master
Otis G. Prussel, Past Master.......................... 47.56
Donald H. Wilkins, Past Master
Neptune ···········-···..-···-·No. 619.... Arnold M. Mueller, Master•....,........................ 47.56
Chester K. Endter, Senior Warden
Point Loma ······-············No. 620.. _Charles T. Padgitt, Senior Warden................ 50.84
Franklin A. Plan, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
Lerow, W. Lee, Past Master
The Gardens ..................No. 621....William B. McCulley, Master........................ 47.56
Walter H. Schumacher, Senior Warden
·
Harry E. Cella, Past Master
Floyd S. Vandegrift, Past Master
Atwater -··-..-·············-No. 622.... Lewis C. Arbogast, Master.·-························ 47.56
William H. Johnson, Senior Warden
Jesse M. Few, Past Master
Menorah ········-············.:..No. 623....Harry Warner, Master.................................... 47.56
Carl C. Rozzen, Senior Warden
Albert V. Youngs, P. M. and Inspector
Samuel J. Greenberg, Past Master
George Warner, Past Master
Fortitude ···-···················No. 624.... Jack Hotchkiss, Master
·
Leonard Quittman. Senior Warden
Clarence M. Langlo, Junior Warden
Alfred L. Costa, Past Master
Ralph M. Webb, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ..•.............No. 625.... LeRoy E. Ballard, Master.·-······-·-····-············
Douglas A. Tacker, Junior Warden
Albert H. Klatt, Past Master
John J. Humble, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
George C. Culuris, Past Master
Chula Vista .......;.......•_:.No. 626.... Franklin Barnthouse, Senior Warden............
·
,
William Greenwell, Junior Warden
Lamanda Park ................No. 627.... H. E. Pompey, Master..........•...·-·····················
Sam Rinkus, Senior Warden
Truth ··················-~-·-·No. 628.... Clarence S. Gallup, Master..............................
William R. McArthur, Senior Warden
Joseph C. Benedick, Junior Warden
Oskar E. Kopperud, Past Master

47.56

50.84
48.60
47.56

472
Name of lodae

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

473

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodae

ll.epraencatiftll

Mileqe Allowed

Fairview ···-·"-···-··--·No. 629_Claude E. Andrews, Muter-··--··---:._ 4756
Alfred F. McKim, Senior Warden
John E. Comley, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Harold C. Mudgett. Past Master
Ingleside --······--·····-···No. 630.... Roy F. Price, Master
Edison K. Quick, Senior Warden
John D. Miller, Junior Warden
Henry C. Clausen, Junior Grand Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, P. G. M. and Grand Secretary
Robert M. Gane, Past Master
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
47.56
Benevolence ··-··----...No. 631.... John R. Skeen, Muter
~oy W. Barron, Senior Warden
Normal Heights ...- ....... No. 632..•• Paul E. Middlest~d. Senior Warden.............. SO.Bi
Edgar L. Henderson, Junior Warden
Winfield S. McLeea, Past Master
Poinsettia .................._ .••No. 633.... Arthur P. Stewart, Muter------·--·· 39.98
William D. Sparks, Senior Warden
Lloyd M. Ryckman, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Grand Master...............- .. 47.56
Arthur T. Mead, Grand Sword Bearer....- •• 39.98
Conley L. LaForce, Grand Standard Bearer 4756
Guy S. Harts, Sr.. P. M. and Inspector.......... 39.98
John M. deVries. Past Master
Victorville -·-···--No. 63-t.... Elton Sterling Goble, Representative••- ........ 47.66
Riverside ·--·----......No. 635-.Charles H. Grace, Master-------··- 52.24
Alfred R. Ruhnau, Senior Warden
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
John Marshall - .............No. 636.... Charles D. Kidd, Muter----...... 47.56
Robert A. Crigler, Senior Warden
Atwill T. Morgan, Past Master
Mervin J. Davidson, Past Master
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master
Clyde B. Austin, Past Master
Richard A. Peterson, Past Master
Glenn H. Harman. Past Master
Palisades - - -----No. 637.... Byron H. Cox, Master-·-·······-·--···-·· 47.56
Cecil L. Lacy, Senior Warden
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master
John C. Boggs, Past Master
Indian Rock ...........- ......No. 638..•. Harrv M. Watchers, Master
Ralpli B. Anderson, Senior Warden
Robert 0. Evans, Junior Warden
.
Fre~erick 'J'.. Herrick, Past Master
Composlte - - - - -..No. 639.... Jaclt Lurie, Master - ------...................... 47.56
Archie Jacobs, Senior Warden
Joaeph Philllps, Past Master
.
Louis M. Bloch, Past Master
Veritas ---······--·---No. 6-ta.... Reglnald A. Wiswell, Past Master
Irvlng J. Kohnke, Past Master
Washington I. Kohnke, Past Master
James A. Foshay ............No. ML.Joseph L. Young, Jr., Senior Warden............ 47.56
La Cumbre ------...No. 642....Bailey V. Winter, Senior WardeL-...... 37.74
Willlam B. Warren, Junior Warden

Name ol Locl&e

No. of Lodge

Jlepraeacatiftll

Arthur Boone, P. M. and Inspector..........-...
Benjamin R. Bare, Past Master
·
LeRoy S, Pinkham, Past Master
Wm. W. McKee, Past Master...................-..
Alta Loma -·---···-··--··No. 643.... Richard E. Middlekauff, Master•...........••..-...
Charles E. Leverett. Senior Warden
A J. Volz, Past Master
Lomita --·--·······-··-__No. 644.... Richard A. Faulkner, Senior Warden............
John W. Graham, Junior Warden
A F. E. Irwin ···-··--No. 645.... Raymond L. Duke, Senior Warden................
·
Gordon M. Goar, Junior Warden
William A Dahlquist, Past Master
646.... Wm. I. Shotwell, Master..- ---····-····-·"Metropolitan ..............
Sam D. Blakely, Senior Warden
Frank Everett, Past Master
Hawthorne .......... _ ...,...J{o. 647...,Marcus A. Woodward, Master---··-···-·····
Raymond F. Benjamin, Senior Warden
John A. Owen, P. M. and Inspector....._____
Damascus ........................ No. 648.... Noel W. RosCooer,kMaster
S . --W d·-·--·-Laurence C.
, emor
ar en
John Bright, P. M. and Inspector-......-.....
Florence ······-·---··No. 649.... Karl M. Green, Master.......----···-·Owen J. Marleau, Senior Warden
Willard N. Hughes, Past Master
Sigwald Flikeid, Past Master
La Brea _______ No. 650.... Emil 0. Ostrom, ~-··---·-·-·-·-·
Hugh J. Cameron, Semor Warden
Ben J. Perry, Past Master
George W. Burch, Jr., Past Master
Charles F. Laverty, Past Master
Anton G. Hookanson, Past Master
Ray S. Smith, Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
hn W. Swank, Past Master
D. Hurd, Past Master
• Jas. Mann, Past Master
Russell,
Master-.........................
Menlo Park __ ................No• 651 .... Kenneth
Norman J.M.Estes,
Senior
Warden

_No.

37.74
37.74
47.56
47.56

47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
52.24
52.24
47.56

47.56 ·

W

3.28

Wade Hampton, Junior Warden
David Wright, Past Master and Representadve
Crescents Valley ............ No. 652.... William L. Jordan, Master----·-·-··--·--·--· 47.56
· ._
Charles J. Estep, Senior Warden
·
William A. Chenoweth, Past Master
Fontana ···----··--··---'ND. 653.... Emest H. Keheley, .Master--··-··········---· 4756
Hoyd R. Gardner, Senior Warden
Jordan ------·-·-··...........& 654.... Robert H. Carfrae, SeWnior Wdarden................ 47.56
Earl H. Smith, Junior ar en
·
Leonard Gross, Past Master
Dean R.Porter,
Muter47.56
· Mon.te Vista ........_.........No. 655.... L
Kenneth
Patterson,
Senior..------··········-·-·
Warden
Citrol .......................--...No. 656.... Kenneth R. Wells, Senior Warden-..........- 49.70
J. D. Spreckels ..............No. 657.•..A. Allan Porteous, Muter_............................. 50.8i
Vernon R. Duckett. Senior Warden
Howard C. Carroll, Past Master
John T. Martin, Past Master

474
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Representatives

475

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileqe Allowed

Livingston ·······-·············No. 658.... Nelll Gallaway, Senior Warden......................
Vernon Gallaway, Junior Warden
La Habra ···········-··-····-·No. 659.... Phlllip G. Weaver, Senior Warden................
Baldwin Park ···-···········No. 660.... Robert E. Rooks, Senior Warden..............·-···
Malta -······---·-··--No. 661....Neal G. Robinson, Senior Warden....·-·········
Henry Knox ....................No. 662....Samuel R.. Howell, Master........•..........•....·-·····
Alfred F. Baughn, Senior Warden
William B. Sutoff, Junior Warden
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
OJal ·······- ········-·-···-··-··No. 663.... M. Arthur Waite, Master and Grand
Pursulvant -·--···-··········--····················
.
Barton K. Eakin, Senior Warden.............-.....
Oyde E. Harral, Junior Warden
Kaweah ..............•.............No. 665.... Frederick L. Green, Master•...·-···········--··········
Reseda ····-······················No. 666.... Charles T. Forbes, Master.-.............................
Jerome R. McKay, Senior Warden
Meridian ··--·······-·-·-No. 667_H. McCullough, Senior Warden...·-··············
James W. Hemstreet, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master................
Frank W. Raddatz, P. M. and Inspector......
Clarence Glaze, Past Master
San Gorgonlo ................No. 668.... Ellis A. Nighswonger, Senior Warden..........
Thomas C. Ackley, Junior Warden
Roy R. Miller, Past Master
John P. Jarman ..............No. 669.... Joseph A. Pinkston, Master--························
Ivin W. Ramsey, Senior Warden
Russell F. Brownell, Junior Warden
Nels H. Johnson, P. M. and Inspector..........
Greenleaf ......................-No. 670.... Harry A. Swauger, Master............................
James L. Twaddell, Senior Warden
San Clemente ··········-····No. 671.._Larry D. Snow, Master·-·-···········-··············
William E. Martin, Senior Warden
Laguna Beach ................No. 672.... W. Ben Sorrells, P. M., Inspector and
Representative ······--································-····
Far West ........................No. 673.... Caspar A. Bachtold, Master
Ian T. Kay, Senior Warden
James W. Springer, Junior Warden
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Earl B. Myers, Past Master
Walter Lubchenko, Past Master
Al S. Sandell, Past Master
Los Cerritos ....................No. 674.... Harold L. Wachman, Master-·············-·········
Rube Kove, Senior Warden
Arthur Sissons, Past Master
Modesto ··-················~···No. 675.... Earl T. Sharp, Senior Warden-·---·········-····
Merle E. Frantz, Past Master
Willow Glen ·······-······:..No. 676.... Frank N. Long, Master------····-·······-·--·-·-·
Liberal Arts ··-·········-·-··No. 677.... Robert W. Flesch, Master·-··--·····················-·
Lawrence B. Rayl, Senior Warden
Richard Webster, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master....·-···
Elvin C. Drake, P. M. and Inspector..............
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Howard M. Wilson, Past Master

18.24
49.42
47.56
47.56
47.56

35.12
35.12
27.38
47.56
47.56
47.56
47.56
54.66
3.92
3.92
48.78
52.32
50.64

-t7.56
8.32
3.92
47.56
-t7.56
47.56

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Altadena ..........................No. 678.... Samuel C. Watson, Master·--·························
Ira G. Erichsen, Senior Warden
Verner A. Jacobson, Past Master
Canby Cross ·········---...No. 679_Douglas L. Thomas, Representative..............
V. G. Reinmiller, Past Master
Carmel ···-·-··--············No. 680....Gordon C. Browne, P.M. and Representative
James R. Zuck, Past Master
Bernard H. Schulte, Past Master
Dos Palos ...................,_No. 681.... Richard D. Crowe, Senior Warden................
George E. Ross, Junior Warden
Glenn C. Holmes, Past Master-·-··-·······--Barstow ····-·--·-······-No. 682.... Hyrum T. Dennis, Senior Warden................
Redwood Empire ............No~ 683.... Harry M. Edwards, Representative..............Trona ··-··························No. 684.... Arthur H. Bishop, Master..............................Hardin I. Lineback, Senior Warden
Lynn A. Blackmun, P.M. and Inspector........
·····-···--San Marino ....................No. 685.... Robert C. Betty, Muter
Austin C. Schlegel. Senior Warden
Wm. J. Williams, Past Master-···············-·····
George R. Friederich, Past Master
·
William B. McKesson, Past Master

47.56
43.22
10.08
11.54
25.26
45.20
22.76
43.62
43.62
48.60
48.60

Albany -·····-·····:.............No. 686..:.Anthony D. Bertino, Master
Frank R. Zamaroni, Senior Warden
Robert R. Pruden, Junior Warden
Frank S. Spires, Past Master
Wm. R. Ross, Past Master
Ambrose R. Graham, Past Master
Cecil E. Boekenoogen, Past Master
Vista ··························-····No. 687.... Jack R. Brenan, Senior Warden...................... 54.40
Oildale ··-··--·r·--....-.-No. 688.... Ralph Eikema, Master--·-·---········--·····--- 32.48
Edmond D. Pruett, Senior Warden
Henry G. Doble, Junior Warden
·
Fred C. Epperson, Past Master
E. Quist, Senior Warden................ 30.M
689._.Frederick
Pohona ····················---No.
San Carlos ......................No. 690.... M. Franklin Duxbury, Master
Earl R. Crawford, Senior Warden
Jack W. Webster, Junior Warden
Ferd Prince, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley ......No. 691....0. D. Kirby, U..ter---·-······················ 40.62
H. S. Clark, Senior Warden
' N. C. Viles, Junior Warden
R. H. Dudley, Past Master
J. H. Haycock, Past Master
Travelers ...............:... ___No. 692.... Thomas E. Gentry, Master....-·········-········· 7.24
Gilbert G. Green, Senior Warden
Donald E. Dawley, Junior Warden
Harry L. Jaspar, Past Master
J. H. D. Bassett, Past Master
Palm Springs -······-·-···No. 693.... Frederick A. Morrison, Senior Warden........ 50.46
Marvin Wade, Junior Warden
San Antonio ....................No. 69-t.... Fred S. Kennedy, Muter............................... 47.56
D. Jack Goddard, Senior Warden
Robert Collier, Past Master

476
Name of Lod&e

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
No. of Lodge

llepresentatl•a

477

Mileqe Allowed

Meudell --···-·····-······-·-·No. 695....A D. Sprayberry, Master......·-··--·············-·
Dewey A. Horton, Jr., Senior Warden
MacDowell Gardner, Junior Warden
Crossroads ···-······-·····-··No. 696.... Robert L. Harper, Senior Warden..-·-··-······
Martin Ettel, junior Warden
F. S. Firkins, Past Master
St. Elmo ···-··············-··No. 697.... Edmond 0. Burger, Master
Vernon R. Keays, Senior Warden
Robert H. Burrows, Junior Warden
John Wright Haugh, Past Master
William D. Stephens .... No. 698.... I. Earl Sage, Muter-----·--·········---·
Wybren Hiemstra, Senior Warden
Vierling Kersey, Junior Warden
John X. Turk, Past Master
.
Ralph G. Ritchie, Past Master
Bixby Knolls ...............•..No. 699.... Caslmir Chrostowski, Master-·--·-·---·-·-Mason C. Jurgensen, Senior Warden
Herbert E. Bromley, Junior Warden
Ponderosa ···········-····-···No. 7CXL.Edgar Theodore Ford, Muter---····--···-··
Paul M. Porter, Senior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley ···-···No. 701.._George E. Rodom, Senior Warden................
Rosemead -···--·--····_No. 702.... A. Houston Walker, Senior Warden.--·-·
Westchester ··-········-··-No• 703.-.Louls M. Hall, Mastu_________
James F. Davidson, Junior Warden
James L. Miles, Past Master
Orinda ··--·-····--·····No. 7C>L.Andrew Catherall, Master---·-----·-"
M. Blaine DeLeshe, Senior Warden
Richard Floegel, Junior Warden
Wilbur D. Crosby, Past Muter..............---···
Sherer G. Culver, Past Master
El Cerrito ···········-··-····-··No· 705-.. John L. Wixon, Master
•
Robert H. Ballance, Senior Warden
Gene C. Otwell, Past Master
Hunters Point Naval .... No. 706.... Charles B. Moore, Master
Alvie A. Larkin, Senior Warden
Lake Tahoe ·-···-······-No. 707.... Loudon F. Hillhouse, Senior Warden.·--·····
Seafaring ---···-····-·No. 708.... Herman W. Toedter, Junior Warden........_.
Lorenzo -·-··-·····-····-·No. 709.... Charles H. Sedam, Master
Linford W. Hunter, Junior Warden
Anacapa ....:.....................& 710.... Robert L. Wilcox, Master-·-··--·····-·······-··
Lewis A. Pugh, Senior Warden
Albert E. Taylor, Junior Warden
Rim of the World ..........No. 711....James M. Soutar, Master-···------········-···
Howard E. Grider, Junior Warden
Thomas E. Schrey, Past Muter
Los Altos --·-····--_No, 712._E. C. H. Carson, Muter-··-··------····-·····
John W. Stout, Junior Warden
Cutro Valley ··-····-·-·No. 713-.. John B. Barrone, Master ·
Wallace D. Harrell, Senior Warden
Charles W. Christensen, Junior Warden
Carl F. LaVo, P. M. and Inspector
Blue Lakes ·-·········---No. 71L.Carl V. Sch~ab, Master
Marion F. Shumaker, Senior Warden
Salvador Orville McDonaJd. Junior Warden

32.48
SO.M

Name ol Loclac

No. of Lodge

llepreaentad't'CI

Mileqe AllowN

Magnolia Park ·······-··--No. 71S.... Theodore A. Epstein, Senior Warden............ 47.56
Douglaa M. Wilson, Junior Warden
Belmont Shore ............-No. 716.... Frands H. Gentry, Master---·-···--···- 47.S6
Maurice Plumhe, Senior Warden
Charles M. DeTilla, Junior Warden
James D. Herdman, Past Master
Wayfarer --·-·········-·...No. 717....Eugene R. Conly, Master-·····-··--···--··- 48.78
Arthur K. Lovatt, Jr., Senior Warden
·
Richard M. Lustig, Junior Warden

47.56

Estero ·-·-···---·--U D •.-Samuel L. Borradori, Muter--·-·····-·····- 28.08
Charles E. Peter, Junior Warden
San Lorenzo Valley...... _U D..-Robert H. Ludlow, Senior Warden. ..·-·····- 6.32
Ernest L. Smith, Junior Warc:lm

47.56

Home
D,__ William H. Eyler, Master
Mineral King ·-···--U D.....J. B. Luth, Muter-------·-·····-·····--· 27.38
Harold Root. Senior Warden
Northern California
Irving Magnes, Master
D..... Elbert W. Davis, Senior Warden
Research
Herbert H. Schultz, Junior Warden
Southern California
Claude H. Morrison, P. G. M., Master
Research -··--•·-··-...-U D .....J. Everett Houser, Senior Warden
Samuel Steelman, Junior Warden
TOTAL······--···-···-··---··-····-·········· $25,187.76
NoTB: In accordance with the law, payments were made to Past Masters, where abown.
ID oflldal and authorized capacities, and not to Past Masters as such.
See reports of Committee on Credentials and Committee on Pay of Members.

23.76
35.16
47.56
47.56

1.60
1.60

25.56
49.6-t
-to.78
52.M
3.28

-·---·--·---U

--·-·-·-U·

478

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

Charter

With Date of Charters, Fees, Dues, and Membership for the Masonic Year
Ending July 31, A. L. 5952
Lodo•

No.

Location

Charter
luuecl

1 California ············-········ 1 San Francisco ....•... l SS'O
2 Western Star .....•.•••..•••• 2 Shasta ···············-··· 1SS'O
Sacramento ·······-··· lSS'O
3 Tehama ·-····················· 3
4 Benicia ········-·-············· J Benicia ......•.........•. lSS'O
J Tuolumne ••....•••.......•... S Sonora ···········-······· lSS'O
6 Corinthian ···············-··· 9 Marysville •........•...• l SS'O
7 San Jose-'-········-······- 10 San Jose ..............•• lSS'O
S Yount •.....•.....•............... 12
Napa ...................... lSH
Nevada City .•..•.••.. 1SS'1
9 Nevada ·-············-········· U
10 Temple ·········-··············· 14 Sonoma .................• lSS'l
11 Eureka ···················-····· 16 Auburn ...•.............• lSS'l
12· La Parfaite Union .......• 17 San Francisco ........ 1SS'2
13 Mountain Shade •......••. 1S Downieville .....•.....• 1SS'2
14 San Joaquin •..............••• 19 Stockton ·······-······· 1SS'2
Sacramento ............ 1SS'2
lS' Washington ·-····-········· 20
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1SS'2
16 Hawaiian ·-··············-··· 21
17 Occidental -·················· 22 San Francisco ........ 1S'J2
Grass Valley •......... l SS'3
lS Madison ·······-··············· 23
19 Mariposa •..••.••.••..........• 24 Mariposa ................ 1SS'3
Georgetown •......... 1SS'3
20 Georgetown -················ 2 J
21 El Dorado ••.................. 26 Placerville ....•...•..... l SS' 3
22 Trinity ·-······················· 27 Weaverville ............ l SS'3
23 Golden Gate .•.............• 30
San Francisco ........ 1SS'3
24 Gold Hill ····················- 3 2 Lincoln ·············-··· l SS' 3
Murphy's ................ 1SS'3
2S' Ophir --~·-····················- 33
26 San Diego •...•.........•••••• 3 J
San Diego .............. 1SS'3
27 Howard ..•..............•...... 37 Yreka •...............•... lSH
2S Santa Cruz •.............•..•.• 3S
Santa Cruz .............. lSH
29 Sacramento .•................ 40 Sacramento ............ lSH
Martinez ................ lSH
30 Martinez ........•............... 41
31 Loa Angeles .................. 42 Los Angeles •......... 1SS'4
El Dorado .............• lSH
32 Hiram ·······-················· 43
33 Mount Moriah .............. 44 San Francisco ........ 1SS'4
Crescent City •......• 1SJ4
34 Crescent ·················-····· 4S'
3S' Texas ....................•...•..• 46 San Juan ..•............. lSH
36 Porbestown ......•..........• JO Forbestown ............ lSH
Colfax ..................•. 1 SS'4
37 Illinoistown ·············-··· n
3S Suisun ·-················-····· S'S Suisun .................... lSH
39 Volcano .......•....•........... S'6 Volcano .................. lSH
40 Santa Rosa .................... J7
Santa Rosa ·······-··· lSH
Sacramento •........•.• lSS'S'
4.1 Union .•.............•........•• S'S
42 Gravel Range ......•.•.••.... S'9 Camptonville .......... lSS'S'
43 Plumas ···················-····· 60 Quincy ···········-····· lSS'S'
Oakland ••...........•.• lSS'S'
44 Live Oak ·-··········-······· 61
4S' Natoma ·-····················· 64 Folsom ....•..•...........• lS'JS'
46 Amador ....................•... 6S' Jackson •................. lSH
47 Forest •............•....•......... 66 Alleghany ··········'··· lSH
Stockton •.....•......... · lS'J'J
4S Morning Star .......•.......• 6S
49 Enterprise .....•............•• 70
Yuba City -·······-··· lSS'S'
S'O Bear Mountain ....•..•...... 76 Angel'a Camp ..•••..• lSS'S'
n Calaveras •..............•...... 7S San Andreas •......... lSS'S'
S'2 Humboldt ......•.......••...• 79
Eureka ···-··············· lSS'S'
S' 3 lone ·······-········-··········· 80 lone ........................ 1SS'6
Yolo ...................... 1SS'6
S'4 Yolo ···················-········· 81
Red Blulf •.•...........•. 1SS'6
S'S' Veaper ···········-····-····-· 84
Vallejo -·····-········· 18J6
f6 Naval ··············-··········· 87

479

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fea

100
S'O
7S'
7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
12S'
S'O
S'O
S'O
100
S'O

Aflll.
M•m·
Fea Due1 ben

20.00
6.00
10.00

12 S'S'l
12 1S'4
12 7Sl
12 223
2.00 12 244
12 433
S'.00 12 S'37
12 S'23
12 1 172
2.00 12 21S'
12 332
lS'.00 lS' 116
12
4S
12 796
so
7S' 10.00 12 SOl
l 7S' 10.00 . 12 470
100 2S'.OO lS 711
12 321
7S
·12 203
S'O
61
S'.00 12
S'O
S'.00 12 2S'9
7S'
S'.00 12 133
12S'
60 10.00 12 6S'9
1.00 12 112
S'O
4.00 12
77
S'O
12 1002
so
1.00 12 247
S'O
so 1.00 12 S'33
7S' ' 10.00 12 73S'
12 393
7S'
70 10.00 12 7S'9
9S'
7S' 10.00 12
100 10.00 12 412
6.00 12 . 1S3
S'O
S'4
1.00 12
S'O
S'.00 12 lOS
S'O
12
90
60
12 224
7S'
72
S'O 10.00 12
S'.00 12 609
7S'
7S' 10.00 12 726
12
69
S'O
2.S'O 12 207
12S'
7S' 2S'.OO 12 1031
S'.00 12 229
S'O
S2
S'.00 12
S'O
12
29
S'O
12 634
so
S'.00 12 333
S'O
74
3.00 12
S'O
SS' 10.00 12 llS'
lS 46S
S'O
12
90
rn
12
92
S'O
12 233
100
7S' 10.00 12 1219

Location
luuecl
FHI
Lodo•
No.
Smartville
......•..•.•..
1S'J6
S'O
'J7 Ro1e'1 Bar ·····-············· S9
Fort Jonea -············ 1SS'6
S'O
'JS North Star ·············-····· 91
St. Helena ·-··········· 1SS'6
S'O
'J9 St. Helena ·············-····· 93
Sutter Creek ....••.•.. 1SS'6
60
· 60 Henry Clay ·······-····-··· 9'J
Hornitoa ....•.•......... 1S'J6
S'O
61 Homitos -···········-······· 9S
S'O
62 Yoaemite ••......•.•..•..•.•..• 99 Merced ........•......... 1SS'6
Dutch Flat ........•..... l SS' 6
S'O
63 Clay ···················-······-·101
Oroville ..........•....... 1S'J6
S'O
64 Oroville -···-·····-········103
El Monte ................ 1SS'6
lS'O
6'J Lexington ····-··············104
100
66 Arcata --··········-•········106 Arcata ··············-···· 1SS'7
7S'
67 Pajaro -····-····-·······-·110 Watsonville .......•.... 1SS'7
Chico ·············-······· 1SS'7
7S'
6S Chico -····--·······-·-···111
Knight's Ferry ...•..•• 1SS'7
S'O
69 Summit -·······-----~-112
San Leandro .•....•... 1SS'7
7S'
70 Eden ······-·········-·-···--113
Sacramento ·-········· 1SJ7
7S'
71 Concord ·--··-·-·-······-117
100
72 Fidelity ·-··--········---···120 San Francisco ..••.•.• lSS'S
7S'
73 Alamo -··-······--···-·-··122 Walnut Creek ••...... lSS'S
lSS'S
7S'
74 Sotoyome ··············-·····123 · Healdsburg
7'J Table Mountain •••••••••• 124 Paradise ·············-··· lSS'S
SO
S'O
76 La Fayette -··········'··..... 126 Sebastopol ......•....... lSS'S
San
Francisco
.......•
lSS'S
7S'
77 Hermann ·-··········-·······127
7S'
7S Visalia -·····-····-···········12S Visalia •..................• 1SS'9
79 Nicolaus .....••.....•..•.•..~.•.129 Wheatland ·······-··· 1S'J9 • S'O
Woodbridge .....•...• 1SS'9
S'O
SO Woodbridge ···········--·131
Greenville .............. 1SS'9
100
Sl Sincerity ···-······-········-132.
7'J
S2 Vacaville ·············--·-··134 Vacaville .......•........ 1SS'9
Linden .................... 1S60
S'O
S3 Valley ·······-······--·-13J
San Francisco .•.....• 1S60
100
S4 Pacific ·················-······-·136
1S60
7S'
SS' Crockett .•••••••.••..•••.••••••• 139 San Francisco
S'O
S6 Curti1 ······-·····-·······--·1.CO Cloverdale ·········-··· l S60
Knights Landing .... 1S60
S'O
S7 Grafton ·······-····-··-··'··141
Courtland ·-··········· 1S61
7'J
SS Franklin ..h··········-····-·-143
100
S9 Oriental .......................:1-u San Francisco · ·····-· 1S61
Bloomfield .............. l S61
S'O
90 Vitruvius ·-··-··········-···14J
Ukiah -··--······-·· 1S61
S'O
91 Abell -····-······-···-..:••_.146
S'O
92 Ed River ·-···········---147 Fortuna ...•........•..... 1S61 60
93 Lassen ·-··········-···········149 Susanville .............. 1S62
Tehama .................. 1S62
S'O
94 Molino ·······-··········-·····1 S'O
S'O
9S' Woodland ·-····-···-·-l 'J6 W ood1and ·-··········· 1S63
Milton .................... 1S63
S'O
96 Keyatone ·-·······-·····-···161
Sierra City .............• l S64
S'O
97 Harmony ···········--··-···164
San Francisco
1S64
7S'
9S Excelsior ·············-·······166
Centerville ......•......• 1S64
7'J
99 Alameda ·-··········-----167
Redwood City ........ · 1S64
100
100 Redwood City ·······-·-··168
San Francisco .......• 1S64
100
101 Mission ············-····-·····169
Elk Grove ···-········· 1S6S'
S'O
102 Elk Grove -···--·--·-173
S'O
103 Drytown ·-····--····-···-174 Plymouth ...........•.. 1S6S'
7S'
104 Antioch ··---··-·---·-17'J Antioch .................• 1S6S'
San Bernardino ...... 1S66
7S'
lO'J Phoenix ..•..:....... _........... 17S
S'O
106 Mendocino ··-····--··-·179 Mendocino ............ 1S66
SO
107 Petaluma ·-·············--180 Petaluma •.•............. 1S66
Windsor ...•............ 1S66
7S'
lOS Russian River ······-········181
S'O
109 ·Arbuckle ·-··········-··-···182 Arbuckle .....•.......... 1S67
Lower Lake •........... 1S67
S'O
110 Clear Lake ....................181
Sierraville .............• l S67
S'O
111 Sierra Valley ................184
Point Arena ··-······· 1S67
S'O
112 Claiborne ·-·········---···lH
S'O
113 Evening Star ·-·············186 Etna Mills ·········-··· 1S67
S'O
114 Keith ··-····--··-·-··-187 Gilroy ,.................... l S6S
11 J Oakland ·-···-·--·--·-··188 Oakland -·-·······- l S6S
7S'

Affll.
Mem·
Fea Due1 ban

S'.00
'J.00

1.00
10.00
S'.00
1.00
10.00
S'.00
10.00
lS'.00
S'.00
1.00
10.00
S'.00
S'.00
12.00
20.00
2S'.OO
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
2S'.00
1.00

1.00
2.S'O
S'.00
20.00
S'.00
1.00
S'0.00
10.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
S'.00
1.00
10.00
S'.00
2.00
1.00

12
12
lS'

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12

33
62
130
79
103
469
94

34S'
HS
300
393
490
46
426
369
lS' S'S'6
lS' 428
lS' 187
12 187
12 219
12 208
lS' S'71
12 109
12 177
12
98
12 220
12
9S'
12 611
lS' S'87
12
72
12 114
18 138
1 S' 382
12 126
12 291
12 239
12 . 232
12 164
12 287
12
30
12
24
12 S'lO
12 178
18 S'82
12 704
12 13S'
12
S'O
12 347
12 660
12 124
12 343
12 119
12
81
12
76
12
39
12
6S'
12
S'6
12 181
12 9S'S'

480

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Chart.,

loclt•

No.

116 Northern Light ·---190
117 Marin -··-·----·-191
118 Santa Barbara ----192
119 Ferndale ··-····-··-·-····193
120 Mountain View --194
121 Buckeye ·····-··-----19"
122 San Simeon __:_____t96
123 Wilmington -----198
124 Hardey ......
..199
127 Truckee -···--·--lOO
126 Silveyville ·-·-··--201
127 Pentalpha ·-··----202
128 Confidence _ ............-203
129 Salinas - · - · - - 2 0 4
130 Olivet - - - 2 0 f
131 Stanislaus ---·--·206
132 .Anaheim -·-·--10'1
133 Rio Vista ····-··-··--·-208
134 Kinr David's ·----209
13' Friendship ···-·-···--210
136 San Btnito ··-·----·-211
137 So. San Francisco ........212
138 San Buenaventura ........214
139 Oak Grove
2U
140 Doric
216
141 Monterey _ _ _ _ .217
142 Mosaic --··--·-··218
143 Speranr;a Italian& -·-···219
144 Downey -·--·-··-220
14f Inyo .............................. 221
146 RoaeVJ11e •
221
147 Bakerafield - - - 2 2 4
148 Broo~lyn - - - 2 2 f
149 San Mateo ---·--···-226
1fO .Athen1 ----·---228
I fl Solano _ _...l29
U2 North Butte _ _ 230
UJ C.Ovelo •
_2n
1f4 Janesville
lJl
Uf Caliltora - ·
2JJ
1"6 Hope ···-·-·--234
1f7 Surprise Valley _ _23'
1f8 Hill's Ferry _____2J6
l f9 Guadalupe -----2J7

160 C.01111& -

240

161 Santa .Ana
241
162 Magnolia
242
16J Eucalyptua _____24J
164 .Alcatrar;
·-·244
16f Laurel - - - - - 2 4 f
166 Pomona
167 Fresno
247
168 .Alturu
248
169 .Adin -····-··--·-·-·········lfO
170 Landmark - · · - - 2 ' 3
171 Readinr ..
--2f4
172 Lodi
Welcome
· -_
· ·_
- -_
· 2.2f6
ff
l'IS
__

------246

1'4 Pemhyn - - - - 2 f l

locatfo11

luuecl

Millville -····-·····-·· 1868
San Rafael -·--·- 1868
Santa Barbara ........ 1868
Ferndale ................ 1869
Mountain .View ...... 1869
Winters .................. 1869
Cambria .................. 1869
Wilmington ............ 1869
Lakeport ·-·······-· 1869
Truckee · - · - - · - 1869
Dixon ············-····· 1869
Loa .Angeles .......... 1869
Castroville .............. 1869
Salinu .................... 1869
Corning ·-·········-··· 1870
Modesto ·-······-·- 1870
.Anaheim -·--···-··· 1870
Rio Vista · - - - - 1870
San Luis Obispo .... 1870
San Jose ·-······-···· 1871
Hollister ..•••••.•..•.••• 1871
San Francisco ........ 1871
Ventura .................. 1871
.Alameda --··-··· 1871
San Francisco ........ 1871
Monter~y - - - - · - 1871
Livermore -·--···- 1872
San Prancisco -··-· 1872
Downey·-··--·--·- 1872
Independence --··· 1872
Roseville · - - - - 1912
Bakersfield ...........- 1873
El.It Oakland ........ 1873
San Mateo --··--· 1873
Davis ...................... 1873
Vallejo ·--······-- 1873
Gridley -···-·-- 1873
Covelo -··-···-·- 1874
Janesville
1874
Caliltoga · ................ 1874
Beckwourth ·-····- 1874
Cedarville --··--- 1874
Newman ·------ 1874
Santa Maria--·--- 1874
Colusa ---··-·-··· 187'
Santa .Ana ······-· 1876
Santa Barbara - · - 1876
Hayward -·-·-·- 1876
Weat Oakland ........ 1877
Willows --·---- 1877
Pomona - - · · - 1877
Premo ---·····-·· 1878
.Alturu
1878
A.din
1878
Beparto - · - - 1879
Reddinr · - - · - 1879
Lemoore -···-·-- 1879
Lodi ·-·---···- 1879
Pcnrhyn - - 1880

481

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

l'MI

Allll.
MFeet D- IMn
90
5.00 12

fO
100 10.00
7f .
50

100
7f
fO
100

f.00
f .00

fO

3.00
f .00
f .00
20.00

60
60
100
7f
7f
fO

7f
fO
7f
80
7f
fO
7f
7f
7f
100
75
7f
100
100

lf
U
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
12

1.00
1.00
f.00
1.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

12
12
12

12
12
12
12
12
12
15
lf

10.00

12
12
12
rn f.00 12
fO
UO 12
100
If
7f
15
100
18
fO
12
75 10.00 12
fO
12
rn
12
75
1.00 12
fO
f.00 12
50 10.00 12
50
1.00 12
fO 10.00 12
7f 10.00 12
50 10.00 18
7f
1.00 12
7f
1f
99
12
7f 10.00 12
fO · f.00 12
fO
2.00 12
80
3.00 12
50
1.00 12
fO
2.00 If
50
1.00 12
fO
f.00 12
7f
12
fO
ll
fO 3.00 12

H7

343

101
339

142
97
f8f
238
111
U4
f41
fl

HO
118
62'
432
lH
418
72f
164
264
401
634
501
260
185
318
f74
161
348

804
604

f05
16'

586
204
64
160
116
124
74
U3
168
1"9
f86
403
4H
647
237
391
702
180
lOf
119
212
212
38f
U3

Lodt•
No.
175 Evergreen ········-·-····-2f9
176 King Solomon'• ---260
177 Tuscan
261
178 Lompoc ---·-----262
179 Hesperian ·-·-·---264
180 Orland -······-·-----26f
181 North East .............- ..266
182 Galt - - - - "..- · 267
183 Durant ·-·-·-·-·-·--268
184 Olive Branch .............-269
185 Snow Mountain ___ 271
186 Pasadena -····-·-····--272
187 .Anchor -····-·---273
188 Arroyo -·-·--·--274
189 Oakdale -···-·--···-27'
190 Selma - - · - - - - 2 7 7
191 Southern California ...... 278
192 Hanford -·---·---279
193 Madera ····-·······--280
194 Mount Shasta •..•..•••-281
195 Callayomi ·-···-·······---282
196 South West ...............-283
197 San Miguel _ ...............28f
198 Paso Robles ..............-286
199 Winnedumah .........-287
200 Maxwell -···--······-·288
201 Elsinore ...................-289
202 Ea&t Gate ......................290
203 Santa Paula •••••:............291
204 Loa Gato1 ................-292
205 Orange Grove ......-~293
206 Traver ·-··~--294
207 Mt. Jacbon ..:..._••-29f
208 Silver Gate --······-296
209 Dunsmuir ·-······---297
210 Liberty ·-···--······--299
211 Redlands ·-·-·-·--·-·JOO
212 Ontario .....
JOI
213 Santa Lucia -····-··-J02
214 Porterville · - - - - 3 0 J
21' Reedley -···--···-104
216 Azusa --······-·-·---JOf
217 .Ashlar -·····-·····-··-J06
218 Santa Monica --····--J07
219 Monrovia - ·
J08
220 Delano ---···--J09
221 Sisson _ _ _ _JIO
222 Loe Bano• _ _ _ _.Jn
223 Tehachapi _ _ _ _Jn
224 Temescal ______ 314
22' Norwalk · · - - - - - J U
226 Sanger _ _ _ _ U6
227 Fallbrook _ _ u 7
228 Emmanuel -·----UB
229 Hollenbeck
Jl9
230 South Gate
120
231 .Alisa! ·-····-··-···--··-311
232 .Alhambra --·---122
233 Whittier ···----12S

Location

Chart•
Issued

Riverside ................ 1880
San Francisco ........ 1880
Williams -··--·-··· 1880
Lompoc .................. 1881
Santa Maria.·-··-··· 1882
Orland ..•........•..•••. 1882
Fort Bidwell .......... 1882
Galt ........................ 1883
Berkeley ····-·-······ 1883
Tulare .................... 1883
Stony Ford ............ 1884
Pasadena ................ 1884
Comptt>n .•..•..••.•••... 1884
.Arroyo Grande ••..•• 1884
Oakdale •................. 1884
Selma ...................... 188f
Los .Angeles .......... 188 5
Hanford -··········- 188f
Madera .................. 188 5
.Anderson .............. 1886
Middletown ..•..•...... 1887
National City ........ 1887
San Miguel ............ 1887
Paso Robles .•..•....... 1887
Bishop .................... 1887
Maxwell -···········- 1888
Elsinore .................. 1888
Los .Angeles .......... 1888
Santa Paula •......•••.• 1888
Los Gatos .............. 1888
Orange •................. 1889
Kingsburg .............. 1889
Guemeville ............ 1889
San Diego ·-·····-·- 1889
Dunsmuir .............. 1889
Santa Clara ......•..... 1890
Redland1 •••.•..•.•...... 1890
Ontario .................. 1890
Kings' City ............ 1890
Porterville -······-··· 1890
Reedley ·--········-··· 1891
.Aiusa .................... 1891
Colton .................... 1891
Santa Monica ........ 1891
Monrovia .............. 1891
Delano --··-····- 1892
Mount Shuta ........ 1892
Los Banos ·-··········· 1892
Tehachapi •...••..••.... 1892
Corona ······-········· 1893
Norwalk ..••...•.•...... 1893
Sanger .................... 1893
Pallbrook ................ 1893
Bigga -··----··· 1893
Los .Ange.lea .......... 1894
Los Angeles .......... 1894
Pleasanton ··-··--··· 1894
.Alhambra .............. 1894
Whittier .................. 189f

.....75

75
fO

,,.

Atlll.

feq

U.00
1.00

75

Duq

12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

80

2.00
f.00
f.00
f.00

75

1.00

12
12

6.00
1.00
12.00

12
12

50
50

rn

,,.
,,.
,,.
,,.

12f
50
80

50
50
50
50

75

,,.rn
,,.
,,.,,.

15

lf

3.00
f.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

75
75
75
10.00

50

1.00

50
50

80
50
75

7'J

,,.

10.00

50

50

75
75

10.00

H

,,.

80

100
fO
75
75
50
75

,,.
,,.
,,.

2.00
1.00
2.00
f.00

H
50

5.00

100

10.00
25.00

50

7f.

lf

12
12

u

12
12
12
12
12
15
12
15
12

Mem·
ber1

643
489
89
188
359
U7
,.,
86
'32
314
41
HJ
,...,.

U6
188
227
H6
225'
268
92
65

439
6f
2'3
208
72
159
833
u 350
12 316
18 267
12 158
18 133
12 1221
12 304
12 31'
12 444
12 384
lf 148
12 472
12 163
12 259
12 283
12 383
u 293
12 234
12 108
12 U7
12 204
12 226
12 265
12 327
12 145
12
80
12 1044
15 642
12 137
12 644
12 716

482

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
LodQ•

No.

234 Corona --···-·-·-·······--324
23" Consuelo --·····-···-·--32"
236 Needles ·······-·······-·-··-326
237 Long Beach -····-···-··-327
238 Redondo ····-···········-···328
239 Vallee de France •.....•... 329
240 Kilauea ···-···-····-···---330
241 Pacific Grove -··········-··331
242 San Pedro -·····-···----332
243 Alta -·········-·····-··-·--333
244 Covina -······-·········-·--334
245 West Gate ·······-·······--33"
246 Fruitvale ·················-·-336
247 Carquinez ·-······-····-·····337
248 San Jacinto ··-·········-···338
249 Fullerton ·················-··339
250 Oxnard ············-···---·-341
251 San Fernando ·······-·····343
252 Starr King ·-·-·········--··344
253 Brentwood -···········-·····34f
254 Palo Alto ·············-·······346
255 McKinley ..•.•.•.....•...•.-347
256 San Bernardino .........•.. 348
257 Sequoia -·····················349
258 Palestine ···-··············--·3fl
259 Sunset -···-·····-···--3 52
260 Pinole ·-···············-···--3f3
261 Presidio ··················-····3 f 4
262 Hollywood ··-···············•3ff
263 Mill Valley •...•.....•.......•. 356
264 Buena Park --~····-····-··3 f7
265 Golden . State -········- --358
266 Loyalton ······-········-·····3f9
267 San Francisco ..........•••••• 360
268 Fort Bragg ·-···············-361
269 Charity .....•..•••...••..••••••••362
270 Berkeley ·················-·---363
271 Willits ·-······-·······-····-36f
272 Las Palmas ·-····-····-···-366
273 South Pasadena ······--··367
274 Unity ·-····-·--··-···-··-368
275 Ocean Park .•••.•.•...•.••_.369
276 Amity -··········-···----370
277 Le Progres de l'Oceanie 371
278 Gardena ·····-·-·······---372
279 West Los Angeles •....... 373
280 Jewel ·······-··-·-·-···-·374
281 Richmond ··············--·37f
282 Francis Drake ·······-·····376
283 Artesia -····-··········..-·3'.'7
284 Mizpah ·······-··············-378
285 Fillmore ·················-····379
286 Huntington Beach ......•. 380
287 Oceanside ·-····-··--·-381
288 Highland Park •.....•...•••.382
289 Orosi -···-·····-·····-·····-383
290 El Centm ••••••••...••••.••..•.384
291 Dinuba ·····················--·38f
292 Coalinga -···----·:--387

Location

Charter
lnued

Fees

Pasadena ··············- 1895
Escondido •............• 1895
Needles .................. 1896
Long Beach ............ 1896
Redondo ••............•. 1897
Los Angeles
1897
Hilo, T. H •••......••.• 1897
Pacific Grove •....... 1897
San Pedro .............. 1897
Bridgeport ......•....... 1897
Covina ...•................ 1898
Los Angeles •......... 1899
Oakland ·r············· 1899
Crockett ................ 1899
San Jacinto ···-······· 1899
Fullerton ..................1900
Oxnard .............•.... 1901
San Fernando ••...•.... 1902
San Francisco ........ 1902
Brentwood··-·········· 1902
Palo Alto .............. 1902
Richmond .............. 1902
San Bernardino ...... 1902
Oakland ................ 1902
Los Angeles .......... 1903
Los Angeles ....•....• 1903
Pinole ...................• 1903
San Francisco ..... :.. 1903 ·
Hollywood ..........•. 1903
Mill Valley ••••...•..•.•. 1903
Buena Park ............ 1903
Los Angeles .......... 1904
Loyalton ...............• 1904
San Francisco .....•.. 1904
Fort Bragg'········-··· 1904
Campbell ................ 1904
Berkeley ...............• 1904
Willits ·-··········-····· 190f
Fresno .................... 1905
South Pasadena····- 1905 ..
Glendale .......•......•. 190f
Ocean Park ............ 1905
San Francisco
1905
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1905
Gardena ................ 1906
West Los Angeles.... 1906
San Francisco ........ 1906
San Francisco ........ 1906
So. San Francisco •. 1906
Artesia .................... 1906
Los Angeles
1906
Fillmore .................. 1906
Huntington Beach.. 1906

100
50
75
100
100
100
125
75
80
53
50
125
100
50
50
75
75
75
100
50
100
75
75
100
100
75
75
100
125
80
30
75
50
100
75
50
75
50
80
75
100
80
100
175
105
75
100
100
100
50
100
50
75

Orosi .....•................ 1907
El Centro .............. 1907
Dinuba .................. 1907 ·
Coalinga .....•..••.....• 1907

50
75
50
100

~:a~~~le~··:::::::::: ~~g~

~~

Affil.
Mem·
Fees Dues bars

........
1.00
25.00
12.00
25.00
5.00
25.00

1.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
15.00

5.00
5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
3.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
1.00
5.00

15 475
12 264
12 356
12 584
12 521
15 125
12 233
15 264
15 506
12
94
12 314
15 1041
16 899
12 206
12 103
12 382
15 385
12 535
15 537
12 141
12 725
12 494
12 717
15 1090
12 598
15 388
12 176
12 519
12 1213
15 439
12 223
12 840
12 . 99
12 31 7
12 129
12 151
12 664
12 155
12 1011
12 582
12 628
12 509
18 464
12 701
12 331
15 406
12 192
12 541
18 356
12 176
12 440
15 239
12 311

g ~~~

15
12
12
12

14

4 2 ~,

288
393

483

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
..,;.....,,.~·

lodQe

l
No.

293 Parnassus ·-····-····-····-388
294 Palos Verdes ········----389
295 Imperial ···-··-···-···---390
296 East Belt --·-····----391
297 West Lake ·--··-·····-····392
298 Balder ·····-·-·····-·--393
299 University ··--·-··---.394
300 Turlock ·-·-·-···-········-39f
301 Apollo -·····-·-······---396
302 Rising Light ·············--397
303 Fraternity ·-··-····-·····-399
304 Burlingame ·-··········-···400
305 Bay View..••..·-···-·········401
306 Brawley ··············--··--402
307 Yerba Buena ·······-···-··403
308 Glendora ·-···-··--·······404
309 Moneta ···········---··-···40f
310 Burbank ············-···-·····406
311 La Mesa ···-·-··--···-····407
312 Sierra Madre •.••...•.•.••.•.408
i 13 Honolulu ·-····-···-····--409
314 Charter Rock ·········-·-··410
315 Perris --··-····-····-·······411
316 Calexico -······-·······-···412
317 Arlington ······-········-····414
318 Silver Trowel -····-·····-41f
319 Lindsay ·········-····-·-····416
3 20 Clovis ·-···-···--······-··417
321 Elysian ······-·--·····--418
322 Upland ········--------419
323 Kerman .!..•••·-····-·······-420
324 Inglewood ··············-··421
325 Eagle Rock ·-·········--.422
326 York ······-····-·-···········423
327 Exeter ·-····-·-····-·---424
328 Holtville ···--···············42f
329 Midway •......•.....•.....•..•.426
330 Chino Valley ·-····-·······427
331 San Dimas ·-··-··-··-···-428
3 32 Pittsburg ·-···-·····-·····-429
3 3 3 McCloud ·--··-·---430
334 .Alpha -····-···-···---431
33f Hammonton ·-······-····433
336 Maricopa ······-······-·····434
337 Fairmount ··-·--······---43f
338 Claremont ···-····-····-··-436
339 Lancaster ·················--437
340 Acacia ·-····-········-·······438
341 Tyrian ·-·-·-·-·····--439
342 Standard ····--·······-·-440
343 Coronado ··-··-··-···-····441
344 Blackmer ··-··-········-···442
345 Schofield ····-···-···-·-···443
346 Carpinteria -··········-···444
347 Wilshire ······-·····-····-···44f
348 La Puente ·················-···446
349 Torrance ·····-·--····-····-447
3 50 Mt. Diablo ......•••.•••.•••••.448

Location

Charter
Issued

San Francisco ..•..... 1907
Long Beach .•••.....•.. 1907
Imperial .....•..••...... 1908
Tuolumne ·-······-··· 1908
Los Angeles ••.......• 1908
San Francisco ......•. 1908
Los Angeles •........• 1908
Turlock ••................ 1908
Alameda •......•........ 1908
Huntington Park.. 1908
San Jose ••...•.......... 1908
Burlingame ·······-··· 1908
Oakland .•...........••• 1909
Brawley •...•...•.•.••.... 1909
Oakland •....••...•...•• 1909
Glendora ................ 1909
Los Angeles •....••..• 1909
Burbank •.....•.......•• 1909
La Mesa ·-··············· 1910
Sierra Madre •......... 1910
Honolulu, T. H .••.. 1910
Berkeley .•.........•.... 1910
Perris ..•......•.•.......• 1910
Calexico ................ 1910
Los .Angeles .......•.... 1910
Hollywood .............. 1910
Lindsay ........•......... 1910
Clovis ..•................• 1910
Los Angeles .......... 1910
Upland ·············-··· 1911
Kerman ·········-······· 1911
Inglewood .............. 1911
Eagle Rock ·-········· 1911
Los Angeles ............ 1912
Exeter ..............•..... 1912
Holtville ................ 1912
Taft ·-····················· 1912
Chino ·-················· 1912
San Dimas·····-······· 1912
Pittsburg .........•...... 1912
McCloud ................ 1912
Richmond ...........•.• 1912
Hammonton
1913
Maricopa ..•............• 1913
San Francisco ........ 1913
Claremont ·-··········· 1913
Lancaster ········-······ 1913
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1913
Manteca •..•............ 1913
Oakland ·····-········· 1914
Coronado ·-··········· 1914
San Diego ....•.••.....• 1914
Schofield
Barracks, T. H ... 1914
Carpinteria .•......•••• 1914
Los Angeles •......•.. 1914
Puente ···············-··· 1914
Torrance •.......•......• 1914
Concord ••••.•••.•...... 1914

Faas

Affil.

Feea

Dues

Members

100 10.00 15 756
125
12 714
75 10.00 12 126
50
5.00 12
90
100 50.00 12 926
100 20.00 12 500
100 10.00 12 616
80
15' 386
75
1.00 12 468
100
12 1033
100
5.00 12 452
100
18 659
75
5.00 12 618
75
15 209
100 25.00 15 889
50
12 149
105
12 709
100
5.00 12 684
100
3.00 12 519
75
12 152
175 10.00 12 395
75
5.00 12 353
50
3.00 12 148
50
5.00 12 159
75
15 353
125 10.00 12 399
50
18 222
80
12 443
75 25.00 12 456
50
3.00 12 209
75
12 116
125 25.00 12 702
100
12 512
100 25.00 12 345
50
12 21S'
75
12 140
50
12 fOl
50
12 137
55
12 166
75
1.00 12 300
50
12
98
75
12 500
50
12
61
50
12 179
100
15 478
50
12 118
75
6.00 12 290
75 10.00 18
59
50
12 178
75
15 350
75
12 386
80
12 1241
125
50
125
50
110
75

5.00
25.00
1.00

12
12
12
12
15
12

260
119
566
156
398
~22

485

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Contin ued

UST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Contin ued
Charter
LoclcJe

No.

3S'1 Park ·······-·············--449
3S'2 Van Nuy11 -··----4S'O
3S'3 Montebello _ _ _ _4n
35'4 San Paaqual ---···--4S'2
3H Bethlehem ·····--·-·-.·-4S'J
3S'6 Crocker ·-···-·-·-·--4H
3S'7 Golden West --···-4S'S'
3"8 Ramona ·- - -- --4f7
H9 Henry S. 0nQe..•.·--···4S'8
360 Riverbank -·--··-··-··4S'9
361 Mount Oso ·····-··-··460
362 .Argonaut ·-···-··--461
363 Paul Revere - - ·····--461
364 Morgan Hill ••••..•.•••- .•463
36S' Alta Vista -··-·-··--464
366 Center -·-··----46S'
367 Libertas _______466
368 Culver City ·---··-···467
369 Rockridge ····-·-···--···468
370 Yorba Linda ·····---·····469
371 Lincoln -··---·---470
372 Delta - - - - ·---471
373 Maui -····--··--471
374 Blythe -·-··-----473
37S' Victory ·····-·-·-··--·474
376 America -··--·-47S'
377 Coachella --····--476
378 Temblor _ _ _477
379 Thousand Oaks ·-·-·····478
380 Golden Rule ···-··--····479
381 Fellowship ·--···-·--480
382 Mt. Davidaon _ _ _481
383 Clarence F. Smith ____ 482
384 Bell - · - - - · · · - 4 8 3
38S' Albert Pike --·-··--484
386 Chowchilla _____48S'
387 Caledonia ______486
388 Vallejo · - - - ··--487
389 Patteraon ·-··-···---488
390 East Bay ·-····-·-·--489
391 Corcoran _ _ _ 490
491
392 Woodstock 393 Garvanza ·--·---492
394 Atucadero _ _ _ _493
39S' Acom - · · · - - - - 4 9 4
49S'
396 Lebanon ·-497
397 Fremont
398 Stockton ·-·-·--498
399 Capital City ···-·-··---499
400 Roosevelt ·-·-·-·-··-·S'OO
401 Westwood _ _ _ S'Ol
402 Harbor ·- ·· · - - - f O l
403 Point -··-······-S'03
404 Seaaide - - - · - - S ' 0 4
40S' Silver Cord -·-·-·-·S'OS'
'406 Mount Olive ____ S'06
407 El Segundo _ _ _ _ ro7
408 Joppa ··-······-·-·-··f08
409 Benjamin Franklin ··-·-f09

Location

luued

San Francisco ........ 1914
Van Nuye ·····--····· 1914
Montebello ·- -··-··· 1914
Pasadena ·-··········:.• 1914
San Francisco ...•...• 191 S'
Daly City •..•.•......•• 1915'
San Francisco ······- 191 S'
Monterey Park -···· 191 S'
Los Angeles ·-······· 191 S'
Riverbank ·-··········· 191 S'
Tracy ··-··············-·· 1916
San Francisco ••.....• 1916
San Francisco ·····-· 1916
Morgan Hill ••........ 1916
San Francisco •.•..•.. 1916
Fresno ···-····-···-···· 1916
Bakersfield -·-······ 1917
Culver City -··-······ 1917
Oakland •...•.•.•..••... 1917
Yorba Linda ••..•....• 1918
San Francisco •....... 1918
Stockton ·····-·--··- 1918
Kahului, T. H-·-··· 1918
Blythe .•.•...•.•••........ 1919
San Francisco •....... 1919
Los Angeles .••....•.• 1920
Coachella -···-·-··- 1920
Fellows ············-···· 1920
Berkeley ······-········ 1920
San Jose --·,-····-··· 1920
Oakland ·······-······· 1920
San Francisco ·-····· 1920
Los Angeles ·-······· 1920
Bell ·-··············--··· 1920
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1920
Chowchilla .•.•....•..• 1920
Bakersfield ·--······- 1920
Vallejo -···-···-··- 1920
Patterson ·····-·····- 1920
South Berkeley ···- 1920
Corcoran -·-····-··· 1920
Alameda ·-·--··· 1920
Los Angeles -·-·· 1920
1920
Atascadero
Oakland ·-····-······· 1920
San Francisco -·-··· 1921
Oakland · - - - · - 1921
Stockton -···--···· 1921
Sacramento -·······- 1921
San Francisco -····· 1921
Westwood ·-·····-···· 1921
Richmond - ··---· 1921
Richmond ·······-····· 1921
Long Beach ·-········· 1921
Santa Ana ·-···-···· 1921
Los Angelea ·--···-· 1921
El Segundo - - - · 1921
San Joaquin -······· 1921
Loa .Angele• --··- 1911

Fe..

7S'
12S'
100
?S'
100
7S'
7S'
7S'
12S'
7S'
80
80
100
S'O
7'1
80
100
100
12S'
S'O
100
80

Mem·
Aflll.
Fees Dues ben

10.00
10.00

lS'

10.00
10.00

12
12
12

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00

10.00
10.00
S'.00
2S'.00

'J.00

1.00
10.00

5.00
10.00
2.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S'.00
10.00

1.00
25.00

1.00

506

791
580
S'OO
296
409

S'78
484

687
144
12 303
18 43"
12 607
12 1S'9
lS' 267
12 S'29
H 610
l'J 3H
12 488
12 1S'3
1S' 344
12 484
12 246
12 140
18 293
12 S'OO
12 198
1S' 148
lS' S'02
12 622
12 329
18 401
1S' 368
12 632
lS' 2S'7
12 160
12 500
12 388
12 113
12 399
12 123
12 '425
12 304
12 117
1S' 604
18 390
16 S'24
12 192
12 '107
12 207
12 271
12 S'73
12 270
12 495
12 474
12 999
12 346
82
12
lS' 360

lS'
lS'

8'J

7S'
100
7S'
7S'
S'O
7S'
7S'
7S'
100
7'J
100
100
100
100
7S'
'JO
7S'
7S'
7S'
7'J
7S'
80
100
100
80
7S'
7'J
S'O
7S'
7S'
100
7S'
12S'
S'O
S'O
100

12
12
12
12

No.

Loclve

'410 Cupertino ······-····-·--S'lO
411 Sunnyvale

·-··········-··-fl 1

'412 Palms .,.--····--··---f12
413 Cahuenga -·- ·- ··---- fU
414 Argonne ··-·------"14
415' Vermont Square ·····-···fl 'J
416 Taft ·······-·······--·······-f16
'417 Mount Vernon ·····---'17
418 La Jolla ···--··- -·--- -"18
419 Euclid ·-····--·-··-'19
420 Ionic ·-··--··--··········-S'20
421 Piedmont ···········--·······fll
'422 Sunrise ·············-··--·--fll
423 Bellflower --·-···----fl3
424 Catalina Island ·········--'14
'425 George Waahington •..• S'2f
'426 Bay City -···-····----'16
'427 Covenant -·--··----717
428 Beverly Hills -··-···--S'28
429 Loyalty ·············-···-····'19
430 Sun Garden -···-····-·---'30
431 Alexandria ···-- --······--S'31
432 Smyrna ·····--- -···-- -'32
433 Azure --··- ····----f33
434 Forest Hill ·············-·--'34
43" ·Alexander Hamilton •.•. f3f
436 Seal Rock - ······- ··--··-'36
437 Utopia - - ·-···-··-··-'37
438 Ascot - · - -·- ·---"38
439 Belvedere -·····-············f39
440 Queen Beach ···-·-··---f40
441 Henry Morse Stephens S'41
442 North H61fywood _____S'42
443 Signal ······-·--·-- ···-·-·f43
'444 Glendale ·······-····-·-····f44
44S' Jonathan ······-·····--'4f
446 San Gabriel ···-········-··· f46
447 .Arcadia ·--··----f47
448 Triangle -·····--····-f48
449 Justice ·-··-····-········-f49
450 Seaport ·-·····-·········-ffO
451 Lakeshore -··················fS'l
4S'2 Semper Virens -····-ff2
4S'3 Educator -···--···-ff4
454 White Pine ·-·········-'"
4S'S' Fairfax --·-······-·······-ff6
4S'6 Hermosa ·-···-·----ff7
4S'7 Point Firmin ·-··--ff8
458 Craftsmen
459 Plymouth --····-·--f60
460 East San Diego .~.......... 761
461 Pyramid -··- -········---f61
462 South Park - ····- ·--f63
463 Foothill
464 West Adams - - ···-···-··f6f
465 James A. Garfield ·-···-f66
466 Searchlight ·······--···-f67
467 Park Boulevard ·-·---f68
'468 qhateau Thierry ···~--f69

-·-----·-·"9

--······-·-·---'6•

Charter

Location

l11ued

Cupertino .............. 1921
Sunnyvale .............. 1921
Palms ·········-··········· 1921
Hollywood .............. 1921
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles ·-······· 1922
Taft ............•.•......... 1922
San Francisco .....•.. 1922
La Jolla ·····-··········· 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Los Angeles ····-···· 1922
Piedmont .........•...... 1922
Los Angeles ...•...... 1922
Bellflower ·- ··········· 1922
Avalon ·-··············· 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
San Francisco •....... 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Beverly Hills·····-··· 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Fresno ·-·············•··· 1922 .
San Francisco ........ 1922
Ceres ·····-··············· 1922
Fullerton ·········-····· 1922
San Francisco ........ 1922
Los Angeles •...•..... 1922
San Francisco ·-····· 1922
Los Angeles •........• 1922
Los Angeles .......... 1922
Monterey Park ...... 192 2
Long Beach·-········· 1923
Berkeley ·····-········· 1923
North Hollywood .. 1923
Long Beach ·-········· 1923
Glendale •.....•......... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Gabriel ...........• 1923
Arcadia •...•.•........... 1923
Venice ············-······ 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Oakland ·-············· 1923
Eureka ······-····-····· 1923
San Francisco ······- 1923
Weed -····-············ 1923
San Anselmo .•........ 1923
Hermosa Beach ...... 1923
San Pedro •............• 1923
Los Angeles .......... 1923
Oakland ....•........... 1923
East San Diego ...... 1923
San Francisco ........ 1923
Los Angeles -········ 1923
Oakland ................ 1923
Los Angeles ·-······· 19?3
Los Angeles ·-······· 1923
Long Beach •.....••.... 1923
Oakland -··-········· 1923
Oakland .......•........ 1923

FMI

75
75
12S'
100
100
7S'

Aflll.

F.et

5.00
5.00
S'.00

S'O

80 10.00
80
100
17S' 25.00
5.00
80
100
12S'
100
100 10.00
100
100
12S' 10.00
12S'
80
S'.00
75
70
7 S'
80 10.00
5.00
100
100 10.00
100
100
7 S'
80
'J.00
7S'
5.00
12S'
100
100
'J.00
100
125
100
7'1
100 10.00
100 25.00
5.00
100
S'O
5.00
80
2.00
S'S'
100
100
80
100
5.00
?S'
75
90 10.00
100
'J.00
80
100
100 30.00
80
100
100 10.00

Dues

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
1S'
1S'
15
13
12
1 S'
12
1S'
12
12
12
12
15
12
12
lS'

15
12
12
12
12
12
12
1 S'
12
12
1S'
12
12
l 'J
1 'J
18
18
12
lS'

12
12
12
12
12
1 S'
12
12
12
12
15
15
12
1 S'
16

Members

168 .
319
443
Hl
387
539

313
224
28'4
391
841
289
334
414
149
479
371
337

no

483

546

160
121
250

18S'
268
195
706
3'11

220
187
342

77S'
504
710
201
444
411
259
376
236
273
278
383
100
376
320
368
430
387

732
301
416
771
317
232
474
424
354

486

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
Lod;e

No.

Location

Charter
Issued

469 Military Service ...•...••..• "70 San Francisco •....... 1923
470 Francis K. Shattuck __ ,.71
Berkeley ........•....... 1923
471 James Madison ··----·"72 Los Angeles ···--·· 1923
Berkeley .....•.......... 1923
472 Hillcrest --··-·-·-···-·"73
473 S. W. Hackett ······-······"74 San Diego .......•...... 1923
Pall River Mills...... 1923
474 Port Crook ·····-········-·"'"
475 El Cajon Valley ·-·······-"76 El Cajon ....•......•...• 1923
476 Sunnyside ···········-··-···"77 Los Angeles •..••..... 1923
477 Progressive ··--··-·-·"78 Los Angeles .......... 1923
North Sacramento.. 1924
478 Warren G. Harding.•- .. "79
479 Santa Maria ·-····-····-···"80 Ramona ·············-··· 1924
Bakersfield •.•.........•• 1924
480 Security -··--·········-·-·"81
481 Rialto -·········--···-·······"82 Rialto •................... 1924
48 2 Wasco ···-······-····-·······,. 83 Wasco ·-······-········· 1924
483 Harding ·--·········--···-·"84 Los Angeles ·····-··· 1924
484 Manchester ·-····-·······-"8" Los Angeles .........• 1924
Garden Grove ·-····· 1924
485 Garden Grove ·······--·"86
486 Valley Forge ·-····-···-·"87 Los Angeles .......... 1924
487 El Sereno ·-··············-·..588 Los Angeles ·-······· 1924
488 Kauai ···········-············-·"89 Lihue, T. H ..........• 1924
489 Compass ·····-····--··-·--"90 Pomona .................. 1924
Escalon •................. 1924
490 Escalon ·-····-··········-···"91
491 Tujunga ··-·····-········-··"92 Tujunga ·········-····· 1924
Long Beach·-········· 1924
492 All States ·····-··-····---"93
493 Service -·-···--·-·····-·"94 Long Beach ·-········· 1924
494 Alexander Graham Bell 595 Los Angeles -········ 1924
495 Guardian ...................•.. 596 South Gate ·····-····· 1924
Honolulu, T. H ..... 1924
496 Pearl Harbor ........•.•..••• f98
497 Carmelita ·············---···"99 Pasadena ·······-······· 1924
498 Lynwood •............•....-.600 Lynwood ..........•..... 192"
Portola .................. 192 S'
499 Grizzly ·······-····-·······--601
500 Melrose ·-····-·--······-602 Los Angeles -········ 192 S'
Oakland ................ 192 S'
501 Dimond --··-··------603
502 Jubilee ···············-········604 Santa Ana -·-········· 192 S'
192 S'
Los Angeles
503 Glassell Park ••.•...•.....•••60,.
504 Sojourner ··-·--··········60'1 Monrovia·········-····· 192"
505 Granada ···············-·······608 Alhambra .............. 1925
506 Provident ·······-·············609 Sacramento ·-········· 192 5'
507 Elmhurst '-····--··--·610 Oakland ·······-······· 192 S'
Canoga Park ·-······· 192,.
708 Canoga --··-·----611
509 Temple City ··-··-···-·--612 Temple City·········-· 1925
Sacramento ............ 192 S'
HO Three Pillars ·-····-·······613
192,.
Los Angeles
H 1 Larchmont ·······-····-·-··614
Hemet ..........••........ 1925
,.12 Hemet ·····-···--···-······61 S'
1925
513 R. E. Dolley ·······-·····---616 Seal Beach
H4 Big Bear ·····-----···-617 Big Bear Lake ···-··· 1925
HS' Southland -··--···-····--618 . Loa Angeles ·-··-··· 1925
516 Neptune ··-··-·---····--·619 Long Beach ...........• 192,.
San Diego •.•.•......... 192 S'
H 7 Point Loma ·······--····--620
Los Angeles .......... 1925
518 The Gardens ·-····-···-··621
192 S'
519 Atwater ·············-·········622 Loa Angeles
520 Menorah •.............•...•••.623 Loa Angeles ·-······· 192 5'
521 Fortitude ·-·····-········-624 Oakland ................ 1925
"22 Angeles Mesa - - -.•-62f Los Angeles -·-··-··192"
"23 Chula Vista ············---626 Chula Vista ·-········· 192"
"24 Lamanda Park ·-····-·····627 Pasadena ·····""··-····· 192,.
52 5 Truth -·····-·············-···628 Los Angeles ••••••••.. 1924
526 Fairview ···········-···········629 Los Angeles •.•......• 1926
"27 Ingleside ·-·--····---··630 San Francisco ........ 1926

487

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Aflll.

Fe..

Fffl

100

10.00
5.00

75
75
7,.
80
75
75
125
75
75
80
100
75
80
75
125
75
100
75
75
70
50
75
100
75
75
100
150
75
125
50
75
100
75
75
75
75
75
100
50
75
75
100
50
75
75
100
90
75
100
75
125
75
100
75
75
76
80

mo
20.00
15.00

Mem·
Du.. be rs

12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

u

12
12
5.00 15
20.00 12
25.00 12
12.50 12
12
10.00 12
2.00 12
12
12
12
12
5.00 15
12
15.00 12
16
12
10.00 12
10.00 12
5'.00 15
1.00 12
12
12
12
10.00 12
10.00 16
1.00 12
12
10.00 12
5.00 18
12
12
12
5.00 . 12
12
mo 12
12
12
12
5.00 12
15
1.00 12
12
1.00 15
3.00 12
7,.
18
5.00

346
267
361
75
563
169
278
468
511
531
112

393
159
301
250
366
220
367
431
125
264
130
263
53 S'
729
272
838
571
335

391
144
237
290
338

408
207
744
429
246
238
383
405
405
159
202
154
319
279
HO
428
371
816
202

652
414
260
246
271
193

Lod;e

No.

528 Benevolence ...- ......•......631
129 Normal Heights ····-····632
no Poinsettia ···-·--.---633
S' 31 Victorville ·--··-·······-·634
53 2 Riverside •..•.....•..••.....•••635'
533 John Marshall ..•.••.....•..636
534 Palisades ••.....•....••........637
53 S' Indian Rock .........•......•.638
536 Composite ··-···············-639
537 Veritas ----.:..··-·····--·-640
538 James A. Foshay ·-··---641
539 La Cumbre -···-······-····642
540 Alta Loma ···-·-············643
541 Lomita ·-·······················644
542 A. P. E. Irwin ·-··········-64,.
543 Metropolitan •.....••....•.:.646
544 Hawthorne ·-··-····--···647
HS' Damascus ·-····-····-·······648
S' 46 Florence ...••....•........•..•..649
547 La Brea ···················-···6"0
S' 48 Menlo Park ·············-···6" l
549 Crescenta Valley ..........652
HO Fontana ·-············-···-··6"3
Hl Jordan ·······--·-·-····-···6"4
5'52 Monte Vista - ··-··-·-··-6H
553 Citro! -·-·······-·······-···6"6
554 John D. Spreckels ........657
HS' Livingston ·-·············-··6"8
556 La Habra ·············-··-···6f9
557 Baldwin Park ................660
558 Malta ······-········-····--661
559 Henry Knox ·-·············662
560 Ojai ·-···..--·····--··----663
561 Kaweah ···-····-·······-····66f
562 Reseda ············-····-·····666
563 Meridian -········-··-······667
564 San Gorgonio ···-·········668
565 John P. Jarman ............669
566 Greenleaf ················-····670
567 San Clemente -·-·---671
568 Laguna Beach ··········--672
569 Par West ·-····-····-··-···673
570 Los Cerritos -················674
571 Modesto --··-·-·-··--67,.
572 Willow Glen •......•....- ..676
573 Liberal Arts -··-··········677
574 Altadena ······-·-·-·····-678
575 Canby Cross -··-····-···679
576 Carmel -···---·-···--·-680
577 Dos Palo1 -·--···----···681
578 Barstow ........................682
579 Redwood Empire ·-·····683
580 Trona -·········--······--684
581 San Marino ·-···-···-····68f
582 Albany -·---·-··-·--686
583 Vista ·-·---···--········-·-687
584 Oildale •••...••.........•........688
585 Pohona ·······-··········-···689
586 San Carlos ..•....•.•.•....••.•690

Location

Charter
l11ued

Los Angeles ·-······· 1926
San Diego .......•...... 1926
San Buenaventura •. 1926
Victorville ············- 19 26
Riverside ................ 1926
Beverly Hills .......... 1926
Santa Monica ........ 1926
Berkeley ................ 1926
Los Angeles .......... 1926
San Francisco ........ 1926
1926
Los Angeles
Santa Barbara ........ 1926
Signal Hill ............ 1926
Torrance ···-··········· 1926
San Pedro .............. 1926
Los Angeles .......... 1926
Hawthorne ............ 1926
San Bernardino ...... 1926
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1927
Los Angeles ·····-··· 1927
Palo Alto ................ 1927
Montrose ................ 1927
Fontana .................. 1927
Los Angeles .......... 1927
Long Beach ............ 1927
Brea ........................ 1927
San Diego .............. 1927
Livingston ·-·············1927
La Habra ····'··········· 1927
Baldwin Park ........ 1927
Loa Angeles -········ 1928
1928
Los Angeles
Ojai ........................ 1928
Woodlake .............. 1928
Reseda ..........•......... 1928
Glendale ·········-·-·· 1928
Banning ........:••. ·-··· 1928
San Jose ···········-··· 1928
Whittier -·············· 1928
San Clemente ........ 1928
Laguna Beach ........ 1929
1929
San Francisco
Long Beach ·······-··· 1929
Modesto ·····-········· 1929
Willow Glen .......... 1930
Los Angeles .......... 1930
Altadena ···········-··· 1930
Tulelake ................ 1935
Carmel .................... 1935
Dos Palos .............. 1939
Barstow .................. 1940
Garbervi.1le ............ 1940
Trona .................... 1941
1944
South Pasadena
Albany .................. 1945
Vista ·-·····················194,.
1946
Bakersfield
Yosemite Valley .... 1946
San Carlos .............. 1946

Fees

Aflll.
FHI

DaH

Mem·
bers

15 280
100
12 628
80
12 . 623
75
12 197
S'S'
12 378
75
5.00 12 . 284
100
12 382
80
5.00 15 209
75
125 io.oo 12 386
100 15 .00 15 118
12 242
100
12 251
75
12 371
100
15 242
80
5.00 12 276
80
12 138
75
5.00 12 398
100
mo 12 561
75
125 25.00 12 475
100 10.00 1 S' 262
100 ········ l S' 242
12 4H
100
75 10.00 12 292
12 368
100
. 12 573
75
1.00 12 180
50
12 628
80
15 170
50
12 175
50
12 163
65
12 213
75
125 25.00 15 435
15 111
50
12 118
rn
12 307
75
12 502
100
1.00 12 225
50
5.00 12 247
75
12 528
100
82
12
75
1.00 15 195
75
75 10.00 1 S' 336
15 . 319
125
12 452
75
5.00 12 294
75
12 309
125
12 445
75
1.00 12 136
50
3.00 15 177
75
12 115
50
S'S' 10.00 12 279
rn 1.00 12 90
12 127
75
100 25.00 1 S' 308
75 10.00 12 196
12 238
75
15 165
100
65
12
50
18 240
100

488

PROCEEDINGS OP l'HB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES-Continued
LodQ•

No.

5'87 Indian Wells Valley _.. 691
5'88 Travelers ·----------692
5'89 Palm Sprinis -------·---693
5'90 San .Antonio ...........- ..694
5'91 Meudell .....___
..695'
- ..........
696
,,_____ -,,__
5'92 Crossroads
5'93 St. Elmo - ...- .......-69'7
'1'9-4 Wm. D. Stephens ........698
f95 Bixby Knolls ................699
5'96 Ponderosa ........... _....... 700
597 Santa Yne:i; Valley........701
5'98 Rosemead ...- ................. 702
5'99 Weatchester - - -..-'103
600 Orinda
'704
601 El Cerrito -·-----·------'705'
602 Hunters Point NavaL..'706
603 Lake Tahoe ----·--'70'7
60-4 Seafaring ·--·-···..-----'108
605' Lorenzo ........................'709
506 .Anacapa ........................ 710
607 Rim of the World .......... 711
608 Los Altos ......................712
609 Castro Valley ................ 713
610 Blue Lakes .................... 71-4
611 Magnolia Park ............ 715'
612 Belmont Shore .............. 716
613 Wayfarer ...................... 717

Northern Calif. Research, U. D.
Southern Calif. Research, U. D.

loGatlon

lnued

Aflll.

EXTINCT LODGES
Mem·

4
4
6
7

berl
262
158
138
13'2
115'
192
83
71
182
166
66
78
173
83
85
11-4
36
15'2
115'
82
71
61
78
66
71
61
-46

34
36
37

Total membership, July 31, 195'2............. _ ....... 20'7,832

39

Charter

Fe..

Fen

Dues

China Lake ............ 19-46
Sacramento
19-47
Palm Springs -······ 19-47
Bell ..........................---·-··· 19-47
Bakersfield .............. 19-48
San Diego .............. 19-48
Oakland .................. 19-48
Los .Angeles............ 19-48
Long Beach ............ 19-49
Fresno .............. ................ . . 19-49
Los Olivos .....- ....... 19-49
Rosemead . ....................... 19-49
Los .Angelea .....- ... 1950
Orinda .................. 195'0
El Cerrito ....................... 1950
San Francisco ...- .. 195'0
Bijou ···-················· 195'0
Costa Mesa ............ 195'0
Hayward ·-·-······---· 195'0
Oxnard ................................ 195'0
Lake .Arrowhead .... 1950
Palo Alto -·-········· 195'1
San Leandro'
195'1
San Bruno-.......... 195'1
Burbank ..... .......................... 195'1
Seal Beach .............. _195'2
Whittier -·--·-·.... -195'2

100
75'
100
100
100
80
100
125'
75'
80
75'
75'
79
75'

5'.00
10.00
5'.00

12
12
15
12
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
15'
lS'
12
12
18
12

San Francisco ............195'2
Los .Angele1 .............. 195'2

10.00
10.00
1.00

7'f
100
75'

7'f
75'
75'

7'f
100
75'
100
100

1.00
10.00
1.00
25'.00
5'.00
5'.00
5'.00
10.00

........

489

12 .
12

5'0
29

7
9
11
15

26
28
29
31

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
67
69
69
71
72
73
74
75
77

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennmcs.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt.
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John'sbYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Vailey, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill. 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings,· 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882. ·
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 · Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 · Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct.15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
·
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.

151
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171
172

175
176
177
180
182
185
189
197
205
213
218
222
223
226
227
238
239
240

491

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 10, 1862.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
•
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
issued.
Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct. 16, 1919.
Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with NatOina No. 64, Dec., 1884.
Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 188~.
Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa?ro.
240, April 1, 1882.

492

EXTINCT LODGES-Co ntinued
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, Oct.
16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1918.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4, 1881.
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11,
.
1911.
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
Oct. 13, 1910.
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
. 350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
.
205, Oct.1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
372 Veteran, Sawtell. Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 Kenneth, Kenneth, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.
496 Riverdale, Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, · 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950. ·
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educ~tor No. 554,
·
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga, Oct. 15,
1931.
612 Workman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10,
1929.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616,
Oct 14, 1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
597 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with EI Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,
1937.

493

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
1850

Since Its Organization, April 18. A. L. 5850
1856

Jonathan D. Stevenson.•G. M.
Callfornl• No. I
lorn Jan. I, lllOO

Died Ftib. 14, 1194
John A. Tutt...---D· G. M.
Caleb Fenner____.S. G. W.
S111hel Wood1...-J. G. W.
Levi Stowell_._ _..__G. T.
John H. Gihon---·-·G• S.

1851
John A. Tuff... _.............G. M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam.......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis..--·-··s. G. w.
Benj. S. Olds__._ _J, G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas•. -.G. T.
Levi Stowell._____ ...•G. S.

1852
lenlamln D. Hyam..._ ..G. M.
hnlcla No.I
lorn March 1, 1813
Died July 12, 1893
ChaL M. Radcliff._ .. D. G. M.
Addison Martin ...·-·-·-···G.T.
J. R. McConnelL_..J. G. W.
Addison Martin..... ____G. T.
Levi Stowell...-·-·--G· S.

1853
Charles M. Radcliff...... G. M.
Tuolumne No. 8
lorn Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1889
T. A. Thom••--·-··D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crandall.____ $. G. W.
Richard F. Knott.-.J. ~. W.
Addison Martin...____ G. T.
Levi Stow•H--···---G · S.

1854
William H. Howard ......G. M.
S.n Joce No. 10
lorn Auq. 2t 1810
Died Sept. I~, 1866

Nath. G. Curtis....- .. D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole......._.$, G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ___ .J. G. W.
Addison Martin........_.•..G. T.
Levi StoweR..- ..·--·-···-···G. S.

1855
William H. Howard ......G. M.
T. A. Thom••···--···-··D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond._ ..$. G. W.
Sam. A. Merrltt...- ...J. G. W.
AdC:llson Mertin ...- ..--..6. T.
Leri Stowell · - - - • · S.

1863

William H. Howard ...•-G. M. William C. Belcher.... .-..G. M.
John A. Raymond .._D. G. M. Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
S. G. W. Louis Cohn
Lemuel Lyon
S. G. W,
Peter W. Randle--..J. G. W. Wm. A. Davies.._ .._.J, G. W.
Addison Martin ..-.--G. T. James Laldley_._,__G, T.
Alex G. Abell ..•..-····--·-G· S. Alex G. AbelL...·-·-·--G. S.

1857

Nathaniel G. Curtis...•.. G. M.
1864
Washlnaton No. 20
Born Feb. 8 1825
Belcher........G. M.
C.
William
Died July 12, 1897
Gil. B. Claiborne.. _.. D. G. M.
Charles Marsh ........ _.. D. G. M.
A. Davies...- ..._S. G. W.
Aaron D. ParL....._..S. G. W. Wm.
Isaac S. Titu•--·····--J· G. W.
John B. Pope.. ____..J. G. W. James
Laldley. _ _ _ 6. T.
Addison Martin - -..G. T.
Abell..·--··-···-··G. S.
G.
Alex
S.
.
G
Alex G. Abell - · - -

1858

Nathaniel 16. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard...... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormlcL...S. G. W.
Jes. W. BicknelL___J. G. W.
Addison Martin _ _G. T.
Alex G. AbelL-·-···-·····G· S.

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M.
P. W. Shepheard...... D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lane_..__..S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hawley..___J. G. W.
Addison Martin ---.G. T.
Alex G. Abell .._____......••G. S.

1865
Gilbert B. Claiborne......G. M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wm. A. Davies._....... D. G. M.
Isaac S. Tltua....•.c____ G. W.
Henry H. Hartley...•-J. G. W.
G. T.
James Laidley
Alex G. Abell.--•.-6. S.

s.

1868

Gilbert B. Claiborne......G. M.
Henry H. Hartley...... D. G. M.
1860
Wm. H. Peterson._..$. 6. W.
Nathaniel G. Curtis......G. M. Thomas BecL-.•- .•..J. G. W.
P. W. Shepheard...... D. G. M. James Laidley.......- . -..6. T.
Wm. C. Belcher....._.S. G. W. Alex G. Abell ..·-····-·G· S.
Alvin:za Hayward ___J, G. W.
Addison Martin _ _G. T.
1867
Alex G. AbelL-·····-·-·G· S.
William A. Davies...- .•-6. M.
1861
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
James L English ............ G. M.
Died June 20, 1916
Sacramento No. 40
Born June 5, 1813
Henry H. Hartley.... D. 6. M.
Died May 29, 1889
Thomas Beck..:__. __$. 6. W.
Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M.
Leonidas E. Preff..•_.J. G. W.
John W. Harville......S. G. W. James
A. Laidley_,___.G. T.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Laldley.. _ •._ ...G. T. Alex G. AbelL---·--·-G· S.
Alex G. Abell. ______....•.G. S.

1862

1868

Charles Marsh ................G. M.
Nevada No. IJ
Corlntltlan No. 6'
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Aprll 28, 1876
Died Sept. I, 18'5
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M. Leonidas E. Praff...... D. 6. M.
John W. Harville... _.S. G. W. Theo. 6. Cockrill. __ $. G. W.
John B. Hewson ....._J. ·G . W. Fredk. F. Bam...- ..-.J. 6. W.
James Laidley______.• _G. T. Jemes Laidlef--·---G · T.
Alex G. Abell-.--.•G. S. Alex 6. Abell._ _,___&. S.
William C. Belcher........ G. M.

494

PROCEEDINGS OP

1869
Leonidas E. Praft___ 6. M.
Mountain Shade No. II
Born Au;. 29, llll
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Isaac S. TituL.___ D. G. M.
John S. Ward ......- ..S. G. W.
Richard Dele·-····-···J• G. W.
James Laldley..-·-·--·6• T.
Alex G. Abell ...- •.•.•........6. S.

1870
Leonrdas E. Pratt....·--···6• M.
Isaac S. Titus---···-···D. G. M.
Chas. L Wiggln._.S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freeman......J. G. W.
.6. T.
James Laidley.
Alex G. Alse!L_ _ _6. S.

1871

Leonidas E. Praft___ ...6. M.
Chas. L Wiggln ..._... D. G. M.
Ben. H. Freeman ......S. G. W.
Geo. C. Perklns...- ..J. G. W.
James Laldley•.._ . __6. T.
Alex G. AbelL·-··---G. S.

1872
Leonidas E. Pratt..........6. M.
Benj. H. Freeman ...... D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perklns...- ...S. G. W.
John M. Browne..__J. 6. W.
James Laldley______6. T.
Alex G. Abell.____6. S.

1873
lsaec S. TituL.... _ ........G. M.
San Joaquin No. It
lorn Oct. I~ 1827
Died Aprtl ;a, 1892
Geo. C. Perkins........ D. 6. M.
Jno. M. Browne...- ...S. G. W.
Chas. E. Mitchell......J. G. W.
James Laldley.________6, T.
Alex G. Abell..-----·-·6• S.

1874
George C. Perkins..- 6 . M.
Orovllle No. IOJ
Boni Au;. 23. 1839
Died Feb. 26, 1923
John M. Browne... _.D. 6. M.
Wm. B. Parker........•.S. G. W.
Wiley J. Tlnnln. -·-··J. G. W.
James Laldley_ _ _.6. T.
Alex G. Abell..._______6. S.

1883
Jonathan D. Hlne1.. _6. M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. JO, 1186
Wiley J. Tlnnin ........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson. ___$, G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker......J. G. W.
Moses Heller _____6. T.
Alex G. Abell.•••.-······-···6• S.

1877

1878
John M. Browne_____.6. M.
Wm. W. Traylor.____ D. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane...____ 6. W.
Robt. C. Broder....._.J. G. W.
Moses Heller _____6, T.
Alex G. AbelL..•. _ .......6. S.

s.

1879
William W. Traylor........G. M.
Caltfomla No. I
Born March 17, 1122
Died Jan. 18, 1883
Samuel C. Denson.... D. G. M.
Clay W. Taylor.__ 6. W.
John Q. Adams.__J, G. W.
Moses Heller _ ___.G. T.
Alex G. AbelL-·-···-··G· S.

s.

1880
Samuel C. Denson ........G. M.
Union No. 58
Born Sept. 23, 1839
Died July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor...•.... D. G. M.
John Q. Adams........S. G. W.
0. W. HollenbecL.J. G. W.
Moses Heller _ _ _ _6. T.
Alex G. Abell.._______6, S.

1881

1875

Clay W. Taylor.............. G. M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept, 10 1844
Died May I, la97 .
John Q. Adams ........ D. G. M.
Jonathan D. Hlnes....S. G. W.
Thos. J. BowerL.-... _J, G. W.
Moses Heller _ _ _6, T.
Alex G. Abell..._ _________6. S.

John M. Browne..........-G. M.
Naval No. rT
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 11'4
Chas. L Wlggln...... D. 6. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnln. ____ 6. W.
Jacob H. Neff____J. G. W.
6. T.
James Laldley.
Alex 6. Abell._ .....--6• S.

Clay W. Taylor..._ _..6. M.
Jonathan D. Hines.... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atklnson ......S. G. W.
George Hinds_ __J 6. W.
&. T.
Moses Heller
Alex G. AbeU _____••6. S.

s.

1882

1895

1889

1878
John M. Browne_____ 6. M.
Chas. L Wiggin __ D. 6. M.
Wm. S. Wells·-···-·-·S. G. W.
Solon W. Cralgue....J. G. W.
James Laidley......____.6. T.
Alex G. Abell...--...........6. S.
John M. Browne...- .......G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ____ D. G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor..•.....S. G. W.
Wm. H. Crane......_..J. G. W.
Moses Heller _____6, T.
Alex G. Abell--·-··-··---G· S.

495

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ms

1884
Jonathan D. Hines........ G. M.
Wiley J. Tinnln._.._.D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ____ 6. W.
Hiram N. Rucker_.J, G. W.
6. T.
Moses Heller
Alex G. Abell ...·-··---···6· S.

s.

1885

Morris M. Estee_______ G. M.
William Johnston _..D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritmen .. _..S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. Abell .....- .......•...G. S.

1890
Alvah R. Conklin............G. M.
Inyo No. 221
lorn 1835
Died Oct. 5; IB97
William Johnston._... D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme...- ...J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
George Johnson ____G. S.

1891

Wiley J, Tinnln .....-·-····6• M.
Trinity No. 27
Born bet. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... D. G. M.
Hiram N. Rucker.•- ..S. G. W.
Henry H. Knapp ....-J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....6. T.
Alex G. Abell...-..·-···-···6• S.

Hiram N. Rucker ___ 6. M.
La 6ran;e No. 99
Born S•pt. 6, 1844
· Died Dec. 13, 1905
Morris M. Estee. ___ 6. M.
Alvah R. Conklln __..S. 6. W
Wm. Johnston ....- ....J. G. W.
Nathan W Si>auldlng __ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell ....·-··-····-·6· S.

o.

1896

1902

William T. Luces............G. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March IB, 1850
Died March :N, 1931
Thomas Flint_________ D. G. M.
F. M. Angellotti ........S. G. W.
Ches. L Petton.. - ..J. G. W.
Edward Colemen ________ G. T.
George Johnson ·---····G• S.

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
Mornln; Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter... _.S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint. ___J, G. W.
Edward Coleman ...___ .G. T.
George Johnson -·-···G• S.
Wm. H. Edwerds .........._G. L

1897

s.

1898

Charles R. Gritman ____ G. M. Frank M. Angellottl... ...G. M.
Marin No. 191
Yount No. 12
Born Sept. 4, 1861
lorn Dec. 10, 1831
Died May 23, 1932
Died Mey 14, 1894
Henry S. Ornte........ D. G. M. Chas. L. Petton ........ D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens..........S. G. W. · Jes. A. Foshay....... _.S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston........J. G. W . Wm. S. Wells...._____.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T. Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson _____ ..•6. S. George Johnson ---··-···G· S.

1893

1887

_s.

William Johnston ..........G. M. Thomas Flint ________G. M.
Franklin No. 143
Texas No. 46
lorn June 2, 1825
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 14, l'IOS
Died Nov. 18, 1936
Chas R. Gritmen ...... D. G. M. F. M. Angellotti... ..... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ___ G. W. Chas L. Petton ..........S. G. W.
Jes. B. Stevens..........J. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T. Edward Colemen............G. T.
George John1on __•..•G. S. George Johnson _____G. S.

1892

1888
Edmund C. Atklnson __ G, M.
Sacramento No. 40
lom NO¥. 17 1837
Died March 1o, ltll
Hiram N. Rucker...... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estee........S. G. W.
Alvah R. Conklin...-.J• G. W,
Nathan W S(lauldlng •...6. T.
Alex G. AbelL ..............6. S.

1899

Charles L Patton .......... G. M.
Henry S. Orme.._ ...•.....G. M.
California No. I
So. California No. 271
Born 1865
Born March 25, 1837
Died April II, 192J
Died Nov. 29 1912
Jas. A. Foshay.......... D. G. M.
Jes. B. Stevens.......... D. G. M. Wm. S. Wiills ____ ....S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ........S. G. W. 0. S. Hendenon ......J. G. W.
Wm. T. LucH----·····J. G. W. Edward Colemen............6. T.
Edward Colemen............G. T. George Johnson _____G. S.
George Johnson ··-·····-G• S.
0

1888

. 1894

Morris M. Estee....·-···-6· M.
Catlfomla No. I
Bom Nov. 2J, 111!4
Died Oct. 7, HOJ
Alvah R. Conklin .._.. D. G. M.
William Johnston ..- ..S. G. W.
Marc. D. BorucL___J, G. W.
Nathan W Si>auldln9 __ 6. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ______ 6. $.

James B. Stevens ...•......6. M.
Yount No. 12
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919
Edw. M. Preston ........ D. G. M.
Thomas Flint...........-.J. G. W.
Wm. T. Luces............S. G. W.
Edward Coleman... _....... G. T.
. - -.6. S.
George Johnson-

1901

Edward M. Preston __ .... G. M. William S. Wells ..- ..- ... 6. M.
Martlnn No. 41
Nevada No. 13
lorn June 24, 1861
Born May 4, 1841
Died Jan. 23, 1919
Died April 24, I903
Wm. T. Lucas ............ D. G. M. 0. S. Hendenon_.... D. G. M.
G. W.
Thomas FlinL...........S. G. W. Chas. W. Nutting
F. M. Angellotti......-J. G. W. Geo. W. Hunter __ J, G. W.
Edward Coleman..·-·-···G• T. Edward Coleman ............G. T.
George Johnson ···-······G· S. · George Johnson ___,6, S.
Wm. H. Edwards ......•.•...G. L

1900

James A. Foshey............G. M.
So. Caltfornla No. 271
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells ............ D. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ......S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nuttlng ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman... _. ____ G. T.
G.eorge Johnson ___ ...G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds.. ______ G. L

1903
Charles W. Nutting ......G. M.
Evenln; Star No. 186
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G. M.
Motely H. Fllnt..._...S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hert.. ______J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.......- ...G. T.
George Johnson ______G, S.
Wm. H. Edwards..- ........G. L

1904
George W. Hunter...- .G· M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 19211
Motley H. Flint..... _.D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hert.........._S, G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ___J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....•.......G. T.
George Johnson ···--·-··G• S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............G. L

1905
Motley H. Flint.............. G. M.
East Gate No. 290
Born F•b. It, 186&
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hert..._.,_D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine. ____ .S. G. W.
Reuben H. Uoyd._..J. G. W.
Edward Colemen .......- ...G. T.
George Johnson ···--·-·G• S.
Wm. H. Edwerds...... _....G. L

1906

Edward H. Hart ___ _,__G, M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perine........ D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler ··-···....J. (;. W.
Edward Colemen ....·-···-G• T.
George Johnson ..._. ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwerd•.·-····--6. L

496

497

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1919

1925

1931

1937

George M. Perfne __._G. M.
Pacific No. 116
lorn 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd.:.... D. G. M.
Oscu Lawler__._____$, G. W.
W. Frank Pierce..._J. G. W.
Edward Coleman...- ..•....6. T.
George Johnson ___ 6. S.
Thomas J. laker........-----6. L.

John D. Murphay.......... G. M.
Alta No.333
Born Julr 7, llQ
Died Sept. IS, IMS
Benj. F. Bledsoe..._... D. 6. M.
Alb. G. Burnett........S. G. W.
F. V. KHslin9 _________.J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whlcher..................6. S.
Thomas J; S.ker.-.........•.6. L.

Chas. Albert Adams ......&. M.
&cel1lor No. 16'
lorn Nov. 25, 1167
Geo. F. Rodden ....- .. D. 6. M.
Sam. E. lurk•-----···S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman......J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....--.6. T.
John Whichar.•·-···-········6• S.
ThomH J. Baker.•.......- ...6. L

Albert E. Boynton....- ...6. M.
Onwllle No.IOJ

Robt. B. 6aylord ______ 6. M.
Oakland No. 1111
Bom Nov. 24, 1176
Frank W. Mixter....•. D. 6. M.
Jam•• B. Glsf__.____s. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton.. ___ .J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....- ....G. T.
John Whicher.·--·-·····6. S.
Thomes J. Baker...- .........6. L.

James T. Fraffr.-·-·······6· M.
Humboldt Ho. 79
lorn Aug. 21, 1868
Leon 0. Whihell...•.. D. 6. M.
William H. Waste ...•S. 6. W.
William B. Ogden..•.J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer-·--···6. T.
John Whic:her..·-··-·---·6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ..•...•...___6. L

1908

191'

George F. Rodden ........6. M.
Marin No. 191
lorn Dec.24, 1167
Died March I, 1934
Sam. E. Burk•·····-·--·D• 6. M.
Wm. A. Sherman ......$. 6. W.
Arthur S. Crltes.___J, 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- ......6. T.
John Whlcher.....- ...........6. S.
Thomas J. Baker......- ...... 6. L.

1907

Oscar Lawler
..
6. M.
&st &ate No. 290
lorn Aprll 2, 1171
W. Frank Pierce........ D. G. M.
Dana R. Weller •.-.S. G. W.
A. J. Monro•-··---·-·J• G. W.
Edward Coleman............6. T.
John Which•r---·····-···6• S.
Thomas J. laker...- .........G. L.

1909
W. Frank Plerce............6. M.
Oakland No. 1111
lorn Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. J, 1918
Dana R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monro•--------5. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer _ _.J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.....- .....G. T.
John Whicher------··---6· S.
Thomas J. lak.e r..............G. L

1910
Dana R. Waller--·--------6. M.
So. C.llfornla No. 271
lorn March 24, 1174
Died Jan. t, 1'47
A. J. Monro•---·------D. G. M.
Wm. P. Film•r---·-··S. G. W.
J. D. Murphey ·-·------J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.__________ &, T.
John Whicher---····----6. S.
Thomas J. laker_________ &. L.

1911
Alonzo J. Monroe .....- ..6. M.
Humboldt No. 79
lorn

Oct. " ...

Died June 14, 1'22
Wm. P. Filmer_________D, G. M.
J. D. Murph•Y-··------5· 6. W.
Benj. F. Bledso•-··---·J• G. W.
Edward Colaman..·--·-···6• T.
John Whlcher..-------------6• S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. 6. L

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................ G. M.
King Solomon Ho. 260
lorn March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphay ...... D. 6. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett -·-·J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ______&. T.
John Whicher.--·--··-·6• S.
Th-H J. leker.....- ..-6. L

1913

.

Benj. F. Bledsoe ·····-····G. M.
San Bernardino No. 141
lorn Feb. I, 1874
Died Oct. JO, 1'31
Alb. G. Bumett........ D. 6. M.
F. V. KH1lin9. _____5, 6. W.
W. Rh. Hervey..- .•....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......•..G. T.
John Whicher..•...---------G. S.
Thomas J. Baker........- 6 . L.

1915
Albert G. Bumett..........6. W.
Sant• Rosa Ho. 57
Born April'~ IS
Died Aug. ID, 1923
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ...6. T.
John Whicher...---····-··-6. S.
Thomas J. Baker. ________ G. L

1920

1921
Samuel E. Burke............6. M.
Sunset Ho. 312
lorn Feb. 13, 1810
Wm. A. Sherman.-... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites. _____$. G. W.
David J. Ran•--··--·J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.... _....6. T.
John Whlc:her._ ..........- ..6. S.
Thomas J. Baker......... _•..6. L

'°'"Oct.'·

Died Feb. 22,117&
IMI
6eo. L JoneL.--.D. 6. M.
Will H. Fischer____$. G. W.
Gus. A. Hutaff____J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....--.6· T.
John Whicher.•________ G, S.
Thomas J. Baker..·-····-···G• L

1928

1927

1933

1939

Born Sept. II, 1871
Gus. A. Hutaff..___ D. 6. M.
C. M. Wollenberg....S. G. W.
J. S. Rou.----··----J· G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whlc:her-............._.6, S.
Thomas J. Baker·-·---··----6. L.

Pentalph• No. 202
!lorn Aug. 8, 1868
R. V. Whiting .... _ .. _.D. G. M.
Earl Warren .....•..__$, G. W.
Rollie W. Miller..._...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... 6. T.
John. Whlch•r--··-···-·····6. S.
Thomas J. Balier.... _........G. L.

Hollywood No. JR
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Uoyd E. Wllson ........ D. 6. M.
Frank M. Smith ....._.$, 6. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher.............- ...6. S.
Walter Leonard..- ......•...6. L

1922

1928

Francis V. Keesling._. ____ 6. M.
Callfomla No. I
lorn Feb. 17, 1177
Wm. Rh. Hervey ___ D, 6. M.
Bradford Webster.... S. G. W.
Chas. A. Adams._ .....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whicher..·-·······-··-6. S.
Thomas J. Baker. ________ G. L

Gustav A. Hutaff.......... G. M.
Dunsmuir Ho. 2'17
Born Oct. S, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M.

. 1917

1923

Wm. Rhodes Hervey.... G. M. Arthur S. Crites··-·······&. M.
lakenfleld No. 224
Pentalpha Ho. 202
lorn Fab. 4, 1m
lorn March 2', 1110
Bradford Webster.... D. G. M. David J. Reese ..... _... D. G. M.
Chas. A. Adams........S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton........$. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........J. G. W. Geo. L Jcines ............ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer..........6. T. Wm. Parker Fllmer.. _ .•...6. T.
John Whicher-····-········-&." S. John Whicher.....----·····-6• S.
Thomas J. Beker ....--··--6· L Thomes J. Baker..............6. L

1918

1924

Bradford Webster ........ 6. M. David J. Reese............•.6. M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
Live Oak No. 61
Born Aug. 22, 1871
lorn Dec. 14, 1169
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Died J - 4. IMI
Chas. A. AdamL ....... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden ........S. G. W. Geo. L Jones.......- •.. 5. G. W.
Sam. E. Burke............J. 6. W. Will H. Rscher_.......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ...6. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whlcher---·-···6· S. John Whlc:her.______6. S.
ThomH J. leker-·-···-··6• L Thornes J. Baker.•._ ....-6. L.

1931
Leon 0. Whitsell ......- .. 6. M.
Orange &rove No. 2'J
lorn Julr 10, 1876
William H. Waste .... D. 6. M.
William B. Ogden ..•.S. 6. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson_ ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer.......•..6. T.
John Whicher...........__6. S.
Leslie E. Wood ...·-··-····6• L

Will H. Flscher____._....G. M. Jamlls B. 61st-----··6· M. William B. Ogden........6. M.
Wll1hlre No. 445

William A. Shermen...... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
!lorn Sept. 17, llllO
Died Feb. 19, IMO
Arthur S. Crites........ D. 6. M.
David J. Raesa ..........S. 6. W.
Alb. E. Boynton..- ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whlcher..- ..............6. S.
Thomas J. Baker_. ___ ..6. L

1916

1932

Frank W. Mlmr.___ 6. M.
George L Jone1.._........6. M.
Exeter Ho. 424
Medl&ORNo.23
Born Dec. 30, 1873
llorn M•r II, 1873
Died Mer 22, 1947
Will H. Fischer_.D. G. M. James B. Gist...-··-···D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hutaff._._ ...S. G. W. Wm. A. Sitton.______ $. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg ....J. G. W. R. V. Whiting............J, &. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer... _.....G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whlcher·--·······-··6. S. John Which•r··-·-······--·6. S.
Thomas J. Baker. ________ G, L. Thomas J. Baker..•......- ...
G. L

1934

1940

John Whlc:h•r--·--·····G. S.
Thomas J. Beker__ ._.....6. L

Randolph V. Whiting ....G. M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4, 1'152
Earl Warren ______ G. M.
Rollie W. Mill•r..._•..S. G. W.
James T. Fraser.... __J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ...G. T.
John Which•r····-··--···G· S.
Leslie E. Wood._. ______6. L

1929

1935

J. S. Rou..·-····--··-·S. G. W.
Robt. B. Geylord .._..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... 6. T.

C. M. Wollenberg ...•....&. M.
Starr King No. 344
Born MarCh 13, 1873
John S. Ron .. ______ o. G. M.
Robt. B. Geylord_ ....S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........6. T.
John Whlch•r·---··---6. S.
Thomas J. Beker.---·---6• L

1930
John Stewert Ross ···-···G• M.
El Centro No. 384
lorn M•r 21, 1879
Died Aug. JI, 1'152
Robt. B. Geylord ...... D. G. M.
Frank W. Mixter ........ S. G. W.
James B. Glst...- ...•...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.... _....G. T.
John Whlc:her._ .............6. S.
Thomas J. Baker..........- ..6. L

o.

Earl Werren·-·······---···--6• M.
Sequoia Ho. 349
lorn March 19, 18'1
Rollie W. Miller___D. 6. M.
James T. Fraser...- ...5. G. W.
Leon O. Whihell... ...J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer......- .. G. T.
John Whlc:her____ ........G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ..·--····-···6. L

1936
Rollie W. Mllier............ G. M.
Sunset No. 3&2
Born Oct. 17, 180
James T. Fraser........ D. G. M.
Leon O. Whihell.....S. G. W.
William H. Waste....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......-.6. T.
John Whlc:her....-·-·---G· S.
Leslie E. Wood.·-···-·······6• L

Uoyd E. Wllson ..............G. M.
Ingleside No. 630
lorn Aug. 16, 1195
Frank M. Smith.._. ____o. 6. M.
Leslie E. Wood .....--5· G. W.
Claude H.Morrison ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....____ 6. T.
John Whicher....•...........•.6. S.
Walter Laonard ..·-···-·--6."L

1941
Frank M. Smith..............6. M.
East &ate No. 290
lorn April I, 18'4
Died April 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood.......... D. 6. M.
Claude H.Morrlson ..S. 6. W.
G. C. DeForest•.......J. 6. W.
Wm. Parker Rlmer...•..•...6. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson ..·-·-----6. S.
Chester H. Warlow........6. L

1942

Leslie E. Wood .............. 6. M.
Provident No. 609
lorn April 2, 1"7
Claude H. Morrlson .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. Deforest..$. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....___ .6. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson .. ______ .6. S.
Chester H. Warlow.....•..6. L.

498

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1943
Cl.ude H. Morri1on ......6. M.
Sen Dle90 No. 35
lorn July 10, 1887

Gilbert C. DeForest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C. Kelley.. $. 6. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W.
Francis V. KH11ing. ____ 6, T.
Uoyd E. Wilson _ _ _ G, S.
Che1~er H. Werlow. ____ 6, L

19H
Gilbert C. DeForesL...G. M.
lleedlnQ No. 254
lorn Sept. 18, 1819
Died Jen. 25, 1952

Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. 6. M.
Arthur W. Broulllet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore__,.J, G. W.
Francis V. KHsllng._.6, T.
Uoyd E. Wilson ...___6, S.
Chester H. Warlow..- ....6. L

1945
Lawrence C. Kelley......6. M.
Pentelphe No. 202
Born July 231 1889
Died Oct. 24, IMS

Arthur W. Brouillet......6. M.
Park No. 449
Born Jen. 21, 1184

John R. Moore........S. 6. W.
Francis V. KHsling .._6, T.
Uoyd E. Wl11on.____6, S.
Chester H. Werlow.. _6. L

1946

John R. Moore.. ____.6, M.
Meridian No. 667
Born Sept. 1893

Chester H. Werlow.. D. G. M. Arthur PaulHn......- .. D. G. M.
Edward H. Siems.._.$, 6. W. Louis E. Drapeau......$. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer._...J. 6. W. Arthur M. Warren ....J. 6. W.
Francis V. Keesling._.G, T. Francis V. Keesling ...- ... 6. T.
Uoyd E. Wilson .. _ _ 6, S. Lloyd E. Wilson ........- .... G. S.
Arthur M. Warren ..- ...-6. L. Walter H. E. von Konsliy 6. L

1947

1950

Chester H. Warlow......G. M.

Arthur PaulHn _ _ 6, M.

ttesno No. 247
lorn June 30, 1819

Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 18'0

Edward H. Siems.._.. D, 6. M. Louis C. Drapeau.._D, G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer__ $, G. W. Arthur M. Warren__ $, G. W.
Arthur PaulHn........J. 6. W. Frank Harwell, Jr_J, G. W.
Francis V. Kee11in9._, __ c;;, T. Francis V. Keesllng. __6, T.
Uoyd E. Wi11on .. _ _ 6, S. Uoyd E. Wilson _ _ _ 6, S.
Arthur M. Warren _____ 6, L Walter H. E. von Konsky 6.L.

1948
Edward H. Siems..........G. M.
Plymouth No. 560
lorn December 7, 190J

UST OF INSPECTO RS

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ____ 6, M.
Liberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905

1951
Louis C, Drapeau......_.6, M.
Poinsettia No. 633
Bom Au9. 30, 1885

Ellsworth Meyer...-.D· 6. M. Arthur M. Warren .. D. G. M.
Arthur PaulHn.. _____S, G. W. Frank Harwell, Jr .....S. G. W.
Louis C. Drapeau..___J, 6. W. Henry C. Clausen._ J, 6, W.
Francis V. Keesllng._....6. T. Francis V. KHsling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..._, ___ ..6. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ........ _ ..6. S.
Arthur M. Warren ...... _.. 6. L Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L.
1952
Arthur M. Warren ........ G. M.
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born December 27, 1901

Frank Harwell, Jr•.... D.·G. M.
, Henry C. Clausen ....$. G. W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. J, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............6. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsliy G. L.

Fo11owing the death of W a1ter H. E. van Kansky on November 3,
1952, the Grand Master appointed Elbert W. Davis, Assistant Grand
Lecturer, to flll the vacancy in office thus created.

499

of Commission

Dim-id
.
Clark H. Shaw--·· ·-----··--- -·....---···July, 1911...........- ......- ...... _..•6U
Karl L. Ratzer..._ .........................~.....:...~..Janwuj 1, 1921.......................... _ ...572
John M. lcardo.......... _......- ............................January, ·1921................................380
S. Leslie Hawken ........................- .......January 27, 1925......................... _ ...364.
Clarence L. Fraser...................................December, 1927...:.....................,......424
Wm. S. Tbompson......................- ......- ..........March, 1928................................412
Rudolph Mohr, Jr................,.............:.........,.January, 1929................................334
Geo. P. Salm -·-··-.......................................June 14, 1930................................538
Niles 0. Millar...- ................~...............................July, 1932................................346
Thomas B. Pollard........................................January, 1933..............................,..316
H. R. Hargrave....................................September 15, 1934................................418
Chas. H. Knights.................................December 28, 1934................................646
Alexander D. Potts....................- .............January 1, 1935................................384 .
John Behrens .............................- .............January 2, 1935................................3'18
Chas. S. Hogan....................................................April, 1935................................106
Carl C. Mikesell.................. -..·.···-.................October, 1935................................604
Samuel Dollar ...........................................December, 1935.................................416
Willard G. Babcock. ...............................Janu!ll'Y 10, 1936........- .......... ,..........616
James W. Robinson......................................January, 1936................................206
William C. Gover..........- ..............................October, 1936................................110
Carl F. Peters..........................................November 1, 1936...............................:534
George S. Ward..........................................January 1, 1937................................104
Fred Weed...................... - ...................._.Septembe r, 1938.......................... _ ...642.
George L. Stivers......................................Novem.ber, 1938....................... .........210
Guido de Ghetaldi.......................................October, 1938................................306
Roy S. Lenthall .............................................Januar)r, 1939................................354
J. Wesley Sibole.........................................Decem.ber, 1939................................224
J. Tyler Parker, Jr..............:........... _ ......september, 1940...............,...........- ..514
Harold S. Morrison...............................December 1, 1940.. ,....................- .......512
Henry Kaiser.·--··- ··-··-··----..........~..........April 1, 1941................................408
Rolla L. Eubanks..................- ...........................April, 1941................................320
Nels H. Johnson.............................. _........January 6, 1942...............- ...............372
Miles J.· McClelland................................... .March 10, 1942............................... .218
Orville L. Coburn..........................................March 3, 1943................................430
Elmer M. Hopper......................:..............- ... .May 10, 1943......................- . -..304
Henry S. Savage, Jr.....................................,.,July 4, i943....................,..:........3:S2
Melvin R. Berbower............................November 10, 1943................................824
Frederic E. Clark....................................January 26, 1944.........~......................530
Earl Stewart....... _........;.._ .....,................February 6, ·1944................................220
Ray W. Mclntyre..........................................March 8, 1944................................374
Leo E. Anderson..............................................May 17, 1944................................528
John Ramsay.:.._ ...........---·-··-···-·--- ···..:.....July 5, 1944......................- .......620
Dwight C. Freeman......................................March 2, 1945.................................548
James B. Lawson.................................._ .....March 6, 1945................................426
Arch Balchin..........................................- ..;!tlarch 27, 1945................................414
Floyd H. Watson..........................................March 30, 1945................................504
2,. 1945................................404
Charles C. Hale...........- ..............--...............July
.
lrupectora

.

Date

500
ln1p«1or1

PROCBBDINGS OP THB

Date of Commission

Diltrid

Edward C. Lohmeyer............·--·······September 27, HHS........•..-...................322
Alexander Duncan....·-················-·······-···October 9, 1945-·····················-·······301
Robert W. NicoL--··----······-···---···October 24, 1945..·-··-··-··-·········-····612
W. Corell Smith..·--··-····-··········-··-··December 20, 1945..·-··········-···············222
Louis L. Cunningbam. ...•......•.......- .........•.August 2, 1946..·-···-·-··············-···536
W. Ralph Anderson....... _.......................November 4, 1946................................360
James G. Dislier.........·-·······-············.November 12, 1946..·-··-··········-···········350
Frank W. Johnson. .........- ....................November 21, 1946................................544
John A Crosbie..·-··············-···············November 21, 1946..·-······-···················532
Arch T. Roberson............·-····-····-··--·····.January 1, 1947...............·-··-··-·······402
Ray R. Bell...-··-···-··-····-··-··-···-···-······-·.April 7, 1947......·-··········-······-···632
Stephen E. Skidmore......... -····-··-····-··-·-··.April 7, 1947..·-··········-·······-······608
Fred C. Pritachke-·--·-··--··-·--··-·----.APril 7, 1947·--··-··············-··-···428
Harry Burrows ·········-········-········-····.December 15, 1947-·-·············-···-·····-302Russell Northrop..............·-··-··-···-···.December 20, 1947................................524
Rush Manbert...............- ...................... December 20, 1947..·-··-······-······-·······330
Frank R. Killinger, Jr........................December 29, 1947..................·-··-·······358
Howard S. Kaulbach...........................December 29, 1947•..........- ...................3!58
Hannan L. Wayne..... - ........................ Decemb~ 29, 1947...................-·...........328
Stanley Hurst Wentz........................·-··-···March 16, 1948-·····················-·······226
Roy T. Kiele.....- ..······-·············-··-···············.April 22, 1948........................... _...542
William T. Rodger•...... ~···········-··-·········-····.Aprll 22, 1948................................628
Howard Laurent..·-··········-···-·-··············-····.June 19, 1946..·-··················-······:518
Robert N. Walker....·-············-··-···-·.···-······.July 28, 1946..·--···-··············-···368
Ebner Glen Van Tassell.....- .............September 11, 1946..·-······-······-···········112
Reginald Reynolds................................November 5, 1948..·-······-···················108
Donald G. Campbell............... _.................January 1, 1949................................516
Albert E. Carroll.....................•..................January 7, 1949................................610
Louis H. Mahlt:r..............•........................ .January 31, 1949.....- .........................520
Orin Compton.................·-·········-···········February 9, 1949................................420
John A. Owen..·--··-················-·-·-·············..May 16, 1949................................550
Chas. A. Thomasset. ................_.....................June 28, 1949;...............................570
Eric Wm. Nelson........................·-········-······.June 30, 1949..·-······-··············-···202
William Nankervis, Jr.....·-··-····-······--···-·.June 30, 1949.......- .......................362
Eugene P. Jijine.......................·-·-·····September 16, 1949..................·-··········.382
Wilson Ernest Lathrop....................... - .....October 1, 1949..........·-··-······-··-···410
Robert H. Taylor............. -.....................November 7, 1949................................348
Herbert H. Schultz................................. .Januar)• 16, 1950...............- ...............346
Maurice E. Coffey.. ·-······-······-··········-··.January 16, 1950....- ..........................342
Perry M. Spencer................................... .January 16, 1960........................- ......336
Jack Maat••.•......•...- ..•.•..:.-......•••:....- .......January 16, 1950.......................... - ... .310
Harvey Browning................................... .January 16, 1950................................318
Earl Caldwell............................................January 16, 1950................................324
Delbert E. _Luck..............................................April 14, 1950................................406
Ebner R. Lotz.......•..........-··················-·········.April 14, 1950................................li22
Elvin C. Drake............................. ·-·-········"'··.April 14, 1950................................526
John Brfght..·--························-··········-······-··.MllJ' 8, 19:50..................-·······-···602
Anson McArthur.. ·-······-······························-··.May 8, 1950................................552
Albert V. YO\lnll.···-·······-············-············-···May 8, 1950..·-······················-···554

lnapector1

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

501

Date of Commiuion

Distrld

Chas. W. L~ord..·--······-····-··--··-··--····-.May 8, 1950.•. - .......................•...158
Martin 0. Veland........................·-····-·-·-···-.May 8, 1950................................558
Wm. E. Keogh....·-··················-···-·········--·--·~ 8, 1960.•.- .......................•...560
Paul Thompson. .............·-······-············-··-·····..May 8, 1950...............·-·····-·······562
Myron E. Roudebush.........................- .............May 8, 1950•.·-··-·-···········-·······626
W. Ben Sorrells............................................•.._.May- 8, 1950·-························-···634
Hugh D. Good. ...•-····················-··············-···.,...May 8, 1950..·-··-··········-··········.138
Ted R. Siems............................ ·-·············
. May 8, 1950..........................._..•614
William N. Pedder.. ·-············-············-··-····...May 8, 1950............... _...............564
Leland E. Wallace................................September 7, 1950..·-······-······-··········.204
Walter Edward Sanner..................... .November 24, 1950--··-··········-········-·*
Frank W. Raddatz..·-····-··············-··.November 24, 1950.. ·-··-·-······-··-·-··.548
Olen F. Turner..................·-············-··.November 24, 1950..·-··-······-··-·····-····630
Joseph Myron Ruggiero...................December 21, 1950.•................·--···-···332
Arthur Boone....·-············-··················December 21, 1950•..........- ...................508
Guy S. Harts, Sr..................................December 21, 1950....................... - .. - ....608
J. Ralph Dawdy........................................Januaey 26, 195L-...........................422
Andre L. Armand..................... - .............January 26, 1951.............•·-··-···········2'16
Robert McGarva..........................................March 11, 1951..·-·····-·······-···········109
Jack Walton Leishman. .....................·-····-··.May 18, 1961--·····-···-··-·········,.317
Ebner Gaylord Quinn..........·-···-·-···-·······...Mq 18, 1951••·-··-·······················36'1
Loren Alton Lloyd....-·················-··-···-··-...)lay 18, 1951..·-····--···················370
Jennings E. Muir............ ·-····················-····....July 10, 195L.·-······-··-···············432
Thomas B. Copeland................. - .......September 29, 1951...--·-··-······-······-···114
Joseph H. White....·-··-·········-··-·--·······October 18, 1951..·-····--··-········--···116
George H. Olmsted....·-··-············-····--·October 18, 1951•.....·-··-··---··-··-··..216
Reginald 1'unce........·-···················-·-···Oetober 23, 195L.............·-··-··-··-···546
Charles Joseph Savage..........."····-·······.November 6, 1951..·-······-···········-···-·640
Kent 0. Seymour.......................___ ...November 15, 1951...-··-··-··-······-·-··.314
Edward J. Guirado...................- ........December 12, 1951.•...........:.............- ...568
Carl F. La Vo... ..:.·-··················-··-·-··D~ber 15, 1951..·-······-········--·····..388
Carroll C. Doane............................·--··-.January 1, 1952.•....·-··-········-········.30'7
Ralph Geo. Riches..·-······-··-··········-··-···January 10, 1952......·-··············-··-··.338
Ballard White, Jr.....·-···-····-··-··-··--··December 12, 1951....•.... ·-··-·······-··120
Orval A Myers......·-··············-······--December 12, 1951..........·-··········-·:-...118
Kenneth C. Stanley.... ·-······--·······-··-··.February 7, 1952.·-··-·-······-····-·····636
James Brownlee..·-··-··········-········-··-·--..March 11, 1952....·-···············-·--···844
Wilfred W. Part:ridge......·-······-·······-··-··.March 31, 1952....................... _..•....503
Lynn A. Blackmun......................................March 31, 1952......·-··•···············--..603
Edward Farley..·--··-················-·········-······.May 12, 1952...........•....................208
Burrell Clifford Jull...................- ...................Jlay 12, 1952.. ·-······················-··.212
Harry K. Widup....·-······················-··.November 10, 1952.......- ....................••.344
Frank Harrington.......................-.......November 13, 19152.·-·····················-····.510
James A. Drace........ ·-····-··-······-······.No~ber 14, 1952.•.......................••.....228
Milton H. Lang.·-·········-··--······--·-·..November 14, 1852.............•..-·-···--··..640
J. Harry Snowden. ..........................- .....December 9, 1951......·-··········-······-···608
Fred L. Ferguson-...........-··········-··-·····..Janua17 1, 1953..·-··-······-··-·····-···6UJ
Carvil W. Marlatt.................................- ...January 1, UN~3----···························308

502

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Rleogniz«l tmJ in p,41.,,,,,J R•llllions with th•
C,tlflll, Lotlg• of Cali/amid

I

Argentina:
Alcibiades Lappas, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Bolivia:
Isaac Saravia Noriega, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564,
La Paz, Bolivia.
Brull:

. The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Fe~ando De Lemos Falcone, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
· The Grand Loclae of Bahia
Diego Menezes do Nascimento, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relatiom
Caixa Postal N. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Luiz Nepomucemo de Mattos, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Orlando Rego Luna, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
·
The Grand Lodee of Para
Francisco da Silva Costa, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Jacy Garnier de Bacellar, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
0. M. deFleury, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.,
Caixa Postal 2611, Sao Paulo, Brazil
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Grand Secretary
Rua Visconde de Morais No. 60, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
J.M. Magalhaes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
Canadas
AlbertaGeorge Moore, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Calgary.
British Columbia- ·
J. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
· · 692 Seymour St., Vancouver, B. C.
·OntarioEwart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Bm: 217, ~amilton, Ontario.
lllanitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg, Manitoba.

New Brunswick.
R. D. Magee, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotlaReginald V. Harris. Grand Secty..
Freemasons' Hall, Halifax, Nova Scotia
Prince Edward IslandL. A. McDougall, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 112, Charlottetown, P. E. L
QuebecR. W. Louthood, Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks St., Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
ChUe1
Dr. J. Eduardo Pastene, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
·C olombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Costa Ricas
Enrique Chaves Bolanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba. Isle of1
Dr. Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.

·c..cho-Slovakla:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeSvend F. Jacobsen, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Ecuador1
Jose Aurelio Vallejo Ycaza, Grand Secty.,
Casilla No. 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S. A.
Egypt:

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kamil El Sharkawy,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.
Englands

Sidney A. White, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:

Bruno Kivikoskj, Grand Secty.,
Snellmaninkatu 25B, Helsinki, Finland.

503

504

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

France:
French National Grand Lodge,
L. F. Poirson, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Georges Richaud, Grand Chancellor
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodge of Germany,
Ferdinl!lld von Cles, Grand Secty.,
Kanzle1, Frankfurt,am Main, Friedrich-Ebert-Strasse 37.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge Onida Mexicana
Angel Galindo Cruz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Pablo C. Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. A. A. Galestin. Grand Secty.•
22 Fluweelen Burgwal, The Hague.

Greece:
Dr. Antonios Rammos, Grand Secty
58 loulianou St., Athens, Greece."

New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall, Sydney, N.S.W.

Guatemala:
Manuel A. Tribouillier, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 312, Guatemala City, C. A.

New Zealand:
H. A. Lamb, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 1833, Wellington C. I., New Zealand.

Honduras:
Miguel Angel Zelaya, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 28, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A.

Nicaragua:
Agustin Vanegas P., Grand Secty.
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.

Ir•land:
H. C. Shellard, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
E. Dubinsky, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Carlo Manelli, Grand Secty.
Via Giustiniani, 1, Rome. '
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
·
Cantwell C. Brown, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Alfonso Gomez Pereyra, Grand Sec.
Apartado 42, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
Reinaldo Guzman, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Alonzo Castanedo, Gra~d Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Nicolas Carlos Kauffmann, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.

Norway1
Odd Lie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Frimurerlogen, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Puuna1
W. Eduardo E. deDiego, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.
Peru:
Cesar Cevallos Villacorta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2190, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Antonio Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
520 San Marcelino, Manila. P. I.
Puerto Rico:
Angel M. Torres, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 747, San Juan. Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
E. G. Radford, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Salvador (Cuscallan):
Jose Lacayo Tellez, Grand Secty.,
San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
Scotland:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons' Hall, 96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J, Ellen. Grand Secty.,
Box 19, Rundle St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.

505

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sweden:
·
· Eric Hallin. Grand Secty..
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switserland:
Grand Lodge Suisse Alpina,
Alfred Siza, Grand Secty.,
25, Bd. du Pont - d'Arve, 25, Geneva, Switzerland.

Tasmania:
H. A. Wilkinson. Grand Secty.•
1177 MacQUarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.

Venezuela:
Jesus M. Chango Gomez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.

•v1enna:
Weatem Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G. P. 0 . Box D-177, Perth, Australia.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acalanes (U.D.), Lafayette.
Acom (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Centerville.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Signal Hill.
Alta Vista (464), San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.

•TugoalaTla:
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.
•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angele1.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Ascot (538) , Los Angeles.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526): San Francisco.
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Seal Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Los Angeles.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), East Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.

Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), San Leandro.
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Center (465) Fresno.
Charity (362). Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thie~ (569), Oakland.
Chico (111). Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citro} (656), Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.

507

508

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL UST OF LODGES-Continued

Corona (324), Pasadena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clovis (<U 7), Clovis.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crescenta Valley (652), Montrose.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Composite (639t Los Angeles.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Concord (117), ;::;acramento.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Estero (U.D.), Cayucos.
Eel River (147), Fortuna.
Eucalyptus (243), Haywards.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evetgreen (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), San Anselmo.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120)t San Francisco.
Filbnore (3791, Filbnore.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.
Forest (66), Alleghany.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.

Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.

Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanm (492), Los Angeles.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (U..D.), Campbell.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.

509

Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32). Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Hammonton.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hill's Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Home (U.D.), No. Hollywood.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme (458)r...Los Angeles.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Hermann (127), San .nancisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557), Hermosa Beach.
Hun~on Beach (380),
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Huntington Beach.

.

Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

I
Indian Wells Valley (691), China Lake.
Ione (80), lone.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Inyo (221), lndependence.

J

James A. Foshay (64l)t Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566J, Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Jordan (654), Loa Angeles •
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San ~~if~· Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly · .

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665) Woodlake.
Keith (187).l Gilroy.
Kerman (-uO). Kerman.

Keystone (161),,_~ton.
Kilauea (330), .tWo, T. H.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.

L
La Brea (650), Loa Angeles.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol

Laguna Beach (672)l~Laguna Beach.
La Habra (859) La .ttabra.
La Jolla (618), La Jolla.

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF LODGES- Continued

Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Livingston (658), Livingston
Lancaster (437), Lancaster. ·
·
Lodi (256), Lodi.
· .
Land.mark (253), Esparto.
Lomita (644) Torrance.
La Puenta (446), Puenta. .
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Larchmo!lt (611), Los Angeles.
La Parfa1te Union (17), San Francisco. Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lorenzo (709), Hayward.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Altos (812), Palo Alto.
Lassen (149), S~sanville.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Lebanon (495) 1 San E?-anc1sco.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
le Progres de l Ocean1e (371),
· Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
.
Honolulu, T. H.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
~xington (104), El Monte.
L~beral Arts (677), West Los Angeles. Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
L1bertas (466), Bakers~eld.

MMineral King (U.D.), Visalia.
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission (169), San Francisco.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
·Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia Park 715), Burbank.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa. '
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Marin (191), San Rafael. ·
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa. Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McCloud (430), McCloud. ·
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mountain View (194),
Melrose (602), Los Angeles.
Mountain View.
Menlo Park (651), Palo Alto.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
·
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mµ_itary Service (57~), San Francisco. Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mill Valley (356), ¥ill Valley.

N
iti'toma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.

North East (266), Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
Northern Light (190), Milville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge (U.D.), San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Ocean Park (369), Oceanpark.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688) 1 Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), OJai

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

511

ALPHABE TICAL LIST OF LODGES- Continued
Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
·
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphy's.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Francisco.

Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angele~.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.Palm Springs (693), Palm Sprmgs.
·
Palms (512), Palms.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere ( 462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Penrhyn (358), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.

Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R

Rim of the World (711),
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Lake Arrowhead.
Reading (254), Redding.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
R. E. DoIIy (616), Seal Beach.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville. · Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
.·
Rialto (582), Rialto •
Russian River (181), Windsor.
Richmond (375), San Franc1Sco.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.

s
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Saint John's (U.D.) Walnut Creek.
..
Sanger ~316), Sanger.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Jacm~ (338), San Jacmto.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
San Joaqum (19), Stockton.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino.S an Jose (10), San Jose.
San Lorenzo Valley (U.D.),
San Buenaventur a (214), Ventura.
Boulder Creek.
San Carlos (690) San Carlos
San Marino (685), South Pasadena.
San Clemente (671), San Cleinente.
San Mateo (226)~ San Ma~eo.
San Diego (35), San Die~o.
San Miguel (285J, San Miguel
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.

512

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Ramon Valley (U.D.), Danville.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307)J.. Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), :santa Paula.
. Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Los Olivos
Schofield (443), Schofield Barracks,
T.H.
Seafaring (708), Costa Mesa.
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
Silveyville (201) , Dixon.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.

Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stony Ford.
Sojourner (507), Monrovia.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles.
Southern California Research
Lodge (U.D.), Hollywood.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212),
San Francisco.
South West (283), National City.
Speranza Italiana (219),
San Francisco.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Tafl
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.

Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Temescal (214), Corona.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.

Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.

Valley Forge 587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Vicitorville (634), Victorville.

513

Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687) Vista.
Vihruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Warren G. Harding (579),
Westwood (501), Westwood.
North Sacramento.
White Pine (555), Weed.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
William D. Stephens (698) Los Angeles
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Willits (365), Willits.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Westchester (703), Los Angeles.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
Woodridge (131), Woodridge.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles. Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81). Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba LindL

York (423) Los Angeles.
Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount (12), Napa.

Freentas onry
(t

1n a
Changin g World

REPORT
of

COMMITTEE

on
CORRESPONDENCE

1952

516

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

517

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California, 1952

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
· .FOREWORD
Your committee has invariably utilized a topical arrangement in reviewing proceedings of sister jurisdictions. In this report we attempt a
connected Masonic essay constructed from the words uttered by leaders
of the Craft recorded in the printed proceedings of the 1951 Grand
Lodge Communications.

FREEMASONRY IN A CHANGING WORLD

CHAPTER INDEX
Chapter

Paae

I

Masonic Philosophers Speak. ... ----------------····---····---------··-----------519

II

Keeping Masons Interested and Active... ·-·······-·--·············--------~-521

III

Masonic Education --···············--------·-·--·---·-···•··--····-··-········--·--·---·523

IV

Research Lodges -······················-······················--'.·-·· .....................526

V

Masonic Publications -·-----······-·-····----·-··--·-·---------·-~----·-···--···--·-·--S28

VI

Masonic Correspondence Committees........................................ 535

VII

Concordant Bodies and Masonic Membership
Requisite Organizations ·····---·--·-·····---···-······················--·---537

VIII

Religious and Political Discussion ..............................................540

IX

Masonic Public Relations and Civic Activities .......................... 546

X

Support of Constitutional Government...................................... 550

XI

Support of the Public SchooL------·---·--··--···--··-····-·····--··--····-=-···--551

XII

Freemasonry and World Crisis·-------·----···········--····-·········-···-------55-t

XIII

Masonic Homes and Benevolence........................... ·······--·--··:··--·-558

XIV

Foreign Grand Lodges --·-----------··------·---·-··-·---····-········-··-······-····564

XV

Statistics ····-·····-·······-···--······---··-···-··--·---··---·-·········· ·----··-···----·-··-·567 ·

Editorial comment is minimized. Quotation marks were deemed
superfluous. Such connecting and explanatory matter as was essential
is inserted in italics. The ideas expressed are those of the person indicated and not necessarily those of the committee.
Half a century of world turmoil and flux has had its impact on all
institutions, Freemasonry not excepted. The function of this committee
is to keep you informed and in touch with current thought and activity
in other recognized Grand Lodge jurisdictions.
We trust that our work will prove interesting, instructive and stimulating, and that it may better prepare you to perform your responsible
duties in helping to steer the Grand Lodge of California through
troubled waters.
NEWCOMB CoNDEE, CHAIRMAN
OSCAR C. OLSEN
HERBERT G. POLHILL
GEORGE W. BURCH
RALPH MAGEE
MERLE E. FRANTZ
WILLIAM

J. BARTLE

518

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

519

CHAPTER I

1951 PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED

WORLD
IN A CHANGING
FREEMASONRY
.
.
MASONIC PHILOSOPHERS SPEAK

United States
Alabama - - · - - - l l l s t Nov. 20, 21
Arizona ·-·-·-··-·- 69th Apr. 28, 24
Arbnaaa ---··-110th Nov. 20, 21
California ----.102nd Oct. 8, 9, 10, 11,
and 12
Colorado -------·- llst Sept. 18, 19
Connecticut ·---·····-161rd Apr. 8, 4
Delaware ·······-··--·····146th Oct. 8, 4
Dist. of ColumbiL.--1'1st May 9, June 16,
Sept. 22, Dee. 19
Florida ·················-······-122nd Apr. 17, 18, 111
Georgia ········--············165th Oct. 28, 24
Idaho - - - - - · - - 86th Sept. 18, 19, 20
Illinois· ---·········-·····---113th Oct. 9, 10
Indiana ·-·······················184th Ma7 16, 11
Iowa ·-·····················-····107th June 12, 13, 14
Kansas --····--·--- 96th Feb. 14, 16
Kentucky ...................... 151st Oct. 16, 17, 18
Louisiana ····-········-····140th Feb. 12, 13, 14
Maine ·-·························133rd May 1, 2, 3
Maryland ········--··········165th May 15, Nov. 20, 21
Maasachu1etts ··········---182nd Mar. 14, June 18,
Sept. 12, Dec. 12
Michigan ·-·-··--107th May 22, 23
Minneoota -·--·--·· 98th Mar. 21, 22
Mlasis1ippl ················--lllrd Feb. 13, 14
Missouri ···----·--·----110th Seot. 26. 27. 28

Montana·······-·--···- 87th
Nebraska ·-········-·- !14th
Nevada ····-·············-··· 87th
New Hampshire ·-·······167th
New Jersey ·-··········---184th
New Mexico·-·--.- 74tb
New York ················-··17oth
North Carolina ·-···-~·--···
North Dakota ········-·-· 63rd
Ohio ·······-····.-.·-·····--···142nd
Oklahoma ._,_ _ _ 78th
Oregon ·············-··-·······lOlst
Pennsylvania ······-····166th
Rhode Island ·-······-·····160th
South Carolina ··-········214th
South Dakota ·-·-········· 77th
Tennessee ................•..... 138th
Texas ·······-····-···-·······116th
Utah ·········---····-··---· 79th
Vermont ·······-····---··---·168th
Virginia ······--····-·····-··l 73rd
Waahlngton ---··········-·· 94th
West Virginia ·-·-·- 87th
Wi1eonain ·-····-··········-107th
Wyoming ·-···-········-·· 77th

Aug. 21, 2Z
June 6, 6, 't
June 14, 16
Nov. 21, Ha7 16
Apr. 18, 19
Mar. 111, 20
Ma7 1, 2, 8
June 18, 111, 20
Oct. 17, 18
Feb. 18, 14, 16
June 13, 14, 16
Mar. 't, June 8,
Sept. 6, Dee. 6
Nov. 20, MQ 21
Apr. 26, 27
June 12, 11
Jan. 80
Dec. 6, 7,
Jan. 22, 28
June 18, l4
Feb. 13, 14, lli
June 19, 20, 21
Oct. 10, 11
June 12, 18
Aug. 27, 28

Nebraska; P.D.G.M., Massachusetts.

Foreign Jurisdictions
Alberta ··-········-·····-·- 46th
Briti1h Columbia · - 80th
Canada (Ontario) ·-- 96th
England ·-·············-····--236th
New Brunswick ······- 84th
New S"uth Wales ...... 63rd
New Zealand ....•.•.•••..... 61st
Nova Scotia ·-············· 86th
Philippine hlands--···- ~~th

June 13, 14
June 2l, 22
June 21, 22
June 6, Sept. 6
Aug. 23
Mar. U, June 12
Nov. 29, 80
June 7
Jan 23, 24, 25

If the Craft is to be perpetual, it must appeal to each time as well
as to all times; it must have in its traditions something that today can
use, although yesterday could not use it and tomorrow need not. We are
a Craft of workmen. It is our glory to be engaged in useful service. Our
rites and usages are not merely a proud possession to be treasured for
their beauty and antiquity. They are instruments imparted to us to be
used. Hence we may properly inquire, what can we make of this wonderful tradition of which we are the custodians that will serve the world
of today? . . . Every world-organization hitherto has been wrecked
ultimately upon its own dogmatism. It has taken the dogmas, the interpretations, the philosophy of its youth for a flxed order of nature. It has
assumed that universality consisted of forcing these dogmas, these interpretations, this philosophy upon all times to come. While it has rested serene in the ruts made by its own prosperity, the world has marched
by it unseen. Masonic Philosophy by Roscoe Pound. Hon. P.G.M.

Prince Edward Island 76th June 27
Saskatchewan ·-·-··-- 46th June 20
· -216th Ma7 8, Aug. 2,
Scotland -·--·····-

Nov.1

South Australia --···· 68th Apr. 18
Tasmania ·······---·-·· 60th Apr. 1
Victoria ·············----··- 68th Apr. 24, June 20,
Sept. 111, Dec. 11
Western Australia __ 53rd Feb. 22, 11&7 2'

"I hope Masonry will never become so up to date that it will be
out of date tomorrow f" said Roscoe Pound. Let us hope that Masonry
will never become too big, too modern, too high pressured, too much big
business, too Super-Colossal. too much just another Club. For when
that time comes Masonry will no longer be Masonry. William B. Warner, P.G.M. Nebraska.
When is a man a Mason? The answer is given by Joseph Fort Newton in the paragraph which ends his great book, The Builders: "When
he can look out over the rivers, the hills, and the far horizon with a profound sense of his own littleness in the vast scheme of things, and yet
have faith, hope and courage-which is the root of every virtue. When
he knows that down in his heart every man is as noble, as vile, as divine,
as diabolic, and as lonely as himself, and seeks to know, to forgive, and
to love his fellow man. When he knows how to sympathize with men
in their sorrows, yea, even in their sins--knowing that each man flghts
a hard flght against many odds. When he has learned how to make
friends and to keep them, and above all how to keep friends with himself.... When no voice of distress reaches his ears in vain, and no hand
seeks his aid without response. When he flnds good in every faith that
helps any man to lay hold of divine things and see majestic meanings in
life, whatever the name of that faith may be. . . . When he has kept
faith with himself, with his fellowman, with his God: in his hand a
sword for evil, in his heart a bit of song--glad to live, but not afraid to

520

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

die! Such a man has found the only real secret of Masonry, and the one
which it is trying to give to all the world." Lynn R. Brodrick, G.M.
Kansas.

CHAPTER II

Freemasonry is no ivory tower. It is no escape from the problems
and tensions that are inevitable in our kind of world. We must think of
Masonry as that which we can release as a great constructive force in
the world. You are privileged men-men who have seen a vision of what
life can be; men who have dreamed a dream of an ideal life for humanity;
and you are ·therefore forever committed to the task of translating the
vision and the dream into action. Thomas S. Roy, G. M. Massachusetts.

KEEPING MASONS INTERESTED AND ACTIVE

521

Attendance or rather lack of attendance is causing considerable
concern to Grand Masters and, we suspect, it is also a matter of concern
to some Worshipful Masters. The solution is simple and obvious. If
meetings are interesting there will never be a lack of attendance. Business meetings or degree work night after night become monotonous to .
brethren relegated to the role of spectator. Is it any wonder they gradually drift away? To keep them interested give them something to do.
Very few of us are willing to read a book or see the same show over
and over. Are we so naive as to expect Masons to willingly listen to
degree work over and over just because the degrees rendered are beautiful and instructive? Duty to attend lodge means little to some when
other attractions are so plentiful. A Worshipful Master capable of
providing interesting meetings is of far more value to his lodge and
to Masonry than is one who is a proficient ritualist but without organizing ability. Herbert W. Dixon, P.G.M. Wisconsin.
More Masonry in men is our great need, rather than more men in
Masonry. I have made the statement that it would be well if we were
to discontinue receiving new members for a year; we would then be
impelled to offer the Brethren who attend our meetings some of the
instruction that is too often neglected in the rush of ritualistic work we
have had fo1 the past few years. . • • I have no desire to minimize
the importance of good ritual; on the contrary, I laud good degree
work and stress its importance, but we should not concentrate on ritual
to the exclusion of all else. Robert W. Cretney, G.M. Louisiana.
Should talks in Lodge meetings be confined to such subject& as
are purely M81!10nic, or at least carry a Masonic connection 1

Some of the Masonic brethren probably feel that we should permit
only such discussions as connect directly or indirectly with the Order
and are instructive as to its principles, meaning and history. Brothers
so convinced are certainly not a large part of the whole group.
For myself, I do not take that view. I think we should encourage
the intellectual activity of the brothers by covering quite a broad field.
Such subjects as current events, especially in world-wide matters,
scientific developments, literature and history are just as much subjects
for Masonic education as are those that are strictly Masonic. Neither
set of subjects should exclude the other. They should be alternated.
This, I feel, will not only build up the individual member but the Order
also.
For some years it has been a conviction with me that in a ·section of

522

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

this country such as that in which we live, i.e., not in large cities, the
membership of a lodge should represent a cross sect.ion of the thinking
man fn the community. Rich or poor, bankers or barbers-if they think
for themselves and want to progress intellectually they are timber for
the Order.
In a lodge so composed there will be those who can tell their experiences, those who can tell of developments of science, those who can
explain the philosophy and history of the Order, those who can bring
in a good motion picture, and those who can prepare a paper on some
pivotal time in history. Each of these should take part and do or talk of
the thing in which he is interested. It is all Masonic education. Judge
Frederick _C. Loofbourrow. Utah.
T~e committee on Masonic Education has prepared and published
twelve monthly multigraphed titles which were the basis of discussion
in Utah lodges for the months designated. The subjects are listed as
follows:
1951
Paul Revere ··-·····-································ .......................January
Robert Burns and Freemasonry................................ February
The Heavenly Gift ........................................................ March
Knowledge of the Bible....................................................April
Truth ............._..........- .....................................................May
Some European Masons Related to the
American Revolution _ ..............................................June
The State and The Church in Utah..................................July
Masonic Coaching and Instruction..............................August ·
Some Masons of the American Revolution............September
The Fellow-Traveler ..................................................October
Some More Masons of the American Revolution ..November
The Sons of Tubal Cafn.......................................... December
Mervin B. Hogan, Chairman Education Committee, Utah.
The problem of competent and Willing leadership is critical.
Nearly every lodge has its corps of "old faithfuls." They are the small
group who, year after year, shoulder the burdens of the local lodges
and carry them down through the years-while the balance of the membership is, in fact, inactive--indifferent. Yes, to be sure, most of them
pay their dues-but that is the extent of the activity of these indifferent
members.
·
So, this problem of bringing into the leadership circle new, zealous
and younger blood must be solved....
· And may I interject here my sincere conviction that, given proper
leadership--through exercise of care and thought in selection of lodge
officers-we soon can eliminate most of our indifferent members by the
simple process of imbuing them with the conviction that Masonry can
and will make them wiser, happier and better men. Lynn R. Brodrick,
G. M. Kansas.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

523

CHAPTER Ill

MASONIC EDUCATION
We must constantly guard against the idea that a man has been
made a Mason when he has received the degrees--it has · made him
a member but no more a Mason than membership in a musical dub
would have made him a musician. The correct rendition of the ritual is
fundamental and a good knowledge of it is desirable, but we must also
provide ways and means whereby our members as well as our initiates
are taught the essentials of Masonic history and philosophy, the truths
and principles which are embodied in its symbolism and their application
to the building of character and the development of manhood. William
E. Yeager, G. M. Pennsylvania.
We feel that our efforts should be expended in promoting what
might be called primary or elementary education, since there are
available for the true Masonic scholars many volumes of history and
philosophy written thru the years. On the other hand, in the field in
which we feel we ought to work there is a real question of how to issue
reading material which will be read. The experience of the grand secretary's office is that there is relatively little interest in printed material;
... The deputies have an unusual opportunity for disseminating Masonic
information since the meetings which they attend are usually the largest
of the year. F. R. Adams, Chairman, Committee on Masonic Education,
Vermont.
The Masonic Education Bulletin has been issued each month during the past year with the exception of July and August.... We have
concentrated on the essay type of bulletin hoping that the subjects covered would arouse interest in basic Masonic principles among our
Masonic membership, old and new alike. Joe E. W oocl, Director of
Masonic Education, Wyoming.
Will You Plan Ahead is a booklet issued at the direction of the
Grand Master. It was prepared to assist the Worshipful Masters and
Deputies of the Grand Master in the discharge of their duties and to
aid them in achieving an outstandingly successful year.
Masonic Educational Booklets should be used in every Lodge.
The new Master Mason booklet was completed just a year ago ....
Early in the year, too, the Entered Apprentice booklet ... was revised and reprinted ..••
A new supply of the preparatory booklet, "Your Quest for Light"
was likewise needed early in the year, and a new edition of that, slightly
revised, was printed ••••
During the year the committee developed the small 4-pp. folder giv-

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ing counsel and instruction to members of the Investigating Committtee
and a supply of them was sent to every Lodge in the State.... 0. L.
Dorworth, Chairman Service and Education Committee, Michigan.
The Claudy Masonic Plays are available to the Lodges. A full set
of the twelve plays have been secured. Worshipful Brother Frank Knoll
is in charge of this activity. Several of the plays have been produced
and lodges are at the present time working on further productions. It
is our judgment that this activity will prove to be of lasting benefit to
the jurisdiction. The plays require no special scenery and use the lodge
set-up. While there are several characters needed, not over two or three
of the parts are heavy. Each of the plays teaches a Masonic lesson.
Harry D. Proudfoot, G. S. Oregon.
A letter has been addressed every month to each lodge which I
have requested them to read at their next stated meeting. These letters
have called attention to various irregularities and suggested ways of
adding interest and variety to Lodge activities. Some of the important
matters discussed in these letters were: ( 1) The evil of the unMasonic
use of the blackball by one, who, because he thinks he is too good to
associate with other good men, or because some friend, or fellow church
or club member, has been rejected, or because he himself has not received
some desired recognition, or because of some religious or political
prejudice, personal jealousy or desire for revenge, has black-balled or
Bled an objection against good men seeking membership in his Lodge.
( 2 ) The malicious practice of participation in the distribution of chain
letters. To mail such letters is a violation of the regulations of the Post
Office Department and to participate in the furtherance of these claims
is highly unMasonic and contrary to the teachings and principles of
Masonry, which are based on faith in a Supreme Architect and not in
any kind of mesmerism or superstition. • . . ( 3) Asking Lodges to hold
a Brotherly Love Night for their own members, seeking to settle personal differences and unite the Lodge in true Masonic fellowship.

Today our beautiful Degrees are being conferred more impressively
and with greater efficiency than ever before. We call attention to this
condition with great pride for this is the very foundation of our Institution. Masonry works in a secret ritual in order to make use of its secrecy
for the dramatization of our ceremonies to make them more impressive,
and not because we have something to hide from the world. Wallace
Phelan Douglas, G. M. Tennessee.
Masonic libraries are maintained by most of the large jurisdictions.
The following report illustrates the methods employed in stimulating
the general use of the library. During the past year 290 books have
been loaned, a considerable increase over 1949. The clipping bureau is
growing in popularity, indicating that the jurisdiction is beginning to
realize its worth.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

525

The two traveling libraries are being used in the state and encouraging reports have come to this office indicating their value. Each secretary of a lodge has in his possession our catalog. The District Deputy
Grand Masters also have one. Books may be secured through the Secretary of the lodge for a period of thirty days, with the privilege of
renewal.
Several attempts have been made to keep the library open in the
evenings. This proposal has been made to organizations in the Portland
~rea. So far no definite program has been concluded. I am hoping that
the Past Masters, or the Masters, Wardens and Secretaries Association
will take over and successfully implement this project. H. D. Proudfoot,
Grand Librarian, Oregon.
Masonic motion picture exchanges are operated by several Grand
Lodges. The following description is typical of this type of Masonic
Education.
Bookings from the Masonic Film Library to the lodges dropped off
in accordance with a predicted trend as the saturation point is approached on the present Blms. However, to offset this trend and to
maintain the film library for those that have made use of this facility
before several courses of action were developed:
1. Eleven new films were purchased to augment the library.
2. These Blms and the present films are being grouped into packages
so that the lodges may request Blms for every type of meeting by package.
This will insure that some of the excellent films in the library are
seen by more lodges and their members. A printed mailing price is also
being prepared covering the new system of Blm packaging for the lodges.
E. E. Simonton, Chairman, Committee on Motion Pictures, Kentucky.
The Conference on Masonic Education was held in December at
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and sponsored by the Iowa Committee on Masonic
Education.
Representatives were present from the Grand Jurisdictions of Illinois,
Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Wisconsin, Virginia and Washington, D. C.
Work was begun at nine o'clock the morning of December second
and continued without interruption until past ten o'clock in the evening,
lunch and dinner being served in the room where the meeting was
held ...•
At this meeting it was very forcibly impressed on your Board that
we of South Dakota have no program of Masonic Education. We feel
this Grand Jurisdiction is not ful8lling its obligation to its .members in
providing them further light in Masonry, which is their right. R. W.
Hunt. Board of General Activities, South Dakota.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

526

527

PROCEEDINGS OF THH

CHAPTER IV

RESEARCH LODGES
Research Lodges have recently been chartered by 11 of the 49
Grand Jurisdictions in the United States. Such Lodges augment previously existing methods of spreading Masonic light and knowledge.
Their successes have prompted this committee to become enthusiastic
about possibilities in Colorado and to lay groundwork so that like
activities can be started here almost immediately upon approval of this
Grand Lodge.
To the present, over 300 Master Masons from every section of this
Grand Jurisdiction have indicated their desire to become charter members. Incidentally. the charter roll will be open until the date of the
constitution of the Lodge-depend ent, of course, upon favorable consideration by this body of our committee's recommendation. . . . So if
any of you who have not already indicated your desires, do wish to
become charter members of "The Research Lodge of Colorado." if it is
approved, you can do so by seeing some member of the committee before
the close of this session of the Grand Lodge. Gordon R. Merrick. Chairman Special Committee on Lodge of Research, Colorado.
The report was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence which
recommended that consideration of the question be deferred until the
1953 meeting and Grand Lodge concurred.
Little did the Grand Lodge of Missouri realize, when it chartered
the Missouri Lodge of Research, the great constructive work it was to
accomplish in the years to follow; yet, in the short space of ten years,
this organization has become the largest Lodge of Research in the
Western Hemisphere. and is exceeded only by the English Lodge
( Quatuor Coronati) which was established more than half a century
ago.
During its existence it has printed volumes containing more than
twenty-five hundred pages, and has distributed other Masonic literature
of value to its members.
Because of the necessity of some form of Masonic Education, I
have attempted in my travel over the State to give as much publicity to
the work of Missouri Lodge of Research as was possible.
During the past year the Lodge has had as its Master, the President
of the United States, and as his part in promoting the work of the Lodge,
he suggested an investigation of all the Masonic books, documents,
photographs and paintings of Masonic interest, now in the Library of
Congress; already that investigation is being carried on by officers of
the Lodge.

Quite naturally. a work of such proportions requires f~nds--funds
beyond the ability of the Missouri Lodge of Research to raise: No ~ne
connected with this work has received any emolument for this service.
It is a work of love. Under these circumstances, I recommen~ that a
reasonable appropriation be made to continue, and to complete this work,
a work which should be of value to the Freemasonry of the world. · • ·
Ray Bond, G. M. Missouri.
One hundred and twenty-one speakers furnished by ~esearch
Lodge traveled many miles in order to bring messages on vanous _subjects to lodges as far away from Portland as La Grande and Brookings.
.•. Estimated attendance at these meetings is 8,178.
In order to determine the value of a speaker to the Educational
Program, it is becoming increasingly evident that .authentic reactions
relative to the personality of the speaker, the subJect presented, ~d
reception by the audience be obtained. Ways and means are bemg
devised to secure these results.
·
We feel that the purpose of the Grand Lodge program is primaril!
to encourage the Lodges of the jµrisdiction to initiate and produce th~
own programs. To stand on their own feet and t? adva~ce, du~ to their
own efforts. If our speakers fail to emphasize this premise, their efforts
can have very little permanent effect.•.• Harry D. Proudfoot, P.G.M.
Oregon.
The cause of Masonic education will be furthered through the
Virginia Lodge of Research.
.
Also. I feel that if this Grand Lodge will become a member of the
Masonic Service Association that we would further the cause of Masonic Education ~ great deal. ·Enoch D. Flower, G. M. Virginia.

528

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

CHAP TER V

MASO NIC PUBL ICAT IONS
The most effective. but also the most expensive and diflicult method
of extending the Masonic point of view. is the publication of an offlcial
magazine or bulletin.
· The Southern Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry publishes a monthly magazine The New Age. The only official Craft magazine which approaches it in age is The New York Masonic Outlook put
out monthly by the Grand Lodge of New York.
The New York Mason ic Outloo k subscription list now totals above
15,000. This figure .should be increased but we have hesitated
to inaugura te a subscription campaign in deference to our Brotherhood
campaign.••• The subscription rate is low-$ 2.00 a year, or $3.00 for
two
years. Subscriptions should be mailed direct to the New York Mason
ic
Outloo k, 71 West 23rd Street, New York 10, N. Y.
The annual financial report of the Outloo k is as follows:
Subscriptions earned -········································$22.522. 77
Advertising earned ··-·······-··············-············-··· 1,533.11
24,055.11
Publication costs ···························-··················· 11,308.68
Gross profit to Grand Lodge....·--·····················$12,747.20

Richard A. Rowlands. G. M. New York. The Outlook is a slick paper
8}1 by 11 }1 inch magazine of 12 pages. It has a two color cover and
i.s filled with half tone cuts. There are few advertisements mostly
of
books and fraternal supplies. It is directed to lodge of/leers and those
actively interested in Grand Lodge affairs.
The Family Magazine was started five years ago by the Grand
Lodge of New York and it is mailed to each of the 300.000 membe
rs
every two months. It is slightly smaller than the Outlook and its articles
are intended to appeal to every member of the family. Grand Lodge
appropriates 25c a member per year. but this has not proven to
be
suflicient to pay for a creditable magazine. It was intended that revenu
e
from advertising be used to pay the difference but this has not been
forthcoming for reasons reported by the Board of General Activities:
You will never make the Family Magaz ine a suppor ting magazine
We had a very extensive survey made by experts , advertising experts
,
and they all turned us down. If there is an adverti sing man in the
room
he will tell you that no national product, or standa rd brand produc
t, will
adverti se in a Masonic magazine in the State of New York for
two
reason s: It has a very limited class circulation, and, No. 2,-A circula
tion limited to 300,000 in New York State..••

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

529

You cannot have a satisfa ctory Family Magaz ine on a 25 cent basis.
Person ally, I believe you cannot have it on a 50 cent basis. I have
made
studies of practically every fratern al magazine and the members of
the
Board of Genera l Activities did it with me during these late 30's.
I am
a past preside nt of the Brooklyn Rotary , and I made a very thorou
gh
study of our Rotari an Magaz ine. That costs one dollar a member,
mailing to some 600,000. You will never get advertising in your Family
Magaz ine. Oh, yes. you will have- what shall we call it?-sym pathet
ic
advertising, but I don't want that kind of advertising. I don't want
to
go to the members of the Craft and say "You must give me an ad."
I
seek sound adverti sing and you will never get it. George A. Barnew
all.
D.G.M.. New York.
We are in receipt of a letter from Gay H. Brown, P.G.M . saying
that the Family Magazine will be changed as of October 1. 1952 to
a
quarterly with a new name The Empire State Mason.
The Wisco nsin Freem ason, the official publication of the Grand
Lodge, is just completing its seventh year and the popularity of this
fine
Masonic magazine is evidenced by the fact that the circulation is
constantly increasing. Over 14,800 of our brethre n are now receiving
the
Freemason, showing an increase of 1200 over last year. Approx imately
one out of every four members receives the Freemason. . . . A feature
of The Wisco nsin Freem ason during the past year has been the
publication of reports of the Committee on Foreig n Correspondence.
. . .
Robert G. Varnum. G.M.• Wisconsin.
It is the conten tion of this committee that more use should be made
by the lodg~s as well as individual members of the Craft of the
many
excellent books now available on Mason ic history and Masonic teachings. Theref ore we recommend that a brief review of selected books
be
published monthly in The Wisco nsin Freema son with a strong appeal
that these books be procur ed and used in a Mason ic Advan cemen
t program in their respective lodges. To further promote an acquai ntance
with these selected books, the committee plans to procure a display
kit
of these volumes and have them available at the regional meetin
gs of
the Grand Lodge Officers. lngvald 0. Hembre, Chairman. Comm
ittee
on Masonic Advancement. Wisconsin.
·
The Wisconsin Freemason is an attractive 16 page magazine Qn
slick paper 8 by 11}1 inches. It has an attractive cover plate and contains many half tone cuts. It carries no advertising. It costs the lodges
50c a year per member.
In Kentu cky The Mason ic Home Journal. the official publication
of
Grand Lodge, has been issued twice a month since June 14, 1883.
and
the Home Journal printin g plant is a valuable asset of Grand Lodge.
We
are gratefu l for the splendid co-operation given this office by the
personnel. Edwin E. Freshney. G. S .. Kentucky.

530

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The Masonic Home Journal is an 8 page tabloid newspaper 12 by
19 inches printed on a good quality of newsprint. It is liberally supplied
with pictures and carries some advertising. The subscription price is
$1 per year.
The Oklahoma Mason has made creditable progress under the able
leadership of Brothers Melvin Self and Ralph S. Brown. It has become
an important factor in the life of Oklahoma Masonry and is now being
mailed to some 7000 Masonic homes ·each month. We believe that with
proper work on .the part of the officers of the individual lodges, the
number of Masonic homes being benefited by this Masonic periodical
could be greatly increased. Harold P. Cook. G.M., Oklahoma.
The Oklahoma Mason is a 24 page magazine printed on slick paper
8!/i by 11 inches. It is issued monthly. The subscription price is $1.50
a year and no advertising is accepted. The editorial page states that it
is the official publication of Grand Lodge but that opinions expressed
do not necessarily reflect the official attitude of Grand Lodge.
The Texas Grand Lodge magazine has been continued in the nature
of a Masonic Digest, giving prominence to Texas matters, and then
attempting to include in each issue outstanding, entertaining and educational articles taken from the many splendid Masonic journals available to us. We, of course, have no editorial policy, and we refrain from
all comment and discussions, feeling that such is not within the jurisdiction of this Committee, but all such matters should. be controlled
entirely by our Grand Master, and this policy, we believe, to be wise,
proper and according to the wishes of Freemasons in Texas....
We have always tried to keep the Magazine on the very highest
level of publications, and for the past three years the cost of publishing
our Magazine has increased 102 per cent. From October 31, 1947, to
August 31, 1948, we sustained a deficit in the publication of the Magazine in the amount of $8,430.19. For a period from November 1, 1949,
to September 30, 1950, we sustained a deficit in the amount of $15,050.77....
Taking this increased cost into consideration, it has been deemed
advisable to increase the price of our Magazine from fifty cents ( 50c)
a year for each subscription to $1.00 a year. This is to become effective
as of January 1, 1951, on any new subscriptions or any renewals there·
after. Rogers Kelley. P.G.M.. Texas.
The Texas Grand Lodge magazine is a 16 page booklet 7 by 10
inches bound in a heavier blue cover. The pages are numbered for a
volume of 12 months. The subscription price is $1 a year and no advertising is accepted.
The Indiana Freemason, the official organ of the Grand Lodge of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

531

Indiana, is published at the Indiana Masonic Home by the Board of
Directors of the Home. It has been published since 1923.
The Indiana Freemason is one of the most imposing looking official
Grand Lodge magazines. It is 8!/i by 11 inches printed on slick paper
with a two color cover which appears each month with a new illustration.
Besides news items it has two or three illustrated articles. The subscription rate is $1.50 a year. The magazine carries a lot of advertising but
none of the type that is put out by advertising agencies.
The Illinois Enlightener is the official publication of the Grand
Lodge of Illinois. It is sent to every member monthly. It is printed in
blue ink on slick paper 8!/i x 11 inches and has only 8 pages. It carries
a 1 column message from the Grand Master and prints his itinerary for
the following month. It carries no advertising.
The Iowa Grand Lodge Bulletin is a sixteen page booklet 6 by 9
inches and is issued each month except July and August. It is mailed
to each lodge and member requesting it but the request must be renewed
each year.
The Virginia Masonic Herald is a 16 page booklet 6 by 8!/i inches
printed on book paper. It has a photograph on the cover and carries no
advertising. It is published monthly by the Masonic Information. Research and Publication Committee of the Grand Lodge of Virginia.
The North Dakot1,1 Grand Lodge Bulletin is a 16 page book 7 by
10 inches. It is on slick paper but has no illustrations. It is issued four
times a yeat in October. December, March and June and is sent to all
members by second class mail. No advertisements are accepted.
The Georgia Masonic Messenger has a circulation of 73.000 and
goes to all Masons holding membership in Georgia Lodges. the Lodges
paying 25c per member. It is 18 pages on slick paper 8Yi by 12 inches
and is well illustrated. It carries some advertising, mostly book and
fraternal supply ads, and there is no evidence of pressure advertising.
The New Mexico Freemason will be mailed to approximately 11,300
members per month, and to all Grand Secretaries and Grand Representatives.
I have been dismayed from time to time because of suggestions made
by some brothers that the New Mexico Freemason be discontinued. I
will hasten to state that this opinion is not widely held, but there are a
few who feel that the publication cannot be justified because of the
expense involved in printing and mailing. I have also had called to my
attent.ion the fact that other Grand Jurisdictions, some larger than ours,
do not have a Masonic publication.
I am sincere in the belief that we deserve and should have a Masonic
publication in New Mexico which, in addition to providing an invalu-

532

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

able source of Maso nic information, is also a poten t
factor in uniting
the Brothers of our Jurisdiction where ver dispersed. Charl
es A. Stevens.
G.M. , New Mexico.
The New Mexico Freemason is an attractive 8 page
slick paper
publication 7 by 10 inches. It is published monthly and
conta
ins no
advertising.

There are no official publi catio ns in most of the
other Gran d
Jurisdictions and in only two proceedings was · there
any mention of
co-operation with privately owne d periodicals.
In Ohio the Committee on Masonic Publications reported:
Great improvement in a number of Maso nic publications
has been
noted. Coop eratio n by Masonic Bodies of a city to
have a Maso nic
publication which serves as a Lodge bulletin for a numb
er of Lodges,
plus Maso nic news of general intere st to the Craft shoul
d be encouraged.
We now have several such publications published within
the Jurisdiction
of this Grand Lodge. We wish to repor t t~at more of
such publications
would be of great value. Raym ond A. Younger, P.G.M
.. Ohio.
The edi&or of the Oreg on Maso n has been most gener
ous with news
of the lodges of the state and his cooperation is worth y
of commendation.
Whil e this publication is not spons ored by the Grand
Lodge, yet its
influence is recognized and our membership has been
encou raged to
become its reade rs. Many lodges have contributed comp
limentary subscriptions for the newly-made Mast er Maso n as a
part of his first
Maso nic Educa tional Enlig htenm ent following the rituali
stic and degre e
indoctrination. Our thank s are sincere for the assist
ance entail ed in
making known to the Maso ns of Orego n the topic of news,
inspirational
articles, and general matters. It is the opinion of many
that the Orego n
Maso n is one of the "firsts " in Maso nic publications
. Wort h Harve y.
G.M. Orego n.
The priv4tely owne d Oreg on Maso n is a closely printe
book of eighty pages. It is about half filled with advertisemd 5Yi by 8Yi
ents, mostly
small ones. There is an advertisement by the publisher
saying. "If you
are a Maso n the advertising columns of Orego n Maso
n are the natural
place for you to make contact with your Masonic Breth
ren."
Unau thoriz ed Maso nic publi cation s are troubling
many jurisdictions;
The Committee on Maso nic Publications, re-act ivated
by our Most
Wors hipfu l Grand Maste r, has given attent ion durin
g the year ... to
certain publications which it would seem, althou gh
bearin g Maso nic
titles, are issued mainly for commercial purposes, that
is to say, mainly
for profit from advertising. James W. Skelly . P.G.M .•
Chairman Committee on Masonic Publications, Missouri.
The publishers of the Wash ingto n Maso nic Review
Diges t in violation of Section 2901 of the Wash ingto n Maso nic
Code , have been
soliciting advertising in various communities of this
state witho ut the
approval of the Gran d Maste r. Their methods have cause
d much complaint both within and witho ut the Frate rnity. Gail Huhn
, G.M .• Wash ington. The Gran d Lodge directed the incoming Gran d
Master: !o us.e
all available means, including the institution of Court
proce eding s if

The Neva da Gran d Lodg e Bulle tin shoul d be contin
ued but we do
not feel that it should be expan ded until furthe r study
has been made
as to cost. We budge t $150.00 for the Bulletin (2 issues
) for 1951-52.
We are in harmo ny with the plan for the appoi ntmen
t of an editorial
committee and would like to call attent ion to the fact that
it is mand atory
that the Lodg e secretaries send the Bulletin to each
member on their
roster. Robert H. Parker, Chairman Finance Committee,
Nevada.
The Neva da Gran d Lodge Bulletin, 6Yi by 9Yi. is a four
printed in blue ink on slick paper. It is similar to the bullet page sheet
ins sent out
through the secretaries in California a few years back.
New Jerse y Maso nic Infor matio n was issued quart erly
past year, the last issue exceeding 15,000 copies, so appro durin g the
ximately onesixth of our brethr en shoul d be receiving and many times
that number
readin g it. This publication is proving of great value
to the brethren: a
much larger perce ntage of the members of our Grand
Lodge are receiving definite information about the conditions in our
Craft :
Gran d Mast er will find it of invaluable assist anc·e in dissem and each
inating general information to the brethr en and in partic ular as
to matters which
will be acted upon at our Annu al Communication. The
dema nd from
the lodges for added copies is evidence of the fine mann
er in which this
paper is being received and the need for its continuation
. Franklin E.
Pellegrin, G.M.• New Jersey.
The New Jersey Masonic Information is an eight page
6
booklet issued quarterly and distributed through the Lodge by 9 inch
secretaries.
It has no advertising.
The South Carol ina Maso nic Light , the official public
ation of our
Gran d Lodge, was issued month ly under the able guida
nce of Henr y F.
Collins, P.G.M . as editor. He is to be commended
for arran ging for
more copies to be distri buted to Lodge Officers at no
increased cost to
the Grand Lodge. Mom er M. Pace, G.M. South Carol
ina.
The South Carolina Masonic Light is an eight page folder
4 by 9
inches. The subscription price is 50c a year.
The Maso nic News of Idaho is a mimeographed news
.letter printed
on both sides of two legal size sheets. It is issued each
month and is a
splendid example of an inexpensive method of meeting
the need of a
publication.
·

533

531

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

deemed advisable . . . to stop the activities of the publishers -of the
Masonic Review Digest in this state.
Pennsylv ania has no official publicatio n and the Grand Master
reported to Grand Lodge:
Due to the size of our Grand Lodge, the Grand Master finds it
impossible to present his program to the entire membership. He can
reach only a small portion-t hose attending the Grand Lodge Communications or formal or informal visitations. Accordingly the establishment of a quarterly or bi-monthly bulletin is recommended. It would
be of inestimable value in our educational work. William B. Yeager,
G.M., Pennsylvania.

CHAPTE R VI

535

MASON IC CORRES PONDEN CE COMMI TTEES
Your Committe e offers an apology. It had been of the ~~on

that readers of jurisdictional reviews were as scarce as hen's teeth.
Today we know better and are happy to have discovered our error. A
year ago we threatened to quit the job and save Grand Lodge the
thousand dollars the Reviews cost. Exactly 306 brethren have told us
by letter that we still are wet behind the ears. One--jus t one-has
agreed with our earlier impression. Walter S. Gray, P.G.M., Chairman
Correspon dence Committee, New Jersey.
Of the forty-nine Grand Lodges in the United States only ten do
not prepare reviews. In the thirty-nin e which do so. a topical review
is given in seven and an individual state review in the others.
The outstandin g topical review is that of Ray V. Denslow, P.G.M.
of Missouri. It is a world-wide review of Freemaso nry and constitutes
a Masonic book of 112 pages completely indexed, and is a must to every
Mason who is interested in the life of his Fraternity . Francis ]. Scully,
M.D .• Chairm'!n Committee on Foreign Correspondence, Arkansas.
Some of the controver sial things in Freemaso nry have eased off
a bit. The strenuous and sometimes vehement defense of Mackey' s
eighteenth Landmark about physical perfection has softened in many
quarters. A more sensible view of this outmoded idea seems to · be
gaining ground,-- and wisely so. The Negro Freemaso nry flurry has
subsided, and that, too, is well. However I prophesy again, as I did
last year, that it will rise again and again with ever decreasing violence.
Toleration is a slow process in the evolution of man's thinking. but
eventually will prevail. There now seems to be no real issue about which
Masonic thought differs .. . •
Everywhere, except in the British Isles, are outspoken warnings
against the inroads of subversive ideas, symbolized by Communism,
which threatens our individual liberties and, if permitted to get the
upper hand, our very fraternal existence. America, Canada and Australia talk about it openly and forcefully. England, Scotland and Ireland
do not talk, but basically it must be that they think as we think. Aaron
H. Grout. P.G.M., Chairman of Correspondence Committee, Vermont.
Comment on the California Centennie l is to be found in many of
the 1951 proceedings. We have selected this gracious comment from
Wisconsin as representative:
Its first century of Masonry was celebrated in truly regal fashion;
opened on April 19th, the exact lOOth anniversa ry date, with a radio
address by its gifted Grand Master, Ellsworth Meyer, which delineates

536

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

in terms all the world cannot fail to understand, just what Masonry is,
what it has done and what it seeks to do in the future.
Present to witness and grace the festivities were 33 Grand Masters,
4 Deputy Grand Masters, 1 Grand Treasurer, 22 Grand Secretaries,
2 Grand Lodge Officers, and 11 Past Grand Masters, which together
with the Grand Officers of California and representatives of 586 lodges,
formed probably the most distinguished group that ever assembled at
any regular communication of a Grand Lodge in the United States.
Where to place credit for this assemblage is doubtful. Some say on the
respect held for the Grand Lodge of California, some on the personal
popularity of Grand Master Ellsworth Meyer, and some on the California sunshine, remember this was in October. Probably a combination
of all was responsible, but whatever the reason those privileged to witness will long remember this mighty gathering of Masonry in its might
and glory.
·

CHAPTER VII

During the week feature attractions were the Standard· Symphony
Hour in the Opera · House, soloist was Kirsten Flagstad, Mozart's
Opera, "The Magic Flute" presented by the San Francisco Opera
Association, and throughout the . week Grand Lodge was instructed,
beguiled and entertained by prepared addresses of many of the visiting
Grand Masters. Herbert W. Dixon, P.G.M., Wisconsin.

537

CONCORDANT BODIES AND MASONIC MEMBERSIBP
REQUISITE ORGANIZATIONS
Introducing the heads of other Masonic Grand Bodies of the
Jurisdiction is standard practice at most Grand Lodge Communications
and the following description copied from the Texas Proceedings is
typical:
To the accompaniment of a march played on the Memorial Organ,
the Worshipful Grand Senior Deacon, at the request of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, led the procession of heads of other Masonic
Grand Bodies of Texas, accompanied by their individual escorts, down
the center aisle of the Grand Lodge auditorium, and the distinguished
visitors were individually presented to the Most Worshipful Grand
Master in the following order....
The Most Excellent Grand High Priest of the Grand Royal Arch
Chapter of Texas •..
Grand Master of the Grand Council of Royal and Select Masters
of Texas •••
The Right Eminent Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery
of Knights Templar of Texas ••.
Sovereign Grand Inspector General in Texas of the Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry for the Southern Jurisidiction of
the United States. • . .
Organizations requiring Masonic membership as a requisite are
forbidden in some jurisdictions, as appears from this quotation from the
Nebraska Proceedings:
In recognition of my office as Grand Master, I received numerous
invitations to attend meetings of the affiliated Masonic bodies . . • I
was present at, and received hearty welcome from Scottish Rite Banquet,
Valley of Omaha . • . Grand Council Royal and Select Masters • . .
Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons .•.
. • • Our Masonic relations with all of them are happy and harmonious, and we are pleased to note that they are in state of growth as t.o
membership, as are we in Ancient Craft Masonry.,.

• . . without any permission from succeeding Grand Masters . . .
High Twelve clubs were organized in various towns in the State. This
year, permission was asked to organize one at Kearney, and I ruled that,
under provisions of sub-section (a) of Section 3-102 of the Grand Lodge

538

539

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

law, which makes it a "Masonic offense to make application to, or join
any lodge, society or institution that shall provide as a condition prece~
dent that one shall be a Master Mason in good standing, or shall have
taken the degrees of Entered Apprentice Mason, Fellow Craft Mason
and Master Mason," it would be a Masonic offense for any Mason to
join such a Club. It is my judgment that the existing High Twelve Club
charters must be revoked, and that no Mason can belong to it unless the
Grand Lodge sees fit to amend itslaw.

and energy be directed to this end. A multitude of clubs can only
dissipate the power and might place Masonry in a false light before
the profane.
The foregoing is not necessarily the sole opinion of the writer. At
the conference of Grand Masters in 1941, Grand Master Earl W. Snell,
Oregon, as the result of study, spoke in part as follows: "That there is
a growing recognition that the substantial increase in the number of
collateral organizations is a matter of justified concern - to Masonry
itself." Grand Master Snell then recommends, "A declaration of policy
by the Grand Lodges that further organizations are to be discouraged."
E. T. Hensley, G.M., New Mexico.

I am personally in full accord with the statement made by the Grand
Master of Texas, M.W. Albert J. Delange, in his address to the Grand
Lodge of California at its 1OOth annual communication, in which, choos~
ing as his topic: "The Need of Strict Adherence to the Fundamentals
of Masonry," he said in part, "as to the non~Masonic organizations
which require Masonry as a predicate to their respective memberships,
I am personally very definitely of the view (and I believe it is shared
by all the leaders and the vast majority of the members of my State)
that a halt must be made to the multiplicity of such orders. * * * The
organization of such splinter groups detracts from the principle of the
universality of Masonry. It results in a fragmentation of Masonry. It
encourages diversity of interest and foments internecine strife. It dis~
_sipates our efforts and confuses our viewpoints .•.. Let me say without
equivocation that in my opinion ·a number of their activities have been
very detrimental to the interests of Masonry, and thoroughly convinced
that unless their practices come to harmonize with Masonic principle,
and remain in such harmony, legislation must be taken by Masonic
Bodies to prohibit or restrict the right of its members to join such
organizations."
We have in our Grand Jurisdiction the necessary law: I trust it will
remain there and be enforced. John S. Hedeland, G.M., Nebraska.
The request was made for permission, either written or verbal, to
organize within the territorial jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of New
Mexico a group known as the National Federated Craft. The National
Federated Craft being an organization predicating membership upon
two requirements. First, membership in Freemasonry. Second, be an
employee of the United States Government~ • . .

I call your attention to the undisputed authority of the Grand Lodge
of New Mexico to restrict membership in other organizations, either
outright, or to require a period of time to elapse before a Master Mason
may petition for membership in an approved side organization. Some
jurisdictions add further requisites, such as the possession of a pro~
flciency certificate in the Third Degree... .
Our purpose is to promote a system of morality for all mankind. It
should be the concern of all Master Masons that our undivided effort

The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania follows the Ahiman Rezon of
the Ancient Grand Lodge of England and in 1866 adopted the follow~
ing resolution:
No member of the Masonic Fraternity. under the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, has the right to visit any assemblage or
collection of individuals, claiming to be Masons, when such assemblage
or meeting is not sanctioned by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvan~a, and
that any communion of Masonic intercourse with such ~lan~estme assemblage or meeting is a plain, palpable, and flagrant violation of the
most solemn duties and obligations of the Craft.
It is thus that a member of a Pennsylvania Lodge cannot become
a inember of the Star or other Masonic membership requis~te orn.anization. Just as in England, however, the concordant Masonic bodies are
not held to be clandestine:
The w~rk of those Masonic grand bodies of this jurisdiction which
are recognized by us, in co-operating with the Grand Lo~ge in tea~hing
our members the meaning and purpose of Freemasonry is appreciated.
In order to fully express our appreciation and to co~ordinate and unify
our efforts, I not only accepted invitations to attend meetings ~f Grand
Chapter, Grand Council. Grand Com~andery and the Council of ~~
liberation of the Scottish Rite, but at the March Quarterly Collll!1umca~
tion of the Grand Lodge, had the elective grand officers and past grand
officers of each of these bodies as my guests.
In order to cooperate with the Grand Commandery Knights Templar
of Pennsylvania and to let our members know that .the funds o.f the
Pennsylvania Knight Templar Educational Foundation are available
for the use of the sons and daughters of the members of our Lodges for
their junior and senior years in co~lege. the s~c~etaries ~f o~r Lodges
were directed to print an article settmg forth this mformation m a Lodge
notice. William E. Yeager, G.M., Pennsylvania.
The Ancient Arabie Order Nobles of the Mystic Shrine is also
accepted, or excepted, in Pennsylvania as t~e obituaries of Past Grand
Masters invariably recite Shrine membership.

540

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CHAPTER VIII

RELIGIOUS AND POLITICAL DISCUSSION
Very rightly partisan politics are a forbidden subject in Masonic
Lodges, but I feel that good citizenship is above partisan politics and
should be discussed freely and often. The situation facing us nationally
is not one that can be cured by force of arms. It is a clash of ideas. On
the one hand we have those who deny the existence of Him whom we
call the Supereme Architect of the Universe and who subordinate the
individual to the state. On the other hand, we have those who acknowledge Him and look to Him for strength and guidance.
The time for apathy and complacency is long since past. As Masons
we have a philosophy which will lead us out of the present confusion if
we only practice it. We have all publicly expressed our faith and belief
in Him. Why not put that faith to work? We sing that grand old hymn,
"Faith of Our Fathers." That is what we need to practice in our daily
lives.
Then, like it or not, we must take part in community and public
affairs. Too many of us too long have taken the easy way out and let
someone else seek public office. As a result, with few exceptions, statesmanship has all but disappeared and been replaced by a lower type of
self-seeking politician to whom honor and country is secondary. Jethro

H. Peckham, G.M., Rhode Island.

What constitutes religious or political discussion before a Masonic Lodge? ... The Jurisprudence Committee gave extended consideration to that subject and presents a written opinion, which we think
covers the matter and answers the question • . •
It is universally understood by Masons that neither politics nor
religion is to be discussed in lodge. The questions prG>pounded are, what
is the meaning of those apparent prohibitions. In order to answer those
questions, it is necessary to go back to the source of the apparent restrictions and to try to ascertain what was meant by the language then used.
This necessitates a consideration of the Ancient Charges.
The first of these Charges, "Concerning God and Religion" is as
follows:
"A Mason is oblig'd, by his Tenure, to obey the moral law, and
if he rightly understands the Art, he will never be a stupid atheist,
nor an irreligious libertine. But though in ancient Times Masons
were charg'd in every Country to be of the Religion of that Country
or Nation, whatever it was, yet 'tis now thought more expedient
only to oblige them to that Religion in which all Men agree, leaving
their particular Opinions to themselves: that is, to be good Men and

541

true, or Men of Honour and Honesty, by whatever Denominations
or Persuasions they may be distinguish'd: whereby Masonry be.comes the Center of Union, and the Means of concilating true
Friendship among Persons that must have remain'd at a perpetual
Distance."
The sixth of these Old Charges, "Of Behavior," has six subheadings.
fhe second is "Behavior after the Lodge is over and the brethren not
gone." It reads as follows:
"You may enjoy yourselves with innocent Mirth. treating one
another according to Ability, but avoiding all excess, or forcing any
Brother to eat or drink beyond his inclination, or hindering him from
going when his Occasion call him, or doing or ·saying a?ything
offensive, or that may forbid an easy and free Conversation: for
that would blast our Harmony, and defeat our laudable Purposes.
Therefore no private Piques or Quarrels must be brought within
the Door of the Lodge, far less any Quarrels about Religion, or
Nations, or State Policy, we being only, as Masons of the Catholick
Religion above-mention'd: we are also of all Nations, Tongues,
Kindreds, and Languages, and are resolved against all Politicks,
as what ever yet conduc'd to the Welfare of the Lodge, nor ever
will. This Charge has been always strictly enjoin'd and observ'd:
but especially ever since the Reformation in Britain or the Dissent
and Secession of these Nations from the Communion of Rome."
These Ancient Charges first found Masonic pronouncement, if not
recognition, as a part of Anderson's Constitutions, in 1722.

. . .• . . .

First, What is the meaning of this prohibition against disC'ussing
religion? Does it put a ban on all religious discussion?
We here quote a brief excerpt from an address delivered by Melvin
Maynard Johnson, Past Grand Master of Massachusetts and Sovere;gn
Grand Commander of the Ancient, Accepted Scottish Rite: Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, delivered before the Grand Lodge of Indiana
in May of 1948:
Those things about which we can differ in religion were for..
bidden to be discussed within the Lodge but there is nothing in
Anderson's Constitutions, if you consult the dictionaries of that
day and the oldest one is the dictionary of Samuel Johnson: which
was being prepared at about the time that Anderson s Constitutions
were written-if you consult that you will find the definition of
general religion, which is a thing we not only may discuss withi!1
the Lodge but you never attended a Masonic Lodge were it wasn t
discussed. You never attended a Masonic Lodge, which was a
recognized Masonic body, which wasn't either opened by a declara•
tion to the glory of the Grand Architect of the Universe, or by

542

543

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

prayer to Him that He would guide us in our deliberations, or
both. . . . . .

discussion and by the same token, a study of and speeches about our
Constitution are not prohibited as political discussion. • • . •
The purpose of Masonry is to make its votaries wiser and better and
consequently, happier. We make them wiser, as far as the science of
government is concerned, by study and discussion of political science:
and we make them better by a study and discussion of the. fundamental,
underlying basic principles of religion, or morality, if there is a distinction.
In both fields, the rule and its limitation may be thus summarized:
We may discuss these matters concerning which there can be no honest
difference of opinion; as to matters and systems concerning which there
can be honest differences of opinion among Masons, a different situation
exists. This includes sectarianism and partisan politics. Discussion of
of these is prohibited. • • • •
Masonry is not a crusading institution. It takes no part in public or
private campaigns of any kind. It makes no public appearances except
on state occasions (laying cornerstones, etc.) and for burying its dead.
This does not mean that it is not interested in the commmunity or what
is going on in the commmunity, nor that it does not influence the affairs
of man; but it does iJll this by strengthening and refining individual
character, by teaching and .discussing the eternal verities, by promoting
and stimulating the brotherhood of man based upon the Fatherhood of
God. Walter G. Winslow, P.G.M. Chairman, Jurisprudence Committee, Oregon.
A cautious approach to the problem; I denied a request that Grand
Lodge should issue a circular letter, or otherwise as a lodge make special
effort to induce voters to register or to vote in civil elections: It was my
judgment that by word of mouth, one Mason might solicit such action
on the part of the Masonic brethren, but that officially Masonry keeps
itself out of political measures or meetings. John S. Hedeland, G.M.,
Nebraska.

Here again is the key to the prohibition we are considering. Sectarianism is what is prohibited. In other words, according to this
Ancient Charge, there is no place in Masonry for an "atheist" nor an
irreligious libertine,' but by it a Mason is admonished to have a belief
in God. How he is to worship is not the business of Masonry, and its
discussion is prohibited. This method of worship is, by this fiat of
Masonry and, in the United States, by our Constitution, left to the
dictates of each individual member's conscience. We caU it religious
liberty.
Second: Now let us consider the prohibition against political discussion. The importance, as well as the acuteness, of this question is
emphasized by Mackey. We quote from that eminent Masonic scholar
and authority as follows:
"There is no charge more frequently made against Freemasonry
than that of its tendency to revolution and conspiracy and to political organizations which may affect the peace of society or interfere
with the rights of governments. . . . It is in vain that history
records no instance of this unlawful connection between Freemasonry and politics; it is in vain that the libeler is directed to
the Ancient Constitutions of the Order, which expressly forbad
such connection; the libel is still written, and Freemasoonry is again
and again condemned as a political club."
We think it must be admitted that Masonry is concerned with the
public policy of our nation and of the world.
Prudence is a cardinal virtue. How may a Master Mason emulate
this virtue or be "versed in affairs" without some discussion of the
"s~enc~.of government," the "principles of civil government," "Political
science, etc. . • • • .
In order to be such citizen, he must be intelligent, he must be
informed. These ends are attained by discussion, · by study, that the
member may avoid being a "stupid fool."
The more we study this subject, the more it becomes apparent that
this prohibition, like the prohibition against a discussion of religion, is
not all-inclusive, that it has its limitations, that it is not intended to
prohibit a discussion of things political in the broad meaning of ·that
·
term but only things political in the narrow sense.
As we have pointed out ,the prohibition against religious discussion
was . inten?ed t~ apply .to sectarianism; so this prohibition against
political discussion was intended to apply to partisan politics, not to
the science of government. Certainly no one would contend that a study
of and speeches about the Great Light would be prohibited as a religious

Through the years the intent and mission of Masonry have been
to further by precept and example the application of the principles of
the Fraternity to the problems which affect the welfare of mankind.
While Masonry neither assumes nor aspires to political power, it
cannot be denied that the Fraternity has been a tremendous force in
shaping the political affairs not alone of this country but of the world
as well. And it is equally true that every great political movement for
the advancement of liberty and justice during the past two centuries has
upon it the impress of Masonic influence.
From the founding of our nation to the present time Masonry has
been a dominant, steading force in our national life, for Masonry provides, as does no other institution, a common meeting ground for men
of every faith, race and shade of opinion.

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is therefore entirely within the scope and purpose of Masonic
thought and service to turn our attention as Masons to the immediate,
serious and thoughtful considerations of the conditions which confront
us as a nation, as a people and as a Fraternity.

The discussion of partisan political subjects is not to be entered
into in Masonic circles, but Brethren, be warned that if Masons do not
now recognize the dangers that beset us and our nation. we are lost.
Each Masonic grand jurisdiction is a body unto itself, but Masons
everywhere must now unite in the common cause of preserving our way
of life, or we are lost. "What shall we do?" Let us, like our brethren
of old, confront these villainous elements united and unafraid, determined that through our courage the right shall prevail. C. C. Buchanan,
Fraternal Correspondent. Mississippi.
American citiz.ens, as such, can run their affairs through their
well established political media without everybody getting into the act
in as many different capacities as he can find offices to hold. And Freemasonry, specially created and wisely limited as a sanctuary from the
hubbub of the market place, loses much of its finest worth and strength
when it rushes downstairs and out into the street to yell with the mob.
]. Walter Karsner, Chairman, Correspondence Committee, District of
Columbia.

Our Masonic forefathers, when their liberties were endangered, most
certainly did not look upon Masonry as a passive fraternity of form and
ceremonies, rituals and degrees. On the contrary, the bonds of Masonic
brotherhood bound them together into a unified society of Brothers
imbued with the single purpose of safeguarding their rights and liberties
as Americans and Freemasons. James N. Bradford, P.G.M. Missouri.

An edict of the Grand Muter of Wisconsin of 1922 was incorporated in the Masonic Code of that Jurisdiction:
Masonry cannot and does not approve of or ally its.elf with any
organization or movement, secret or public, that proposes to subvert or
supersede the processes of orderly representative government "of the
people, for the people, and by the people:" nor one that appeals to
bigotry and endeavors to foster hatred 0£ any nationality, class, religious
faith or sect, as such . • . •
I cha~ge each and all, that as our Fathers have framed the truly
Masonic principles of Liberty of Conscience, Equality before the law,
and Fraternity among men into the Constitutions of this Nation and
State, we as Freemasons and citizens of this republic are obligated to
perform our full moral and civic duty, to promote and enforce an orderly
administration of justice and equity, acting openly that it may be known
to all men. ·
Furthermore, I charge each and all, that affiliation with any secret
organization {i.e. 1922, Ku Klux Klan; 1952, Communist) that purports
to establish an invisible, intolerant and irresponsible autocracy without
our Commonwealth is unwise, unpatriotic, and in direct violation of the
teachings and traditions of American Masonry and the Constitution of
the United States.

A resolution was adopted by the Grand Lodge of Florida in 1950:
"Resolved that Florida Masonry denounces and condemns Communism in all its forms as atheistic and un-American ideology, and that
no true Mason or American citizens, loyal to his country, will give
comfort, encouragement, help or support thereto in even the slightest
degree, or any tolerance therefor by conduct or association; that any
American or Mason so doing would · be guilty of most traitorous disloyalty to his country and to every principle of Freemasonry and that
all Freemasons, both as Masons and as American citizens, are hereby
called upon to be .unceasing in their resolute and determined opposition
to this enemy of all that we hold precious to our very existence."

545

546

547

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CHAPTER IX

occasions we have granted "exclusive stories when that seemed advisable, and in this case we made sure that the exclusive guarantee was
carried out.
A Public Relations program is not self-perpetuating, but must continue to be worked out each year with equal freshness, enthusiasm and
hard work. James E. Craig, Chairman, Committee on Public Relations,
New York.

MASONIC PUBLIC RELATIONS AND
CIVIC ACTIVITIES
"And God said, let there be light; and there was light." That
there shall be light is the pledge of Masonry. In a distracted world
. there is an ever-widening field for which Masonry teaches. On all
Masons there is the demand for individual responsibility and service.
In far-flung jurisdictions there is evidence that this duty is recognized
and effort is being made to measurably answer the call.
Some of our best minds are enlisted in this work. This must raise
the standard of our participation in social and public affairs and the
general respect in which Masonry is held. Ernest R. Moore, P.G.M.
Iowa.
New York was one of the first jurisdictions to employ a director of
public relations. Under the direction of Brother Maurice M. Witherspoon a program of public relations with the press, radio and television
has advanced tremendously in the past twelve months.
Among the many special events during the past year, three were
outstanding for the national and international coverage they received.
Last August we commemorated the 68th anniversary of the laying of
the cornerstone of the Statue of Liberty by the New York Grand Lodge
of Masons-and captured national interest with what the papers called
"Miss Liberty's Birthday.''
On Sunday, January 20, Brother Witherspoon and Rear Admiral
Dashiell L. Madiera, USN ( Ret) planned for Independent Royal Arch
Lodge No. 2 to lay wreaths at the statue of Brother John Paul Jones
in the New York University Hall of Fame.
On Sunday, March 2, the Public Relations office arranged to celebrate the lOOth Masonic Birthday of Louis Koseuth, Hungarian patriot,
in front of his statue in Riverside Park.
Grand Lodge has not paid one penny for radio time since 1946,
before the Public Relations department was formed. When television
developed, time on that medium was also obtained free of charge. The
tremendous amount of time and coverage that have been extended to
the Fraternity and the goodwill that has been built up with the personnel
of these mediums, as well as through the press and the consumer magazines, must be laid to the honesty of our presentations, and the complete
follow-through that has always been our rule. We have never attempted
to play one medium against the other, or one newspaper against the
other, but have given the news to all, most of the time. Upon various

0

The Grand Lodge o/ Loui1iana has joined those jurisdictions which
employ a press representative. The Grand Lodge approved the following report of the Grand Master:
· "At the 1950 session of Grand Lodge Grand Master Habans secured
more favorable press notices that I have seen in the New Orleans papers
for any recent Grand Lodge Communication. Without any attempt at
'advertising,' yet with a desire to have the Masonic Order presented to
the general public in the most favorable light, I have elected to continue
· the· precedent established by Brother Habans and have requested
Brother Clark Booth, Past Master of Friends of Harmony Lodge 58 to
act again as Grand Lodge Press Representative. Brother Booth, because
of his journalistic experience has been able to handle this assignment
in a manner that reflects credit to him and to Grand Lodge.'' Robert W.
Cretney. GM. Louisiana.
At the beginning of this fiscal year all the district deputies were
requested to assist in accumulating all publicity and articles of interest
concerning individual lodges and the craft in general.
All articJes received were made up in a scrap book containing articles
from almost every lodge in the state, thereby forming a history of
Kentucky Masonic activities for the year 1951. • • •
Through the untiring efforts of our Most Worshipful Grand Master
we have enjoyed the finest kind of publicity, not only among the members of the craft, but the public in general, and with the able assistance
of Brother E. D. Swimme, editor of the Masonic Home Journal, we feel
confident that our efforts were successful. John G. Dial, Committee on
Publidty, Kentucky.
Freemasonry hu never sought publicity. This morning, however,
we heard a message which deserves more publicity than we can give it
here.
In the address of our distinguished Grand Lecturer, than whom there
is no wiser, a wonderful treatise on Communism was given. This Grand
Lodge adopted a motion that the same should be read in each subordinate Lodge in this Grand J urfsdiction. I believe that this message should
be carried to still more people than we are able to reach this way. I
therefore move you, ••• that ••• the Grand Lecturer's Address ••.
be released to the newspapers for use as they see fit. Motion adopted,
Mississippi.

548

549

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A Grand Lodge in ahow buaine•• seems like a sensational departure
from many Masonic traditions. The following is from the proceedings
of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia:
I have the honor to report, on behalf of the Association of Worshipful Masters of the District of Columbia for 1950, the financial results
of the Night of Thrills for 1950, sponsored by that Association, jointly
with the Association of Matrons and Patrons of the District of Columbia
for 1950, for the benefit of the Masonic and Eastern Star Home.
The financial results of the benefit held on June 16, 1950, are
summarized as follows:
Gross Receipts .................................................. $48,595.16
Expenses ................................-............................ l 8, 137.90

with an average requirement of four pints per request. On these requests, seven were for brethren of other jurisdictions who received blood
through our program and two were for our own members who were
hospitalized in other cities. L. Malcolm Graham, Chairman, Grand
Lodge Masonic Blood Bank, District of Columbia.

Net profit ...................................................... $30,457.26
While time will not permit detailed acknowledgment of the debt of
gratitude which the Association of Worshipful Masters for 1950 owes
to the many individuals and organizations who made the Night 'of
Thrills for 1950 a success, I feel that the following must be mentioned:
Brother Clark Griffith, whose most generous donation of the use
of Griffith' Stadium made the event possible.
Most Worshipful Brother Edwin S. Bettelheim, jr., Grand Marshal
and Director of the Pageant, whose skill and experience did so much
to make that important part of the show stirring and inspiring.
The many uniformed bodies, Masonic and non-Masonic, ~ithout
whose cooperation the Queen would have been without an honor guard
and the Director would have had no pageant to direct.
It is an honor to have been associated with the production of the
Night of Thrills for 1950 and it is a pleasure to have been able to report
a substantial profit for so worthy a charity as the Masonic and Eas~ern
·
Star Home.
A check in the amount of $30,457.26 is tendered herewith. Henry B.
Cusick, Chairman, 1950 Masters Association, District of Columbja." ·

Blood Bank• are sponsored by a number of Grand Lodges;
For the first quarter of this year the records reveal that all Lodges
have been active in this program, and as a result of their splendid cooperation .the quota set for that period of 642 pints was exceeded by 50
pints. A total of 712 pints of blood were donate.d to the Red Cross for
a percentage of 110.90.
During the first twenty-nine days of this year twenty-nine requests
for blood were handled through your Chairman and approximately
fifteen additional requests were filed direct with the Red Cross by
various Lodge Chairmen. During the first three months of this year
approximately sixtv-three individual requests for blood were received,

The greatest benefit that has accrued to the interest of the Milwaukee County Lodges during ·the last year, is in the activation and
operation of the splendid Blood Bank Project, which during the calendar
year of 1950 disbursed four hundred and twenty pints of blood to two
hundred and sixty-three individual affiliates, thereby saving them approximately nine thousand six hundred dollars. Still more important, it
without doubt has saved the lives of many of our affiliates who would
not be here if the prompt service had not been available. Charles P.
Emery, Director of Welfare, Wisconsin.

Brother Kit Caraon is given recognition:
There has been quite a bit of interest in a Memorial to Kit Carson
at Taos. The Legislature of New Mexico is now interested and they
have visited this site. This includes the land and grave of Kit Carson:
it is a valuable piece of land.•.. Kit Carson was a member of Montezuma Lodge, but when Bent Lodge was organized, he demitted to that
Lodge••••
Another law passed by the Legislature was one to determine who
should be placed in Statuary Hall in Washington, D. C., whether it
would be Ar,ehbishop Lamy or Kit Carson and Kit Carson was selected
by the Legislature. This is reported for the benefit of the record. Rupert
F. Asplund, P.G.M. New Mexico.

550

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

551

CHAPTER X

CHAPTER XI

SUPPOR T OF CONSTI TUTION AL GOVER NMENT

SUPPOR T OF THE PUBILC SCHOOL

We are present today, free and unmolest ed because of the principles which our Founding Fathers, in their great wisdom, wrote into
our National Constitution, under which the freedom of the American
citizen is guaranteed.
Let us not forget the sixteen basic rights of our peQPle which are:
Right to worship God in one's own way.
Right to free speech and free press.
Right to assemble.
Right to petition grievances.
Right to privacy in our homes.
Right to habeas corpus-n o excessive bail.
Right to trial by jury-inno cent until proved guilty.
Right to move about freely at home and abroad.
Right to own property.
Right to work in callings and localities of our choice.
Right to bargain with our employees.
Right to go into business, compete, make a profit.
Right to bargain for goods and services in a free market.
Right to contract about our affairs.
Right to service of government as a protector and referee.
Right to freedom from "arbitrary " government regulation and
control.

Remembe ring the Little Red School House where we were taught
as, probably, no children of any other land are or ever were taught to
follow truth wherever it might lead, we North American people should
be of good cheer in any way of ideas. Oh, how wise were the original
settlers of this favored land when they, almost immediately, set up a
system of free education: What else could ever have made us a great
people? It is only in recent times that authoritar ian groups, by blacklists of publications and by thought-control hobbies, have attempted to
limit the fleld of research for inquiring young minds in class work. Under
the impact of repetitious radio commercials, our mental inertia is growing, which is regrettable, but not so regrettable as the stampede of
senseless fear which now affiicts our self-appointed leaders. How different the judgment of Thomas Jefferson when in 1801, a somewhat
similar wave of hysteria swept the view of the timid, when Jefferson
stated to the Congress and the people, "If there be any among us who
wish to dissolve this union, or change its republican form, let them stand
undisturbed, as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion
may be tolerated where reason is left free to combat it." After thought
one still can distinguish between the demagogue and the statesman.
Think!
If Freemasonry, as an organization, must flght, then, by all means
let us fight and 8.ght hard for free education. We were nurtured and we
thrive on freedom. Let us fight to keep our schools free. Fight to secure
and maintain an adequate supply of free members of the teaching profession. Crack-po t ideas on the campus are as hoary with age as is the
campus and need cause us little alarm, but we do need desperate ly to
fear cramped min_ds. Shackled brains in Congress are more disgraceful
than shackled legs in jail. The surest way to trim our citizenry down
to pigmy size is to proscribe courageous thinking and dole out biased
education. The student and the teacher "are and of right, ought to be
free and independe nt" should be the declaration of 1951. Hal C.

H. M. Pace, G.M. South Carolina.
The Constitut ion . of these United States was written by the great
snen of the colonies and served them well. It is just as good for us today
as it was for them more than one hundred years ago. The men who
framed that wonderful document were the leaders and thinkers of that
time and more than one half of them were Master Masons. Sir Isaac
Newton, when asked how he could do so many things in mathematics,
said, "If I have seen a little farther than others it is because I have stood
on the shoulders of giants." We today should see farther than our
brethren of the past because we are standing on the shoulders of giants
for the men who wrote our Constitution were really "Giants" and the
document they produced has been the envy of all nations. It is still the
very best, let us keep it. It would be a real source of education for every
Grand Jurisdiction to set aside a week known as "Constitution Week."
Several Grand Lodges have done so. How about the week of September
the 17th of each year? Edward Beaty, P.GM. Oregon.

McLoud, P.G.M. Illinois.
Persons who contribut e to the support of parochial schools, some
people seem to think, should be exempt from the payment of taxes for
the support of public schools. Catholics call this "double taxation." We
all pay taxes to build publtc bridges, which are open for all to travel
over. One can cross the river in his own boat if he prefers, but he does
not expect the government to subsidize him for the purchase and maintenance of that boat. We are taxed for paving and the upkeep of streets
and lighting, but in each community there are streets which are used

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

by only a fraction of the population. Police forces are mainta ined
by
genera l tax funds, but the individual citizen, if he so prefers ,
and is
financially able to bear the expense, may have his own bodygu ard,
but
that fact does not release him from the obligat ion of paying taxes for
the
police and fire departm ents. Bachelors, marrie d couples who have
no
children, other marrie d couples whose childre n have grown up--th
ese
all have to pay taxes to suppor t the public schools, even though
they
do not obtain any direct benefit from the public schools, but they
realize
what a deplorable countr y the United States would be if it did not
have
its public schools.
·
The heritag e of Americ an democracy rests upon three. institutions.
First is the home, protect ed by our Consti tution from all intrusio
n.
Second, is the Church , protect ed by the Consti tution from outside control. Third is the public school. protect ed from sectari an teachin
g,
whethe r by Jehova h's Witnes ses or by Roman Catholics.
·
Roman Catholics such as Cardin al Spellman like to refer to their
rights as American Citizens. They have these rights. No one
w~uld
deny them. The rights of Roman Cathol ics in America include the
right
to send their childre n to public schools, which are the glory
of our
democracy, or to send them to private schools. This right rests
with
every parent in America. Educat ion in America is in the hands
of the
parents . This is altoget her right and is one of our freedoms. It is
very
questionable, however, whethe r the Roman Cathol ic parent has
this in
his own hands, becaus e the claim of the Church is, that education
rests
in the hands of the Church , rather than in the hands of the parents
.
Efforts to compel all children to go to public schools, as were made
in the State of Oregon , have been crushe d as unconstitutional
and as
steps toward totalitarianism. The Roman Cathol ic is protect ed
in his
rights to send a child to a parochial school if he so desires. ·
Every
private school. paroch ial or otherwise, is suppor ted by private
rather
than public funds. This should apply to Roman Catholic schools
as
well: but the structu re of Roman Cathol ic educat ion has now been
reared
to such proportions that the burden of suppor ting it is becoming intoler
able to the Roman Cathol ic people, and they deman d public funds
for
its suppor t. . . . . .
·
The American Public School 'non-p artisan , non-se ctarian , efficien
t,
democratic, for all the children of all the people," has done a marvel
ous
work in taking the various peoples from around the globe and
fusing
them into a homogeneous citizenry. The task has not yet been
completed. The public schools have their defect s--wha t human institut
ion
does not? Nevert heless, the free, tax~supported, public school
of the ·
United States has gone further than any other institution on the·
face
of the earth, from earlies t recorded history down to the presen
t day,
toward its goal of unifyin g different groups and nationalities. It
took

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

553

a non-se ctarian tidal wave to free the human mind from the dogma
tic
straigh t-jacke t in which it had been held for centur ies-an d the
American public school has played a tremen dous role in the past 125
years
in achieving the fulfillment of that purpose.
The public schools are our safegu ard of freedom. It therefo
re
becomes the duty of every citizen, and especially every Mason , to
take
an active part in the administration and.supervision of our public schools
,
to study their method s and to insure their proper admini stration for
the
preserv ation of a free democratic government. It is the duty of
each
citizen and the obligation of every Mason to equip each child to perform
his part in the democ racy of which he is a member and to iusist
that
our public schools cultivate and develop the native abilities and
skills
of the people to insure them freedom from fear and want. Should
we
fail in these objectives there will soon develop an elector ate that
can
easily be led by demag ogues and emotions, who will trampl e and crucify
those who would aid the cause of freedom, and finding power
in the
people 's ignorance, snatch from us the indepe ndence and freedom
which
require d the blood of so many patriot s to gain. Floyd Holland,
Grand
Orator, Wyom ing.
Our Free Public School s. It is needle ss to expoun d on the importance, the problems and the ever presen t attack of the enemies
of that
great Americ an Mason ic institution, our Free Public Schools.
Every
brothe r presen t is well aware of these things.
It is gratify ing to report, as you will see in the detailed reports of
the
subord inate .lodges, that we are steadil y gaining in our objecti
ve: to
stimulate the subord inate lodges to presen t, throug h our Public School
s
Observ ance, the import ance of Mason s partici pating in public
school
affairs, to know those things that are confro nting their very existen
ce,
and to do something about it. George W. Lane, Chairman, Comm
ittee
on Public Schools Week, Montana.

554

555

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHAPTER XII

Whether Ught or Darkness will triumph in the present world
struggle depends much upon the courage and realistic vision of the
forces of Light. Sadly we must admit that light is only relative, no
nation enoys its full refulgence, and discreditable nationalism bulks
large as a deterrent to effective unified action. But darkness seems
entire in the Asiastic scene where no outmoded shibboleths hamper in
the ruthless exploitation of millions of slaves who appear to be subsisting on the bare necessities for survival. Denied expression now of
any of their former ideas, they are told only what their masters want
them to hear. The system seems to have achieved unity of a somewhat
precarious kind.
We western peoples must again appraise our programs, purposes,
and politics if disaster is to be avoided. We dare not wait in hope of
the collapse of the soviet regimes. We of America have been benevolent
but demanding, cooperative but condescending, we have attempted to
teach with too little understanding, and we have led arrogantly along
our own "glory road," blind to the bright pathway of humility which
may be the surer way to understanding, brotherhood, and peace. If we
continue to be half generous and half selfish, we cannot hope to win
whole-hearted cooperation from allies. Victory in this struggle may
depend upon the spirit and not on wealth, know-how, or material
abundance. "Know then thyself" should be the motto and watch-word
of us all, soldier and statesman, farmer and artisan, merchant and manufacturer, left and right. In the encroaching darkness let us look well
to our light and let us not be grudging and rebellious if the mighty are
humbled and the weak are strengthened. God's plan is working out and
we must be ready to flt bravely into that plan.
When the victory of Light is secure let-us all work together to bring
about the sixth progressive movement, the Ethical Revolution, wherein
equitable sharing shall be the great objective and men may indeed be
brothers all: not classified and regimented according to the color of their
skins: not required to believe as the rulers for the time being believe:
no church shall impose its creed, but each person shall be free to believe
as his understanding and conscience points the way, and he shall be
free to discard any belief when it no longer satisfies. Albert]. Delange,

FREEMASONRY AND WORLD CRISIS
We can recall the great movements which have affected immeasurable advancement to large portions of humanity and have wrought some
measure of benefit to all mankind. After numerous progressions and
retrogressions, and following the great eclipse known as the Dark Ages,
when the lights glimmered but feebly. came the Renaissance, or revival
of learning, which brightened the light of knowledge to a portion, but
not all, of mankind. Followed then the Reformation which enlightened
the spirit and freed _the conscience of a segment of humanity. The
Pol.it_ical Revolution, led b~ our own country, relighted the lamps of
political freedom, lamps which have flickered and failed in many areas,
but which still burn brightly in favored portions of the world. The
Industrial Revolution increased the material wealth of the world and
resulted in_ ~ more equitable distribution of it, easing the physical burdens of millions of people. We are now in the midst of the Scientific
Revolution which enables men to direct and intensify the forces of nature
to a power undreamed of before and not now fully comprehended.
The five major movements affecting successively the cultural, religious, political, industrial, and technological life of peoples of the
progressive western races now seem to be followed by the threat of a
retrograde movement originating in the hitherto static East, to usher in
an eclipse similar to that which preceded the Dark Ages. Now pure
com~unism is not at all horrible. It is Utopian, and too lovely to exist
outside a dream: but the Capitalistic Dictatorship in Russia (now masquerading as communism) has no lovely or Utopian aspect. The present
hegemonic state of the Moscow dictator and his politburo results from
years of ruthless conniving along a bloody trail and it seems now rather
clearly apparent that nothing less than world dictatorship will satisfy
their greed for power.
A reluctant America, on the other hand, has been forced by circumstances into defensive leadership and in our eagerness to shift that
leadership responsibility to others, we may err as we have erred before.
Heroic sacrificial action by the civilized minority of mankind may be the
price we shall have to pay to preserve our culture and our lives. In this
crisis each individual Mason will have an unique obligation as a citizen to
seek light upon government problems in order to help keep our government respected among governments. And we must remember that party
labels are now more misleading than ever before and we should try to
avoid all "Leftist" and "Rightist" prejudices, because, while we are
thinking of them as "the Left" nevertheless, the Russian oligarchy is
now undeniably the extreme Right, although pure communism (the
Utopian dream) is still the extreme Left.
·

G.M. Texas.
In certain countries, the past year has witnessed renewed persecution of the Craft. In Hungary, all Masonic lodges have been dissolved
by decree of the Peoples' Communist Government. We need feel no
surprise at this arbitrary action. Freemasonry and Communism are
utterly incompatible, and nothing is more certain than that Freemasonry
can have no hope of survival under a communist regime.
At the same time, Freemasonry's ancient enemy, the Roman Catholic
Church, has renewed its attacks on the Fraternity. The official Vatican

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

newspaper, L'Observatore Romano, carried an article denouncing the
Order, stating that the history of Masonry "is one of hostility to religion," and reminding all Catholics that Masonic membership is punished by excommunication. In Peru, the Cardinal Archbishop issued a
pastoral letter to his ftock, in which he described the Fraternity as antiChristian and as akin to communism. and warned the faithful that
Masonic affiliation results in automatic excommunication. He stated
ftatly: "It is not possible for one to be a Mason and a Catholic at the
same time." Even in our own State, a Roman Catholic priest has ·recently seen fit to publicize the official atUtude of his ·Church in regard
to Masonry, and to explain at some length why a Catholic cannot
become a Mason.
This Papal opposition to the Craft has been given practical applica- ·
tion in Colombia, where the Church-dom inated government, on August
1, 1950, issued orders prohibiting Freemasonr y in that country. All
Masonic bodies have become dormant. Many prominent Masons have
been arrested, many others have been driven into exile, and wives have
been ordered to divorce their husbands. . solely because they were Freemasons. The pattern in Colombia closely follows that previously established in Franco Spain, where the Fraternity has . been prohibited for
many years, where many Freemasons have been puHo death. and where
a special tribunal for the suppression of Freemasonr y still sits.
Truly, we Americans can be thankful that we live in a land where
godless communism and mediaeval superstition are alike powerless to
impair our Constitution al liberties. With God's help, let us keep it so.

ty which has been built upon their sincere personal faith." If you wa~t
a clear view, get this book, "Communism, Democracy. and Catholic
Power," by Paul Blanshard. You do not have to agree with all of it,
but it will c:ertainly be provocative to you. George S. Morrell, Grand

Ralph]. Pollard, P.G.M., Maine.

Religion is not the opium of the people, as the Communists say.
Real religion does not lull people to sleep. If they became ·captured by
lethargy, it doubtless indicates that they have the wrong component
parts ...•
May I digress a bit here to recommend to you a new book which, if
you want to use gray brain matter for a good cause, will give you practically all the information you need. It is "Communism, Democracy,
and Catholic Power," by Paul Blanshard. It is a new book published
just this year. In this book the author places the hierarchy of the
Catholic Church in the same category as Communism in many respects.
The jacket on the book says. "A study of two great systems of authoritarian control over men's minds: Kremlin and Vatican, the deadly
parallels, the moral contrasts, their impact on free peoples." He explains,
too, "When I ·speak of the Roman Catholic Church and the Vatican,
I am not generally speaking of the Catholic people or of the Catholic
mystic faith . . . it is political Catholicism as a world power which
concerns me in .this book. The Catholic people are not responsible for
the great structure of political. diplomatic, medical, and cultural authori-

Chaplain, Montana.

557

558

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

559

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

CHAPTER XIII

MASONIC HOMES AND BENEVOLENCE
In Louisiana the Grand Lodge maintains a children·s home. There
has been discussion concerning the advisability of establishing a home
/or the aged. A committee appointed to investigate the matter reported:
During the current year your committee has made a study of Homes
and Benevolent activities in other Jurisdictions and reports of committees
of other states engaged in similar investigations.
Your committee has come to the conclusion that the erection of "A
Home for Aged.. is undesirable and recommends no action be taken at
this time. . • •
·
Your committee further reports that owing to the present policy of
both our State and National Governments of granting pensions and
Social Security relief, the establishment of a relief system by Grand
Lodge is of doubtful necessity, especially so as it seems to be the policy
of government agencies to withdraw or curtail relief when relief is
extended from othe;: sources.
However, your committee feels that there may be some cases not
covered by relief from Government Agencies or cases where the relief
furnished by Government Agencies is inadequate, where it would be
desirable for Grand Lodge or local Lodge, or both, to extend relief or
supplement the relief afforded by Government Agei;icies.
We therefore think that Grand Lodge should set up ••. a Charity
or Benevolent Fund •••"
The following comments concerning various Grand Jurisdictions is
abridged from the Louisiana Report:

Ark811888 as a state is made up principally of rural communities, and
there are no very large cities. but our Arkansas brethren are far ahead
of many of the larger states when it comes to dispensing Masonic
benevolence. It has been the policy of the Board of Charities in that
jurisdiction to maintain aged Masons and the families of deceased
Masons in their own homes and in their own communities in coopera~
tion with their subordinate Lodges •.•
They do not pay a pension or grant a definite monthly allowance
in any case. They found that a pension, no matter how small, would
disqualify the person from receiving State or Federal aid. Under their
plan, they cooperate with the subordinate Lodge. the Lodge being re~
quired to pay a portion of the relief granted ••• The Lodge sends a bill
to the Board of Charities showing the amount advanced. and the Board
reimburses the Lodge for that portion which the Board of Charities has

agreed to assume. All payments to the needy brother ar~ made by the
Lodge, and as far as he, or the family, or the community knows, the
Grand Lodge does not enter the picture at all. The Lod~e ge~ full
credit for having cared for its own and has the further satisfac~on of
having done its duty by helping one who was unable to h~l_p himself.
Freemasonry in general is benefited, since in small comn:iumties, eve~~
body usually knows of what is done to help a needy fallllly .. · · ~n their
program the subordinate Lodge is required to see that an effort ~s ma~e
to obtain State and Federal aid for the applicant before Masonic relief
is acted on, be.cause, they found, if the Lodge starts making. payments
before the application for State or Federal aid is flled, it might result
in the State or Federal aid being refused. . . .
In cases where hospitalization or sanitarium care is needed. the case
is sent to a private hospital, or nursing home, which they find. more
satisfactory, and less expensive, than to try to operate a hospital or
sanitarium of their own.
Colorado dispenses charity through the "Trustees of Benevole~t
Funds." Aid was extended to 24 beneficiaries. The total assets of this
Fund amount to $1,096,468.72. Expended for aid, $11,802.08. · · ·
District of Columbia maintains a Masonic and Eastern Star Home.
At the end of the year, November 30, 1949, 96 adults and 4 ch~ldren
comprised the Home family, and of these, 21 adult guests were m the
infirmary. The Home was completely filled and there was a waiting
list of 6 .•.

Florid~ is sold on its Home and Relief program. Total number of
residents of the Home at the end of the year, March 30, 1950, was 59,
of which number there were 13 men, 34 women, 6 boys and 6 girls.
Non~resident members numbered 33, of which number there were 12
men, 19 women, 1 boy and 1 girl.
IDinois maintains an Orphans' Home at LaGrange ... The present
population of the Illinois Orphans' Home at the close of the year was
100. Ten graduates of the Home are being helped through college by a
fund established by Adelphi Lodge No. 1020. The Illinois Masonic
Home (for adults) at Sullivan, had 233 guests ~t the close of the year,
September 30, 1950, of which 141 were men and 92 were women. There
were 91 members in the hospital of which 56 were men and 35 women.

Indiana maintains a Masonic Home at Franklin. In 1948, they
housed a total of 364 guests, of whom 120 were men, 157 women, 43
boys and 34 girls. The Home is filled to capacity. as far as ad~l.ts are
concerned, but they have room for more children. . . . In addition to
maintaining the Home, they give outside relief to those cases that are
eligible and in need • . •

560

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Iowa Plan. Direct relief. in their ~wn homes is given to all applicants who qualify, except those requiring sanitarium care, and these are
cared for in the sanitarium at Bettendorf ... The total number of employees on the staff is 25, 'and tile average number of cases handled is
about 45. The average cost per annum for their maintenance for the
year 1948 was $1,225.10 per patient. The Grand Lodge of Iowa is
definitely committed to the plan of giving outside relief in those cases
where sanitarium care is not required ... Under their plan, the application for relief must come through a subordinate Lodge ... The Grand
Charities Board, in considering an application determines the amount
of relief to be granted, and, at the same time, determines what part of
the relief is to be paid by the subordinate Lodge ... At the end of each
year a new application for relief must be made by each beneficiary, giving the same kind of information as is required in an original application.
This gives the Board an opportunity to determine if the money previously allotted has been wisely used, and whether further relief is
required, and how much ....
Kansas has one of the really fine institutions o~ its kind in this country in its Masonic Home. The grounds are suitably landscaped, the

rooms and parlors well and attractively furnished, and everything is
well maintained and in a clean and orderly condition. The kitchens and
dining rooms are especially well maintained and equipped. The present
population of the Kansas Home consists of -254 adults and 16 children.
The Home is ma.i ntained by a per capita tax of $1.50 per year and the
income from an endowment fund of approximately $1,000,000.00. . . .
Maine does not operate a Masonic Hom~. and they give two very
definite reasons for not doing so. First, their jurisdiction being small,
they do not have the money to carry on an expensive institution of this
kind, and second, they believe that their beneficiaries will be much
happier, and can be assisted in a more satisfactory manner, in their own
homes, in their own community, than in an institutional type of Ho~e.
In that jurisdiction, the subordinate Lodge is expected to render first
aid and relief, when needed, and when a Lodge is unable to meet the
demands, it may call on the Grand Lodge for assistance. To receive such
assistance, a formal application for relief must be filed with the Grand
Lodge Board of Relief.••.
Missouri is one of those jurisdictions that is suffering from financial
and other troubles in connection with the operation of its Home ...
Both the Grand Lodge and the Masonic Home · are separate leg al
entities; ...

The only connection, legally had, with the Home is that the Grand
Lodge annually elects Directors to the Home Board; and the Grand
Lodge pays over annually to the Home a certain per capita tax, which
with the interest from endowment funds and gifts made by the member-

GRAND. LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

561

ship and friends, enables the carrying on ·of the work of the Home .. ··

Says the Grand Master of Missouri:
·.
·
We are, I believe, attempting to follow the trends which lead toward
an institutionalism of our charities. It is not altogether charity for all
of our Lodges to pay in so much a year for.th~ support of an in~titution
which, in turn, pays out the money for institutional care. The giver and
the receiver are too far apart. Personally, I am heartily in favor of
looking after all of our indigent brethren and orphans, but I think this
can be accomplished through an outside relief system in which the local
lodge and the local lcxlge officers may be in constant contact with our
indigent brethren.
Montana maintains a Home. Guests, Men 28; women, 20.
Nebraska operates two Masonic Homes, one for adults at Plattsmouth, and a Home for Children at Fremont. The Home for adults has
about 100 guests.- and is usually filled to full capacity. They also maintain a Charity Relief Fund which· is raised by a per capita tax on the
membership. They do not have an endowment fund in connection with
it. Grants are made out of this fund to subordinate Lodges for the purpose of extending individual relief in needy cases, but none of the payments are made direct to the beneficiary by the Grand Lodge.... The
per capita tax in Nebraska is $2.00 per year, $1.00 of which goes to the
Masonic Home Fund and 15 cents to the Welfare and Relief Fund.
New Jersey maintains a Masonic Home ... They now have about
200 adult guests in the Home, and have facilities .for child~en, but th~re
are no chilclren in the Home at this time. An outside Charity and Rehef
program is also maintained, and relief is granted t?. individual Freemasons on applications made through the subordinate Lodge. The
amount of relief granted depends on the needs of the case, and they
place no restrictions on the amount. The per .capita tax i? New Jersey
is $2.25 per year, of which $1.60 is for Masonic Home maintenance and
outside relief purposes .••
New York. The Grand Lodge, in addition to their Masonic Home
project some years ago, embarked. on a program .of ~iving direct. relief
to needy Freemasons and their widows, on applications made directly
to, and approved by, the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic. Benevolence....
The amount of money required to maintain this program; it is said,
was so great that it almost broke the Grand .Lodge of New York. The
serious mistake they seem to have made was, that they failed to take
the subordinate Lodge into the picture and require that the applicant be
fully investigated, by his own Lodge, and approved by his Lodge, before
its submission to the Committee on Masonic Benevolences. In 1938,
realizing where this program was leading them, the Grand Lodge voted
to discontinue it.•..

562

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Lodge of New York now has under consideration a new
program of outside relief, to take the place of the one which was discontinued, and which they hope will correct the errors of the former plan.

fare and Relief programs of any jurisdiction in the United States. Prior
to 1926 they operated a Masonic Home. • • • When a widow made
application for assistance, or for admission to the Home for herself and
children, she was given the choice of coming into the Home, or receiving assistance in her home and community, and, with two exceptions in six years, every applicant elected to stay in her own home,
and the two families that came into the Home only remained two months.
The system worked so well with the widows and children that they
tried it with the old people. In every instance it was found that they, too,
preferred to remain in their own communities. In each case a budget was
worked out and a definite grant made.
Texas has two Masonic Homes. The Home for Aged Masons is
owned and operated by the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons.
Although this Home is primarily for the benefit of Royal Arch Masons,
their wives and widows, the widows of deceased Master Masons are
also accommodated there, on a per capita cost basis, under an arrangement between the Grand Lodge and the Grand Chapter.... The Texas
Masonic Home and School is owned and operated by the Grand Lodge
of Texas, at Arlington. Here are accommodated children up to and
including high school ages .•.. A trade school is also operated wherein
they train the children so that they may go out into the world and make
their own way. They operate. among other things, a printing shop.
which publishes "The Campus News," a school publication, "The Grand
Lodge Magazine" and does other printing work for the Grand Lodge
and other Grand Bodies of Texas.•.•
Wiacomin operates a Masonic Home about 35 miles from Milwaukee. It is situated on a farm of 300 acres, and the farm is operated in
connection with the Home. They have accommodations for 125 persons,
but the average number accommodated in recent years has been about
116, of whom 40 are now men, and 76 women. There are no children in
their home••••

North Dakota. Originally Grand Lodge set up Masonic Home Fund
on June 21, 1910 in sum of $2,019.35. Later this became Grand Lodge
Relief Fund, which fn 1950 amounts to $76,957.12. Annual Receipts in
1950, $4,906.25. Disbursements for Relief. $2,739.26.
Ohio operates a Masonic Home, in which are accommodated 218
men, 227 women, 22 boys and 13 girls. The adult section is filled to its
capacity, but the children's section is not. A hospital is operated in
connection with the Home ••• From Brother Harry S. Johnson, Grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Ohio, comes the most intelligent
analysis of the Masonic Home problem of any that has come to our
desk. "Our Home fs definitely not under the control of our Grand Lodge.
Without reference to any particular jurisdiction, generally speaking, all
Homes should be under the direct control of the Grand Lodge within
whose jurisdiction ft is located: a beneficiary should be the recipient of
whatever financial aid the Nation and/or State provides; what he may
have himself, or his relatives may be legally required to provide, and,
if this is not adequate to his support, it should be supplemented by
annuitits from the Grand Lodge .••
Oklahoma has two Homes. 92 in the Home for Aged, 36 men and
56 women. 33 in Children's Home. Greatest need: Hospital facilities,
more space for guests, and accommodations for employees. Children's
Home: 8 boys, 15 girls. Both Homes under one management....
Pennaylvania. The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania operates a Masonic Home at Elizabethtown, under the direction -of the Committee on
Masonic Homes. During the year 1948 they accommodated 596 guests,
consisting of 39 married couplies; 137 single men; 326 women: 36 boys,
and 19 girls • • •
South Carolina at one time started a campaign to raise funds to
build a Masonic Home but, after further investigation, they found that
such an institution could aid so few people, and the cost of operation
would be so great, in proportion to the relief granted, that the project
was abandoned, and a program of giving direct relief to all cases Jn
their own homes and in their own communities, was adopted.... The
Lodges in the jurisdiction pay a per capita tax of $2.00 per year, of
which $1.00 goes to the Masonic Relief Fund.•.•
South Dakota maintains no home but grants direct relief. The Permanent Charity Fund is $377.109.17 and $8487.85 was expended for
charity last year.

Tennessee has, what is probably one of the most outstanding wel-

563

564

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHAPTER XIV

New Brunswick. Brethren, the Grand Lodge of California celebrated 100 years of Masonry in a manner be.fitting this occasion, and I would
say the searchers for gold, who one . hundred years ago, · formed the
lodges out of which the Grand Lodge of California grew, handed on
to posterity riches far greater than the gold which they unearthed. Gold,
if you wish to call it such, is still to be found in California, the pure gold
of hospitality, the richness of kindness, the immeasurable wealth of
friendship is still there in the hearts and in the personalities of its
people. G.M.
New South Wales. This Grand Jurisdiction maintains a Masonic
Convalescent Home,' a Masonic Hospital, which admitted 1,362 patients
during the year, as well as a Masonic Home for Children, the latter
being designated as the William Thompson Masonic School. The school
has a total of 241 residents, 51 girls, 96 junior boys and 54 senior boys.
New Zealand. Sir Stephen Shepherd Allen, Grand Master, in his
Annua{ Message . after referring to the predominance of Freemasonry
among the English-speaking peoples and its revival in those countries
of Europe which are free from political dictatorship, expressed the hope
that in the near future arrangements might be set in train for representatives from the sovereign Masonic Jurisdictions of the world to
come together at suitable intervals in conference at official high levels
to consider problems .of common interest and point the way to an even
greater unity of purpose and closer ties of brotherhood everywhere. He
exhorted the brethren to press forward along the path of duty. always,
in the words of Lincoln, .. with malice towards none, with charity to all,
and with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right."
Nova Scotia. This Grand Jurisdiction in 1949 adopted regulations
governing the award of a medal to brethren for faithful and meritorious
service, such service to be awarded only to those who may never attain
the chair of Master, such service to be Masonic and far beyond the usual
service expected of an officer or members.
Philippine Islands. Most Worshipful Cenon S. Cervantes, Grand
Master of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the Philippine Islands, when the Japanese forces occupied the
Philippine Islands, was then manager of the llcile Branch of the Philippine N atior:ial Bank, and he hid whatever there was in the bank vault
in order to keep it out of enemy hands. This was a daring act in the
presence of the occupational forces. The amount ·which was Pl. 720,000.00 was later surrendere_d to the Philippine Government when it had
been re-established.
This Jurisdiction maintains and publishes an interesting publication,
which cat"t"ies the Masonic title, "Cabletow". Its editorials are written
in English and Spanish respectively.
Prince Edward Island. Masonry and Communism cannot live side

FORE,IGN )URISDICTION S
Our re!'°'! ~his ~ear consists largely of a review of. the fort -nine
Grand Jurtsdictt~ns in the United States. Theref-ore, the sixteen f~rei n
country proceedings .are here considered separately. All were carefufty
re~d by your committee but lack of space restricts us to the followin
g
~~ro~~~
.

565

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

.Alberta. October 7th to 14th, 1950. It was my great privile e to be

inv1t~d ~ost graciously to attend the 1OOth Anniversary of th~ Com-

mumc~ti°.n of the M.W. Grand Lodge of California. The pageantry
and dignity, courtesy of the whole Communication was an inspiration
never to be forgotten · · · My greatest impression from seeing that
~rand Lodge in action _with four thousand Masons assembled comprising the Governor of the State, M.W. Bro. Earl Warren do~ to the
huJDblest. newly made Mason-was the tremendous po~er of Freemasonry in a world clamoring for leadership and direction
h Under the direction ?f M.~. Bro. Sam Harris as Edi~or, we have
t e Grand Lodge Bulletin. This Bulletin is a great credit to its Editor
and to our Grand Lodge. Its circulation was over 11 800 copies in
June, .1951. It is.widely read and used in our lodges and 'many imprints
from 1~ are used m other Foreign Grand Lodge publications all of which
prove its great worth. G.M.
Britis~ Columb~a. This Grand Jurisdiction maintains a Committee
?n Masonic Education and Research, and contributes many articles to
its Grand Lodge Bulletin, which is published 1O times a year and is sent
~o all . ~aster Masons in the Jurisdiction, as well as to many foreign
JUrisd1cttons. John H. N. Morgan, W .M.
Canada ~Ontario). Grand Secretary, R.W. E.G. Dixon, attended
the Centennial of the Grand Lodge of California in 1950 as th e representativ f h. . . d . . wit h t he particular purpose of gaining ideas
e o is JUrts 1ctton
.
which could be used in the observance of this Grand Jurisdiction' O
s ne
Hundreth Anniversary in 1955.
~ev~n years ago this Jurisdiction, as an experiment, commenced the
publ~catto~ of a Gr~nd Lodge Bulletin, and since then has successfully
published its Bulletin three to four times a year.
England, ~he !11other Grand Lodge of Craft Masonry throughout
the world, mat?tams an endowed lectureship fund, which is designated
as the Prestoman Fund, and annually, by means of revenues from this
fund, three lectures are delivered before selected Lodges. The official
Lectures are allocated each year usually to the Provincial Lodges and
one Lond°.n ~odge, selected from these Lodges which have previously
made application to the Grand Secretary.

566

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

by side. Our teachings are at complete vari~ce one with the other and
it is sad to have to record that where this loathsome pestilence rears its
head Masonry ceases to exist, except as an underground agency for
good. A recent Communication from the Grand Lodge of China contains
these awesome words: "the all too numerous disappearances without
trace, of people formerly prominent in various walks of Chinese life."
This quotation serves to emphasize the character of the ideology the
free people of the world are today battling on many fronts. G.M.
Saskatchew an. This Jurisdiction on February 1. 1943, embarked on
the experiment of establishing a monthly bulletin, to be known as the
Tracing Board. As of the date of 1951, 100 issues of thi& instructive
bulletin have been issued, with particular emphasis being placed on
articles dealing on youth activities.
Scotl~d. Under date of April 1st, 1952, the Grand Lodge of Scotland published the first issue of its Scottish Masonic Year Book. consisting of an excellently written publication of 208 pages. This publication is an endeavor to meet the frequently expressed demand for one in
which·all the brethren ·of this Jurisdiction can find information about the
Craft, which otherwise was not readily available to them.South Auetralia. According to South AustNJlian custom the Grand
Mas~er !s n?~ installed at it~ Annual Communication. A Special Com~unrcat.'on LS called for this purpose, and it indeed must be a very
imp~essive and colorful ceremony with trumpeters, fanfares and processions.
Tasmania. Applause during degree work in our Temples. This is
not permissible. Conversation also after the Master has sounded his
gavel is bad form. This is too prevalent, more especially among those
who should set an example. Although I have appealed to brethren to
att~nd their Lodge~ corre~tly clothed, this is still overlooked. A very
objectionable practice which obstructs itself at the Festive Board is
questionable stories. Some disgusting. G.M.
Victoria. This Grand Jurisdiction, through the agency of the Freemason's Hospital Association and in which association 452 Lodges are
directly represented, has since April 19th, 1937 maintained a splendid
hospital. Since its inception 15,967 patients have been received; 13,894
operations have been performed, of which 8,461 were of a major character. The daily average occupancy throughout the year was 59, while
89 per cent of admissions were patients of Masonic Connection.
Weetern Auetralia. Including the 1951 Communication, its Grand
M~te!, .M. W. Bro. Dr: J. S. Baitye, served as Grand Master of this
Jurisdiction for the continuous period of 16 years. This Communication
adopted a regulation limiting the tenure of Grand Masters to a maxi"!um of 5 years. This Jurisdiction as is true of so many English Jurisdictions, lays particular emphasi& on the requirement that all brethren must
be attired in formal evening dress when attending lodge meetings.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

567

CHAPTER XV

STATISTI CS
Uniform 1tati8tic1 are not easy to obtain from the printed proceedings of the 49 Grand Jurisdictions.
.
Many do not publish a consolidated balance sheet, and those that
do follow diverse systems of accounting. Many do not place any valuations on land and buildings. Reports overlap and require close analysis.
In some instances it was necessary to eliminate capital outlay included
in expense accounts.
In the Financial Stati&tics presented herein there may be unintentional omissions and there are undoubtedly some accounting errors. The
figures are presented as an interesting picture of the financial condition
of the American Grand Lodges. Assets and expenditures of individual
Lodges are not included.
·
The membenhi p 1tati8tic1 have been presented in such a way as to
permit comparison between the different jurisdictions.
Using the 1950 United States Census Report it was possible to
compute the number of Masons for each 1000 males in each state. In
the country as a whole it was found that fifty men out of each thousand
are members of the Craft. This includes males of all ages as the breakdown of adult males for 1950 is not yet available. California u below
the national average with only 38 for each thousand while Maine and
Vermont head the lut with the extraordinary number of 98 members for
each thousand males in these two states. The position of the other states
is shown in the membership chart which follows.

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEM BERS HIP STA TISTI CS 1951
Masons
for each
Net
1000
Increase males
since
in
1950
State

Rank-in
Date of
Number
··········-·········
member.
JurisPopulation
1951
of
Total
ship
diction
11950 census)
report
Lodges
Members
1. NewYo rk
14,830,192 Jan. 1
1,040
298,457
3,904
40
2. Ohio
7,946,627 ~ly
644
260,436
5,348
66
31
3. lllinois ·
8,712,176
une 30
976
247,463
3,944
56
4.. Pennsylvania
10,498,012
ec. 27
577
234.862
5,200
44
5. Texas
7,711.194
918
203,951
7.536
52.
6. California
10,586,223
une 30
611
202,500
5,700
38
7, Indiana
3,934,224
an. · 12'
540
168,756
3,623
86
8. Michigan
6,371,756
an. 1
526
160,375
3,170
50
9. Massachusetts
4,690,514 Aug. 31
321
119,170
2,531
50
10. Missouri
3,954,653
596
116.025
1,924 . 58
11. New Jei:sey
4,835,329
283
95,010
2,635 . 40
12. Kansas
1,905,299
an. 1
440
91,882
2,403
96
13. Iowa
2,621,073
an. 1 ·
546
. 70
. 91.477
1,819
14. Kentucky
2,944,806
uly 31
469
85,156
3,220
54
15. Georgia
3,444,578
une 30
467
83,130
2.558
48
16. Oklahoma
2,233,351
an. 1
384
75,903
2.579
68
17. Tennessee
3,291,718 Oct. 31
475
71.072
2.776
44
18. Alabama
3,06i.74 3
426
64,256
1,801
42
19. Washin gton
2,378,963
an. 1
272
63,550
1,680
54
20. Wiscons in
3,434,575
an. 114
306
62,620
1,167
36
21. Minnesota
2,982,483
an. 1
291
·42
62,524
1,809
22. Virginia
3,318,680
an. 1
334
58,784
2,025
36
23. Arkansa s
1,909,511
Sept. 30
384
53,207
1,292 . 56
24. North Carolina
4,061,929 Dec. 31
330
52,251
1.804
26
25. Florida
2,771,305 Jan. 1
243
49,035
2,684
36
26. l'vtaine
·913,774 Mar. 1
207
45,032
851
98
27. Connecticut
2,007,280 Jan. 1
131
. 44,239
844
44
28. Mississippi
2,178,914 Aug. 31
310
43.690
1,263
40
29. South Carolina
2,117,027 Jan. 1
285
43,530
1,949
42
30. West Virginia
2,005.552 Aug. 31
164
42.927
967
42
31. Nebrask a
1,325,510 Jan. 1.
276
42,340
961
64
32. Marylan d
2,343,001
Oct. 30
125
42,317
1,055
36
33. Colorado
1,325,089 Dec. 31
155
41,960
1.455
64
34. Louisiana
2,683.516 Jan. 1
251
41,805
1.820
32
35. Oregon
1.521.341
an. 1
182
39,405
1.214
52
36. Dist. of Columbia
802,178 Sept. 30
48
25,077
201
62
37. Montan a
591.024 June 30
135
24,197
514
82
38. South Dakota
652,740 Apr. 30
168
18,942
478
58
39. Vermon t
377,747 Apr. 30
103
18,669
177
98
40. Rhode Island
791 ,896 Apr. 30
44
17,532
431
44
41. New Hampshire
533,242
Oct. 31
81
15,892
342
60
42. North Dakota
619,636
119
14,020
348
46
43. Idaho
588,637
une 30
82
13,277
333
46
44. Wyomin g
290,529
une 30
11,461
50
355
78
45. New Mexico
681,187
an. 1
61
11,144
486
32
46. Arizona
749.587
an. 1
43
8,837
354
24
47. Delawar e
318,085 June 24
23
6.984
123
44
48. Utah
688,862
an. 1
28
5,963
156
18
i9. Nevada
160,023 Apr. 15
27
4.576
83
58
Total for United States 150,697,291
15.497
3,695,668
91,892
50

r!'"'

r

r,

FINA NCIA L STAT ISTIC S 1951
Jurisdiction
Net Worth
Alabama
$ 1,851,730.07
557,119.92
Arizona
480,390.17
Arkansa s
9,644,728.28
California
Colorado
80,007.50
3,123,500.79
Connecticut
600.176.81
Delawar e
Dist. of Columbia
965,828.24
1,709,878.91
Florida
855,229. 17
Georgia
304.291.76
Idaho
4,249.314.98
11linois
1.583,936.45
Indiana
2.330.606.94
Iowa
2,669,213.89
Kansas
677,014.87
Kentucky
2,109.545.72
Louisiana
506.330.75
Maine
4,737,042.43
Marylan d
6,852,772.75
Massachusetts
1.824 ,632.12
Michigan
2.845,770.80
Minnesota
1.203,336.74
Mississippi
2,653,402.28
Missouri
684,153.56
Montan a
737.057.51
Nebrask a
40,171.37
Nevada
103,567.80
New Hampshire
6,611.714.09
NewJ,J sey
254.250.41
New exlco.
14 ,098,560.86
New York
877.188.59
North Carolina
307.028.12
North Dakota
5.765,896.30
Ohio
2,361.562.23
Oklahoma
2.526,943.89
Oregon
25,699.595.48
l:'ennsylvanla
65,287.77
Rhode.Island
248.553.77
South Carolina
418,845.79
South Dakota
1,631.405.69
Tennessee
6,726,185.67
Texas
77.546.73
Utah
206,300.41
Vermon t
1.141.204.11
Virginia
2,053,000.14
Washin gton
1.069,300.35
West Virginia
2,048.478.52
Wiscons in
155,718.06
Wyomin g
$130,307,319.46
Total

End of
Fiscal Year

Expenditures
on homes

569
Member
per capita
Total
expendi·
el all
expenditures lure

$125,495.22 $1.95
. 29.370.13 3.32
102,731.02 1.93
613.229.22 3.02
67,336.71 1.36
338,336.97 7.91
59,125.82 8.49
184.436.62 7.35
160,877.28 3.28
286,939.82 3.45
43,375.85 3.24
515,855.69 2.04
497.444.01 2.95
254,726.15 2.74
234,290.90 2.54
299.571.88 3.51
142,163.67 3.40
.64
29.211.51
295,976.33 6.99
571,500.41 4.79
639.895.59 3.99
248,147.12 3.95
102,027.36 2.40
356,068.29 3.07
138,968.91 5.74
126,697.23 2.88
8,375.91 1.91
79.529.69 5.00
365,728.30 3.84
29,296.87 2.62
1,570,439.95 5.32
138,493.13 2.85
22,969.23 1.63
814,220.33 3.12
715,109.72
7/31/51
205,364.56 2.67
101.806.50
12/31/5 0
189.086.53 5.30
138.856.93
11/31/5 0
1.175,301.46 5.00
736,105.13
11/15/5 1
43,217.77 2.40
4/31/51
116,115.82 2.66
12/31/5 0
58.170.54 3.05
4/30/51
131.051.19 1.84
56,532.62
1/ 3/52
530,488.77 2.65
426,338.11
8/31/50
9.321.81 1.56
12/31/5 0
42.740.98 2.23
6/30/51
196,843.84 3.34
86,607.52
12/31/5 0
288.228.39 3.59
210,301.31
5/30/51
85.962.08 2.00
59,516.85
8/31/51
198.741.10 3.15
142.285.95
4/30/51
25,703.16 2.24
8/10/51
$7.845.392.54 $12.875.153:20 $3.41
Average per capita expenditure by Grand
Jurisdictions operating Homes....---·- $3.73
For those not operating Homes............ $2.22

9/30/51 $ 89,706.95
3/31/51
46,428.11
9/30/51
473,842.32
7/31/51
1/22/52
294,270.25
2/28/51
49,474.02
8/31/51
49,978.20
12/ 1/51
109,394.98
3/31/51
164,261.41
6/30/51
8/31/51
358,000.00
9/15/51
397,789.68
4/15/51
63,334.41
5/15/51
178,349.09
1/26/51
172,657.75
9/30/51
65,903.71
12/31/4 9
3/31/51
188,966.74
10/31/51
255,099.06
8/31/51
360,527.72
4/30/51
133.865.38
12/31/51
42,402.72
1/31/51
306,904.93
9/10/51
70.500.19
6/30/51
82.758.00
5/10/51
6/ 1/51
48,278.02
5/10/51
306,143.44
12/31/5 0
12/31/5 1
806.494.81
2/28/51
66,600.00
12/31/4 9

INDE X FOR 1952 ·
A

Page
Addition of Section 150 (a)
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purpoe es.._-- -··-···-- ··- .308
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence and AdoptiCID-----·-···-··----·-·····-···· 327
Additional Lodges
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.-,-·-··---·---···--·- 315
·-·-···- -··----· ·--40, 326
Advancement, Objection to
Advancement of Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft Previously Suspended...-...29, 326
Amendment of Section 26
----·- 318
..
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes
·-- 318
--····---·---ce---ruden
Jurisp
on
Committee
of
Report
Amendment of Section 53-9th
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.·----·--··--·-··-- 305
Amendment of Section 69
318
Report of Committee on Policy and General
- - · · · - · · - - - - 318
Report of Committee on Jurtsprucknc
.
Amendment of Secdaa. 70
26
--011g..
111t.D
RuuoB
Master'•
Grand
__ ------- ------____
.:____
Adopted...
Legislatlon
- · · - - - · - -·-- - - 331
Amendment of Section 124
Report of Committee on Jartaprudenc:e_______ _______ _____..- ·---··· 330
Amendment of Section 127
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purpoaes...·-·-·-···-···-·-----320• 321
Amendment of Section 158
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence and Adoptlo a..-·····-· ---···--··· ·----· 329
Amendment of Section 202
Report of Gommittee on Policy and General Purpos es.-···-· ·-·---··· -·-- 303
Amendment of Section 290
316
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purpose s·---·-·-· ·-······-·· ---- 316
Report of Committee on Jurispr udence .-..--.-·- ··----···- ···
Amendment ef Section 349
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purpose s..·-···-· --·-··-·-- ·- 318
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.______._ -·--··· ·-·--·- --·-- 318
Amendment of Section 666
303
Report of Committee on Policy and General
332
·
·
.
.
:
nce
Jurisprude
on
Report of Committee
Amendments to By-Laws
94
-·---- --·-··- --··-·· ••
Ltst of
Approval o f - - - - - - - -···- - - · · - · · - - - - · - - - · - - - - - - 243
Anderson. Leo E.
Address on George Wuhlng toni.-.-- --··- - · - - - - - - - -.- - · - - 186
_ _ _ _ 349
Annual Returns
_ _ _ _ _ _ 417
·----Audit
Details by~--··-----·--·
Appendix
429
General ··--· - - - · - · - - - - 347
Special ----·--- ·-·--···- -·--·--·
---36, 329
Application to Prttequlsl te Bodies....-···-··--·---··· ___
344
Appointment of Grand Lodge Officers. ._...______
36. 329
Appointment of Trial Master- ·----·
340
.
Appropriations, Listing of _
1CXJB
-·----__···Lodge
Grand
of
n
Argentina, Recognitio
Assets Listed
Endowment Fund - - - · · - · · - - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - 367
356
Grand Lodge · · - Masonic Homes -·----·-·----~--------- 376

Purposes-··-----·---·---·-

Purposes.·-··----··----

572

INDEX

Page
Auditors Reports
Annual Returns ...................................................................................................................... 349
Grand Lodge ···························································································································· 350
Endowment Fund ·················································································································· 365
Masonic Homes ...................................................................................................................... 374

B
Barkeeper Ineligible............................................................................................................... .37, 326
Bar Owner lneligible ..............................................................................................................38, 331
Bartending by Mason ............................................................................................................30, 326
Belcher, Frank B.
Retirement From Grievance Committee............................................................................ 233
Resolution Presented in Appreciation for Services of.................................................... 233
Belmont Shore Lodge
Instituted .................................................................................................................................. 89
Charter Issued ........................................................................................................................ 242
Board of Control Report.. .......................................................................................................... 139
Breakfasts, Grand Master's........................................................................................................ 18
Budget Adopted .......................................................................................................................... 340
Budget for 1952"53 .................................................................................................................... 348
By-Laws
Amendments to ..................................................................................................................94, 244
Report of Committee on........................................................................................................ 243

c
Cemetery, Joint Conduct of.................................................................................................. 31, 326
Centennial Books ........................................................................................................................ 87
Centennial
Ceremonies Celebrations
Performed ·······································································································-··· 17
Constitutions ............................................................................................................................ 16
Institutions ...............................•................................................................................................ 16
Cornerstones ............................................................................................................................ 16
Dedications .............................................................................................................................. 17
Memorial Services .................................................................................................................. 20
Ceremonies, Special Committee on, Continued.................................................................... 332
Certification of Proceedings.................................................................................................. 3
Chain Letters
Message of Grand Master...................................................................................................... 24
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.................................................. 312
Change of Meeting Places, Resolutions Approved.............................................................. 95

§~~hti~~:
~~:~~~~t'.~--~-~~'.~~-~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Club Houses
List of Directors .................................................................................................................... 436

~rt!ig~;~gf;=?:: ~ =- = -~ ~ : ~~ :;:: ~!

Committees of Grand Lodge
Constitutional Boards ............................................................................................................ 436

~fae~~~~~c~:~~~!e~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g
Committee on Lodge Financing, Increased Membership.................................................... 26
::::ompensation of lnspectors ..................................................................................................29, 326
Compensation Insurance
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ................................................ ·303

~~~~~~~~~~~~I~:~-::~::==::~~2j:~=:~~-~~~ ig

573

INDEX

Page
507

Constituent Lodges

~~!=~i~~fali;is_~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::

..
478
Contributions to Endowment Fund
136
Honor Roll .............................................................................................................................. 132
Memorials .......................................................................................... ···················-----···--·-······· 134

Co~~~E~~~~~;;;::

:!!

: : : : : ::= : := ::

Correspondence, Report of Committee on ......... :····································································
Cortini, Publio, Grand Treasurer of Grand Onente of Italy
325
Received and Addressed Grand Lodge .........................................................................23" 307

~!.~~~~~J~;~~;.i~~;::=: : ~~ ~ ~ - =· m
D
25

g::~k ~~ ~~~~~d~dd ~:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::30: 326

Decisions of Grand Master
See Recommendations and Rulings
Decoto Special Fund

383

ti~~i~f·c~~t-~ii;-~;1~-;;;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 416

304
Dedication of Public School Buildings
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..................................................
Dedication of Temples................................................................................................................ 257
17
DeForest, Gilbert C., Eulogy of...................................................................................... jg. 326
Degrees, Special Meetings for............................................................................................ •
DsMolay ~hapr

.................................................. 33 , 326

m~t{~~~~r~~'~{~:==~~=~I~::·~ ~:~:~ :~ ~ ~~~[: !!I

Dimitted Mason May Apply for Degrees......................................................................
Discussions of Public Questions

•

40

g~=~~ ~=~~:~:~ :~H;~-·A:j;j;;~~~ci:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~f~
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..................................................

rn~;~~~~~~:s j\;:fr~e:~ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~3g
2

Dispensation for New Lodge . .
39
Approximate Number of P~bboners ............................................................................ ::··:: 326
Report of Committee on Junsprudence........................................................................ ··
93

81~r:~~~~f=~ g~=:~. -~ ~ i:~ : :~i: : ~: : : : : : : :-: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :~ : 3~g
Donations to Masonic Homes

405 410

~~~~~~;~~ ~;~; ~-~;~ -~-~~~~;~-~ ~~;~~~;-~~;~-~~ ·:;
Message of Grand Master.....................,................................

428

~~l: ~~E~ri~7i~= ~~-~~ ~-~~~~~~-=:~~:=:~~~~~~:~?~~i.~: m

574

Page

E

Earthquake Damage
Report of Committee
Legislation Introduced .
·
Report of Committee on Poll~y··~d'Ge~-;;j··n..__::.:--·
-·-···-··-·-·-....55, 78, 287
79
4
Report of Committee on PIDaoc:e.
. . . .l""""s· ··-·····-- ········-- -··---311
Grand Master's Reference
-····-· -··--- ---··- ·--···- -···Elect~d Grand Lodge Offli.:er~··5b;~;·o;9•u;;~···········-···· ·-···-··-·-·-·· - · - 337
22
Election of Grand Lodge Officers-.............
- - - - · · - · · · - - - · - - - 493
Endowment Fund for Lodge·
Assistant
··········································
····-························ 343
E Report of Committee on Policy and General p
Engdahl, Theodore N., Past Grand Master of ~J:ljk-·~·-·--·
·-·-·--- 310
ntered Apprentice, Advancement of One Previous!
ota, deed.. ceived ___ 80
tero Lodge
Y uspen
----··· --.29• 326
Es
Instituted - - - - - ·
90
Dispens
ation Continued· · - - - · - - · ·
Eulogies
- - - - - - · - 243
·-----Ralph H. Logsdon
James Leo Ward - - - - - - - ·
250
Earl Thaxter
252
Frank Graves Falloon 252
Jay A. Powers
253
Gilbert C. De Forest, P. G. M-·- ---·
255
Randolph Virginlus Whiting , P:""°G:-M°----·
-----· 257
John Stewart Ross. P. G. M.. _
------·--··
259
Expulsion of Sexual Psycop atb_ ----- ·---·-·-· ----- --·-· -- 261
326

S

---=----

575

INDEX

INDEX

-- -

--·. ·--·· --·- ---- ---- -35 ·
F

Falloon, Frank Graves, Eulogy
Fees Charged by Lodge s..___of__
___ - - - - - - - - - - - 253
FFellow Craft, Advancement of One Prevtously-S-·-~-·······--··--- 428
~11on, One Convicted of lnellglble
uspe
..29, 326
Fidelity Bonds
·---·-------35, 326
Report
of
Commit
tee on
onFinlulce
Policy .and General o . . eport of Committee
'" ... _...._ ____
R
303
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence
333
Fihy Year Buttons, Reception of
332
Finance, Report of Committee
98
Financial Reports
·
-- - · - - - - - 333
· Grand Lodge
---·Masonic Homes
- - - 350
Endowment Fund
374
Foreign Grand Lodges
- - · - 365
Forfeiture of Candidates
502
Forfeiture of Fees, Interpretation.....'ff, 328
France, Recognition of Grand Lodge ·
326
301

on- ·--· ---- --·-- -·-· ---

pees -:_-- --·-·- ---- ---· ··--- -·--- ---» .
G

General Appendix · - - - - G:°rge Washington and Masonry__ -:-.:___
- - · · - 429
Gorge Washington Masonic National MemoriaI R
·-···-· ·-··- 186
00
Germany, Recognition of United Grand Lod
• eport - - · · · · - · - · · · - · - 194
Grand Lecturer
g e - - · - - · ···- · - - · -·- · - · · 301
Report
Electionofof~-----104
Death of von Konsky
3+t
Appointment of Davis .
JtS
Grand Lodge of Italy
Jf5
Grand Lodge Officers
lOZ
In A t t e n d a n c e - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- 7

____,__....____
·--- ---- ---· -··_-_--_·_··_··-_·:. _·-=·-·-- -

Page
Grand Lodge Officers, Elected Since Orga niza tion- -----···-- - 493
Grand Lodge Sessions
Monday M o r n i n g - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- 7
Monday Afternoon
80
Tuesday Morning
177
Tuesday Afternoon
- - - 234
Wednesday _Morning
247
Thursda y Morning
273
Thursda y Afternoon
..
310
Friday ¥oming --·-·
324
Grand Lodges, Foreign ---·- ···
- - - · - - · - - - - 502
Grand Master's Message {Sec Message of Grand Master)
- - - 16
Grand Oration -··
108
Grand Secretary, Report of - - 87
Grand Treasurer, Report of --··---· ·
80
Grave Markers for Past Grand Masters...
__,__20 , 306
Grice, Rev. Thomas, Grand Chaplain
Devotional Services
9
Grievances, Report of Committee o n - - 212
Guests Received __, . : _ _ _ _ _

80

H

Hankerson, Asa H., Past Grand Master of Washington
Received
--·
_ _ 80
Addressed Grand Lodge ..-.248
Hawaiian Courtesy [)egr eea.. .-23, 307
Hawaiian Trip, Grand M a s t e r ' s . . . - - - - - - - .
- - - - - 19
Hine, Ralph C., Grand Oratioo
108
Home Lodge
Instituted - - - - - - - - - 91
Dispensation Continued -·-····
243
Honorable Mention, Endowment Fund ·
136
Honor Roll Recog~tlon
Seaside Lodge No. 504. Request for Recognition
_ _ 72
Granted Recognition
185
Revised Prbeedure For
185
Hoole, George D .• Grand Master of Montana
Received 80
Addressed Grand Lodge
- ·- - - - - - ·- 246
The House of Life (Devotional
9

Service)---------------I

Inspectors Listed
499
lnterjuriadictional VlsitatiODI of Grand Master
20
Interpretation of Section 127- - - 75
Investment Committee, Report of
82
Investment of Life-Memberlhip Funds
.....31, 326
Investment, Tabulation of
&t, 85
Irregula r Lodges May Not be Qar tere d.-- 33
Israel, Recognition of Grand Lodge
• 301
Italy, Recognition of Grand Lodsle
Unllnished Business - · - - - - - - - - - - · - - - - - - - 88
Report of Committee on Policy and General
302

~

int

J

Purposes---·----··-

CelllleterY----------------.-.L

Conduct of
326
udge Advocate -··-·
26
urlsprudence, Report of Committee
326
eport of Committee on Policy and General Purpose...
• - - - - - · - - - - 304

on.. ---K

Wbi.U11111----------.;..------

Keesling, Francis V., P. G. M.
Eulogy for P. G. M.

259

576

INDEX

577

INDEX

Page

L
La Habra Lodge, Transf~r of RemJttance_···············--······-····-······-··... __ :••..___,_87,. 302
Lassen Burial Site
__..........._ 296
. ·_
Report of Committee on..,.-·--·---··--·-····-·~---·--Lease of Columbia Temple...-:......,....- .•-·----·····--····-·---·-_;..______..;... 324
Lease for Off-Sale Liquor Store...................- .............................- ...- ........._. ____26. 326
Lee, Alfred, Past Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge of China, Received........:.........~..... 80
Legislation Proposed
Additional Lodges
Proposed -················-··-····-···········--········-·-·-······---··················-·-:•···-·'·············:.-.. 73
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..•____ ;.~·-··---····-·-········· 315
Amendment of Section 26
Proposed .........................................:.............................;...... _ ..............-............................ 58
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.....:..................c•••• .:......... ,.... 318
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence..................'···----·····-'····-'····-····:...- .......:..~. · 318
·
Amendment of Section 53-9th
Proposed ·--·-··-·-·······-········-'····--····'··'··········-··········-······-'·--······.:................;.-.... 74
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.~..:.·-····--·····--·-·····--·· 305
·
Amendment of Section 69 ·
Proposed -··-·--···-············-·································-··-····-·····-·····-----·-··-····-·····--··· 58
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes......................·--·········;........ 318
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.............;...........:............................~.:.. ............::..: 318
·
Amendment of Section 70
Grand Master's Ruling..................·--·-····-···'··-·-·-·--·····.:.···'·····--·:...........;.....:..:..:. 26
Legislation Adopted ........:,..·-·-·····-·-'·-····'-·--····-··-·..:-..:. .........- ....•.:.........:..... 331
Amendment of Section 124
. _ 37
Proposed 1(!c Grand Master·--·---·--·----~..:...........:.........__..;:____
Report of ommittee on Jurisprudence.........................................................:............... 330
·
Amendment of Section 127
Proposed --~··-··-·-···--·-·--·······----··--·-·;.··--·----·-····-56• 75, 76
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purp<>ses....................................320, 321
Addition of Section 150 (a)
Report of Committee on Policy and General Plirpmes__ ··--·--··--·····--·-...:.... 308
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence and Adoption....:......... _._..:. .... ;::.-.......·-··· 327
·
·
·
Amendment of Section 158
R•port of Committee on Jurisprudence and Adoption..~·········-·-·-····;;._·'--·····-·· 329
Amendment of Section 202 ·
Proposed ...................,..................................................................:....................................... 75
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.....:............................;........... 303
Amendment of Section 290
Proposed -·-·-··-·····-·-··-········-····----···--····- -···-----··---···-··--···-·--·-..M·- 58
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..- .............-:...:..............;.. 316
· ..........:.......:..:.:.......... 316
Report of Committee on -Jurisprudence........:...................................
· ·
·
Amendment of Section 349
58
Proposed ···---····--·-·---·--··-···-··············-·· -····-··--······-·····-·-··-·····-·:........ 318
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes......::;...........;..................:.._
318
.......
___
:
..
~;
.:..:.-..
...........
_.:
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence.....................
·
·
· ·
Amendment of Section 666
Proposed --·--····-·---···-······-·-·-·-··---'····- ····-·--··--·:................... ..:...:........-... 88
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes........~..:...:..........;...:.:..~......:.._. 303
on Jurisprudence..·-·-·····-···-······--··············.:.......h.:..~-·-····· 332
. Report of Committee
·
Belcher, Frank B.
Retirement from Grievance Committee.............._____·--·-·-··-·--····----·--· 233
ResoLelution Presented in Appreciation for Services of•..------···--·--·-·· 233
·
C hain tters
Message of Grand Master.......:..·-············---··--·······-·----··-··· ··:.......·___.:_ 24
Report of Committee on Policy and Generaf P~es.. .....·-····-·····-----..:..:....... 312
·
Compensation Insurance
Grand Secretary's Recommendation............-········--·-·-······--····-·-·-············-··- · 88
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.....................................·-·-' 303
Report of Committee on Finance................,..,.•.,........_ . -·---·-·------·-·~ 333

Page
Dedication of Public School Buildings
Proposed ·············-····························-····················-··········..·······--··········--···--··---- 63
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.....•.·--·--·-····-·-·-···~· 304
Discussion of Public Questions
Grand Master's Ruling ······-·---··-..-··-··-.. .,····-··-·-······-·········-------········-·· ....• 40
Grand Master's Ruling Approv ed ..........·-········ -····-····-·-·-··· ...·-···- - · - · - 331
Proposed Legislation ·········································································-····-·--....---.- 71
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes............................~--·-···~ 319
Legislation Postponed ···-·-·-···-........ -····••w••.. •••m--·····-······"····-----···..·--·- 320
Endowment Fund for Lodge Assistance
65
Proposed ···-···-·····················-······················································-·······················-·--- 310
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes............- .............- ..... ~
.
Fidelity Bonds
Grand Secretary's Recommendation............................................................ _ _ _ 88
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..............-................................... 303
Report of Committee on Finen(.e .... .........................-............. ... . ·-···--·· ----······--·-· 333.
Report of Committee on JuriS.ptudence..~ . -..,...... ._.......... -.......... ......-..........___ 332
Honor Roll Recognition
72
Seaside Lodge No. 504, Request for Reeognition..-.................... _ ..___ .. * 11 1 Granted Recognitioo ···-··-·--········-·-··--·----··-·········· ·····-···----........._... 185
Revised Procedure For ..........................................................................................._ _ 185
Mandatory Proficiency
Proposed .....- .....................·--····...................................................................... , ............ 62
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence and on Ritual............................._ _ , 316
332
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence............................,.......................... '"'
Legislation Postponed --···························-·············:··············-·····················-·-·~-- 332
Maricopa Lodge
Proposed ···-····-······-············································---········································•··-··-·- 79
337
Report of Committee on Finance.......................................·-···-·--·-Mileage for Lodge Maui
59
Proposed ···--·--·-·-····-·-······················································································--·-· 312
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes............................ _,._!11!
Mileage for Secretaries
63
Proposed --·····-·-····-··-·······:................................................................................,.. _
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.................................._........ 313
Minimum Dues
60
Proposed ·····-·-··-····-············-··················································································--.- 313
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.....................·-·····-~
New Section on Publications
Proposed ············-·········--········-················-··············································-········-'.·····- 76
Report of C.Ommittee on Policy and General Purposes...................- ...............:.320, 324
330
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·-····-·--·---·-·-··..·-·----·
Plural Membership
Proposed ············-·-·--·················-······················································-·--·········---- 69
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence........................................-----,...-- 318
., 329
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence................................- · · - - - Legislation Postponed ........................... .. ..... . .. . ... . ......... - ....................... ·--·· 329
.
Portrait of Past Grand Master H yam
Proposed ---·---·-·--·······-·-···················· ······················--·-·-···~-····-·--·-·- 66
Report of Committee on. Policy and General Purposes....................·-··-··-·-····- 307
Report of Committee on Finance..................:.................................................................- 336
Recognition of the Grand Lodge of Italy
Proposed ··-··-····-········-····························-······························-·-··········-·········--······-·- 53

*' ••

R!~~f~fs~tk,--;50·1·-·-··················································-····-·······-----·-··-··-··-·····

302

Proposed --·--··-···························:............. :.........................·-···-···································· 61
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.............................................. 30i
Research Lodges
54
Proposed --·-·····--··-················-····-·······················-················-······························· 308
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..............................................
Report of Committtt on Jurisprudence.......................................................................... 326
Report of Committee oo Charters..................................................................................:.. 332

578

INDEX

INDEX

Revision of Section 99

Proposed ·-·-·--········-··················-················-···············-············································ 71
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes................................·-·-··-- 305
Revision of Section 255
Proposed ··-·---·-·-·----······-·------····-························-································ 70
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes....................................... ____ 305
Sign of Distress
Proposed ········-···················································································································· 64
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.............................".........·-····· 314
Tax Exemption
Proposed .............................................................................................................................. 66
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.......................................... _. 307
.
Tehachapi Temple
. -···-··-·-·--··--·······-····-······················---···········SS, 78
Resolution Presented -····Report of Committee on Polley and General Purposes. ......................................._ 311
Grand Master's Report -·······--·--'·-··--'·-·--·······-········································- 22
on Pinance..._...--.-··----········-·-·-········-········-·-- 337
of Committee
ReportMethod
of
Voting,
58
Proposed -·--·-····--··-····-············-·················-··--··············································Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes................................·-·········- 318
Report of Committee on Jurisp~ence....-·-··········"'··-········-······························-······: 318
Sections 26, 69 and 349 Amended.--...............:..............................................................: 319
Life-Membership Funds, Investment of........·-··-··························-······-····················--;.31, 326
Life Membership Resolutions

ut~~~~~~e::i~;::: ~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : '.: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~ :~~

579
Page

Page

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund-( Continued)
Report of Endowment Board --·--·--········-···································································· 132
Testamentary Gifts -·--··-·--·············-·-················-·····································--···-····· 134
Masonic Homes of California
Auditors Report on Accounts ···---········-···············-······································-·················· 374
Contributions to Entertainment Fund ······-·--·-··-·-····-·····-···········-···············405• 410
Contributions to Special Funds --·········-·-········-························································· 416

t~; ~{~!~~~~~~~?.~::~~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : !~~

Report of Superintendent--Covina ·······-····-·····················-·············································· 126
Report of Superintendent-Decato·······-··········································································· 122
Report of Trustees ·············-····-·············-······--·············································.···················· 117
Masonic Information, Report of Committee on.........·-·······························--·-·········-···-· 295
Masonic Temple Association, Report oL---·--····-······---'-----·---- 291
Membership

M~:!1ss~~~:~--~~:.-~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Memorial Services for Past Grand Masters........................·················--··-···-·················~· 20
Memorial Temple
Report of Committee on Finance.........•. ·-··········-···················--··-···-·---······~·- 337
Report of Special Committee_·-······································-········-·····-·-····--····:··-··-·- 297
Memorials, Endowment Fund .................................................................................................. 135
ti::SS:~:sof h~~:3~:~:!ons ···-·····················-····························-········---·-···························· 53

with A. C. Malone, Report of ······················································-··············-··- 325
Litigation
Lodge Financing, Committee on
Membership Increased -----··············--···············--·-·--····-···-·-···'-·-26• 308
Amendment of Section 70_ _ _ _ _ :........ -·············-········-·······-··-····-····-··--·- 331
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee on. ...........·-····--······-·······-·····-·-·····-···-····:...... 234
Lodges Chartered ···-·-···-·····-·-·-·-··-··-········································-····························-·····- 242

~~:~~~~..:::::::::::~::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::~i6: ~~
r:~::
Lodges Listed

~:~~:~;~~~::~~: : ~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~ =: : : : : : : : : i~i

Logsdon, Ralph H., Eulogy of_·····-·········'""-·····-·:.......~··········-·-·-·····-··-··-············-·-···- 250

M
Mandatory Proficiency
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence and on Ritual............-······-···········-···- 316
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence..·-··········-······-········-··--····-···················-··-·-- 332
Postponed ··-····--···-·-·-·--··-·--·-·-·--··-··-··--···-·······-··--·-- 332
Legislation
Lodge
Maricopa
Report of Committee on Finance..·--·--·-·---·-··--··--·-·-··- 337
Mason May Not Attend Bar.·-··--····--··-·-·:.....;...-·--·-······-··--·-·······-...36. 326
Masonic Clothing ··-···-·-·-··-··-·--···----··--·········--··-·--·~--···---···-·········--11. 330
Masonic Club

~~;:~~ebir!~::~.::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= ~~t

Los A~eles-Report ·······-·---··-·--·-·--··-···················:··························-··-········-· 274
Masonic istory, Report of Committee on.·-·····--····--····---·-····-······-····---·- 182
Masonic Homes Endowment Board Report._··--·---·---·-·--···-··-·-·-··-·-·-:_ 132
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
Auditors Report -······-···············-·-·····································- - - - - · - - · · - · ·· --· 365
Bequests Listed ·--············-·-·······-·········-··············-··-····~····---·-·····--·--···- 134
Contributions Listed ···-·-----···--····-·-··--·····---·------136; 388
Honor Roll ···--··-····--······--···········--··--···-~---·-·-··-······---·-·-·--- 136
Memorials Listed ···-····-····-········--·-·-··-···········--··--·-··-·--·-·-- 135

Mileage for Lodge Maui
Report of Committee on Polley and General Purposes....·-······-················-······-········· 312
·
Mileage for Secretaries
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.·-·-·······-·-·············-····-········- 313
Mileage Payments -···-···········-··-···-·················-·················-···························-·-···········-···--· 438
Mineral King Lodge

~~~~tl;~·~ntl;~~d·::=:::::::::::::::::::::=::::=:::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~j

Minimum Dues
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.·-·-·····-··-····-···-··-··.:...._;_ 313
Moore, John R.. P. G. M .. Eulogy for P. G. M. Ross.·-·····--·········-··················-···---· 261
U, 336
Morton Estate Bequest --··-·-·-···-·--·-·-···--·--·······--··---.-:-·-

N
Necrology, Report of Committee on.........·--···················-···--····-··----.'-··-- 249
.
New Lodges
242
Chartered ················-····················································-·····--······--···--·-·········---16
'
.
Constituted --··-··-····-·············--······--·····-·······-······-···---·-·--:---·--:---.,. 8
9
l~
_
•
Instituted - · - - - - ·-·--·-···-···-·--·-···-·-···---··
.
·
lew Section ao Publlcatlcos
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes._······-··-····-··-···-·······-··..320, 324
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence..--·-··-··--···--··----··--···---- 330

580

INDEX

INDEX

Page
17

New Temple Dedicated ............................................................................................ .
Northern California Research Lodge

~~~i;~t:e~ :::::::::::·.·.·::::::::::::·::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::·::.·_·::::::::::·.···.·:::::::::·.:············· 3~~

Number of Petitioners for Dispensation of New Lodges ..........................................39, 326
Number of Residents at Homes ............................................................................................... 415

0
Objection to Advancement.. ............................................................................................... 40, 326
Officers

:!~t~J~~~~~-~ :~ ~:;~;;~:'.:; ;;~; ;~~: ~l
~Sale Liquor Store, Lease for ................................................................................ 26, 324.

:

~;;~(~~~~~~f,::-:

326

:~i~d~

p
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389

~=~~~ ~: E~~:i~~~~e ·~;;··Fi;;~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Past Grand Masters
In Attendance ........................................................................................................................

8

P.~~~&,~~~;: t:=_;EJt 2-~~-_tJE_(;~ ;_i-/?~ J

Paulsen. Arthur M .• P.G.M., Eulogy for P.G.M. DeForest... ......................................... 257
Payment of Dues .................................................................................................................... 38, 326
Pay of Members

l~if~~~~~.~~~~~~ :~--;
Pierce, Seymoure C., Grand Master of Arizona

:;-: ~

~dde;~s~~ci··c;;~~X"I:;;dg~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Plural Membership
Referted to Committee on Jurisprudence .......................................................................... 318
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence .............................................................................. 329
Legislation Postponed .......................................................................................................... 329
Policy and General Purposes, Report of Committee on..................................................300A
Portrait of Past Grand Master Hyam
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes .................................................. 307
Report of Committee on Finance....,................................................................................... 336
Powers, Jay A .• Eulogy of........................................................................................................ 255
Prerequisite Bodies, Application to ............................................................................... .36, 329
Proudfoot, Harry D., Past Grand Master of Oregon
Received .................................................................................................................................. 80
Addressed Grand Lodge ........................................................................................................ 246
Public Christmas Tree, Sponsoring of... .........................................................................29, 326
Public Schools Week, Expense..........................................................................................34, 326

581

Page
Public Schools Week, Report of Observance ...................................................................... 147
Publications
Grand Master's Reference to .............................................................................................. 43
Correspondence Relating to .......................................................................................... 44, 47

P~~~~l~~i~n ~~~;~~~dt~ ..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::56:··5-:;;··75: ~~

Report of Committee on ........................................................................................................ 195
Recommendations and Rulings ·······-···········-········---··--···········-·········---···········----················-· 41
Purchase of by Lodges.......................................................................................................... 28
New Section on Publications, Resolutions Presented on................................................ 76
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ........................................ 320, 324
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence ........................................................................ 330, 326
Publtshing Lodge Information ··-········-····-·····································---·······-·············-···········28, 326
Purchase of Publications by Lodges ..................................................................................28, 326

R
Recognition of Grand Lodges
General Report ...................................................................................................................... 300A
Italy ······························································-----·-··············---·······-----······---··········-----······-····· 302
Israel ·····-···-··········-·······························--·········································-·--·····-··-···················-······· 301
France ····································-·····················-·------···--···---····-··------·-··--··---··············-·---·········· 30 I
Germany ····························-······-···············--·······----·-····--······-················-····························-··-·· 301
Argentina ·········································-··········-···············-·······--·-···············-···············-···············---300B
Rio de Janeiro .......................................................................................................................... 3008
Recognized Grand Lodges ·········································--·······-·-·····················--················-··········· 502
Recommendations of Grand Master (See Recommendations and Rdings)
Recommendations and Rulings
I. Overgrown Lodges ........................................................................................................ 25
2. Judge Advocate ··································-·-·--····---·--·---·········--··-----·······················-··----········ 26
3. Lodge Financing Committee ···························-------··-·····-········--·-···················--····--······ 26
4. Lease for "Off Sale" Liquor Stores.............................................................................. 26
5. Forfeiture of Fees, lnterpret2tion................................................................................ 27
6. Purchase of Publications by Lodges............................................................................ 28
7. Publishing Lodge Information ·····--·--·-····------··············································-·············-··· 28
8. Advancement of E. A. or F. C. Previously Suspended.......................................... 29
9. Sponsoring a Public Christmas Tree.......................................................................... 29
10. Limitation of Lodge Expenditures................................................................................ 29
DeMolay, Use of Lodge Funds for............................................................................ 29
11. Refund of Unearned Dues.............................................................................................. 29
12. Compensation of Inspectors .......................................................................................... 29
13. Salary of Organist ········--··-····-···························-····································-·············--········ 30

}~: ~~~\hn~if§u~~e~d~dM~~b~;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g

16. Investment of Life Membership Funds........................................................................
17. Joint Conduct of Cemetery ····································-·········-·----····················--················
18. Rejection of Application ·····································--·························--·--······---·-················
19. Stated Meeting in Public Schools Week....................................................................
20. Irregular Lodges May Not be Chartered..................................................................
21. Dimitted Mason may Apply for Degrees..................................................................
22. Trial of Sexual Psycopath ··················································-··············--·················-·····-·
23. Sponsoring of DeMolay Chapter................................................................................
24. Returning Fee After Rejection......................................................................................
25. Public Schools Week Expense .......................... --·······----·---·-··-··-··················---·-·-·······
26. Saloon Business Prohibited ··············-·················-·······················-·-··-····························
27. Forfeiture of Candidates Fees......................................................................................
28. Completion of Second Degree......................................................................................
29. Automatic Expulsion of Sexual Psycopath .................. -----·········-····-··----···---····-·········
30. Convicted Felon Ineligible ·····································-·················-··········------·--·-·-·--··········
31. Twelve Months Waiting Period..................................................................................
32. Appointment of Trial Master......................................................................................
33. Mason May Not Attend Bar..........................................................................................
34. Refusal to Conform ........................................................................................................

31
31
32
33
33
33
33
33
34
34
34
35
35
35
35
36
36
36
37

582

INDEX

Recommendations and Rulings-( Continued )

Page

lf

---------------Research Lodges-(C ontinued)
16
54
Grand Master's Reference to -----------------------············································· ·······
························----------------------------- 308
Resolutions Presented --------------------------------------------------·····
Re ort of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.................................................. 2

lH£~~ ~£~~~;; =
1

38. Payment of Dues -----------------------···················-··--------------·················································
39. Special Meetings for Degrees...................................................................... .................
for Dispensation........................................................... .......
40. Number of Petitioners
0
0

38
38
39

44. Publications ------------------------······························································································

41

g~i~~~~::~ A~~a ~cse;;;~~;:·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~6
!l
43. Discussion of Political Questions........................................................ ................... 40

~~gf.{~fffi:;~f,~~~'.~~- -i :_= =~- ~:- ~~ ~ _~-- ~: fB

Repeal of Section 501
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes .................................................. 304
Report of Committees
Board of Control ···-··············································--------------···················································· 139
By-Laws -----------------------··········································································································· 243
Charters --------·-·························································································································· 242

l~~~ ~--~~~-'.~~~~-i~~-.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~n
2~~~~~~n
DeMolay ·································································································································· 294
~~d~~:e~~ ~~~:Je_ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: f~~
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: iii
g:i~~~en~a~~~-~~~-~-~-~-~~-~~-i-~-~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
····························································-····· 326
1

~#,~[L~:1~ ~ '.~ t~ -~ -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : h~

177
Research Lodges
Report of Special Committee -------------------------------------------------------·-------------------------············· 399
Residents of Masonic Homes
Deco to ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ·············-···-··············--·-······-······· 408
.
Covina .....................................................................................................................................

Resolutions Presented

:

ti:~~~g~~oo;~d-~~-~-~-~'.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
62
63
63

64

65
66
66
69
70
71
71
72
73
74
75
75
76

Jl

Masonic Temple Association ······························································································ 291

~~~
:::::::::::::::::·· 247
::::::::::::::::::···················
::::::::::::::::::···················
::::::::::::::::::···················
::::::::::::::::::··-················
::::::::::::::::::···················
~-~~:..~~--:::::::···················
~::::~c~~Members

Pay of
195
Publications ..................................................................... ························································
147
Public Schools Week .........................................................................................................300A
Policy and General Purposes.......... ............. ...... .. .. .... .... .................................
Research Lodges ··································································································............ 177
···· 247
Representatives Mileage····································································································
·················································· 115
Segregation ············································································
292
.................
...................
Sojourners ....................................... ................................. ...................
178
Spanish Speaking Lodges .......................................... ...............................................
273
················
···················
···················
···················
···················
Taxation ······································

~~~~~::~ ~~ t~skX~~~!~b~hibsho~;~~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

117
Trustees of Masonic Homes .................................................................................................. 515
Report of Corespondence Committee .................................................................................... 325
Lodge Litigation with A. C. Malone ........................................................
Report onofGrand
Officers
Reports
Grand Lec.turer .................................................................... .................................................... 104
Grand Master·························································································································· 16

g;=~~ ~rC::!~~~r-·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Representatives Mileage

Report of Committee on Tabulation of Payments ........................................................... 247
....................................... 438
tives Mileage Payments ..
Representa
Research Lodges
..................................... 92
Institution of ............................................. .................
................................. 177
...................
..
...................
.........
on...............
Committee
Report of

53

~f~~~~i~:~:~;;-_~=~~t_~;~J_=y~;-~=:JJ~=;J~~!:\ii

Jurisprudence ····································------··············
Lassen Burial Site --------·-········································································································ 296

~=t~t;~~~;;

583

INDEX

Page

...............
Appreciation for Services of Frank B. Belcher........................................
233
Retirement of Chairman Frank B. Belcher........................................................................ 34 • 326
Returning Fee After Rejection...............................................................................
305
Revision of Section 99
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ............................................... .
305
Revision of Section 255
Re ort of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ..................................................300B
Janeiro, Recognition of Grand Lodge .......................................................................
Rio
88
Ross Digest Reprinting
·····
···················
···················
···················
...................
dation
Recommen
s
Grand Secretary'
Ross, John Stewart, Eulogy of....................................................._. ........................................... . 261
Rulings of Grand Master (See Recommendations and Rulmgs)

le

s
Saloon Business Prohibited ............................................................................................... .34, 326
San Lorenzo Valley Lodge
············-----------······· 91
Instituted --············-----------··························-···· ------·-······-----····················
Dispensation Continued ....................................................................................................... . 243
Scholarship Fund
381
Audit-------------------------------------------------------·-----------------------------------------------------·-------------·-···--········

584

INDEX

INDEX

585

Page

Page

SeH~~~r~ReR~~~g:ion
RequestecL..·-··-··················--········--···-······-····················w·- 72
Recognition Granted ····························································-·············································· 185

Trustees of Masonic Homes
Report of ··························-······································································································ 117
Terms Expire -·-··································································-················································ 117
Appointment of .......................:............................................................................................... 344
Twelve Months Waiting Period.....·-·······-·······:··························-·······-························--·· 36

Second Degree, Completion of•••...--.-·...··-······-·-·-···-····--···-··--·#·-·······-··········.35, 330
Securities Owned

S•~~~~~;;;~;;=;;;;;;;;;;;~;.::

Sexual Psycopath

:~~;!tj~"E;j;·ci~~;;--~£··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~
eport o ommittee on Jurisprudence............·-··---····················-········-····-··········-··-- 326
Sign of Distress
RepLrt of Committee on Policy and General P~s.................................................. 314
Sims, emuel W., Grand Master of Washington, eceived..................·-·-···················· 80
Sojourners
Report of Committee on..-·····-·-····-·.;········-····························-·······-····-················-···.. 292
Southern California Research Lodge

~h~:~~e~ ··::::::::::·::::::::::~.:·::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::~::::::::::::·.·.·::::::::::::·:.·::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::·::::::::::: 3~~

Spanish Speeking Lodges
Report of Committee on.........................·-············································································ 178
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.......................•...•.................... _ 310
Special Appendix····-··························································-······················································ 347
Special Committee on Grand Lodge Ceremonies Continued;..-....................................... 332
Special Meetinf,s for Degrees;.............................................................................................38, 326
Sponsoring of eMOlay Chapter........................................................................................33, 326
Sponsoring of Public Christmas Tree........................................................... _...............29, 326
Stated Meeting in Public Schools Week.....·-······················-··-·······--·······-···············-·.33• 326
Statistical Reports ········-·······················································:................................................... 347
Summerhays, Jared W .• Grand Master of Oregon

~dd:~s~~ci"(:;;~~-~-~i"g~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~~

Superintendents Reports

g~~:

· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·-· · · · · · · · · -· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 112262

--·-···-····-----··--------------..----·--------·-···••0"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""h••••H••··--------········

Suspended Member, Death of-·---·····························-···································-···~·--·-··30• 326

T
Taxation, Report of Committee on....·-··-··································-····-···········-·······--···-······ 273 ,
Tax Exemption
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes....................... _................... 307
Taylor, Will, Past Grand Master of Philippine Island, Received................................... 80
Tehachapi Temple
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes..................·-·················-·-······ 311
Grand Master's Report ········-·········-··················································································· 22
Report of Committee on Finance..-·····-·······································-···························-···- 337
Temple Memorial .•...................................................................................................................... 297
Temples Dedicated .•.................................................................................................................. 17
Thaxter, Earl, Eulogy oL------··--············-······-·························-·················- 252
Trial Master, Appointment of ·-·-··-···-····-····················-·-························-·······----.361 329
Trial Records
Listed ···-··············-····················-·······················:..................................................................... 95
Action on -··-·-····-·--·--'·-·----····································-··-···-···----·--··212. 328
Reconsideration of Trial Record 12S6__.....-·--·······---····-···-··-·-··-···-·············-·-···- 328
Trial of Sexual Psycopath
326

-----·-·-··N·-······-····----·-----ll.

u
Unfinished Business
Referred from 1951 ................................................................................................................ 87
Discussion of Public Questions......-·········-···-·············-·-,.;······-·······-·-··-·-······-·········- 320
Plural Membership ................................................................................................................ 329
Mandatory ProB.ciency ···············-···················-·············································-······-············· 332
Grand Lodge Ceremonies ·····························-·'-··································································· 332
Unreported References ·································································-·········-··-·············-······-···· 332

v
Veterans Buttons
List of Recipients ······························································································-·············-···- 98
Visitations, Interjurisdictional of Grand Master..............................................·-················· 20
Voting, Method of
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes---·································'······-·· 318
Report of Committee on Jurisprudence·--·························-···········-·······-···············-·-····· 318
Sections 26, 69 and 349 AmendecL..........-·················-························-··························· 319

w

W aitimi! Period, Twelve Months........·-·-········-·········-··-··-·····-··················--·-·········-·36• 329
Ward, James Leo, Eulogy of.---·-·--·················--········-·················-···-··--··-····---·- 252
Washington Bi-Centennial ···-·-·······················································································-··-· 186
Wayfarer Lodge
Instituted ·-·················-··················-······················-····················································-··-·-·· 90
Charter Issued ····················-···········-··········································································---· 242
Per Capita Waived '··-·-·-·-----···-·····························-·······-·-······-··········-·-..N• 302
Whiting, Randolph Virginius, Eulogy of........................................---·-···-·;·····-·----··-- 259

