GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
IRA WINN COBU RN
GRAND MASTER OCTOBER 12, 1962 • OCTOBER 18, 1963
The formal records identify our Ninety- Seventh Grand Master as
given above. To all of his intimate friends and his host of devoted
admirers he is, with sincere affection, thought of as "Bud." This is a
most natural situation for while he displays that degree of dignity
and devotion so appropr iate to his ability in leadership, he possesses
the charming faculty of intimacy and comradeship which endear him
to all who have had the pleasur e of close association with him. And
so, in this account of a truly remarkable career there is no impropriety in using the latter designation.
Bud is, by heritage, well fitted for the responsibilities of leadership and of being a master builder. Into these responsibilities he progressed as natll1'ally as a hand fits itself into its glove.
Born in San Francis co on January 4, 1901, the son of Ira and
August a Schroed er Coburn , he was educate d in Lick-W ilmerdi ng
High School, the Univers ity of Californ ia at Berkeley, and the environment of his father's exampl e as a capable and successful builder who
was also a devoted particip ant in civic and Masoni c leadership. His
prepara tory schooling was made the more effective by his particip ation in athletics. He is a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon and his
election to four honor societies was the result of his campus activities.
On graduat ion in 1925, Bud immediately became part ·of his
father's general contrac ting organization, assuming charge thereof
following the death of Ira, Sr., in October , 1938.
The Masoni c career which led to his election as Grand Master
32 years later commenced with receiving the three degrees in Doric
Lodge No. 216 on April 14, May 12 and June 23, 1930, respectively,
his prompt selection as an officer of that Lodge and his service as its
Master in 1939.
The next step in Masoni c activity came with his appoint ment as
Inspect or of District 48B on January 1, 1941.
The outbrea k of war brough t a change from one type of leadersh ip
to another . Enlisting in the U. S. Army Enginee rs, he served his
country in the type of activity to which he was accustomed in civil
life. Most of that service was in the South Pacific and culminated in
his dischar ge at war's end with the rank of Lieuten ant Colonel.
Sevente en years later, following his visit to Hawaii as Grand Master, Bud vi·sited the Grand Lodge of the Philippines and through their
courtes y was able to revisit the locations of his wartime activity.
Upon his return to San Francis co after the war Ira's life was
enriche d by his marriag e to Alma Haaker , who so fully shared his
many activities until her death in April of this year.

Grand Master
1962 • Octobe r 18, 1963
12,
r
Octobe

2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Coburn's active leadership in Doric Lodge has continued
through service as Treasurer .
Resumption of participation in our jurisdictional program came with
his appointme nt in October, 1948, to the Committee on Reconstruction
of the Columbia Temple. Appointm ent on this Committee was repeated
each year through 1953. Each of these reappointm ents included the
responsibility of being Chairman of the Committee.
Then followed three years of assignmen t to the Committe e on
Policy and General Purposes, interrupte d by being Grand Marshal
during 1955.
Combined with the flnal assignmen t on the Policy Committee there
was added assignmen t as Trustee on the committee to operate the new
California Masonic Memorial Temple. The following year the Committee on Dedicatio n Arrangem ents was appointed with Brother Coburn
designated as Vice-Cha irman.
Of the ·six years of service as a T'rustee of the Tempie, the flrst
three were by appointme nt. Election as Junior Grand Warden came in
1959 so from then until his election as Grand Master in 1962 there
followed three years of ex-officio membership on two of our most
important Constituti onal Boards-T he Trustees of the Masonic Homes
and the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple. His
activity on the latter Board included being its President during 1960-61.
Thus we complete the details of a most impressive career which led
to election to Masonry' s highest office. The available space does not
permit adding, here, the even more impressive account of Bud's year
as Grand Master. The full story of that is supplemented by the edicts,
decisions and recommendations which he issued, as covered in his
message printed in thios same volume. In reading that material there
comes a full realization why to know him is to like him, to work with
him leads to admiration and to assign him a responsibility is to assure
the success of the project.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3

I, EDWARD H. SIEMS, Grand Secretary of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedin gs of that body at its one hundred fourteenth
Annual Communication, commenced at the city of San Francisco, on
Monday, the 14th day of October, A. L. 5963, and terminated on Friday,
the 18th day of October, A. L. 5963.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretar y, this fourth day of
November, in th~ year of Light,
flve thousand nine hundred and
sixty-thre e.

Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5

PR OC EE DI NG S

of

TH E M :.W :.G RA ND LODGE
of

1J1rrr nub J\rrrptrb ilusnus
OF THE
STA TE OF CA LIF OR NIA
AT ITS
1l4 TH AN NU AL CO MM UN I CA TIO

N

HELD AT THE
CIT Y OF SAN FRA NC ISC O
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, OCTOBER 14 A.D. 1963, A.L.
5963
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18 A.D. 1963, A.L. 5963
Copy right 1963 by Grand Lodge F. &
A. M. of California
Printed in the United States of Amer
ica . All rights in this book ere reserv
ed.
No pert thereof may be reprod uced
in any manner whatsoever without writte
n
permission from the Grand Lodge of
California, excep t that quotations may
be embo died in reviews by such other
Grand Jurisdictions as have been
recognized officially by this Grand
Lodge. For information addre ss Grand
Secretary, 1111 California Street, San
Francisco, California 94108.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

7

ONE HUN DRE D FOU RTE ENT H
ANN UAL COM MUN ICAT ION
The Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of Free and Accep
ted Maso ns
of the State of Califo rnia commenced its One Hund red
Fourt eenth An~
nual Communication in the Califo rnia Maso nic Memo
rial Temp le on
Octob er 14th, A. L. 5963, at 10:00 a.m.
Roll call disclosed the prese nce of the following:
OFFIC ERS OF THE GRAN D LoDGE
M.·.w . ·.IRA W. COBU RN ••••....• ...•...... ........••
•.•.•...• ....••... ••.•.Gran d Maste r
R.".W .".ELM ER W. HEAL D .......... .......•. .•••..•..
.•....Depu ty Gran d Maste r
R.".W .".THE ODOR E MERI AM .•....••. •..•..... ......•..
.... .Senio r Grand Ward en
R. •• W. ·.MYR ON E. SMITH ..•.•••.• ..•....... ........••
•.•••..Junio r Grand Ward en
v.·.w .·.AR THUR M. WARR EN .•......•. ....••.••
.•.••.... ....••••
v.· .w ••• EDWA RD H. SIEMS....••••. •.....•... ..••..•.•

Gran d Treasurer

..•..•••. ...•••••.Grand Secretary

v.·.w .·.Do NALD G. CAMP BELL ........• ........•
.......... •....••.• •.Grand Lecturer
V. • .R. • .lvoL IRA CuRT IS...••..•. .........• ..•.•..••
••.••...• ..•....... ...Gran d Chaplain
W. ·.CLA RE B. CAMP BELL ......... ......... ...•..
Assis

tant Grand Lecturer
Assis tant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.ART HUR J. KAHN •........• ....•••.. ..•...•••
. Assis tant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.RAY MOND G. TAYLO R •.......• .......... •.
Assis tant Grand Lecturer
w.·.R oBER T A. CRIGL ER ...••...•.•.•••.•••.•••••••
Assis tant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.w. BEN SoRRE LLS ......... ......... ......•.. ••...
Assis tant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.CHA RLES BECKE R ..•....... •••...•.. ......••• ...••...•
.••.••.•• ....Grand Orator
W.".P AUL A. PFLUE GER ......... .•.•....• ....... Assis
tant Grand Treasurer
W.".V ERNE W. HEND RIX .•......• ......... ..... Assis
tant Grand Secretary
W.".S AMUE L C. SHEN K ........• .•....... .......•.
..•...... ........ Grand Marshal
W.".G USTA VE W. KLOT Z ......•.. ......... .........
•..Grand Standard Bearer
W.".R AYMO ND J. BERK LINE ..•...... .......... •.•....••
..Grand Swor d Bearer
w.·.F RED T. BELTO N ...•..... ....•.... .••...... .•....••.
..•.•...Gran d Bible Bearer
w.·.R AYMO ND A. EBBAG E .•...•..• ••....•.. •..••...•
•....Senior Grand Deacon
w:.Jo HN c. BROW N •.•.....• .....•... •...•.... .........•
.• .funior Grand Deacon
W. ·.DAV ID H. BLAKE LOCK •...•.... .•••.•.•. ..•.•....
...Senior Grand Stewa rd
w.·.D ARRE LL H. PUCK ETT ........• ....•••.. ...•.•...
.Junior Grand Stewa rd
W.".D ANIE L J. SHOE MAKE R.. ....•....• ..•.••... ••••.••.•
.•....•Gran d Pursuivant
W. ·.HAR OLD MUEL LER •••..•.•..•••••..••••.•.•..
..••.•.•.•..•..••.• Grand Organist
W. '.DAV ID WRIG HT •••.••••.•••••••...••••••.••...•••••
•••.•.•.•••••.•..••..•Gran d Tiler
W.".H AROL D N. RICHA RDS ....•.... .......... .••.

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
PA ST GR AN D OF FIC ER S
PAST GRAND MASTERS
M.' .W. '.LE ON 0. WHITSELL
M.'. W.' .LE SLI E E. Wo oD
M.' .W. '.Jo HN R. Moo RE
M.' .W.'.EDWARD H. SIEMS
M: .w: .Lo ms C. DRAPEAU
M.'. W.' .AR THU R M. WARREN
M.'. W.' .FR AN K HARWELL, JR.
M.'. W.' .ED GA R

v. STEWART, JR.

M. ·.w .·.t . HAROLD ANDERSON
M.' .W. '.LE O E. ANDERSON
M.' .W. '.PH IL N. MYERS
M ... w ..• JOE L. SHELL
M.'. W.' .AL FRE D F. BRESLAUER
M: .w: .Gu Y B. Miz E
PAST GRAND LECTURER
V.'. W.' .EL BER T w. DAVIS

One thou san d four hun dred sixt y-fo
ur officers and repr esen tativ es
from 687 Cha rter ed Lodges and five
Lodges und er dispensation, 1130
Pas t Mas ters , and 22 distinguished
gue sts from othe r jurisdictions wer
e
repo rted as present, and the Mo st Wo
rshi pfu l Gra nd Lodge was ope ned
in ample form, following which the
Flag of our Cou ntry was received.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

SPECIAL FLAG PR ESE NT AT ION
Pas t Gra nd Mas ter Art hur M. Wa
rren , as Pres iden t of the Cal ifornia Mas onic Memorial Temple,
pres ente d to the Gra nd Mas ter a
Flag of our Cou ntry . It had flown
ove r the Uni ted Stat es Cap itol in
Wa shin gton , D. C., for one day and
was sent to us by Sen ator Tho mas
Kuchel, a member of Ana heim Lod
ge No. 207. as a pers ona l gift for
Gra nd Mas ter Cob urn. The Gra nd
Mas ter ack now ledg ed receipt and
resp ond ed app ropr iate ly.

AP PO INT ME NT S
The Gra nd Mas ter ann oun ced the
following app oint men ts to fill
committee vacancies:
On Policy and Gen eral Pur pos es
- Edg ar V. Stew art, Jr. and
Newcomb Condee.
On Grievances - Jay A. Robinson.
The Gra nd Sec reta ry ann oun ced that
app oint ed Niles 0. Millar, Ted R. Siem the Dep uty Gra nd Ma ster had
s and Kendall C. Cole to serve as
the Committee on Dis trib utio n.

TE LE GR AM S SE NT
The Gra nd Mas ter dire cted the Gra
nd Sec reta ry to send an app ropr iate tele gram to each of the abs ent
Pas t Gra nd Mas ters .

TE LE GR AM RECEIVED
The Gra nd Sec reta ry repo rted hav
ing received a telegram of con grat ulat ion from Pas t Gra nd Mas ter
Osc ar Lawler.

10

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DE VO TIO NA L SER VIC E
"M AS ON RY IS TH E GO OD LIF
THE VER Y REV ERE ND IvoL

E!"

IRA CUR TIS

Grand Chaplain
The Bible beg ins and end s with Go
d-a nd ·so does Mas onr y. The
Firs t Psa lm underlines the imp orta
nt poin ts mad e by the whole Book
of
Psalms. In fact its theme might be call
ed the The me of the Wh ole Bible.
"Ble ssed is the man that wal keth not
in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor stan deth in the way of sinners,
nor sitte th in the sea t of the scornful
.
But his delight is in the law of the
Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and nigh t.
"Th e Lor d kno wet h the way of the
righteous, but the way of the
ung odly shall peri sh."
Psa lm I: 1 and 6
I owe a pers ona l deb t to Mas onr y.
Wh en I was a little boy , so you ng
that my feet dan gled from the ben ch
on the side, I knew wha t the inside
of a Lodge room wa·s like. Wh en
the family was invited to a Lod ge
affa ir-I went. I wen t whe n my fath
er was Mas ter of the Lodge. and
I wen t whe n my mot her was Wo rthy
'Ma tron of the Eas tern Star . Fro m
the viewpoint of a little boy. it mea
nt a
girls my age, plus good thin gs to eat. goo d time with othe r boy s and
It also mea nt that I got to kno w
olde r people in the community. who
seemed to take an inte rest in me
and the othe r children of thei r frien
ds.
The se people did not all go to the
sam e church. they wen t to man y
churches, but they enjo yed being
toge ther , and laug hed at the sam
e
things. and got mad at the •same thin
gs.
Wh en I reac hed my earl y teens, and
was beginning to hav e difficulty
with auth orit y at home, I became
a De Mal ay. and formed a lifelong
friendship with some of the fl.nest
men I hav e ever known. Some wer
e
Mas ter Mas ons , who gav e themselv
es uns pari ngly to make De Ma lay
a
success with the boy s. And some
wer e the boy s themselves, who are
boys no longer. but still check up on
me from time to time.
Yea rs later. whe n I was rector of
my ·first church, in cen tral New
Yor k. I was rais ed a Ma ster Mas on.
Wh en this hap pen ed, I discovered
that man y men in the community who
wen t to othe r churches, wer e my
pers ona l friends. and wen t out of thei
r way to say a goo d wor d for me,
and to spea k a goo d wor d to me.
And for more than twe nty yea rs.
whe reve r I hav e wor ked as a
minister, I hav e felt abo ut Mas ons in
the community as Elisha must hav e

11
felt whe n he was at Dot han . He saw
the hostile arm y of Syr ians surroun ding the city. As he looked at
the app roac hing enemy troops. he
was sud den ly awa re that the whole
mountain was fl.lied with horses and
chariots of fire, whi ch wer e arou nd
him to prot ect him, and he said to
his companion, "Fe ar not, for thos
e who are with us are more than
those who are with them ."
In the Blue Lod ge in this little New
Yor k town, I saw one man
afte r ano ther initiated in the Thr ee
Deg rees . And before long, eve ry
man I kne w any thin g abo ut was goin
g to chu rch with his family. Not
to my church, perh aps, but to some
church.
Mas onr y reaches men and makes sens
e out of the non sens e of thei r
lives in a won derf ul way . It lays
a foundation for the church to buil
d
upon. Wh en I prep ared people for
membership in the church I foun d
that Mas ons alre ady believed in the
basic thin gs: God . the Bible, the
good life. the dign ity and freedom
that comes from living as a child of
God , the belief in life afte r dea th.
Eve ryth ing that I lear ned in De
Mal ay and Mas onr y taug ht me
that my ultimate faith is and must
alw ays be in God : that the patt ern
for my personal life is to follow the
teac hing s of the Bible: that the
ethics for business life, the trea tme
nt of grou ps of people, and the han
dling of individuals must alw ays follo
w the patt ern of justice and mercy
pres ente d so clearly and impressivel
y in the book we call the Wo rd of
God .
One of my colleagues, Dr. Wil liam
Wo lfe. is a theologian. He has
writ ten a book. abo ut the speeches
of Abr aha m Lincoln, call ed "Th e
Alm ost Cho sen Peo ple. " In the boo
k. Dr. Wo lfe star ts earl y in Lincoln'
s
life. showing that our grea t Pre side
nt kne w his Bible. He kne w the
names. stories, places. people and thei
r relationship. You cou ldn' t catc h
him. But his inte rest was larg ely acad
emic until late r on, whe n Lincoln
was in his first yea r at the Wh ite
Hou se. The n, his son, Wil lie, died
.
in spite of all the reso urce s at the Pre
side nt's command. Add ed to that
sorrow. the Bat tle of Bull Run was
any thin g but a vict ory for the Nor th.
Many of Lincoln's personal friends
finger at him, and said, "If he had wer e killed. Peo ple poin ted the
not bee n elected, ther e wou ld hav
e
been no war ."
Dr. Wo lfe points out that it was at
this time in Lincoln's life, whe n
he was suffering this orde al, that he
real ly turn ed to the religion of the
Bible, with a deep sens e of pers ona
l nee d and the insights that came to
him ena bled him to writ e the won derf
ul lette rs of comfort to people on
both sides who lost dea r one s in the
fratricidal war . I take this exa mpl e
from Abr aha m Lincoln to poin t out
that in Mas onr y you can hav e the
information dow n pat, you can kno
w the Ritu al by hea rt, and still not
give you rsel f to the trut h of it.

12

PROCE EDING S OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

You can belong to a Lodg e-or really be a part of Lodge
. There is
a difference! You can talk about God and the good
life, but the real
difference comes when you give yourself to God, in faith
and devotion.
Lincoln knew the facts of the Bible, but this didn't mean
much until he
turned to the religion of the Bible, with a sense of need.
Then Lincoln turne d to the Lord with anoth er proble
m. Here he
was. the leade r of a nation that had been found ed on
the highe st ideals
know n to man. Yet within eighty years of the life
of this wond erful
count ry. it had been split wide open, with broth er fightin
g broth er. Some
call it the Civil War, other s the War of the North ern
Invasion.
He turned to the writin gs of the Proph ets in the Old Testa
ment, and
there he saw that God dema nds love and justice in
our society. and
where in our public life we do not have justice with
love, there is a
weak ness- there is a weak link in the chain, and the
order of relationship will go to pieces at that weake st spot. When this
happe ns we must
rally round and correc t the injustice, and build a better
America, and
keep on building it into the kind of nation God would
appro ve of. This
is what Lincoln said in his speeches. America'.s BEST
days still lie
ahead!
A retire d super intend ent of schools, back east, told me
about going
to a class reunion at his college. On the way, he asked
himself who
would be the most successful person in his class, and
who would be the
failure. For the successful person, he had several in
mind. But there
was one person he was sure would be the failure. Imagi
ne his surprise,
that first day. to see a beautiful limousine draw up on
the campus, with
a liveried chauffeur, and-" Elme r Fud" in the back seat!
As soon as he
could. my friend sidled up to the awkw ard fellow and
asked him, "How
did you make your money?" And the reply came back,
"The land I
home steade d turne d out to be part of Reno, Neva da."
He did not have
a little luck, he had a lot of luck.
A big Texa n was having a manicure in a barbe rshop
in New York.
The girl said, "I suppo se you are one of those Texa
s ranch ers, aren't
you?" He said, "I do have a ranch ." She said, "How
big is it?" He
answe red, "Seve nteen acres. " She said, "Wh y I thoug
ht most ranch es
in Texa s were big-f ive and ten thous and acres. Wha
t do you call
your ranch ?" He said, "Wel l, down our way we just
call it down town
Dalla s!"
I believe a profe ssor of economics would call this unear
ned increment.
Do you know, we have a lot of unear ned increment in
Amer ican life.
you and 17 The Bible asks, Wha t do you have that has
not been given?
Your life, family, ability. personality, world . centu ry
and natio n-the
race you were born into. All of this is unear ned increm
ent, a gift. It has
been given to you. Not one of these things have you
earned! Every
one is a gift to you, from the Lord!

13

In the early days in America, at the cente r of the colon
ial village on
the easter n seabo ard near the village green you would
find buildi ngs
that repres ented institutions which bless your life and
mine. The Amer ican people, in the earliest days, broug ht these institu
tions into being
because they believed in the teachings of the Bible. One
of the buildings
on the village green in colonial days was the home -whe
re love reigns.
If our homes are strong , America will be strong . If our
homes break up,
Amer ka will be weak. Surel y there is not one Maso n here
who does not
know the many wond erful ways in which this truth is
made indelible in
the minds of our members.
Fathe rs and mothe rs in the homes of this count ry, who
are raising
good families , are doing what our count ry needs, and
what the world
needs. Our ritual is built aroun d this idea.
Anoth er building on the edge of the colonial village
green was the
school. where know ledge ·reigns. Some of our nation al
leaders went to
private schools, but most of them went to public schoo
ls. The public
school Is the most democratic institution in ·America today
. Think of the
generations of effort in learni ng that are place d at our
fingertips by our
schools. Free! To every child, no matte r what side of
the tracks he lives
on. And no matte r what his color. Free schools, and
the best.
Maso ns believe that if our form of gover nmen t is to work,
its citizens
must be educated. If every boy and girl is to have a
chanc e to live at
his best, he must be educa ted. Ignor ant people lose
their freedom.
There fore, we go out of our way, in every community,
to make the public school strong , respe ctable and effective.
I am gratef ul to the schol ars of days gone by who wrote
the books
and compiled the know ledge , witho ut which, I would
not know what I
know. or do what I can do.
When I walk into a library, or hear a symp hony, or
see a beaut iful
painting. I want to say, "Tha nk you. whoe ver you are,
for making such
knowledge and beaut y possible!" All of this is repres ented
by the school.
where knowledge reigns. And because it is essential to
all we hold dear,
Maso nry uphol ds the public school, whkh makes educa
tion available to
every child.
Then there is the Town Hall, where demo cracy reigns
. Our citizens
are free to discuss the affairs of the community, state,
nation and world .
We can say what we think, and not be put in jail for it.
The only thing
is, that you have to back up what you say, becau se
here
in America,
people can talk back!
Our Const itutio n has been called the most wond erful docum
ent written by the pen of man. After it was completed, in Philad
elphia, John
Adam s said, "Post erity, you will never know the price
that has been
paid for your freedom!"
What a reputa tion Adam s, Wash ingto n and Lincoln
gave us with
the oppre ssed and exploited people of the world. No
wond er they have

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

looked to us for understanding and help. Our American ideal. from the
beginning, has been freedom and justice, with generosity, and that holds
for American individuals dealing with one another here at home, and
for our nation, in its dealings with people throughout the world.
The fourth building on the edge of the village green was, of course,
the church. Not only the teachings of Masonry. but the work of Masonry undergirds all four institutions. I believe these institutions have
made America g<reat in the past, and make her great today.
Masonry undergirds the Church. It lays the foundation for the
Church in a man's life. It is a friend of the Church. However, we believe
in the separation of Church and State. We do not want the State to do
the work of any Church, and we do not want any Church to
have special privileges beyond the rest. We want the churches to be
free, here in America, but we maintain as the Masons in colonial days
maintained, that absolute power belongs to God alone. "In God we
trust, and Him only." Now, there are several ways of looking at this
statement.
I was scheduled to speak in Berkeley at Commencemen t time, and
registered at a motel as an Episcopal Bishop, dressed in the Bishop's
street garb. I had on my clerical collar, purple vest, Bishop's ring and
pectoral cross. As I registered, the man behind the counter didn't say
anything until he saw my Masonic ring, and then he said, "Well, I guess
I won't have to worry about being paid for this room!" And I was glad
that at least the Masons have a reputation for honesty!
The tale is told of a settler in the days when the west was won. He
got mad at the thirty-five or forty other people living in the crossroads community, and decided to leave. He was saddling his horse when
another settler came up and said, "Don't go, John-there is nothing
wrong here that a little water and some good people won't help." John
turned his head and said. "You can say the same thing about Hell, too!"
Yes, Hell would be helped by water if it is the fire and brimstone
Hell. And if a few good people got into Hell, it would not be Hell any
more, because there would be hope. Good people make the difference.
They bring hope to hopeless situations.
On the other hand - suppose you had all of the water you need,
all of the rich soil and wealth in the world-all of the blessings you could
possibly think of-you would still be in Hell If there were no good people
around you, and if you, yourself, were not good, and felt cut off from
God.
Goodness makes the difference--even more difference than water in
a desert land.
Masonry catches a man as it finds him, anywhere, perhaps as a carefree pagan, and turns his attention towards God, and turns his face
towards the light, more light, as God gives him to see the light.
Alexander Whyte made a sociological study of the Organization

Man a few years ago. One out of five families in America move every
year, from one commuity to another. They leave the old friends, and
must find new friends wherever they go. Dr. Whyte said that what these
people who move about so much need, is instant fellowship. They are
also looking for instant solutions to their problem•s.
We live in a day of automation and large cities and we need to be
reminded that every individual counts. Masonry makes this point in a
very effective way. Consider how the elaborate courtesy of our ritual
reminds us that every individual is important, and has something to contribute to the benefit of all.
The Mason can find instant fellowship wherever he goes in America,
because he is a Mason. The solution to problems cannot be found in a
moment-but only as the Mason becomes a man of God, a Godly man,
can he begin to deal with his problems in the creative way that will bring
about a right solution, no matter what the problems may be. For hundreds of years Masonry has known what the experts know-that no
man has ever climbed up hill from moral degradation without faith in
God.
The man of faith receives from his religion the qualities that high
religion has always built into the lives of the faithful-love, joy, peace,
kindness, goodness, humility and self control. These qualities are what
makes us call a man a good man. And this man also is, we believe, the
kind of man who can find the answers to the problems facing America
today.
The man of faith knows that the Liberty Bell was rung on the Fourth
of July in Philadelphia, not that everyone who heard it might run home
and hide; the bell was rung in 1776 that everybody who loved freedom
might rally 'round and cooperate and sacrifice and even fight, to make
freedom possible.

14

The Godly man puts his final trust in God. He receives his dignity
from the relationship he has with God. He has the right to freedom
because he is God's child, made in God's image. And this man, and this
man only, is to be trusted with solving the problems of America, and the
problems of people in the world.
"Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.
But his delight is in the law of the Lord and in His law doth he meditate
day and night.
"The Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the
ungodly shall perish."
And from what I know of Masonry, not one of us should want anything more--or anything less-than that!

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
IRA W. COBURN, Grand Master

helped me to reach many decisions, I give my grateful appreciation.
They are a wonderful group of dedicated Masons, whose support to
Masonry and our Grand Lodge is invaluable.
And finally, above all, my thanks go to the members, whose
enthusiasm, interest, co-operation, and whole-hearted participation and
interest show their concern for Grand Lodge and its problems. Their
attendance at the many meetings held throughout the state proves their
interest in knowing, and aiding in solving, the problem's we face.
This year I have attempted to "whisper good counsel" into the
ears of many, and to work out our problems to the "mutual blessing
of all."
As a result of this universal cooperation, I am not only hopeful but
positive that our problems, even the most difficult, can and will be
solved.
I am happy to say also, that as a further result of this cooperation, I
feel that all the brethren recognize with me the necessity of reversing
the tide of recent years with respect to our membership. Through the
interest shown, and attendance at meetings, and with so many talking
about it, I repeat that we will work out all our current problems to the
ultimate betterment of Masonry in California.
If any reward is to come from my year of work, I feel that I have
been richly rewarded through this re-awakening of the brethren to the
problems of the Fraternity, and their determination to do something
constructive about it.
To the dedicated chairmen and all serving as members of Grand
Lodge committees, I give all praise. No effort or activity has been considered by them as being too much this past year; their work has been
outstanding for the benefit of our Grand Lodge. I will touch on much of
this in detail as this report progresses.

My Brethren:
In accordance with California Masonic tradition and custom, and in
conformity with our requirements, I present to you my report as your
Grand Master for the past year, and my recommendations for action
on some of our remaining problems.
This has been an extremely busy year in the work of Grand Lodge.
in constitutional meetings and activities, and in many other ways.
Grand Lodge was opened for special communications many times
during the year, as shown by the Grand Master's itinerary which follows the close of this report.
In addition, general meetings were held in each of the ,six divisions,
with a special meeting in Hawaii, to tell the brethren of the activities
of our new Commission on Masonic practices.
It has been most gratifying and encouraging to see the support and
interest of the brethren in this commission's work, which will be discussed in detail elsewhere in this message.
I want to express my thanks and appreciation to the appointive officers for their whole-hearted support and excellent work during the year.
I am especially appreciative to the Deputy Grand Master, R. W.
Elmer W. Heald: the Senior Grand Warden, R. W. Theodore Meriam;
and the Junior Grand Warden, R. W. Myron E. Smith, for their
support and ever-ready willingness to aid when conditions prevented
my personal appearance during the year.
Also, I wish to pay my homage to our Grand Lecturer, V. W. Donald
G. Campbell and his assistants, and to the Corps of Inspectors. Their
support has been whole-hearted, genuine, and enthusiastic, with the
result that all affairs and arrangements have been conducted most
efficiently.
The lnspectoral Corps, the right-arm of the Grand Master, has proven
invaluable in their prompt and efficient response to the many requests for
investigational and other matters referred to them. This work is most
important, and relieves the Grand Master of much detail. Without the
Inspectors, the time of the Grand Master would not permit of much
of this work being accomplished.
To the Grand Secretary, M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand
Master, and his efficient staff, I give my thanks for their good counsel
throughout the year. The whole-hearted support from the Grand Secretary's staff makes the work of the Grand Master a much lighter task.
Likewise to the Past Grand Masters, who have in every instance
given freely of their Masonic knowledge and experience and have

1

I I.
VISITATIONS
PHILIPPINES GRAND LoDGE

On the invitation of the M. W. William H. Quasha, Grand Master,
I attended the 50th Anniversary Observance of the founding of the
Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
Masonry in the Philippines, under sound and efficient Grand Lodge
leadership and sponsorship, is making favorable and rapid progress. It
has expanded and is expanding into many communities which had no
knowledge whatever of Masoncy prior to World War II. The sessions
there were well attended, most enlightening and constructive, and there
is no doubt in my mind that Masonry has a bright future in the Philip-

18

19

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

pines. During my visit I was thanked again for the Philippine War
Relief which they still remember with appreciation. This relief was provided by our Grand Lodge during and immediately following the dark
days of World War II.
Under the leadership of their Grand Master, M. W. William H.
Quasha, the Philippine Grand Lodge has initiated a program to collect
school books for Philippine school children. The need for these books
is great. In some remote provinces there is only one book for every
fifteen children. The Philippine Grand Lodge has communicated with
all United States Grand Lodges asking for their help in this program.
I am glad to report that the Grand Lodge of California, with the cooperation of our Public Schools Committee, has collected 100 tons of
books for this project. The program will be implemented when better
means of transporta tion and distribution have been established.
While the guest of the Philippine Grand Lodge, I had the opportunity to visit the Province of Batangas, where I was Army Base Engineer during the war. During that period of war service I met many
men who later became member-s of the Craft, and whose hospitality was
most gracious.

to re-kindle the flame of Masonic interest in California: to create and
re-create a renewed love of Masonry in the hearts of our California
Masons. I feel this can best be done by developing a renewed interest
in Masonry' s basic fundamen tal principles and teachings. rather than
by adopting temporary attendanc e-attractin g palliatives which cannot
and do not provide the permanen t solution we need for this problem.
Your Grand Master had been asked to prepare a paper on the
subject: "What Can We Do as Masons to Develop Leadership Within
and Without Our Lodges?" A copy of this article is included in the 1963
Proceedin gs of the Conferenc e of Grand Masters of America and is
available at the Grand Secretary 's office.

JAPAN

I was also invited by M. W. Nohea 0. A. Peck, Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of Japan, to visit there, and was entertaine d most
cordially. Through his hospitality I was enabled to see Masonry in
action in Japan. I pay tribute to all these men who are doing such a
great job in promoting Japanese Freemaso nry. Their task is not easy,
especially with our American occupational forces being withdrawn , but
through the efforts of many dedicated Masons, the Craft is going ahead
in that nation.
1963 CONFEREN CE OF GRAND MASTERS
In February. 1963, with Past Grand Master Guy B. Mize and Grand
Secretary Edward H. Siems, together with Deputy Grand Master Elmer
W. Heald, I attended the annual conference of Grand Masters in
Washingt on, D. C. The conference sessions were well attended, very
instructive, and provided a general reflection on Masonry in the United
States.
The general mood of the Washingt on conference was pessimistic
concerning Masonry' s national growth and development. Many of the
old platitudes , such as general membership apathy in all organizati ons,
the distractions of television, motion pictures, other activities, etc .• were
put forth as excuses or reasons for this condition.
It was my observation that man•y of these excuses are repetitions of
what we have heard so many times before. Hearing them expressed
again increased my determina tion to get to the root of the problem,

CUBA

On May 10, 1963, I issued an edict, the purpose of which was to
permit Cuban Masonic brethren residing in California the opportuni ty
to hold Masonic communication, and visit Lodges in this jurisdiction. The
edict set forth a procedure by which members of Cuban Lodges and the
Grand Lodge of Cuba could pay their dues to our Grand Secretary, and,
after proof of membership by examination, visit any of our constituen t
Lodges. All such dues so collected are being held in trust in our Grand
Lodge office until such time as the Cuban Lodges, and the Grand Lodge
of Cuba, are again able to function, without outside influence, as the
Supreme Masonic authority in that jurisdiction.
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS

Due to personal circumstances beyond my control. it became necessary that my planned visit in these beautiful islands had to be abruptly
and regretfully curtailed. My activities were confined to two general
meetings and formal receptions in each of the districts.
On May 20, 1963, I had the great honor and privilege, in the name
of our Fraternit:iy, of placing a memorial, in the form of a wreath, to the
memory of men of the U. S. S. Arizona at Pearl Harbor. This was
most inspirational. and an experience I shall never forget. These memorials to our men who gave their lives for our country remind us that wars
will never cease until the hearts of men everywhe re are cleansed of
selfish desires and dreams of power which can be achieved only through
the sacrifice of human life. My deep than~s go to those at Pearl Harbor
Lodge No. 598 for the arrangeme nts with the U. S. Navy to make this
event possible.
I wish also to extend my thanks to everyone in the Hawaiian Islands
for their sympathet ic understan ding of my personal problem at that
time. There is nothing that can match the marvelous and gracious
hospitality of the Islands; it must be experienced to be fully understoo d
and appreciate d.
The heavily attended Hawaiian meetings to hear about the work of

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

our Commission on Masoni c Practices which were conduct ed by Brother
Robert B. Watts, Chairm an of the Commission, show the keen interest
of the members of those Lodges in the betterm ent of Masonr y. I left the
Islands with the strong feeling that these devoted brethre n will do their
part to aid in the solution of our problems.
In general. I feel that Hawaii an Masonr y is on a sound basis,
under excellent leadership by men who are proud of. and gratefu l for,
their association with the Grand Lodge of California. Also, I have no
doubt that eventua lly they will, and should, have their own Grand
Lodge of Hawaii. I am confident that the right time for this development
will come after very careful consideration by those, fully familiar with
all pertinen t factors and who have thought fully studied the situation and
reached their conside red conclusion.
In the Hawaii an Islands there are many whom I would like to
thank. They include our three Inspectors, Fred Bolte, Charles McAllister, and William Fraser, and Junior Grand Steward Darrell
Puckett , all of whom did so much to make my trip memorable. There
are also many others, literally too numerous to mention, but whose
efforts and hospital ity I shall always cherish.

II I.
CRAFT MASO NRY
On the Saturda y following my assump tion of the office of Grand
Master, I instigat ed a period of rehearsa l, conduct ed by Grand Lodge,
for all 1963 Grand Lodge officers in the formal opening and closing
procedu res and all other protocol ceremonies. I felt that this renewed
the confidence of all our officers in their ability to conduct these ceremonies during the year now closing.
I also introdu ced certain subjects to the new Grand Lodge line
officers so that they in turn might be able to inform Lodge members in
their own districts on Grand Lodge activities. This brings Grand Lodge
closer to the average individual Mason. Also, and of equal importance,
it brings him closer to Grand Lodge, so that he realizes Grand Lodge is
not a separat e entity. He gets a clear-cut, first-hand knowle dge of
Grand Lodge, its ideas, and its workings, and clarifies what might
otherwi se be erroneo us impressions.
During the year, it has also been the intent of the Grand Master to
meet and talk with as many Masons as possible, to keep them informed
of Grand Lodge activities. I have explain ed and outlined the purpose
and the work of the new Commission on Masoni c Practices, on whose
work and program a detailed report will be found elsewhere in this
message. I feel that this type of activity, to acquain t the individual

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

Mason more closely with a knowledge of his Grand Lodge, serves an
excellent purpose. I recommend its continuation, that all Grand Lodge
officers continu e to meet and inform as many Masons as possible on
the work, program , and activities of Grand Lodge.
There were two items of unflnished busines s when the 1962 Communication of Grand Lodge was closed: One, Traveli ng Aprons and
Regalia. I am pleased to report that the necessa ry action has been
taken, and the need has been filled. Second , Reference to the Lodge
Hall in Columb ia Temple , which is discussed under the report on
that Lodge Temple elsewhe re in this message.
Your Grand Master is gratifled to report that during the year
dispensations were issued for the formation of four new Lodges. These
were Mount Baldy, U. D., Ontario : Plaza de Los Angeles, U. D., Los
Angeles: Manhat tan, U. D .. El Segund o and William B. Ogden, U. D ..
Hollywood. I have already had the privilege of a return visit to Mount
Baldy Lodge.
I am also pleased to report that numerous Masoni c Clubs have been
formed through out the jurisdiction. I feel that they reRect a healthy
situation, and a wholesome interest in the advance ment of Masonr y,
especially in our Californ ia suburba n areas.
The response, Masoni c and general, has been most gratifyi ng, in
furthering and improving the advance ment of Masonr y's public image
in Californ ia through our work with the public schools. our particip ation in the laying of cornerstones and the dedication of schools and
other public buildings. and the resultan t public recognition. The public
authorities have respond ed to this improved image in their request s
to us that we particip ate in more of these activities. Corner- stone layings
have proceeded satisfactorily. as has the dedication of new schools and
many Masoni c Temple s through out the jurisdiction.
CEREMO NIES

On Octobe r 16, 1962, in a unique ceremony, Luther Burban k Lodge
No. 752 was "recons tituted. " It may be recalled that your present Grand
Master, in 1956 Grand Marsha l. failed to bring the charter for the
original constitution of the Lodge, thus requirin g a special improvisation. I am now gratifled to report that I had the opportu nity to rectify
this past mistake, and that it brought about for your Grand Master the
realization of his desire to read the Lodge's charter and complete
the "recons titution " in due and proper form.
Four new Lodges have been constitu ted in the 90-day code period.
These are: Scepter Lodge No. 808, West Sacramento: Los Alamitos
Lodge No. 809, Seal Beach: Victori a Palms Lodge No. 810, Riverside:
and Woodla nd Hills Lodge No. 811, Canoga Park. Your Grand
Master was invited to a return visit at three of them. I am pleased to

22

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

report that each has shown a healthy growth, they are in excellent hands,
and show great promise.
Other Grand Masters and I have urged local Lodges to arrange for
as many school and public building cornerstone layings and dedication
services as possible. The purpose is to develop added interest in our
schools and local government affai-rs. It is gratifying to know that we
were invited to, and did, conduct the cornerstone ceremonies for 15
public schools and four public buildings during this past year.
These ceremonies provide an excellent opportunity to enhance our
public image. They have brought much credit to Masonry through the
dignified manner of their conduct and the favorable impressions they
have made. I wish here especially to commend our Grand Orator
Charles Becker for the outstanding job he has done for our Fraternity
through his "thumb-nail" sketches describing Masonry at these ceremonies.
The public has learned by our actions that Masonry is a nonreligious but highly-principled institution. It is both remarkable and
gratifying to note the steady increase over the years in the number
of requests that the Grand Lodge of California conduct these ceremonies.
Each year has shown an increase; the same has been true in the year
now closing.
It is equally gratifying to report the laying of cornerstones during
the year for nine new Masonic Temples throughout California. Also
eight new Temples were dedicated for our Lodges in Buena Park,
Castro Valley, Covell, Hemet, San Gregorio, Banning, Santa Clara,
and Folsom. It is almost axiomatic that when a new ·Community Lodge
is built, the result is a new interest in Masonry throughout that entire
community, and an increased membership is also noted.

On next Wednesday, October 16, prior to our annual visit to the
Masonic Home at Union City, your Grand Master will dedicate a
memorial to our beloved Past Grand Master and Past Grand Secretary
Lloyd E. Wilson. The dedication will take place at Olivet Memorial
Park, Colma, where a beautiful inscribed headstone has been erected
in his memory. The memorial is a gift paid for by contributions f.rom
Brother Wilson's many friends and admirers in the Fraternity throughout California.
In addition to the many cornerstone ceremonies we were also invited
by nine California school districts to conduct the dedication programs
for their new school buildings. Again, as always, these ceremonies
attracted a large public attendance.
The public response to these ceremonies proves to me the advantage
of our conducting cornerstone ceremonies and dedications for public
schools, civic centers, court houses, and other public buildings because of
the resultant added public interest in Masonry.
My experience at these affairs this past year convinces me that
we should confine Grand Lodge ceremonies only to public buildings.
For all these occasions, iyour Grand Master has had the complete
cooperation of civic officials, the Grand Lodge staff, Inspectors, Lodge
Officers, and individual members in the local areas.
In addition to the foregoing, your attention is also called to the
many receptions and meetings held for the Grand Master, which he
attended with much pleasure. To their many hosts I acknowledge with
deep appreciation the many courtesies extended to me.
I wish alsq to thank Brother Wakefield Taylor for his cooperation at
the dedication of the school at Middletown; to M. W. Guy B. Mize,
Past Grand Master, for conducting the cornerstone ceremony for the
new Temple of Unity Lodge No. 368 at Glendale; and to M. W. Phil
N. Miyers, Past Grand Master, for the mortgage burning ceremony at
Hemet, September 14, 1963.

I am heartened to 1find so many Lodges following the !l'equest of
the Grand Master for the improvement and re-furbishing of their
Temples. This, too, results in improving our public image. In general
we seldom see or find a poorly-maintai ned Masonic Temple: nearly
always our buildings are community ornaments and a credit to the
Fraternity. However, there are a few instances where some Temples do
not present a good appearance. This is discouraging; it i·s not a true
reflection of .Masonry or for the Lodge members. I hope that these
relatively few Lodges will soon make such improvements as may be
needed.
On October 5, 1963, we laid the cornerstone for the new Scottish
Rite Temple in San Francisco. Those attending had the privilege of
hearing an oration by the M. W. Henry C. Clausen, Past Grand
Master and Sovereign Inspector General for the Scottish Rite in California. We salute the members of the California Bodies of Scottish Rite
Masonry for their splendid new home.

CENTENNIALS

California Masonry is well into its second century of activity. Consequently, many of our older Lodges have been, or soon will be, conducting their "centennial" programs, especially in those parts of the
state, such as the older mining areas, the Mother Lode area, etc., where
Lodges were established in the mid-19th century. These original Lodges
give proof of Masonry's basic strength, stabililly, and vigor. As time
passes, and economic conditions change, some of these areas do not
have the population they once enjoyed. Nonetheless, the Lodges, so
long established, have their roots deep in the Masonic soil of their
communities. Their areas may not provide for present membership
increase, and in some of them the officers may have served repeatedly.

24

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

These officers and member's show, by their dedicated devotion to, and
their love for, Masonry and its institutions, their intention to maintain
and perpetuate it as a vital and vibrant part of their daily lives.
When their proper annive11Sary date approaches these Lodges organize and conduct centennial programs which reflect the Fraternity's
importance to the community.
Six of our Lodges have observed their centennials during this past
year. The Grand Lodge salutes them: Key.stone Lodge No. 161, Milton;
Harmony Lodge No. 164, Sierra City: Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San
Francisco: Alameda Lodge No. 167, Fremont: Redwood City Lodge No.
168, Redwood City: and Mission Lodge No. 169, San Francisco.
We congratulate them on passing this milestone and for their part
in Masonry this past century. We know they will continue to be an
integral part of California Masonry in the years to come.

work of those directly connected with the club houses; renewed interest
shown by both members and officers, with the resultant publicity; and
talk'5 to the organization s by Grand Lodge officers, the clubs are being
re-vitalized.
Ideally, these clubs were established for the benefit of the students,
as they provide a wholesome Masonic environment, entertainme nt, and
opportunity for making new friendships and forming new associations.
It is most wholesome to have these young people using the facilities.
However, unless these club houses greatly expand their activity, and
approach their potentialities more closely, it may not be possible to
continue them. Certainly they should be continued if they are used more
nearly to capacity and serve their original purpose: otherwise it may be
necessary for Grand Lodge to take a closer view of them in the coming
years.

25

COMMITTEE S

The limitations of time and space do not permit detailed comment
on the activities of all our committees, but I feel that there are some
which I must mention.
NECROLOGY

As the detailed report of our Necrology Committee will show, our
hearts have been saddened this year through the loss of many fine
Masons and members of Grand Lodge. The passing of every one of
these brethren is a distinct loss and brings sorrow to our Fraternity.
the cause of Masonry, and to the members of their immediate families,
to whom we extend our sympathy.
The Grand Master has no thought of minimizing the passage of any
brother who has passed on this year. As Tennyson put it so beautifully,
"God's finger touched them, and they slept." We have also been particularly saddened at the taking from among us of some of the most
devoted special workers of our Craft. Appropriate eulogies will be given
these departed brethren on Wednesday morning. Included in that group
will be a eulogy for one of our officers, our Assistant Grand Lecturer
Ralph W. Collins, whose talents, courage, ritualistic ability and devotion to the work of Grand Lodge and its causes earned him a place that
will be hard to fill; to him I want to pay this special tribute.
I can say of all these departed brethren that many were dear friends
and co-workers whom I will always remember with deep affection.
MASONIC CLUB HOUSES

Although the Masonic club houses at the University of California
in Berkeley and Los Angeles have been established for many years,
their full potentialities have not yet been realized. Membership in the
clubs is low in relation to registration at both university campuses.
However, I feel that as a result of the re-organizat ional work carried out
last year under the direction of P.G.M. Guy B. Mize: the dedicated

MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Although we did not achieve our complete goal to make the Memorial
Temple "Debt-Free in '63," the debt has been reduced to a figure les'5
than $900,000.00. Under the new Building Manager, Brother George D.
Gavin, numerous improvements are being made in facilities; increased
use is being made of the auditorium and exhibit hall, resulting in a consistent increased garage service.
More good news with respect to the Memorial Temple Corporation
is the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ruling exempting the corporation
as an organization from federal income tax. Contributio ns made to the
Temple are deductible by donors: and "bequests, legacies, devises, transfers or gifts for J'emple use are deductible for Federal estate and gift tax
purposes under provisions of Sections 2055, 2106 and 2522 of the Code."
Our construction of the Memorial Temple has been more and more
justified with the continuing passage of time. It is an outstanding
Masonic symbol. impressing its beauties upon a constantly increasing
number of visitors every year. Its complete public acceptance confirms
the sound business judgment of our committee which originally recommended that it be built.
MASONIC HOMES

Through the dedicated and loyal service of the Masonic Homes
Trustees, our Homes continue to show much activity, and we are anticipating the increasing needs of the home at Union City. One .such need
has been met with the completion of the Employees Residence Hall. The
new Charles Albert Adams 90 room Memorial Hall, on which construction has been started, will meet another need. Inspection of the Union
City Home shows a thoroughly efficient, yet non-instituti onal operation,
providing the atmosphere of a gracious home for it'5 guests. This opinion
is confirmed by many letters and personal contacts with friends of those

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in residence at Union City, and reflects the excellent work of our manager there, Brother Gail David.
I commend the studies being made at the Covina Home to 1'educe the
abnormally high per-capita and maintenance costs. These studies may
even lead to consideration of a possible relocation of the home. Obviously we must not, and shall not, deny the needs of the children, but. we
should re-evaluate the conditions of the plant, the methods of operation,
and the general .facilities, in order that .cost•s can be kept within reasonable limits commensurate with the services rendered.
The Fraternity owes a debt of gratitude to the Homes Trustees for
thefr devoted service, for their careful administration of funds, and their
general supervision of the work being performed. This is one of our most
important activities.
During the past year, I have approved the admission of seven children to the Covina Home. This brings the expanded program of residents there to twelve or approximately 22% of the total population.
I did this fully realizing the cost to the Fraternity, but I also approved
it as the home could accommodate them, and this was an extension of
Masonic charity to worthy cases.

the local Lodge. The Homes Endowment Board needs and deserves the
full and active support of all Grand Lodge Officers, Committeemen, Inspectors and the officers of the local Lodges. There is no greater financial need in California Masonry today.
"We have had kemendous increases in contributions during the past
few years! The 'ball is rolling.' We cannot, we dare not, let it slow
down! Let's 'keep it rolling' for 1964!"
I give my thanks for all California Masonry, to Brother Gordon,
Chairman, and the members of the Homes Endowment Board, for their
wonderful service to us all.

26

ENDOWMENT FUND

You will have ample opportunity to hear and read the detailed report
of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board. However, I want to call your
attention to, and commend, our California Masons for their splendid
response to the Board's 1963 plea for the Homes Endowment Fund. The
brethren o.f our Lodges contributed $741,200, an all-time high, from less
than 50% of our membevs.
I feel that this is the appropriate place to quote from a report made
to me concerning future Homes Endowment needs by Brother John M.
Gordon, Endowment Board Chairman:
" . . . 1964 and two or three years thereafter will be the most important and the most critical for the Homes Endowment.
"We had a tremendous influx of new members into the Craft during
the forties and fifties. They are getting older. In another five years the
earning capacity of a great many of them will be diminished and their
ability to contribute will likewise decrease, and a great many who are
potential contributors will have passed on.
"By that time, also, the need for care at our Home for the Aged will
probably be greater, because of the aging membership, and the expense
of operating the Homes will increase all the more.
"Now is the time to prepare against that dary! The potential now is
great!
"This critical situation calls for an ALL OUT effort on the part of
all California Masons who are truly interested in the welfai'e of our
Masonic Homes, from the Grand Master all the way to the sideliner in

Ow Los ANGELES MASONIC HALL
I am pleased to report that work on the old Masonic Hall at Los
Angeles has been completed. Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge U. D. holds
its regular meetings in the second floor Lodge room: numerous Lodges
have made special arrangements for use of the facilities.
SOJOURNERS

This is a subject of vital concern to me. Frankly, it also seems to
have been one on which there has been much general talk with little
action or specific results despite the ex•cellent work of the committee. In
my travels I have been appalled to learn of the many Masons who do
not know that they can invite sojourners to enjoy Masonic associations
with them.
I wish to quote from the comments of Past Grand Master John R.
Moore on the ~ubject:
"On the journey westward the pioneers brought with them the
public school, the church and the Masonic Lodge. The lodge hall became
the focal point of community affairs, such as social, economic and other
activities. As Masons from other jurisdictions arrived they sought membership in the local Lodge and participated actively in fraternal, church
and community affairs. As a result Masonry flourished and contributed
so much to the growth and well-being of community, county and state.
"Masonry is still flourishing but members who change their residences are not bringing their Masonry with them, that is, they are not
dimitting to local Lodges in appreciable numbers. . . . The situation
might be rectified if the members of the local Lodge would seek out the
sojourners and invite their attendance and membership. To any great
degree this is manifestly impossible for the address of the sojourner is
unknown, even his name is not known.
"The solution then rests with the sojourner himself for it is a simple
matter for him to locate a local Lodge and its officers, but fewer and
fewer are doing this as the years go by. The suggestion then must be
that the Grand Lodge (from which the •sojourner came) instruct its offi-

29

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cers to urge its members, wh0 change their permanent address, to seek
membership in a local Lodge in ti1e area of their new residence.... "
There has been some sojourner criticism of our required $25 Homes
payment as a membership requisite. I recommend that the requirement
be continued: I feel that it is little enough for a man to pay for the
privilege of membership in a California Lodge and for what Masonry in
California has to offer. It also establishes his eligibility for admission to
the Home should he or his widow find themselves in financial need.
I urge the Grand Lodge of California to do everything possible in
co-operation with our committees to bring the sojourner "into our fold."
I further recommend that the complete co~operation of Grand Lodge be
given to the conduct of campaigns by individual Lodges to attract sojourners to attend California Masonic meetings, and take part in our
activities, to the mutual benefit of all.

start a museum on a small scale with no cost to it, it is my strong recom·
mendation that this Grand Lodge reaffirm its action of one year agothat the incoming Grand Master be authorized to conclude the arrangements tentatively agreed upon.

28

COMMERCIALISM

It has been the policy of your Grand Master to work closely with
the Committee on Commercialism, and I have enjoyed the Committee's
loyal and active co~operation. Our code sets forth the rules and regulations on commercialism so clearly that there have been very few misinterpretations. During the year, there have been some instances where
an interpretation has been requested. Our policy has been to extend the
helping hand to all, to "whisper good counsel." Usually a note from the
Grand Master to the Committee Chairman completes the matter satis~
factorily. Rather than make a commitment, we urge that inquiry be made
first, to save any embarrassment's. All those submitting inquiries during
the year have been most ·co-operative; all show that they respect the
Grand Lodge position. In some instances inquiries have been made when
they were not required: however, the answer is always gladly given.
When in doubt. make the inquiry: it's "better to be safe than sorry."
COLUMBIA TEMPLE

At the last Annual Communication Grand Lodge instructed the in·
coming Grand Master to take necessary steps for developing a public
museum to be located on the ground floor of the Columbia Temple, this
museum to be a joint venture between the University of the Pacific and
this Grand Lodge, and all work and planning to be done in consultation
with the State Department of Beaches and Parks.
Numerous meetings were held and a tentative meeting of minds had
been reached. At about this time Resolution No. 29, proposing an exclu~
sive Grand Lodge Museum, was received in the Grand Secretary's
office. At the last meeting. held in Sacramento on August 29. 1963,
all parties concerned were apprised of the resolution received. Even
though I had been authorized to conclude negotiations, I elected to defer
a final decision until Grand Lodge was given the opportunity to con·
sider the resolution before them.
In view of all the circumstances, namely that Grand Lodge could

CONSTITUTIONAL OBSERVANCE

I am much pleased to report that I find a greatly renewed interest in
the work of this committee throughout the state. I believe that the
American people are becoming much concerned with some of the inter~
pretations being placed on portions of their National Constitution. I also
believe that this concern is a salutary and healthy condition. I therefore
recommend that the work of this committee be greatly expanded, with
more programs and added adivity. As an example of such possible
activities, I cite my May 10, 1963 proclamation urging all California
Masons to encourage and take part in July 4th community "Bell Ring·
ing" Independence Day observances. This proclamation produced an
excellent response, a most gratifying activity on such short notice, and
further proof of the average Mason's inherent patriotism and love of
country. Many Masons now serve on their Lodges' committees because
of their Masonic principles and their interest in the continuation of our
constitutional form of government.
RITUAL

I have been very gratified in my travels throughout the jurisdiction
to see the excellence of the Degree work done by the Lodges under the
guidance of the Grand Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the
lnspectoral Corps. The work is uniform in all parts of the jurisdiction, a
further tribute to Grand Lecturer Donald Campbell, whom I also wish
to compliment on the work he has accomplished through his Coaches
Handbook.
Due to the untimely death of our Assistant Grand Lecturer Brother
Ralph W. Collins, I appointed Brother Robert A. Crigler, former lnspec~
tor of District No. 5.90, as A,ssistant Grand Lecturer in Division V
e.ffective September 1, 1963.
LODGE FINANCING

This committee also has done an outstanding job during the year.
Their counsel and advice has been requested by many Lodges, to their
great benefit. The best evidence of this is that all of our Lodges are
not only solvent, but are in the best financial condition in California
Masonic history. I want to emphasize that this committee was established to be of assistance to the Lodges, not to investigate their finances
or interior activities. As an example, I cite the case of one of our Lodges
which was quite antagonistic to the committee. Thanks to the co-opera~
tion with the committee, that Lodge's "house is now in order," to the
mutual benefit of the Lodge and the committee. I strongly urge Lodges

30

31

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

having any problem of Lodge financing that they co-operate with the
committee. The result will be definitely beneficial to the Lodge.

reaches so relatively few of our members, because of the present subscription policy. Many jurisdictions send their Grand Lodge publication
to all their members, some on a monthly basis.
Although I realize that the authority under Section 203 C.M.C.
authorizes that distribution of the California Freemason may be directed
by the Grand Master, this Grand Lodge thus far has always withheld
sufficient appropriation to support mailing to all members of California
Lodges.
We can all be proud of this publication, and I recommend that Grand
Lodge establish a policy of sending the California Freemason, at Grand
Lodge expense, to every California member. The cost is relatively small
for the advantage which will result. Its receipt by all our members might
inspire them to return to active membership, redevelop their interest in
Lodge activities, and thus aid in meeting the problem of membership
apathy which is of so much concern to all of us.

FINANCE

It is well to remember that we are and will continue to be in an era
of rising costs. The work of this committee, too, has been outstanding
- to keep in bounds, yet not restrict, the Grand Lodge activities and
program. We must be prepared to face 'continued rising costs.
Many years ago in the early days of our nation, Patrick Henriy, a
great American patriot said: "No free government or the blessings of
liberty can be preserved to any people but by a firm adherence to justice,
moderation, temperance, frugality and virtue, and by a £requent recurrence to fundamental principles." I think this applies equally to the free
institution of government, and to our Masonry. I feel that it is reflected
in the policy of your Finance Committee. That policy, briefly stated, is
to be prudent, yet not restrictive; and for this policy and its work the
committee is to be commended.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

DEMOLAY

CORRESPONDENCE COMMITTEE, CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

Much has been done by California Masonry in assisting and training
the young leaders of tomorrow by precept and example. Much remains
to be done. Nothing is of more importance than the guiding and training
of our youth. A great step forward was taken in that direction by this
Grand Lodge when in 1956 it officially recorded its approval of the
ideals, aims and purposes of the Order of DeMolay. I refer specifically
to the note under the old Section 333f C.M.C. for a full statement of
this policy.
luiplementing this policy is the job of adult leadership from within
the AJiks of our Lodges. DeMolay Chapters reaching their maturity in
the family of DeMolay, based upon my observation, is the result of men
dedicated to ideals of DeMolay. I urge that each of our Lodge officers
re-appraise the structure of their DeMolay programs. In our Masonic
teachings we promise to stretch forth a helping hand. The challenge for
today is an honest answer to the question: When did I last stretch forth
my helping hand to the boys of DeMolay?
Although I have discussed the work of only some of our committees,
I cannot close this portion of the report without expressing my sincere
thanks to the chairmen and members of all committees. They are all
devoted servants to the cause of Masonry; to them is due the appreciation of all California Masons.

I cannot let the opportunity pass to compliment the work of the
Correspondence Committee and its Chairman-Editor, Brother Newcomb
Condee, for the remarkable job done with the California Freemason. It
is well edited, informative and provides many of our members with news
of current, past and forthcoming Masonic events in California.
I feel strongly that the Freemason should be placed in the hands of
every California Mason. It is somewhat singular that our "house organ"

A study of our overall committee structure should be carefully reviewed. At the present time the record shows that we have fifteen standing committees and sixteen special committees. In discussing objectives
with committee chairmen, it is my considered opinion that there is
presently a considerable overlapping of duties and responsibilities.

I have already referred to the increasing number of requests for
Masonic participation in, or conduct of, public cornerstone or dedication
ceremonies. I think this increase is due to two reasons: First, the activity
of our local Lodge members stimulating interest in our public schools;
and secondly, our general activities, resulting in an improved public
image. Local programs for the observance of Public Schools Week in
California, established so many years ago by our Past Grand Master
Charles Albert Adams, have played an important part in the formation
and development of our public image. However, I ,sense a slowing down
of the momentum of past years in local Public Schools Week observance
programs. I feel that we must vigorously reorganize our whole concept
of our Public Schools Week, to follow more closely the original ideas of
Brother Adams. Also the Masters of the Lodges must vigorously pursue
this most important Grand Lodge activity. We must remain ever-vigilant
with relation to the entire concept of our public schools. In our Lodges
the members are closer to the individual teachers. They can be very
helpful in the formation of ideas, and in developing public information
on the teachers' role and value as youth character builders in their
formative years.

COMMITTEE STRUCTURE STUDY

32

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Throughout this year many qualified members of Grand Lodge have
indicated a desire to serve Masonry but are being deprived of this opportunity. In the recommendation I am about to make I am mindful of the
quality of leadership and sound judgment in the present membership of
all our committees. Experience and mature judgment is important - but
if this Grand Lodge is to continue in its growth, and if it is to maintain
its high standard of leadership, that experience and maturity should be
more equitably distributed.
I therefore recommend that a special committee be appointed by the
incoming Grand Master to make a thorough study of our present overall
committee structure, their duties. activities, objectives, etc., with the
objective of consolidation where possible and the elimination of overlapping responsibilities.
No. 1
was questioned by the CommitClub
The Paradise Park Masonic
tee on Commercialism as to its right to use the word "Masonic" in the
Club's name.
Facts: Paradise Park Masonic Club was organized and formed
in 1921. Its location is in Santa Cruz, California. It has a total
membership of 399. 318 of whom are Master Masons and 81
Eastern Star members. It is strictly a Masonic Club for Masonic
fellowship and is in no way engaged in a commercial enterprise.
Its membership is limited to Masons and their families. An investigation disclosed no violation of Masonic law.
The answer is "Yes." Where the word "Masonic" in connection
with an association or club is not used for the purpose of advertising
a business or inducing the public to believe that a business is being
conducted under the auspices of the Masonic fraternity and whereas
here the Club is composed of Masons and is organized for Masonic
purposes and to further the aim and purpose of Masonry and is conducted by Masons and for the use and benefit of Masons then it may
use the word "Masonic."
DEc1s10N

No. 2
It appears that in some parts of our Jurisdiction, Secretaries' Associations have been formed in which the Lodge Secretaries of several
Lodges have joined together in an association on a voluntary basis to
promote and improve their mutual interests and work. This practice
has been in existence since 1911.
Three questions have been submitted in connection with the operation of these associations as follows:
1. Is the operation of such an association permissible under our
regulations?
DEc1s10N

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

33

2. May annual dues covering membership in such an association be paid from Lodge funds?
3. ~ar expenses of meals served at the meetings of these associatto?s of Secretaries and other Lodge Officers in attendance
be paid from Lodge funds?
.Th.e answer to all three questions is "yes" with the following specific
lim.1tattons:
O~ly the annual dues and reasonable expenses of the association
including a reasonab_le meal for the officers and Inspectors in actual
attendance can be paid out of Lodge funds. C.M.C. Sec. 110b.
DECISION No. 3
A Masoni~ Lodge asked permission for its members to organize one
or more bowling teams to compete with each other and with similar
teams from other Lodges and requested permission for the members of
such tea~s to wear upon their uniform or clothing the name and number of their Lodge and the Square and Compass.
The answer is "no." Sec. 333 C.M.C. a to k would seem to establish
clearly that such use of Masonic Insignia and/or names of Lodges is
contrary to Masonic Law and Policy.
DEas10N No. 1

A Ma~onic Lodge asked if it is proper and allowable under Masonic
Law to display the Square and Compass, the name and number of
th.e Masonic Lodge and address of the Lodge at the entrance to the
Oty and To~ where the Lodge exists.
The answer i~. "yes.". ~hile Section 333a to k does prohibit the
use of the nam~ Masomc and Masonic Insignia in connection with
allh~o~~ of busmess or commercial enterprises and also shows, games
a 1~1~1ons, etc., I ca~ see no sound reason why a Lodge should b~
proh1b1ted from notifying the public generally of its Name, Number
and 6treet address so that if a ~eary brother Mason should perchance
~ss by that .way he would be mformed that brother Masons dwelt in
at commumty and he could find them or their Lodge if he so d · d
Also, such pr~ctice wou!d give notice to the public generally tha:~~=r~
was a Masonic Lodge m that community.
5
baltGShrine Temple desires to sponsor a Pacific Coast League Basedzcul a;°le ~ndShrh~ve the Shrine buy out the field for one night then
k"
me membership by saying "See you at the Ball
arize t e
and lthen retain all monies taken in from both Shriners and non-S:r. rm
ers, ess cost for the Temple.
DECISION No.

p

The answer is "no." Section 333, C.M.C.

34

PROCEEDING S OF THE
COMMISSION ON MASONIC PRACTICES

At the outset of this Masonic Year I expressed to the Craft my deep
conviction that the time had come when the Fraternity in this Grand
Jurisdiction should subject its Masonic practices to a process of thorough
self-analysi s and self-evaluation in order that the objectives of Freemasonry might be attained in the best possible manner. This was not
to say that either those objectives, or the ancient landmarks which safeguard them, were the subject of concern, for their validity and worth
stand unchallenge d just as they have through the centuries. Rather, it
was a belief - largely based upon countless expressions of individual
Masons made to me, and supported by my own observation s - that
many current difficulties which are being experienced by the Fraternity
in this, as well as in other Grand Judsdictions , could be lessened or
eliminated by improving the practices now being used in the pursuit of
our objectives.
Acting upon my conviction, I therefore created a special Commission
on Masonic Practices and delegated to it the power and charged it with
the duty to inquire in my behalf into the Masonic Practices being followed in this Jurisdiction: the problems - if any- related to these
practices and the views of the Craft as well as any conclusion which
might be drawn by the Commission as to possible improvements which
might be made in our practices.
This has been, in fact, one of my main objectives for this Masonic
year. I repeated it in my message to the Craft in the summer, 1963, issue
of the California Freemason, from which I now quote again:
"Since the beginning of time, man has constantly undergone change.
Each succeeding generation changes. The works of man are progressive
because of this continuing change. Yesterday is not the same as today.
"Thomas Jefferson, one of our greatest Americans, said of change:
'I am not an advocate for frequent changes in laws and constitutions,
but laws and institutions must go hand in hand with the progress of the
human mind - as that becomes more developed, more enlightened. As
new discoveries are made, new truths revealed, as manners and opinions
change with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance in
order to keep pace with the times.'
" 'For civilized society, or even segments of society, to remain stagnant is to remain "under the regimen of their barbarous ancestors." A
pool becomes stagnant because no fresh water enters in. Finally it becomes dogged with its own algae, and dries up, and is no longer a pool.
It is this stagnation which we should guard against - and the inevitable drying up which follows.'
"Masonry has oSuffered through many wars and much bloodshed:
through plague and poverty: through degradation and even oblivion,
but it has always risen to greet another sunrise! Can our generation do

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35

less t~a~ ou.r forbears? Can we, through apathy, permit stagnation
when it is within our power to open the floodgates and loose a rush of
clear water to revitalize the pool?"
This Commission, together with its associates and with the assistance
of large numbers of the Craft, has worked with great diligence during
t~e past year. In that time it has received and analyzed some 8,000 individual. resp~nses to questionnair es and has conducted over 2,500 per~onal intervie~s with Masons throughout the entire jurisdiction, including many soioumers.
Its firs~ Repo.rt has now been made and delivered to me. It constitutes a trail-blazing study made in some depth and to a degree which I
believe to be unique. I regard this Report as of such stature and importa.nce th~t I a~prove and adopt it in its entirety, and have ordered
that it be printed in full and made available today to every constituent
Lodge.
The~e are two basic matters relating to this Report which I wish to
emphasize.

The .first is .that the Report does not attempt to prescribe any quick
and easy solution for those areas of Masonic practice with which the
Rep~rt deals. In. fact, the Report neither prescribes nor recommends any
specific change in our practices. The whole approach and philosophiy
of ~he Report has been - on the contrary - to identify and define a
s~ries. of Masonic practices which apparently need more enthusiastic
direction on the local level.
. The Commission's own statement on the nature of its Report makes
this very clear. It ·s ays:
"Th~ obje~ti~~ of the Commission in this present Report is in reality
to submit an initial set of facts and opinions concerning the state of
Freemasonr y in this Jurisdiction, to the end that full discussion and
further <Study may assist in formulating measures which will commend
themselves to the Craft for general acceptance. ''
. In my opinion, the Commission has succeeded superlatively in achievin~ this announced objective, and has produced what I am sure the Craft
will recognize as an objective and highly thought-pro voking work.
This leads me to the second basic comment which I wish to make on
the Commission's Report.
This comment is to call attention to the fact that it is now up to the
Craft, up. to every officer and up to every member, to familiarize themselves with the c~ntents of this Report, to discuss freely its many
references to possible courses of remedial action, and then to act with
courage and .imagination in experimenting with the uoSe of various
courses of actl?n a~ fits their own local conditions. Very few of these
courses of action involve any need for legislation by Grand Lodge,

36

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

almost all of them being of the nature which any Lodge can put into
operation by action of its Master, Officers and its members.
And lest there be any hesitancy in putting into immediate operation,
at least on an experimental basis, any or all of the courses of action
described in the Commission's Report which do not involve legislation,
I strongly urge that every Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction feel both
free and obligated to ascertain by actual trial which of the various
courses of action may prove most effective. After all, the acid test of
any study is to subject it to experimental operation. Only then can we
find those measures which by their fruits will have proved their validity.
Given a year of such experimentation, the Craft may well be in a position next year to come to conclusions which might then be applied profitably throughout the entire Jurisdiction.
Finally, I express my earnest hope that the work of this Special
Commission will be continued, both to collaborate with the Lodges
throughout a year of experimental action in many directions, an~ to
develop and present to the Fraternity a fudher report upon areas of
Masonic practices in respect to which it has already gathered much
material.
To my Commissioners I express my deep gratitude for their unstinting devotion and distinguished service. They have done well the
extremely difficult task to which they were assigned.
And so, brethren, I close this accounting of my stewardship for this
past year, as your Grand Master, a year whose memories, thanks to all
of you, I shall always hold close to my heart.

~~
IRA w.
COBURN,

Grand Master

The message was received with a standing ovation and was referred
by the Deputy Grand Master to the Committee on Distribution.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

37

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OP GRAND LoDGE

1962
October 13-Re-Constitution Ceremony, Luther Burbank Lodge No.
752.
October 20--Cornerstone Ceremony, Patterson Lodge No. 188, Patterson.
November 2-Constitution, Scepter Lodge No. 808, Sacramento.
November 9--'Constitution, Woodland Hills Lodge No. 811, Canoga
Park.
November 10 - Cornerstone Ceremony, George Schurr Junior High
School. Montebello.
November 17-Comerstone Ceremony, New Wing of the Seaside Hospital, Crescent City.
November 23-Constitution, Victoria Palms Lodge No. 810, Riverside.
November 21-Cornerstone Ceremony, New City Safety Hall of Redlands County Building, Redlands.
1963
January 1-Constitution. Los Alamitos Lodge No. 809, Santa Ana.
January 5---'Cornerstone Ceremony, New Carpinteria High School. Carpinteria.
January 5-Cornerstone Ceremony, Hollister Elementary School. Goleta.
January 26-Cornerstone Ceremony, New City and County Building,
Dos Palos-( Elmer W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
February 9-Cornerstone Ceremony, Indian Wells Valley Lodge No.
691, Ridgecrest.
March 8-Cornerstone Ceremony, Bixby Knolls Christian Church, Long
Beach.
March 9--Cornerstone Ceremony, Art Haycox Elementary School, Port
Hueneme.
March 29-Cornerstone Ceremony, Coachella Valley Masonic Temple,
Coachella.
April 6-Cornerstone Ceremony, George Primrose Temple, Sacramento.
April 21---'Cornerstone Ceremony, John R. Peterson Elementary School.
Huntington Beach.
April 27-Cornerstone Ceremony, Los Molinas High School. Los Molinas.
April 27-Cornerstone Ceremony, Woodrow Wilson School. Gridley.
April 27~Cornerstone Ceremony, Cole Avenue Elementary School.
Highland-( Elmer W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
June 22-Cornerstone Ceremony, Westchester Lodge No. 703, Playa
del Rey.
July 13-Cornerstone Ceremony. Oakdale Masonic Temple, Oakdale.
July 19-Cornerstone Ceremony, Canyon Elementary School, Newport
Beach.

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

July 19-Cornerstone Ceremony, Paularino Elementary School. Newport Beach.
July 19-Cornerstone Ceremony, Woodland Elementary School, Newport Beach.
August 3-Cornerstone Ceremony, Mt. Oso Lodge No. 460, Tracy.
August 31-Cornel'stone Ceremony, Unity Lodge No. 368, Glendale( Guy B. Mize, Past Grand Master).
September 14-Cornerstone Ceremony, Donald S. Jordan Intermediate
School. Garden Grove.
September 14-Cornerstone Ceremony, Westwood High School, Westwood-( Theodore Meriam, Senior Grand Warden).
September 14-Cornerstone Ceremony, Glendora Lodge No. 404, Glendora.
September 28-Cornerstone Ceremony-Manhattan Beach Elementary
School. Manhattan Beach.
September 28-Cornerstone Ceremony, Public Library, Temple City.
October 5-Cornerstone Ceremony, California Scottish Rite Temple,
San Francisco.
SPECIAL CEREMONIES

1962
November 17-Dedication, New High School, Middletown-(Wakefield Taylor).
November 29-Dedication, Orosi High School, Orosi.
1963
January 24-Dedication, Buena Park Masonic Temple, Buena Park.
March 22-Dedication, C. B. Covell Memorial Temple, Hemet.
April 24-Dedication, Bloomington High School, Bloomington-( Elmer
W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
April 26-Dedication, Twentynine Palms Senior High School. Twentynine Palms-( Elmer W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
May 3-Dedication, San Gorgonio Masonic Temple, Banning-( Elmer
W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
June 2-Dedication, Soulsbyville Elementary School, Soulsbyville (Theodore Meriam, Senior Grand Warden).
June 12-Dedication, Liberty Lodge No. 299, Santa Clara.
June 26-Dedication, C. Fred Schroeder School, Westminster-( Elmer
W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
July 20-Dediaction, Masonic Burial Plot, Oakdale.
August 24-Dedication, Natoma Lodge No. 64, Folsom.
September 7-Dedication, Centennial Plaque, Mission Lodge No. 169,
San Francisco.
September 14-Dedication, Peter Lassen's Grave (Plaque). Susanville
-(Theodore Meriam, Senior Grand Warden).
September 21-Dedication, Monte Vista Elementary School, Vista( Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden) .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

1962
November 24-lnstitution, Mount Baldy Lodge U.D., Ontario.
1963
May I-Institution, Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge, U.D., Los Angeles( Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden).
October 4-lnstitution, Manhattan Lodge U.D .. El Segundo.
October 7-lnstitution, William B. Ogden Lodge U.D., Hollywood( Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden).
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

1962
October 12-Dinner, Auspices Doric Lodge No. 216, San Francisco.
October 14-Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
October 16-Annual Meeting, Grand Chapter Order of the Eastern
Star, Oakland.
October 19-Reception, Santa Clara Masonic Officers A·ssociation, San
Jose.
October 20-Convention, California Association of High Twelve Clubs,
Sacramento--( Harold N. Richards, Assistant Grand Lecturer).
October 21-Breakfast, San Mateo County Masonic Officers Association, San Mateo.
October 28-Breakfast, Sacramento Board of Relief, Sacramento.
October 25-Reception, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
November 3-DeMolay, LOH Investiture, San Francisco.
November 7-Annual Meeting, Grand Guardian Council of the International Order of Job's Daughters, Riverside-( Myron E. Smith,
Junior Grand Warden) .
November 8-Reception, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260, San Francisco.
November 14-Reception, California Scottish Rite Bodies, San Francisco.
November 16-lslam Temple Shrine Show, San Francisco.
November 17-Laying of wreath on grave of Sachet Woods, Crescent
City.
November 21-Meeting, National Sojourners, Monterey.
December 1~Grand Lecturer's Conference, Sacramento.
December 7-Confederation of Grand Lodges of the Republic of Mexico, Tijuana-( Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden).
December 8-Reception, University of California Masonic Clubhouse,
Berkeley.
December 26-lnstallation of Officers, Mission Lodge No. 169, San
Francisco.
December 27-lnstallation of Officers, California Lodge No. 1, San
Francisco.

40

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1963
January 5-lnstalla tion of Officers, 504th Masonic District, Lancaster.
January 11----.Meeting with Division Five, Masters, Wardens and Inspectors, Commission on Masonic Practices, Pasadena.
January 12-Meeti ng with Division 1, Masters, Wardens and Inspectors, Commission on Masonic Practices, Redding.
January 14-Recep tion, Doric Lodge No. 216, San Francisco.
January 18-Recep tion, 360th Masonic District, Pittsburg.
January 19-Maso nic Homes Board Meeting, Union City.
January 21-Recep tion, 319th & 320th Districts, Richmond.
January 30-Meet ing with Division 2, Masters, Wardens and Inspectors, Commission on Masonic Practices, Sacramento.
January 31-Meeti ng with Division 3, Masters, :""arde~s and Inspectors, San Francisco, Commission on Masonic Practices.
February 2---!Meeting with Division 6, M.asters, W ~rdens and Inspectors, Commission on Masonic Practices. San Diego.
February 4-Guest Speaker, Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies, Oakland.
February 7-Recept ion, Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403, Oakland.
March I-Installa tion of the 1963 Officers of the Masonic Pres·s Club
of Los Angeles, Beverly Hills.
.
March 2-Annua l Meeting, Southern California Past Masters Association, Los Angeles.
March 3-Westw ood Hills Christian Church Service, Los Angeles.
March 4-Meetin g, Golden Gate Commandery, San Mat~.
March 7-Grand Masters Night, Islam Temple, San Francisco.
March 9-Recept ion, Los Angeles Masonic Clubhouse. Los An~eles.
March 10-Break fast, Long Beach Masonic Board of Relief, Long
Beach.
March 16--Aahm es Masonic Night, Oakland.
March 17-Break fast, East Bay Masonic Spring Breakfast , Oakland.
March 18-Recep tion. 336th District, San Francisco.
March 23-Maso nic Homes Board Meeting, Covina.
March 23-Recep tion, Pasadena Scottish Rite Bodies, Pas~dena.
March 24-Break fast, 31st Annual Employm ent Service Breakfast,
Hollywood.
March 29-30-31 -Sixth Division Conference.
March 15-Recep tion. 646th Masonic District, El Cen!ro.
April 5-Recept ion, Balder Lodge No. 393, San Francisco.
April 6--Sacram ento Masters and Wardens Dinner, Sacramento.
April 7-Breakf ast, Sacramen to Masonic Board of Re~ief, Sacra~ento ..
April 11-Maun dy Thursday Service, San Francisco Scottish Rite
Bodies, San Francisco, message by Grand Master.
April 8-Grand Assembly, Order of the Rainbow for Girls-( Elmer W.
Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
April 16--Dinn er and Reception, Berkeley Mastel'S and Wardens Association, Berkeley.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

41

April 19-20-21 -Fifth Division Conference.
April 22-Visita tion, Palo Alto Chapter, Order of DeMolay, Palo Alto
(Verne W. Hendrix, Assistant Grand Secretary ).
May 4-lnitiati on Dinner and Ball, Masonic Clubhouse, Berkeley ( Theodore Meriam, Senior Grand Warden) .
May 3-4-5-Th ird Division Conference, Santa Rosa.
May 8-Recept ion-392n d and 394th Masonic Districts, Monterey .
May 17-Eleve nth Annual Masonic Sabbath Service, Tifereth Israel
Synagogue, San Diego-( Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand
Warden) .
May 18-En route to Hawaii.
May 20-Visit to the S. S. Arizona, Honolulu.
May 20-Recep tion, Honolulu Lodges, Hawaiian No. 21, le Progres de
l'Oceanie No. 371, Honolulu No. 409, Pearl Harbor No. 598 and
Waikiki No. 774.
May 22-Meeti ng with Hawaiian Lodges, Commission on Masonic
Practices, Honolulu.
May 23-Recep tion, Maui Lodge No. 472, Maui.
May 24-Recep tion, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo.
May 27-Recep tion, Koolau Lodge No. 801, Kailua.
June 1-Joint Meeting, California Research Lodges, Fresno-( Elmer
W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
June 7-Recept ion, 116th and 1l7th Masonic Districts, Paradise.
June 14-15-16- -First and Second Division Conference, Bijou.
June 15-Recep tion 500th & 502nd Masonic Districts, Bridgeport.
June 21-Annu al Beefsteak Feed, Inglewood.
June 23-Groun dbreaking Ceremony. Hermosa Lodge No. 557, Hermosa Beach.
June 25-Lunch eon, High Twelve Internatio nal Club, San Diego.
June 25-Recep tion, 388th Masonic District, Santa Cruz.
June 28-Gran d Bethel of Jobs Daughters . Oakland -( Theodore
Meriam, Senior Grand Warden) .
June 28-Recep tion, 622nd, 624th and 626th Masonic Districts, Long
Beach.
June 30--Break fast, Orange County, Anaheim.
July 12-Recep tion, 366th Masonic District, San Leandro.
July 19-Recep tion, San Diego Officers Association, San Diego.
July 20--Recep tion, 620th and 621st Masonic Districts, San Pedro.
July 21-Break fast, 606th, 610th and 618th Masonic Districts, Ontario.
August 10-Maso nic Practices Commission Meeting, Districts No. 300.
301, 302, 304 and 306, Garberville.
August 15-Recep tion, Texas Lodge No. 46, San Juan Batista.
August 20-Testim onial Dinner, Clarence L. Fraser, Inspector 424th
Masonic District, Dinuba.
September 9-P·r esentation of a Fifty Year Veteran Button to Arthur
Paulsen, Past Grand Master, Weavervi lle.

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

September 13-Constit ution Observance Program, 629th Masonic District, Anaheim.
September 15-Breakfa st, 4 l 8th Masonic District, Masters and Wardens Association, Fresno.
September 18-Willow Glen Officer's Association Annual BBQ, San
Jose.
September 21-Constit ution Observance Program, East Bay Master's
and Warden's Association, Oakland.
ANNIVERSARIES
1962
October 24-75th Anniversary , South West Lodge No. 283, National
City-( Elmer W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master) .
.
October 25-Golden Anniversary , York Lodge No. 423, Huntington
Park.
1963
April 13-Centenn ial Celebration, Keystone Lodge No. 161, Milton.
May 4-Golden Anniversary , Claremont Lodge No. 436, Claremont ( Elmer W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master).
.
.
June 8-Centenn ial Celebration, Harmony Lodge No. 164, Sierra City.
August 17_.JCentennial Celebration, Redwood City Lodge No. 168,
Redwood City.
August 31-Centen nial Celebration, Alameda Lodge No. 167, Fremont.
September 7-Centenn ial Celebration , Mission Lodge No. 169, San
Francisco.
September 11-Centenn ial Celebration, Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San
Francisco.
V1s1TATIONS BY GRAND LoDGE OFFICERS TO OTHER
GRAND JURISDICTIONS
1962
November 11-12-13-1 4-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of
Nevada-( Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden).
December 11-Grand Lodge of Japan.
December 9-21-Gran d Lodge of the Philippines.
1963
February 20-21-22-C onference of Grand Master~ of North A~erica
and Annual Meeting of The George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, Washington , D.C.-(Gra nd Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary).
April 22-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona-( Senior
Grand Warden Theodore Meriam) .
June 12-Annual Communic ation-Gran d Lodge of Oregon-El mer
W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master.
Oct. 4-5-Annua l Communication, Grand Lodge of Illinois-( Edward
H. Siems, P.G.M. and Grand Secretary).

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPT ED MASONS
OF CALIFOR NIA
IRA W. COBURN
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION- DEMOLAY WEEK
March 17-24, 1963
Roger Babson is quoted as having said: "The real safeguard of the
world's treasure is the character now being implanted in the young men
and women who will ·soon become its custodians - or despoilers." Many
forces are competing today for the minds and energies of our youth.
For California Masoncy, the Order of DeMolay offers a golden opportunity and a constructive plan to guide our youth along the road to
good citizenship and useful lives, and to become clear-thinking men
of good character.
DeMolay is founded on Masonic principles, and teaches love of
parents, belief in our Supreme Being and fidelity. In addition it promotes
comradeship. courtesy, dean living, patriotism and championship of our
public school system. The intrinsic value of DeMolay training is evidenced by the high percentage of former DeMolays who occupy positions of leadership - not only in Masonry, but in business and public
life.
Our Grand Lodge has adopted a policy of encouraging the development of this youth organization - indeed many of our Lodges now
sponsor and SUJ>port DeMolay Chapters in their communities. To those
Lodges desiring to have a part in building for the future, I suggest this
worthwhile opportunity : that of working with our vibrant young people.
Surely few opportunitie s are more rewarding! Individual members of
our Lodges can encourage DeMolay by assisting in the formation of new
Chapters when the need exists, and by supporting the whole program.
Therefore, to aid this most worthy activity, I hereby proclaim the
week of March 17-24, 1963, as DeMolay Week in this Jurisdiction, and
each Lodge is directed to give due notice of this Proclamation in its
March bulletin. I further direct that this Proclamatio n be read at the
February and March Stated Meetings.
Dated: January 22, 1963
Fraternally youm,
IRA w. COBURN
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORN IA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORN IA

IRA W. COBURN
GRAND MASTER

45

IRA W. COBURN
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION

PROCLAMATJON

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

FORTY-FOURTH ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

"Blessed is the man who seeth his brother's need and supplieth it."
Our Masonic Homes Endowment Fund translates this thought into
positive action by the care of our cherished ones in the Home for
Children at Covina, and the Home for the Aged at Union City._ Through
our contributions to the Fund we are living our Masonic teachmgs. Our
love and concern reflect our thinking as Masons.
With living costs continuing to rise, and with the population of our
Homes increasing, the need is greater than it has ever been. A const~nt
growth of our Homes Endowment Fund will help in assuring our meeting
these growing needs as they develop.
Let each of us as Masons remember the many blessings we have received and enjoy. Let each of us strive to do more this year than ever
before. Let each of us show by his generous contribution that because
of these blessings we have "an understanding heart."
It is directed that this Proclamation be read at the April and May
Stated Meetings, and I urge that a copy hereof be sent to each of your
members.
Dated: February 1, 1963
Fraternally yours,
IRA w. COBURN
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

Alexander Pope wrote: "'Tis education forms the common mind;
as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined."
Generations ago our forefathers recognized the importance of a
free public schools system. Through the years our splendid system of
American public schools has grown in almost unbelievable fashion. It
has developed millions of boys and girls in the fundamentals of good
citizenship, love of freedom and pride of country.
The week of April 22-26, 1963, has been designated as "Public
Schools Week," and our theme for this forty-fourth annual event is:
"OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS - SYMBOLS OF FREEDOM."
As individual Masons, and as citizens, we can and should occupy
ourselves with the perpetuation of this system. We should indeed consider ourselves as guardians of a sacred trust - remaining ever vigilant
- lest this heritage of our children be lost to those who have threatened
to "bury us."
In California, School Boards are practically autonomous. They
employ the adJDinistrators who employ the teachers who, in turn, directly affect our youth. We have a never-ending interest, therefore, in the
composition of these Boards. Let us take an active part in our respective
communities by electing those whose interests are compatible with our
historical freedoms, and let none of their actions go unobserved! Let us
interest ourselves, as citizens, in the year-round activity of our schools
and, as Masons, publicly display our concern by taking active parts
in our local observance of Public Schools Week.
I direct that only Stated Meetings or those for Public Schools Week
observance be held during Public Schools Week.
This proclamation is to be read at the Stated Meetings held in the
months of March and April, 1963.
Dated: February 15, 1963
Fraternally yom:~.
IRA W. COBURN
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

46

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEP TED MASON S
OF CALIFO RNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEP TED MASON S
OF CALIFO RNIA
IRA W. COBURN
GRAND MASTER

IRA W. COBURN
GRAND MASTER

PROCLAMATION
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH

PROCLAMATION
LET FREEDOM RING
July of 1776, 187 years ago, saw the D~l~ration of In~ependence
approved by the Continent al Congress. Thi·s is democracy s greatest
proclamation.
The Masons of California , proud of their heritage, join with all
citizens of the United States of America in observing the anniversa ry
of signing the Declaratio n of Independe nce by
I. Ringing of bells in our respective communities and cities th~ough~
out California at the hour of 2:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on
the Fourth of July, and
2. To call upon civic and community leaders to take appropria te
steps to encourage public participation in such observance.
In this spirit, I call on every Lodge to arrange a suitable o.hs~rvance
of the anniversa ry of Independe nce Day, including (hut not limited to)
the reading of the Declaratio n of Independe nce at the July Stated Meet~
ing.
This Proclamat ion is to be read at the June Stated Meeting.
Dated: May 10, 1963
Fraternall y youris,
IRA w. COBURN
Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

47

The United States Constituti on is one of the unique contributions
the American people have made to the art of government. In a profound
distrust of tyranny, it grants power hut also limits power. It will live
through the ages as our great charter of freedom. Born out of hardship
and sacrifice, it is the finest instrumen t of human liberty ever conceived.
This memorable document, the work of the Fathers of our Country,
was signed by thirty~nine rare and gifted men, twenty~three of whom
were known or believed to he Masons. It became the law of our land
on September 17, 1787 - just one hundred seventy~six years ago this
September. Today, when our great accomplishments as a Nation and
our system of governme nt are under world~wide scrutiny, the written
Constitution stirs the patriotism of every loyal American and fires the
imagination of the world.
I therefore proclaim Septembe r to be Constituti on Observan ce Month
and direct every Lodge in this jurisdiction to commemorate the Constitu~
tion with a public observanc e held on a date as close as possible to the
aniversary date of Septembe r 17th. This is best done by a group of
Lodges or Districts, in conjunctio n with service clubs or other public
organizations. It is important that the Constituti on Observan ce be a
community event, under ·Masonic sponsor>Ship, with the public invited.
My Brethren, give your attention to the words of Thomas Jefferson:
"IN QUESTI ONS OF POWER, LET NO MORE BE
SAID OF CONFID ENCE IN MAN. BUT BIND HIM
DOWN FROM MISCHIE F BY THE CHAINS OF
THE CONSTI TUTION .''
This proclamation shall be read at the August and Septembe r Stated
Meetings of every constituen t Lodge.
Dated: June 20, 1963
Fraternall y youM,

Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

IRA W. COBURN
Grand Master

48

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
IRA W. COBURN
GRAND MASTER

EDICT

To the Constituent Lodges of the Grand Jurisdiction of California,
Free and Accepted Masons
In order to provide Cuban Masonic Brethren residing in California
with the opportunity to hold Masonic communication and visit Lodges
of this Grand Jurisdiction, I have directed the Grand Secretary to make
provision for these Brethren to pay their dues to him. This money will
be held in trust until such time as the Cuban Lodges and the Grand
Lodge of Cuba are again able to function, without outside in8uence,
as the Supreme Masonic authority in that jurisdiction, possessing all
the attributes of sovereignty and government - legislative, executive
and judicial - and limited only by a strict adherence to the Ancient
Landmarks of the Order and by the provisions of its own Constitution
and Regulations.
To qualify for payment of dues the Brother must:
1. Fill out a form, to be furnished on request by the Grand Secretary, entitled "Request for Acceptance of Dues in Trust for
The Most Worshipful Grand Logia de Cuba, A. F. & A. M."
2. Attach to this form his last dues receipt and present in person
to the Grand Secretary at 1111 California St., San Francisco 8.
3. Pay a sufficient amount, based on dues formerly collected by his
Lodge, to place him in good standing to the end of the current
calendar year (December 31, 1963).
4. In return he will receive a letter of acknowledgment signed by
the Grand Master, attested to by the Grand Secretary, stating
that his dues are paid to December 31, 1963. The original dues
receipt will be returned to the applicant.
In addition to the aforesaid requirements, any applicant desiring
recognition, admission to or affiliation with a California Lodge shall
also be subject to a complete, careful and thorough Masonic examination by a special committee of not less than three ( 3) members, said
committee to be appointed by the Master of such Lodge. It is pointed out
that an applicant must prove he is a Mason before he can visit a Lodge.
Hence, it is up to the examining committee to satisfy itself that the
applicant is qualified.
Should an applicant wish to pay Ms dues to a local Lodge, due to
the distance from San Francisco, he must:

49

a. Tender his last dues receipt and cash as outlined in steps 1 through
3 above to the Secretary of the local Lodge.
b. The Secretary will send it to the Grand Secretary, certifying that
he personally witnessed the signature on the application referred
to in step 1.
c. The Grand Secretary will make the proper record and return the
original dues receipt of the applicant with the letter of acknowledgment listed in step 4 above.
This Edict is to be read at the next Stated Meeting of all Constituent
Lodges in the Grand Jurisdiction of California after receipt hereof.
Dated: Maiy 10, 1963
Fraternally yours,
IRA W. COBURN

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

SUMMARY REMARKS BY ROBERT B. WATTS,
CHAIRMAN OF GRAND MASTER'S SPECIAL
COMMISSION ON MASONIC PRACTICES
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Past Grand Masters, Distinguished
Guests, and Members of the Grand Lodge:
In response to the invitation and direction of the Most Worshipful,
there are a few brief comments which I should like to make in behalf of
the Grand Master'·s Special Commission on Masonic Practices.
First of all is the expression of the Commission's deep gratitude for
the unive11sal enthusiasm and assistance which has been extended by the
entire Craft throughout the past year. To a considerable degree, the
Commission has been operating in uncharted areas of Masonic inquiry.
and has therefore particularly benefitted from your wise guidance and
cooperation.
Next, I should like to point out that the Commission's flrst report which has heretofore been flled and will be in your hands today - is not
a presentation of the theories or proposals of the Commission, but is, to
the best of our ability to make it so, an accurate reflection of facts relating
tu Masonic practices as California Masons see them - and a presenta-

50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tioo of multiple possible courses of action which, in the opinion of various
members of the Craft, would serve to improve those practices and
strengthen our beloved Fraternity.
One inevitable result of this characteristic of the Commission's report
is, therefore, that it will present no startling and heretofore unheard-of
suggestions. It is distinctly not a magic formula which, taken painlessly
after meals, will cure all or any of the current problems which beset our
Order. On the other hand, we believe that it does eliminate much guesswork and former speculation, and does lay out, in respect to a series of
important Masonic problems, speciflc alternative means of attacking
each problem, each of which alternatives has sufficiently commended
itself to many of our members to result in its inclusion in the Commission's report.
The Commission makes no selections among these proposals. It submits them for thought, for discussion and above all for actual experimentation by the various Lodges as they may choose. It believes that
this method of proof by trial is the surest means of flnding those new
approaches which by their success may then result in their general
adoption. Almost none of the proposed lines of remedial action require
legislation. Most of them may be put in operation at will by the officers
of Lodges or by simple action of the Lodges themselves. In short, the
Commission presents the leaders of the Craft with tools suggested by
their fellows - and leaves to them the selection and use of those tools
in their own Masonic labors.
Finally, the Commission wishes to say that its consultive services are
at the disposal of the Craft - both during this session, at Committee
Room No. 8 on the Registration Floor, and throughout the coming year
at your call. It is eager to see the freest possible experimentation by the
Lodges and equally eager to aid in such endeavors.
Most Worshipful, for myself and my fellow Commissioners, let me
thank you most sincerely for the wonderful opportunity and experience
which you have given us by having selected us for our task and by
having supported us as you have. We only hope that our performance
may reflect in some small measure the magniflcent vision and courage
with which you laid down the design upon the trestle-board, and that
the work which you have begun will long continue to the beneflt of
every Master Mason.

51

REPORT OF GRAND MASTER'S
SPECIAL COMMISSION ON MASONIC PRACTICES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
In his flrst message to the Craft, Grand Master Ira W. Coburn
sounded a tocsin which has electrifled the entire membership of the
Grand Jurisdiction of California. He said, "Freemasonry may be
likened to a reposing titan - a large body having a g·reat potential, but
not making full use of its inherent power. . . . How do we transform
this potential strength into a vigorous, positive, constructive and dynamic
fol"ce for good?" He then implemented his observation and question by
establishing directly under himself a Special Commission, charging
it with its mission in the following stirring words: "Now we must
take action. We must be alert and call to our assistance every Freemason - so that the real facts may be discovered which we hope will
make a valuable contribution to our future prosperity and growth." 1
Here was a bold design, drawn in sweeping strokes of great simplicity upon the trestleboard by a Master Craftsman who has implicit faith
in the capacity and readiness of his Masonic brethren to follow that
design in strengthening and further adorning the structure of Freemasonry.
And to this design, ever most careful always to remain inquirers and
not advocates nor partisans, the Special Commission on Masonic Practices has devoted itself continuously since its formation last October.
No written words can possibly convey adequately the extent to
which the Commission is indebted to the Craft for the magniflcent and
hearty cooperation which it has received in its largely unprecedented
search for facts, opinions and suggestions. From the most newly raised
Master Mason to the most experienced and distinguished Grand officer
and Past Grand officer, few indeed have been the brethren who have
failed to respond most willingly to aniy inquiry or request directed to
them by the Commission.
The Grand Secretary and his entire staff have been unceasing and
unstinting in making available to the Commission, often at real
sacriflce because of their own heavy burdens, the full resources of the
Grand Secretary's office, with its accumulated wisdom and experience
of many years.
Finally, but only that the last in mention may be the flrst in honor,
the Commission most gratefully acknowledges the enthusiastic support,
without which its task would have been hopeless, of the Grand Lecturer,
the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the corps of Inspectors.
With the aid of those mentioned, and with the active participation
Note 1. See Appendix "A" for details on the composition of the Special Commission.

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master and the Grand
Wardens, the Commission has undertaken to use every practical means
to ascertain what the entire Craft feels about the basic problems presented. There has never been put in question the soundness of Freemasonry;
the inquiry has been exclusively as to its practice in this Grand Jurisdiction.
In an attempt to secure otherwise unavailable statistics as well as the
opinions and suggestions of every present Master, the Commission pcepared a special questionnaire which went to everiy Master. And to
spot-check all other members, another and more general questionnaire
was prepared and distributed to ten persons (officers, members or
sojourners) in each Lodge. The tabulation and compilation of this huge
mass of material has been accomplished on a selective item basis for
purposes of the present report. 2 Further use of this data as it relates
to subject matters not discussed in this report will be made later.
Next, and in order to double-check on spot questionnaire results, the
Commissioners and their Associates have personally travelled all over
their Divisions, including Hawaii, and have conducted private interviews with members of a great many Lodges. While always confidential,
these interviews have at times been attended by officers of the Lodges
involved - a fact which has brought about concrete results which
will be discussed later. The information secured from these interviews,
supplemented by the contents of many letters sent to the Commission,
has been integrated with questionnaire results for the purpose of this
report. The Commission is of the opinion that the resulting combined
data presents a fair cross-section of the present thinking of the Craft. 8
The objective of the Commission in this present report is in reality
to submit an initial set of facts and opinions concerning the state of Freemasonry in this jurisdiction, to the end that full discussion and further
study may assist in formulating measures which will commend themselves to the Craft for general acceptance. The Commission therefore
makes no specific recommendations in this report for immediate action,

even though it believes that the facts which it is reporting may be highly
persuasive of experimental action on the part of many of the constituent
Lodges or of the Grand Lodge itself.
Nothing in its report is intended by the Commission as a personal
criticism of any individual or part of the Fraternity. To the extent that
critical comments are reflected, the reflection is the result of serious and
unbiased research and careful reporting and is offered as the starting
point for remedial action. The Commission most earnestly warns that
in its opinion there is no one sovereign remedy for such lack of Masonic
vigor as may now appear. The conditions which it will present are
relatively easy of identification but generally complex in contributing
causes and hence often complex in the remedial action required.
The Commission is delighted to report certain concrete results of
the Grand Master's program which have come about as the Commission
has proceeded with its work. The first and most thrilling is that practically the entire membership of the Fraternity in this jurisdiction is now
thinking and talking about their Masonic practices with tremendous
interest. This enthusiasm and quick response from the heart to the
Grand Master's call to bestir the sleeping giant is in itself convincing
proof of an aroused vitality which proves the basic soundness and
power of our Masonry.
Secondly, the Commission notes with the greatest satisfaction that
the Grand Master's challenge is being met with a surge of enthusiasm
and special activity on the part of Grand Lodge officers and Grand
Lodge Committees, all seeking means by which their several functions
can better serve the needs of the Craft. 4
Perhaps of even greater significance is the fact that without awaiting either the making of this report or the occurence of any formal
action resulting from it, many of the constituent Lodges are already
putting into operation various ideas with which they have come in
contact while working with the Commission. 5 Here again is proof of
the inherent strength of the Craft once it is aroused to the existence

Note 2. The re6Ulting statistics to which reference will be made in this report are not
exact because of the failure of some Masters and some others to furnish complete answers to questions. In other instances, especially in relation to age9'.!'0UP distribution, the responses of many Masters are patently estimates only.
The Commission is, however, convinced that the trends shown are accurate.
Note 3. The Commission has noted and studied prior excellent reports in the same
general field by M.W. Dwight L. Smith, P.G.M., Grand Secretary, Indiana;
by R.W. Bro. T. M. Spencer, D.G.M., Grand ~ge of Saskatchewan; and by
the Committee on Masonic Education, Grand Lodge of Arkansas, 1956 Proceedingi;. A most stimulating presentation is by our own Senior Grand Warden,
R.W. Theodore Meriam, entitled "If Freemasonry Is Good, Let's Talk About
It" (1961). Masonic Information Committee.

53

Note 4. Outstanding examples are the new publications prepared for coaches and
candidates by the Grand Lecturer; and the pamphlet "What Can a Mason Tell
a Non-Mason About Freemasonry," written by Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand
Lecturer and published by the COmmittee on Masonic Education.
Note 5. Perhaps one of the finest examples of "action against Interest" for the greater
good of Masonry Is the voluntary institution by one Master of a procedure
whereby he writes personally to Masters in other areas to which his members
have moved, giving their names and addresses and urging that they be asked to
affiliate in their new locality. This may, indeed, be one of the most productive
ideas which will emerge from the present study ..
Another stimulating report comes from a Lodge which has already formed
a speakers gro:iip and Is volunteering to speak to non-Masonic groups in its
community on MaSOlll'}'.

54

55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of specific problems. The Commission salutes these "self-starters" and
congratulates them on their courage and vigor.
Indeed, if nothing more were accomplished than these revitalizing
effects, the Grand Master's program would have fully justified his action.
Yet these are but the first fruits.
Moving now to a view of Masonry in this Grand Judsdiction, it is
believed that before all else there should be examined the facts relating
to our membership, viewed for long range significance against the backdrop of the past and further evaluated by new data presented for the first
time in this report.
Starting with the past, 6 the membership data appears as follows
1924 - 108,173 members; 1 year increase: 7.590
1929 - 138,652
..
.. ..
..
4,350
1934 - 132,331
loss
4,363
1939 - 126,739
loss
117
1944 - 138,738
increase: 9,228
19477 - 173,917
12,165
1954 - 219,664
6,025
1959 - 240,128
2,474
1963 - 244.494
;
:
252
As one comparative yardstick, the population statistics over ten-year
periods from 1930 to 1960, as reported by the United States census for
California and Hawaii, are as follows:
1930:
California
5,677,251
Hawaii
358,336
1940:
California
6,907,387
Hawaii
423,330
1950:
California
10.586,223
Hawaii
499,794
1960:
15,717,204*
California
Hawaii
632,772

Grand Secretary's records, show that over the past 10 years we have
suffered losses by reason of suspension for non-payment of dues and
from death. as follows:

•A California population of 24,800,000 by 1975 was predicted on May 8, 1963 by the
California State Treasurer.

Obviously. our ratio of members to population has decreased during
this decade. But equally obviously, we have not yet peaked on total
membership.
Further significant figures bearing upon memberships, from the
Note 6. The sources of statistics presented are the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge for
the years cited.
Note 7. Peak year of inaease.

N.P.D.
Death

1953 1954 1955

1956

871
3386

980
3765

910
3582

1053
3676

1957 1958
(llmos.)
976
3669

1058
4087

1959

1960

1961

1962

1270
4219

1413
4411

1449
4475

1514
4633

In both instances it will be noted that these loss factors have been
steadily moving up.
We come now to current statistical data, mostly entirely new, for
purposes of present evaluation of our current membership figures.
During the period of 7 months ending February 28, 1963, the average age of candidates receiving the third degree was 41 years; and the
average age of applicants for membership by affiliation was 54 years.
But even more importantly, the Commission's survey shows the
following age-group distribution of our present members to the extent
reported:
31-40
41-50
71-80 Over 80
51-60
61-70
21-30
26,524
53,645
55,797
16,051
6,671
4,017
39,224
These figures, never before complied, taken together with the huge
population increase, disclose deeply disturbing facts which lie concealed behind our mere membership head-count.
Moving on from this basic membership data, the Commission now
reports upon the major streams of opinions and suggestions of the
Craft which it has recorded. Actually. of course, problem areas and
suggested remedies do not exist in separate compartments without
interrelation. One problem area overlaps another, and both causes and
possible means of correction weave in and out of one and all. Yet for
convenience in study and discussion, a general presentation by categories
will be followed.
One keenly perceptive comment which perhaps might suggest a
tentative keynote to this presentation was voiced by one of our beloved
Past Grand Masters. He wrote that in his opinion the Craft "suffers from
some fraternal hardening of the arteries." And his views have been
repeated in one form or another wherever the Commission has gone.
Emerging from scores of Masonic practices complained of by the
Craft, and towering above many specific problems which it has engendered, is our practically universally recognized need of better leadership of the constituent Lodges.
A check of specific short-comings in our practices as reported by
both members and sojourners will show that a substantial number
actually require no legislative action to achieve remedies, but lie within
the power and practice of the Lodges and hence call for dynamic,
dedicated and experienced leadership on the part of Worshipful Masters.

56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Under our Masonic law, the Master is the sole executive officer of the
Lodge. From him must come the constant energy, the active imagination
and the skillful administration which will put in motion the basic remedies
which the Craft seeks and has suggested. Given such leadership, the
Commission has seen dramatic instances of recovery and resurgence
of Lodges within a single year.
But the unpleasant fact is that in far too many cases the Fraternity
is no longer obtaining leaders of this caliber. No longer is our typical
Master a trained executive or outstanding professional man. All too
often he fails to command the recognition and respect of the community
as the local personification of Masonry. And in instance after instance
his woeful failure to sense and to respond to the needs of his members
and visitors stands at the root of apathy, atrophy and absenteeism.
The Commission has diligently sought to ascertain the reason for
this situation, and in general has found a dual response. The first, although perhaps the lesser, is the all too frequent casual selection of
junior officers - followed by an inertia which allows the passing years to
float such casual selectees into the East possessed only of the requisite
certificates of ritualistic proficiency. Clearly it would appear that our
practice should change from such inertia to active selection and repeated
evaluation. The best means of accomplishing this result would appear
to be insi-stence upon a procedure (now the rule but often ignored) of
single year tenure in appointive office, at least up to that of Junior
Deacon. Coupled with such clearly established and understood single
year tenure there is also room for liberal use of lower officers or sideliners to fill positions on a temporary and experimental basis. Given such
procedure, not only could more members participate in our ritual but
from the performances given a much more intelligent selection of junior
appointive officers could be made.
The second and clearly the more pronounced reason for failing to
secure good leadership (assuming it to exist within the membership)
is the unwillingness of the most capable leaders, typically hard-pressed
for time as successful men, to devote the number of years required to
move through all of the chairs. (The non-membership of such men in
the Fraternity will be discussed separately). Three remedial courses
to meet this objection have been suggested, one involving legislation,
the others not. Their common factor involves asking of a capable leader
fewer years of continuous service, and sharply lessening the demands
upon his time during such service.
The first is to shorten the "progressive line" to five years by simply
following the practice of regarding it as beginning with the Junior
Deacon. Thus an outstanding man could be assured that the over-all
time span of active service asked of him as a prospective leader of the
Lodge would be five years. And where such a man was not available
in a particular year, the selective and evaluative proceslS of choosing

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

57

junior officers would clearly indicate the best material for Junior Deacon
and the "progressive line." The Commission finds heavy sentiment
in support of this suggestion.
Significant support is also evidenced for the second suggestion. This
is that the present time demands upon the senior officers be sharply
curtailed. In part, these time demands arise from excessive degree loads.
To the extent that this is the case. one effective remedy (to be discussed
separately later in this report) appears to lie in the reduction of the sizes
of Lodges. In part, excessive time demands appear to stem from participation in collateral activities related to the Lodge (such as Temple
Associations) and in customary appearances and visitations with other
bodies - much of which could apparently be avoided by taking turns
in making really necessary appearances. And in large part, so far as the
tremendous present time demands on the Master are concerned, there
appear to be available such effective remedies as his virtual relief from
ritual by the device of "moving up" the line at the -start instead of at
the latter part of his year, and his ability to delegate substantial
administrative burdens by appointment of an assistant who could
supervise all committee activities.
The third suggestion which has been advanced comes from more
limited sources and would involve legislation. Briefly, it would constitute the "progressive line" as ritualistic specialists, and create the
new offices of Executive Officer and Deputy Executive Officer to handle
all matters of the Lodge other than ritual, except the opening and dos~
ing of stated meetings. 8 The proposal is, of course, designed to attract
highly capable executive leaders who would serve for only two years,
and perhaps also be made Past Masters upon the completion of their
management of the Lodge.
The Commission urges the most -serious study of proposals such as
these, for it is convinced that one of the most important things which the
Craft can do is to adopt new practices which will produce better and
better leaders.
The next universally recognized problem area, which in addition
to its own characteristics is closely related to our lack of adequate
leadership, emerges from the statistical information, for it consists of our
membership problem. In short, by what Masonic practices are we to
attract good (with emphasis upon the "good") and younger peti~
tioners for our degrees?
Opinion among the Craft is crystal clear at this point that we are
failing dismally and disastrously to inform the public of today what
Masonry is and what it stands for. Far worse than opposition, we face
wide ignorance of the very existence of our Fraternity.
Note 8. This is really not at all a new idea or device, but is regularly used in essence
in other Masonic organizations, including both the York and Scottish Rites.

59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

On every side, the Commission is reminded with deep regret that
our present restrictions are such as to cause us to shun meaningful
Masonic participation in the life of the communities in which our Lodges
are located. Participation as Masons in most public events is barred.
67 per cent of those whom we have contacted believe that this restriction
is a mistake and should be dropped. The public display of regalia is in
general forbidden. (Yet who has not been aware of the deep impact
made upon those few and fortunate communities where literally tens
of hundreds of Masons wearing aprons have paraded before the Grand
Lodge officers in full regalia en route to a cornerstone laying!) Again,
wherever the Commission has gone it has heard bitter complaints that
the Fraternity is both unreasonably fettered and still further isolated
from the public by the current rigid limitations against local fundraising by ordinary and generally accepted breakfasts and similar
lawful public affairs. Moreover, what are regarded widely as the now
somewhat hackneyed traditional State-wide observances are put in
question as having long since lost most of their public attraction. In
short, the belief is general that the public knows very little and hence
cares very little about the Fraternity and its aims and activities.
This leads naturally into the question of what can be done about this
public ignorance and apathy. And the equally obvious answer would
appear to lie in a concentrated and continued effort to tell non-Masons
about the things for which our Fraternity stands. An overwhelming
number of our members, 82 per cent of those queried. urgently request
such a campaign.

candidate. The shattering effect of this misconception was revealed in
Commission inquiries as to why many of our members waited so long
before petitioning. Man after man reported that for yea11s he had wanted
to be a Mason, but had waited in vain for an invitation. 0 Many reported
that even when they had asked "what it took" to become a Mason they
had been brushed off because they had not in so maniy words said
that they wanted to petition for membership!
Obviously, these grievous misconceptions in the minds of Masons
can and should be dispelled by alert Lodge leadership. And almost
without exception the members contacted strongly urge that this be
done at once. Related to the removing of these misconceptions is the
matter of arousing the Lodges to a realization that their representatives,
as members of the Grand Lodge, can by appropriate resolution and
the exercise ~f ~heir heavy voting power, either eliminate or modify many
present restrictions which conflict with the opinions of the members of
the Craft.
Othe11s urge supplemental methods of improving the public appraisal
of the Fraternity. Many report with shame on ill-kept Lodge exteriors
and dirty and unkempt Lodge interiors and their resolution to correct
these c?nditions. Many urge the production by the Grand ·Lodge of a
professionally done color moving picture which might be widely shown
pub~icly to tell. the st~ry of Freemasonry. Many suggest the use of professional pubhc relations employees to aid in securing recognition in
n~ws .media. And others urge regular appearance of the Grand Lodge,
with its best orators, on television and personally in all parts of the
jurisdiction for major public programs without regard to ritualistic
procedures such as dedications or corner-stone ceremonies. All of these
areas of sugge!tion are, of course, directed to making the public aware
of the Fraternity, sympathetic with its objectives and desirous of participation in achieving those objectives.
The problem of attracti~g younger men, insofar as not covered by
the general approaches reviewed above, has occasioned much discussion. Proposals to lower the age limits of petitioners, while supported
by many, do not now appear to enjoy the support of more than 33% of
those contacted by the Commission. On the other hand, 91 % of those
queri~d. are strongly in favor of broadening and expanding the present
permissive areas for the financial assistance of both boys' and girls'
youth gro.ups. And many members sincerely offer the suggestion that
the llnanoal burden of petitioning (especially where young men are involve.d ). should be eased either by xeducing the fee for degrees or by
=:ittmg payment for the degrees in three or four installments, or by

58

One Past Grand Master expresses the point with great clarity. He
writes: "I know of nothing in the landmarks that, in my opinion, prohibits any of us from really boasting about Masonry to our friends
who are not Masons - telling them about what Masons have done
in the past for our country, and for other countries which have attained
freedom: what Masonry has done by way of Masonic charity: what
the teachings of Masonry are; what the relation of Masonry is to religion
- of our teaching of reverence for the Deity, our teachings of morality
for every man, and the many other things we may take pride in. I think
I can do all these things without violating the landmark on solicitation."
But the Commission has been startled to discover the extent to which
many of our members are firmly convinced that it is absolutely improper
and forbidden to discuss any aspect of Freemasonry with non-members,
including interested non-members who have requested basic information
as a preliminary to petitioning for membership.
An even more revealing and distressing current belief among large
numbers of the Craft is that they are likewise forbidden to inform nonMasons, even when asked directly, that Masonry invites and solicits
no members but requires the voluntary application of the potential

Note 9. The first question put to one Commission men:iheT who was addressing one of
the most successful chapters of DeMolay In California was, "How do you get
to be a Mason?"

60

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We come next to that which appears to be at once a major problem
and equally perhaps our greatest undeveloped asset - the sojourner.
There is, of course, no existing means by which any accurate count can
be made of sojourning Masons who have moved into this Grand Jurisdiction. Indeed, therein lies one large facet of the problem which
consists of locating them. The Commission believes it to be sufficient
and still valid to quote on this subject from P.G.M. Harold Anderson's
1957 message: "Even the most conservative Mason's estimate would
give California a Masonic population of sojourneM from other jurisdictions equal at least to the membership in our constituent Lodges, and
every passing day adds to that figure."
We are singularly fortunate that the tide of population flow has
for some time been in our direction and has brought vast numbers of
these brethren to our communities. And the energizing effect which
would result from bringing substantial numbers of them back into
active Masonry with us almost defies the imagination.
What, then, does the Commission find about our efforts to welcome
these sojourners and make them members of our Lodges? Bright spots
are found, but the general picture as of the time of this report is dismal.
An almost unbelievable 84 % of our Lodges report that they have no
organized program whatever to interest and recruit sojourners. Member
after member, in mounting scores, admit that they have never in their
Masonic career even invited a sojourner to affiliate with their Lodge.
And again, to the astonishment of the Commission, a widespread conviction has been found that it is unmasonic to even suggest to a sojourner
that he join a Lodge in his new home community!
When the Commission asked sojourners themselves, frank responses
were made as to why they had not affiliated in this jurisdiction. All too
many reported that they found our Lodges cold and apparently uninterested in them as individuals. Many were examined on a first visit and
then left without anyone with whom to talk. 10 And others were subjected
to such embarrassment in the course of examination that they were left
with deep resentment. Many of our members believe that the $25
required donation has kept sojourners contacted by them from affiliating,
and they would abolish the requirement. And many sojourners frankly
said that theior dues elsewhere were much lower than in this jurisdiction
and they saw no reason to increase their expenses by affiliating.
Such appear to be the present obstacles to obtaining greater numb~s
of affiliations, but such are the obvious potentials for growth and greatly
increased 1Masonic activity from such affiliations that the Commission
urges the most serious efforts of every officer and member to overcome
these difficulties and harmful practices.

The final major area upon which the Commission now presents the
results of its inquiries is that which may be generally described as the
problem of non-attendance. As was the case with other areas, neither
the causes nor the suggested remedial mea.sures are unrelated to the
over-all problem. Here again is to be seen the need for far better leadership; here again are found many of the results of our membership problems and pracHces.
Based upon statistics (unfortunately not wholly complete) .furnished
by Masters, as taken from Tilers' 1'egisters, the Commission has encountered a strange and thought-provoking phenomenon. This is that
average attendance in the constituent Lodges averages 39 at stated
meetings and 31 at degree meetings: and that by and large, attendance
varies little from these figures regardless of the size of the Lodge. In
other words, attendance is definitely not proportional to the size of the
Lodge.
What, then, lies behind this patent apathy? The Commission's findings in this acea are multiple.
To begin with, the sheer frequency of meetings in itself discourages·
regularly of attendance, especially where there is a high factor of
repetition of activity.
Secondly, the sincere desire of Master Masons to be a real part of
their Masonic group is all too often frustrated . .Men seek that warm
companionship which comes from being with others who are truly not
only .friends but brothers. They yearn to stretch and expand the circle
of their intimates. Yet very substantial numbers of members have told
the Commission that the sheer size of their Lodge makes these things
so impossible of achievement that they give up and stay home. Nor is
this feeling conifined to sideliners. More than one Past Master has conceded that there are large numbeM of his Lodge brethren whom he
doesn't even know by sight!
Asked for remedial suggestions, a strong majority of 72% urges
the limitation of the size of Lodges - the upper limit usuaUy suggested
being 500. It is hoped by most of those supporting this view that competent Grand Lodge authority might so endorse and support this
proposal as to bring about widespread voluntary action by the constituent Lodges in splitting off their excess membership and assisting
in the formation of new Lodges by them. If voluntary limitation were
not forthcoming, legislation on the subject is proposed.
Several distinct benefits are foreseen from such reduction in Lodge
size.
With fewer members, more peMonal friendship would follow. And
with a smaller Lodge, there might reasonably be expected a lessening
of the frequency of meetings - thereby lessening the burden on officers and em:oucaging better leadership.
Moreover, if such a limit of approximately 500 were placed upon

Note 10. Some Lodges report excellent results in overcoming failures to fraternize by
issuing large type name badges to all those present, including both members
and sojourners.

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

our present Lodge structure (ignoring some 55 Lodges which are
slightly over that figure) spectacular results would follow. There would,
for example, spring into existence some 102 new Lodges! (Presumably,
Masonic charity would relieve the Grand Master from the usual
requirements as to their institution and constitution). These new Lodges
would immediately create some 1224 officer opportunities, and at least
an equal number of new committee opportunities for non-officers. And
if general experience in other fields is equally valid in Masonry, it is
reasonable to expect a pick-up of new petitions and applications for
affiliations in each of the newly created Lodges. Obviously there are
policy and procedural problems involved, such as equitable divisions of
surplus funds and utilization of existing Temples, but these are matters
quite susceptible of solution if the basic suggestion commends itself to
the Craft.
Further to combat absenteeism, widely supported pleas have been
received for more social activity in and related to our Lodges. They ask
for more family dinners, dances, picnics and other "fun" times which
will provide a Masonic focus for their family life. They clearly evidence
a ·realization that the day of the traditional "men's house" has passed
and that those organizations (whether religious, fraternal or otherwise)
which reach out and interest the entire family group are the ones which
are strong and vigorous in our modern society.
Another, though doubtless lesser, reported cause of absenteeism is
said to be lack of adequate notice. Members say that a routine monthly
announcement is not enough. Many have wished that there might be
newspaper announcement of scheduled meetings, and for some reason
considerable members have the belief that such publication of the mere
time, place, and degree or stated meeting involved is violative of
Masonic law! Others urge Masonic bulletins at the entrances to communities, advising the traveler (and reminding the member) of the
time and place of Masonic meetings. There has appeared strong belief
that the names of candidates should appear in trestleboards, as per#
mitted in other jurisdictions, thereby encouraging .friends to attend.
And there is complaint that under our present system no effort is usually
made (even when previously specifically requested) to discover Masonic
friends of the candidate and advise them when he is to receive his
various degrees.
We come next to the deadly effect of poorly planned and awkwardly
conducted meetings. Member after member has explained his absence
from a Lodge which fails to start its meetings on time, which wallows
without control or direction through masses of inconsequential or un#
necessary trivia, which permits rambling and repetitive discussion by a
few brethren who insist upon continuous harangues, and which close
far too late. Apparently there is almost nothing so effective in driving
away members.
As its final - and perhaps most meaningful finding, the Commis#

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

63

sion reports that basically those queried are not really concerned with
such "competitive" factors as television, the theater, sports or ~e
'°mplexities of modern life as the causes of poor attendance ~t Masonic
meetings. Instead, their voices rise in a steady and most smcere plea
that their deep hunger for flesh and blood teaching of the great Masonry
truths be fed. The brethren know instinctively that lying beneath and
beyond all Masonic form, ceremony and symbol there are the universal
truths and the age#old wisdom which will give answers to the riddles
of life. They know that that which has attracted their predecessors and
forefathers to Masonry is a true means of understanding themselves
and their relationship to their Creator. They know that here they can
banish fear by acquiring unshakable faith. As one unknown author has
written, "Masonry redirects the attention of any thoughtful man to
the fundamental questions of his being and his destiny. Surely, he is
dull of soul whose spirit is not quickened by this experience, and whose
heart is not warmed by this great fellowship."
Yet today the brethren feel these teachings lacking. They miss
them. They yearn for them. And almost to a man, when asked what
their reaction would be if a regular but brief exposition of these matters
were presented at their Lodge, they reply that nothing could then keep
them from being present.
These truths which the brethren seek, Masonry possesses. These
truths it has taught through the centuries. And if we would reclaim
our heritage and regain the "vigorous, positive, constructive and dynamic
force for good" for which the Grand Master calls, we must find the
means by which to teach these truths again.
With these presentations of our Masonic practices and what
the Craft is seeking, we conclude the present recital of our findings.
If what we have been able to report throws light upon the path which we
seek, we rejoice. If it stimulates discussion and experimentation, we
applaud. And if, as we believe, it evidences the need for continued
inquiry and proposals and a search for the way by which to revitalize
Masonry's teachings, we await further instructions from the Grand
East.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT B. WATTS
ROBERT L. KARNES
NORMAN L. LANGNESS
DELBERT E. LUCK
VIRL BENNEHOPP
SIMON F. BOLGER

A. BARTLETT Moss

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
APPENDIX "A"

As originally constituted, the Special Commission was headed by
0. J. Wohlgemuth, whose untimely death early in its activity was
an irreparable loss. Much of the character of the Commission's current
report bears the imprint of his wisdom and experience.
Included in its original membership were a lso our beloved former
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry 0. Oliphant, who found it necessary
to resign because of family matters but has ever been quick to assist
when asked; and Paul F. Burlington, who withdrew because of the
pressure of business.
ROBERT B. w ATTS
At 12 :05 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until I :30 p.m.

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

AFTERNOO N SESSION -

65

Monday, October 14, 1963

At I : 30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on . the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

DISTINGUIS HED GUESTS
The following distinguished guests were received with private
Grand Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master and
escorted to seats rese rved for them:
M:.w:.W1LL1 AM o. E. SHARPE.
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M.'.W.°.ALBE RT N. BRADFORD,
Grand flt/a ster of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M .. . w ... CLARENCE L. BARTHOLIC,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
M.'.W.°.}AME S P. WHITMORE,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada .
M.".W.'.GROVER c. SCHMIDT,
Grand Master of tfze Grand Lodge of Montana.
M.'.W.".lvER LONGETEIG ,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Idaho.
M.'.W.'.ALBE RT D. MUl<RAY,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Wyoming.
M.'.W.".W!LLI AM R. BOURDON,
Grand Ma ster of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were escorted into Grand Lodg e
and, after being welcomed by the G rand Master, were accorded public
Grand Honors and then conducted to the seats reserved for them :
V.'.W.'.DANIE L T. SIMMONS.
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M.'.W.'.HERDE RT H . EBERLE,
Past G rand M aster and Grand S ecretary of th e G rand Lodge
of Idaho.
V.'.W.'.CLARE NCE GROSHELL,
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Utah .
v:.w:.MARc us NicHoLs.
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Wyomin g.
M.'.W.'.GERA LD I. CRAIG,
Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
of Arizona.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M.".W.'.WJLLIAM H. TAYLOR,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M: .w: .STANTON YOUNGBERG,
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M:.w:.T. F . WE1.
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of China.
\V.".FELIX A. LENHART,
Past Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia
and now a member of Durant Lodge No. 268.
w ...ROGER STRUMM,
GranJ Representatil'e of the Grand Lodge of California in Saskatchewan.
The Grand Master requested Most Worshipful William D. E.
Sharpe. Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, to speak in
behalf of the visiting distinguished guests, which he did. He gave an
inspiring address. following which Grand Master Coburn called on
Past Grand Master Alfred F. Breslauer who responded on behalf of
the members of Grand Lodge.

laws be prin ted in the manner in which they will appear in the proceedings. attested to by the Seal of the Grand Secretary and distributed at
once to the constituent Lodges thereby furnishing ample authority upon
which they can act."
Respect fully submitted,
WILLIAM C. KU NZ, Past Master. Lodge No. 673
CECIL M. PRIOR. Past Master. Lodge No. 673
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General
Purposes.

66

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which were
re ferred by the Grand Master to the committees as noted:
AMEND CMC SECTION 17(d) - ACCELERATE
PRINTING SUPPLEMENT

(1)
To th e Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS, at the present time all amendments to our Constitution.
Regulations and Uniform Code of By-laws become law immediately
upon their passage (Code 17d). and
WHEREAS. even though representatives from the constituent
Lodges may be present at the Annual Communication. at which these
changes are made. the exact wording and meaning of these changes are
not made clear until the Annual Proceedings and Code Inserts are published and put in the hands of the constituent Lodges. and
WHEREAS. these proceedings and code inserts do not reach the
constituent Lodges until some two months or more after their passage,
and
WHEREAS, these changes of law should be known to the constituent Lodges as soon as possible after their passage
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 17d of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Authority attaches the moment action is had in the Grand Lodge
and immediately following this action the record of any change in our

67

CREA TE OFFICE OF PAST INSPECTOR

(2)
T o the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M . of California:
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge Officers retain their titles after their
elected or appoin ted service, i.e., Pa st Gra nd Mas ter, Past Grand Sword
Bearer, etc., and
WHEREAS . under Section 160 CMC. Inspectors of this Grand
jurisdic~ion are in fact Grand Lodge officers, their being the Grand
M asters representatives in the several Masonic districts, and
WHEREAS , our Ins pectors are and have been dedicated Masons .
giving of their time and effort for the good o f Masonry, well beyond
their required duties, as most Past Masters and Lodge officers will
attest. and
. WHEREAS, at the present time there is no recognition or honorary
title whatsoever to recognize their service to the Fra ternity, once they
have left the Inspectors Corps. it being a populnr ~nvinq that there is
nothing more pas t or more EX than an Ex-Inspector, and
WHEREA,S. there being nothing in the CMC to pre\'ent our Grand
Lodge from recognizing officially the valuable services to our Fraternity
of these former Inspectors:
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that this Grand Lodge
present to each Inspector retiring from the Inspectoria l Corps, after one
( 1 ) year of service, a certificate delineating his term of service; and further that the title " Past Inspector, Grand Lodge F. & A . M .. State of
California" be officially recogn ized by this Grand Lodge; further that
this action be retroactive.
Respectfully submitted,
MARTIN S. CORR, Master, Lodge No. 572
WILLIS W. Scorr, Past M aster, Lodge No. 572
HERMAN T. NELSON, Past M aster, Lodge No. 572
CLAUDE A. MITCHELL, Past Master, Lodge No. 572
WILLIAM J. ROGISTER, Master, Lodge N o. 641
NORMAN B. FRANKFORT, Past Master, Lodge No. 623
AARON ELMORE, Past Master, Lodge No. 623
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PERMIT GRAND LODGE TO INVEST FUNDS WITH
INSURED SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN.

(3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the constituent Lodges of California are allowed to
invest their funds in Insured Savings and Loan Associations, and
WHEREAS, the Investment Committee of Grand Lodge is deprived
of this privilege, and
WHEREAS, it is to the advantage of Grand Lodge to be allowed to
have the same privilege as the constituent Lodges and be allowed to invest the monies of Grand Lodge where they can earn higher dividends
than that now earned in banks, and
WHEREAS, we are constantly striving for conformity in our Ritual
and Law, and
WHEREAS our ordinances are not consistent concerning the consituent Lodges and Grand Lodge:
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that Article 246 of the California Masonic Code, Section 3, be amended by adding the following
sub-sections to be known as "C" as follows:
Savings Accounts in and Investment Certificates issued by a Building
and Loan Association or a Savings and Loan Association organized and
exi,sting under the laws of the State of California or of the State of
Hawaii, which is an Insured Institution as defined by Title IV of the
National Housing Act, and Shares issued by any such Association which
issued no Investment Certificates and which is an Insured Institution as
defined by Title IV, and Savings Accounts in and Shares issued by any
Federal Savings and Loan Association; but in the case of each Association onl.y to the extent that such accounts, Investment Certificates or
Shares, are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
Respectfully submitted,
CECIL M. PRIOR, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
WILLIAM C. KuNz, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
ROWLAND E. MASON, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

69

CONTRIBUTIONS LEVIED UPON LODGE~
REVOLVING BUILDING FUND
(4)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, most Masonic Lodges, at their inception, are hampered
in their struggle for a Temple because the financial burden falls on a
few, and
WHEREAS, there are many older Temples in the State of California
which need remodeling or reconstructing and which are eyesores and
indeed a discredit to the Fraternity, and
WHEREAS, all Masonic Lodges are obliged to borrow from private
loaning institutions, thereby making their financial dealings known to
outsiders, and
WHEREAS, there would be more charters requested and granted
and established Lodges would flourish if it were not for the lack of
financial assistance, and
WHEREAS, Masonry in California is not growing at the rate at
which it should, and
WHEREAS, there are approximately 250,000 Masons in the State
of California who have obligated themselves to aid and assist each
other, and
WHEREAS, there has long been an ever-increasing need for the
establishment of a fund controlled by Grand Lodge whereby loans could
be made to qualif,ying Lodges for the purpose of Temple construction or
remodeling, now
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that each Lodge, whether
chartered or under dispensation, shall pay with its annual returns a contribution; in the form of a per capita tax, the sum of one dollar ( $1.00)
for each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30th. That such
monies be set aside in the form of a California Masonic Lodge Temple
Building Fund to be administered by the Grand ·Lodge Committee on
Lodge Finance. That loans be made out of said Building Fund to the
various requesting Lodges at the discretion and at the arrangement of
said Committee.
It is our considered opinion that this Resolution, if adopted, will stimulate a healthy and rapid growth of Masonry in California.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. TOPHAM, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 788
JOHN EsTERAH, Master, Lodge No. 788
F. LEE RABY, Master, Lodge No. 24
ROBERT D. LAKE, Master, Lodge No. 689
THAINE McKrn, Past Master, Lodge No. 788
GUILFORD J. WHITEHEAD, Senior Warden,
Lodge No. 788
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, on Finance, and on Lodge Financing.

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ELIMINA TE HOMES CONTRIB UTION BY AFFILIAT ES
(5)

WEARIN G OF MASONIC CLOTHIN G - PUBLIC
PROCESS ION
(7)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, many of our members feel that the twenty-five dollar
contribution to the Masonic Homes of California is an obstacle in obtaining Application s for Affiliation from our sojourning Brethren,
THEREFO RE BE IT RESOLVE D, that Section 284 of the California Masonic Code be deleted except "each applicant for the Degrees
shall accompany the petition with a contribution of twenty-five dollars
for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes of California."
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM E. RIFE, Past Master, Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudenc e, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.

WEARIN G MASONIC CLOTHIN G AND ENCOUR AGE
PUBLIC PROCESS ION
(6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, it is in the interest of the Fraternity to promote the
"public image" of Masonry, and
WHEREA S, Lodges as well as Masons should be encouraged to
participate in appropriate civic affairs: and
WHEREA S, the California Masonic Code is so restrictive as to
prevent the Mason from displaying in public his lambskin apron, which
is presented to him as "the Badge of a Mason,"
NOW THEREFO RE BE IT ;R ESOLVED , that relative to Section
328 of the California Masonic Code, that it be the policy of this Grand
Lodge to encourage the participation of Lodges in civic affairs and that
permission be granted for wearing Masonic dothing at such public gatherings as will advance and promulgate the public image of the Fraternity.
Respectfully submitted,
·
GEORGE C. FINIS, Master, Lodge No. 732
HARRY H. DEWEY, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 732
CLIFFORD E . CLAUSE, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 40
PARISE VouRDOURIS, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 40
ROBERT J. MoREY, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 732
R. S. BRADEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 40
JosEPH H. WILSON, Master, Lodge No. 795
ROGER L. DoERMER, Master, Lodge No. 64
CHARLES D. PEARCE, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 64
IVERSON Down, Junior Warden. Lodge No. 64
MILO W. PERRY, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 795
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudenc e, and on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

71

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, it is in the interest of the Fraternity to promote the
"public image" of Masonry, and
·
WHEREA S, Lodges as well as Masons should be encouraged to
participate in appropriate civic affairs, and
WHEREA S, the California Masonic Code is so restrictive as to
prevent the Mason from displaying in public his lambskin apron, which
is presented to him as "the Badge of a Mason," and
WHEREA S, it would be difficult for the Grand Master to be familiar
with local community affairs when trying to determine if a specific ceremony might be proper or improper,
NOW THEREFO RE BE IT RESOLVE D, that Section 328 be
amended to read as follows:
No Lodge, nor any Mason, shall appear in Masonic clothing in any
public procession or at any public meeting or place, or for the performance of some Masonic civic duty or ceremony, except for the burial of a
Brother, without the approval o·f the Assistant Grand Lecturer having
jurisdiction, or in accordance with the dispensation of the Grand Master.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE C. FINIS, Master, Lodge No. 732
JosEPH H. WILSON, Master, Lodge No. 795
RoGER L. DoERMER, Master, Lodge No. 64
CHARLES D. PEARCE, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 64
IVERSON DowD, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 64
MILO W. PERRY, /unior Warden, Lodge No. 795
R. S. BRADEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 40
HARRY H. DEWEY, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 732
Ro BERT J. MoREY, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 732
PARISE VoURDOURIS, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 40
CLIFFORD E. CLAUSE, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 40
Referred to Committees on J udsprudenc e, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

WEARIN G OF MASONIC CLOTHIN G PROCESS ION
(8)

PUBLIC

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
WHEREA S, Masonry's image in California is not brought to the
attention of the general public in as favorable manner as possible, and
WHEREA S, we do not, except with the use of ·rings and small pins,

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

develop enough opportunities to bring our Fraternity to the attention of
others, and
WHEREAS, there are methods and practices that could be estab~
lished whereby we might, in a reserved manner, show to the world that
we represent Masonry, and
WHEREAS, we already wear our white aprons at certain functions,
such as funerals and school and public buildings dedications, and
WHEREAS, our Grand Lodge officers appear in public wearing
their official aprons at certain events,
NOW BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that Sections No. 328
-No. 328B-and No. 605F of the California Masonic Code be amended
as follows: to provide for the wearing of the regular white aprons by
Lodge members at such public activities as approved by the Grand Lodge
which should include Church visits, Public Schools Observance cere~
monies and others; and that the Master, Senior Warden and the Junior
Wardens wear their official aprons when appearing in public represent~
ing their Lodge at approved functions.
Respectfully submitted,
MARTINS. CORR, Master, Lodge No. 572
Referred to Committees on Jurisprurence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

adoption of the first Resolution, the Master of each Lodge shall canvass
the consents of members of his Lodge, and if he finds the required number
of consents have been properly signed, he shall declare the consolidation
to be approved by said Lodge. When all proceedings are completed,
they shall be entered upon the records of the existing Lodges. The writ~
ten consents and a certificate of proceedings and action taken by the
Lodges must then be certified to the Grand Secretary by the respective
Secretaries under the seals of their respective Lodges. If the Grand
Master shall ·find it impracticable for a Lodge to secure the requisite
written consents, he may approve the consolidation upon the written
consent of not less than a majority of the members of the Lodge.
The Lodge thus formed may bear the name and number of one of the
Lodges composing it, in which case it may retain the Charter and Seal
of that Lodge: or it may bear the name of one and the number of another
of such Lodges and shall then receive a new Charter without charge, and
provide a new Seal; or it may have an endorsement of the authorization
of such consolidation by the Grand Lodge made upon the Charter of one
of the component Lodges.
No such consolidation shall go into effect until all the proceedings
relative thereto shall have been submitted to and approved by the Grand
Lodge or by the Grand Master during the intervals between communica~
tions of the Grand Lodge.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that Sections 375e and 375f of
the California Masonic Code are hereby repealed.
Respectfully submitted,
ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS, Past Master, Lodge No. 260
W. F. POYNTER, Past Master, Lodge No. 640
EUGENE S. HOPP, Past Master, Lodge No. 260
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

LODGE CONSOLIDATION - CLARIFY PROCEDURE
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 375 of the California Masonic
Code be amended to read as follows:
Sec. 375. Two or more Lodges, located near each other, may con~
solidate into one upon such terms as may be agreed upon between the
Lodges. There shall first be adopted by each Lodge at a ·stated meeting
a Resolution to the effect that a consolidation is expedient, and that
Committees be appointed to meet and arrange terms. Notice in writing
of the adoption of such Resolution shall be given to all members of the
Lodge forthwith. Such Committees must agree upon the terms and
report in writing to their respective Lodges at a stated meeting, and the
reports must be received and concurred in by the respective Lodges. The
signature of at least three~fourths of the members of each Lodge shall be
obtained to a paper or papers substantially in this form: "In pursuance
of certain action oL ............ Lodge No ......... and .............. Lodge No •........ ,
tending to the consolidation of said Lodges into one Lodge, under the
name and number of .............. Lodge No ......... , we, the undersigned, mem~
hers oL ............ Lodge No ........., do hereby express our assent to and our
desire for such proposed consolidation."
·
At a stated meeting not earlier than the third stated meeting after

73

DISCRETIONARY EXPENDITURE (MEMORIALS)
(10)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, each Lodge may in its discretion appropriate from its
funds any amount for a floral piece for a deceased Brother or his family,
and
WHEREAS, in place of a floral piece for a deceased Brother or his
famHy a contribution may be made to the Masonic Homes of California
but only when so requested by the family of the deceased, and
WHEREAS, that while the Lodge at its discretion can authorize the
sending of a floral piece to the funeral of a deceased Brother or his family
it cannot, at its discretion, in lieu of a floral offering send a gift to the
Masonic Homes of California, and
WHEREAS if the Lodge has authority to send a floral piece it

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

should have similar authority to use its discretion to send in place of a
floral piece a donation to the Masonic Homes of California in memory of
the deceased,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 411 of the Cali~
fornia Masonic Code be amended as follows :
The second paragraph of this Section would then read:
"In lieu of a floral piece for the deceased person, when requested by
his family, or at the discretion of the Lodge, a contribution may be made
to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. Such donation shall be ack~
nowleged by the Homes Endowment Committee and the family of the
deceased Brother notified of its receipt.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM C. KuNz, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
CECIL M. PRIOR, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

WHEREAS, by virtue of Section 782 of the California Masonic
Code the Amendment, as adopted, could not be retroactive to the close
of the Grand Lodge Communication held in September, 1961, and
WHEREAS, this aforesaid condition has created a discriminatory
situation, in which many devoted and deserving Brothers, who have died
while serving as Master of their Lodges, have been denied the honor of
being designated as Past Masters by their Lodges, ,solely because their
death occured prior to the effective date of the aforesaid revision to
Section 490,
NOW, THEREFORE , BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 490 of
the California Masonic Code be amended to provide for the designation
of Past Master to all Masters of Lod9es under the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of California who were regularly elected or named in a
charter, and installed as Master, and who died during the term of their
office. provided the Lodge of which each was Master, by resolution,
designates him as a Past Master of said Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM E. S. JARRETI, Past Master, Lodge No. 368
ARTHUR M. JOHNSON, Master, Lodge No. 368
HUBBARD B. PETERS, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 368
ALBERT F. SIMMONS, f unior Warden, Lodge No. 368
C. LEE SKILLMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 368
CARL 0. CRAIG, Past Master, ·L odge No. 368
HuGo C. ROARK, Past Master, Lodge No. 368
IRvY W. HARDAWAY, Past Master, Lodge No. 368
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

74

EXAMINAT ION

(11)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, many of our elderly sojourning Brethren who have not
attended Lodge for several years do not attend because they fear an
examination, and
WHEREAS, it is our duty as Masons to stretch forth a helping
hand to our sojourning Brethren who might have forgotten our signs and
passwords to visit our Lodges, and
WHEREAS, our promise is to communicate with our Masonic
Brethren after due examination or legal information,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 439 of the Cali~
fornia Masonic Code be amended as follows: Following the words, "by
private examination under the test oath," by split letter from the visiting
Brother's Lodge, one portion being sent to the Brother, the other to the
Lodge being visited, or by avouchment.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM E. RIPE, Past Master, Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Ritual.
TITLE OF PAST MASTER

(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, in 1961, Section 490 of the California Masonic Code
was revised by adding the following words: "provided, however, that
where a Master, who has been regularly elected or named in a Charter,
and installed as Master of a chartered Lodge, dies while serving as
Master, he may by resolution of his Lodge be designated as a Past
Master of said Lodge," and

75

TITLE PAST MASTER

(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Be it resolved that Section 490 of the California Masonic Code be
amended to read as follows:
490. Title of Past Master. This title applies to one who has been
regularly elected or named in a charter and installed and has served a
term as Master of a chartered Lodge within the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge and who remains a member in good standing in one of its
constituent Lodges: provided, however, that where a Master, who has
been regularly elected or named in a charter and installed as Master
of a chartered Lodge, dies while serving as Master, or because of illness
is unable to complete his term of office, he may by resolution of his
Lodge be designated as a Past Master of said Lodge; or, if this Grand
Lodge shall direct a charter to issue to a Lodge formed by a Grand
Body recognized by this Grand Lodge, this Grand Lodge may by reso~
lution provide that the title of Past Master shall apply to the Past

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Masters of such Lodge, and entitle them to the rights and privileges of
Past Masters of this jurisdiction. One who i's a Past Master as defined
herein of a Lodge within the jurisdiction of any other Grand Lodge and
who has affiliated with and becomes and remains a member in good
standing in a Lodge in this jurisdiction, may take the honorary title of
"Past Master," but shall not thereby become a member of this Grand
JACK E. VocKRODT, Master. Lodge No. 472
Lodge.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICA TIONS
(15)

76

IN CONSOLID ATION CONFER TITLE PAST MASTER
(14)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, Section 490 of the California Masonic Code provides
that the title of Past Master applies to one " ... who has been regularly
elected or na~d in a charter and installed and has served a term as
Master ... ". And as further provided in paragraph "d": "A Master
must serve to the end of his term to be a Past Master ... ", and
WHEREAS, there is provision for this title to apply to a duly qualified Master, elected in mid-year, and completing his term, ( 490e). and
WHEREAS, there is further proviision for this title to apply to a
Master who dies in office without completing his term, ( 490 - 1962
Supp.), and
WHEREAS, 490d further provides that, "If he resigns during his
term he loses that title.", and
WHEREAS, there is no definition in the California Masonic Code
of the word "term" in connection with tenure of offi.ce terminated by the
consolidation of Lodges, and
WHEREAS, in connection with the consolidation of Lodges one
Master may not be reelected, since his "term" has been completed by
the extinction of his Lodge, but
WHEREAS, the Master, reelected, will qualify under Section 490e,
and
WHEREAS, delay of consolidation to the end of the normal end of
year, and term, in order to protect the rights of the non-surviving Master, deprives the Lodges in this degree of the financial economies and
other benefits inherent in the consolidation,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that Section 490 of the California Masonic Code be amended as follows: "The un-reelected Master
of a consolidated Lodge shall become a Past Master of the consolidated
Lodge, providing he has served more than half of the term for which he
was originally elected."
Respectfully submitted,
W. F. POYNTER. Past Master, Lodge No. 640
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

"

77

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the custom of refusing admission to a physically imperfect applicant came to be developed during the old days of operative
Masonry, when the work on the erection of stone edifices was both
arduous and hazardous, and a physically impaired workman constituted
a danger to himself and to his fellow workers, and liable to become a
burden to his Lodge or Guild, and
WHEREAS, we no longer work in operative Masonry but speculative only, these physical requirements are now obsolete, and
WHEREAS, there are many worthy and well qualified men who
have been wounded, maimed, or otherwise physically disabled in the defenise of our country in its wars, and others similarly worthy and well
qualified who, through misfortune or tragedy have also become physically disabled or maimed, and who are literally unable to comply with
the physical requirements of our laws and are therefore denied participation in our privileges, and
WHEREAS, numerous Masonic jurisdictions around the world,
with whom we are in Fraternal accord, have seen fit to modify or entirely eliminate this old operative principle from their present speculative
practices, without detriment to the Craft, and without incurring the displeasure of the rest of the Masonic world, and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California has never officially
taken into its Masonic Law the twenty-five principles that Albert G.
Mackey tried to establish as "The Landmarks" (pages 342 and 343
CMC). nor has it established any specific set of Landmarks of its own,
and this question of the physical qualifications is therefore not affected
by the possible question of "The Landmarks," and
WHEREAS, it is now one of our basic and universally accepted
teachings and precepts that it is the internal and not the external qualifications that recommend a man to be made a Mason,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 511 (not including sub-paragraph s a to q inclusive) of the California Masonic Code be
rescinded and the following substituted therefor:
"511. Moral and physical qualifications. An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be a man; no woman nor eunuch: free born,
being neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman: a believer in God
and a future existence; of good moral character, capable of reading,
writing, learning the arts, and able to conform, with assistance or demonstration if indicated, to what the several degrees respectively require
of him. In the event that a candidate is unable to physically execute or
perform acts prescribed in the various degrees, the conferring Lodge is
vested with the power and authority to assist the candidate, either actu-

78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ally, by demonst ration, or other appropri ate means, to perform or
execute those physical requirem ents which his disability prevents him
from performi ng or executin g without such assistanc e or demonst ration.
Any prosthes es usually worn, carried, or used by a candidat e, for his
safety, comfort, physical improvem ent, well being, or necessity , shall be
permitte d to be worn, carried, or used during the conferrin g of the
degrees. "
BE IT FURTH ER RESOL VED. that Section 512 and all subparagrap hs thereof, of the Californ ia Masonic Code be rescinde d and
the following substitut ed therefor:
"512. Sound discretio n required . The question as to the applican t's
ability to conform, in accordan ce with Section 511, to what the several
degrees respectiv ely require of him, shall be left to the sound discretio n
of the Lodge and the Lodge only."
BE IT FURTH ER RESOL VED, that all other reference s to physical sufficiency or physical qualifica tions for the degrees, containe d in
our laws, rules, regulatio ns, edicts, decisions , or any other matter on this
subject, written or unwritte n, having the force of law, be rescinded .
Respectf ully submitte d,
EnwARD A. GRINDLE, Master, Lodge No. 651
STANLEY E. ENOCH, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 651.
ROBERT CHRISTIANSEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
HERBERT A. McKECHNIE, Past Master,
Lodge No. 651
ROBERT F. GILBERG, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
ROYAL HODGE, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
E. Ross BAYLIS, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
HARRY E. IMBODY, /unior Warden, Lodge No. 690
FORREST R. HASSELL, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
FRANK DRIFFILL, Master, Lodge No. 690
HOMER W. LANG, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
A. HORNE, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
ALEXANDER P. LABERNADIE, Senior Warden,
Lodge No. 135
LEE L. ASLANIAN, Master, Lodge No. 30
KENNETH E. HOPPER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 388
RAYMOND J. RODRIGUES, Junior Warden .
Lodge No. 166
WM. H. HooK, Master, Lodge No. 360
BERNIE J. KATZ, Past Master, Lodge No. 120
TOMMIE T. HUDSON, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 651
RussELL J. BRAASCH, Past Master, ·L odge No. 651
ALBERT F. KouLA, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
DONALD D. PITMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
KENS. MASON, Past Master, Lodge No. 462
If

79

REGINALD H. STEVENS, Past Master, Lodge No. 651
]OHN TIMMONS, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
ANCHOR NEILSEN, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
T. G. W. HENRY, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 690
WALTER C. SIMON, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
EARL R CRAWFORD, Past Master, Lodge No. 690
MAX H. MARGOLIS, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
]ACK ERVIN, Past Master, Lodge No. 170
FREDE. CLAUHSEN, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 30
ALBERT H. HUFNAGEL, Senior Warden,
Lodge No. 212
LLOYD G. LEWIS, /unior Warden, Lodge No. 212
ROBERT D. LINTNER, Past Master, Lodge No. 169
CARL M. JENSEN, Master, Lodge No. 22
ERIC H. SHEKURY, /unior Warden, Lodge No. 22
STEPHEN H. BROWNLEE, Master, Lodge No. 216
DONALD B. KRow, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
THOMAS J. GALLAWAY, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
HAROLD SILBERSTEIN, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
CHARLES M. ]ACOBI, /unior Warden, Lodge No. 600
GEORGE L. COOVER, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 600
HENRY L. PALMER, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
ARCHIE RAY SHERMAN, Master, Lodge No. 168
ABE BALUKIAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 370
MORTIMER GussET, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 216
FELIX LASSALLE, Past Master. Lodge No. 17
]AMES D. BROWNLEE, Past Master. Lodge No. 216
ANTHONY HORNE, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 216
]AMES S. RosE, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
BENJAMIN SILBERSTEIN, Past Master. Lodge No. 216
MILTON E. AMMANN, Past Master, Lodge No. 600
CARROLL J. DAVIS, Past Master, Lodge No. 611
CLARK H. KIRKHAM, Past Master. Lodge No. 313
]OHN KENNETH WRIGHT, Past Master,
Lodge No. 370
LEONARD S. LURIE, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
SAMUEL D. HAMBURG, Past Master, Lodge No. 216
Referred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence, on Policy and General
Purposes , and on Ritual.

PUBLIS H NAME S OF ELECTED CANDI DATES
.
(16)
California:
of
M.
A.
&
F.
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge
.WHER EAS, many members cannot attend every Stated Meeting of
their Lodge and conseque ntly are not aware of the identity of Candi-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

dates who have been elected to receive the degrees of Masonry in their
Lodge, and
WHEREAS, it has been demonstrated that some members who
have not attended meetings called for the purpose of conferring degrees
would have attended had they known the name. or names. of the Candi~
dates, and
WHEREAS. there Is need to maintain communication among mem~
hers and encourage their participation in the work of their Lodges, now
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Annotation (e) of Sec~
tion 518 of the California Masonic Code be amended to permit Lodges
who distribute Bulletins or T<restle Boards to their members by hand, or
by mail, to list in those Bulletins the names of Elected Candidates and
the dates on which their degrees will be conferred.
Respectfully submitted,
·
THURMAN LEE BRADY, Master, Lodge No. 9
RAYMOND L. RusK, Past Master, Lodge No. 9
Ref erred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

PROFICIENCY EXAMINATION
(19)

80

LIMIT PROMISE QUESTION 15 TO 5 YEARS
(17)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED, that a new section be added to California Masonic
Code to read as follows:
"Sec. 527.1. A member otherwise in good standing is no longer
bound by the promise contained in question 15 of the application after
the lapse of five years."
Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT HousER, Past Master, Lodge No. 504
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

FORM OF APPLICATION
(18)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED: All Applications for degrees in Masonry shall in~
elude the following question, "Do you believe in the separation of
Church and State?"
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD L. PALMER, Master, Lodge No. 506
ROBERT W. 0BLATH, Past Master, Lodge No. 506
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

81

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Ordinance 545 of the California Masonic Code stipu~
lates that, "Such examination shall be held in front of the East.", and
WHEREAS, " ... in front of the East," can only be 'interpretated
to mean between the Altar and the Worshipful Master, and
WHEREAS. when examining candidates in this location, it is diffi~
cult to hear candidates' responses in the West, especially with cooling
and heating equipment in operation, now therefore
BE IT RESOLVED, that the last sentence of Ordinance 545, to
wjt: "Such examination shall be held in front of the East," be changed
to read: "Such examination shall be held with the candidate facing the
East." This would allow locating the candidate between the Altar and
the Senior Warden.
Respectfully submitted,
VERDONE. H1xsoN, Master, Lodge No. 682
JoHN H. MARSH, Past Master, Lodge No. 682
ROBERT P. HIGGINS, Past Master, Lodge No. 682
NORMAN SMITH, Past Master, Lodge No. 682
WILLIAM A. KNAGGS, Past Master, Lodge No. 682
VERNON BECK, Past Master, Lodge No. 682
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Ritual.

NOTICE TO DELINQUENT MEMBER
(20)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section No. 579 C.M.C. requires the Secretary to
notify any member who has refused or neglected to pay his regular dues
during a period of twelve months, and
WHEREAS, this section requires that the notice be sent either by
certified or registered letter to the last known address and deliverable to
addressee only, and
WHEREAS, in the majority of cases the member is not at home and
the letter cannot be delivered, thus resulting in it finally being returned
to the sender, now therefore
BE IT RESOLVED, that Section No. 579 C.M.C. be amended by
striking out the word "only" in line four ( 4) which follows that part of
sentence reading "deliverable to addressee" and adding thereto the
words "or his representative." This line will then appear as follows,

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"certified mail. deliverable to addressee or his representative, deposited
in the U. S. Post Office."
Respectfully submitted,
RAYL. WHITNEY, Past Master. Lodge No. 513
W.R. CRAM, Past Master. Lodge No. 358
JosEPH A. VISGER, Past Master, Lodge No. 529
IRA W. MERRILL, Past Master, Lodge No. 355
WALLACE H. BEAUDRY, Past Master, Lodge No. 355
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.

WEARING OF MASONIC CLOTHING (21)

FUNERAL

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section 328c of the California Masonic Code directs
that at meetings the officers should wear aprons indicating their rank or
office, and
WHEREAS. Section 605 of the California Masonic Code directs
that the Master may call the members of his Lodge together at a place
designated for a funeral and there put on the proper regalia and conduct the funeral. and
WHEREAS, Section 605f of the California Masonic Code, in conflict with Section 328c and the wording "proper regalia" of Section 605,
indicates that officers at a funeral can only wear white aprons and not
aprons or jewels indicating their rank or office, and
WHEREAS, funeral services are considered a legitimate activity of
our Lodges and for which a proper ceremonial is provided it is only
fitting that these services be conducted in the best Masonic manner possible by the wearing of aprons and jewels indicative of the officers conducting the funeral services, and
WHEREAS, other organizations, fraternal and otherwise, always
make use of their proper regalia to the edification and inspiration of
members and non-members alike, we as Masons should likewise be
proud of our regalia and proud to display it when the proper occasion
presents itself,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 605f of the California Masonic Code be rescinded and that our Funeral Ceremonial be
changed to instruct the Master, Chaplain and Marshal to wear their
proper jewels and aprons indicating their offices while conducting funeral services for a deceased Brother.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM C. KuNz, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
CEaL M. PRIOR, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

83

IDENTIFY BANK AND BANK BALANCE IN
ANNUAL AUDIT
(22)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the annual ~eport of the audit as of June 30, 1962, of
all of the investments in the complete portfolio of Grand Lodge listed in
excess of two million dollars in cash, on hand or in banks, and
WHEREAS, it is ·deemed important to list on several pages the
number of shares of stocks and bonds in great detail. and
WHEREAS, no detail is given as to name and location of banks or
the amount on deposit in each of the funds contained in the 1962 report,
and
WHEREAS, this information should be available to each member
of Grand Lodge and the constituent Lodges,
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that the annual report of the
Investment Committee of Grand Lodge and the auditor's report of our
investments of the Grand Lodge, The Masonic Homes of California,
The Endowment Fund, The Memorial Temple and any and all other
funds under the control of Grand Lodge, shall contain the names and
location of all banks and the amount of monies on deposit in each.
Respectfully submitted,
CECIL M. PRIOR, Past Master. Lodge No. 673
WILLIAM C. KUNZ, Past Master. Lodge No. 673
ROWLAND E. MASON, Past Master, Lodge No. 673
Referred to Committee on Finance.

ATTENDANCE CHURCH SERVICE MAUNDY
THURSDAY
(23)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, an increasing number of Protestant Churches are
holding Maundy Thursday services;
BE IT RESOLVED, that the Grand Lodge of Masons approve this
resolution at the 1962* Annual Communication that all Blue Lodges be
dark on Maundy Thursday Night, except where Maundy Thursday
falls on a Stated Meeting Night. In the latter event Stated Meeting·s
should be as short as possible and it is the recommendation of the undersigned that we should endeavor to urge our members to attend the
church of their choice on Maundy Thursday.
Respectfully submitted,
HAMBLETON F. LEAS, Past Master, Lodge No. 366
ALLARD D. DADMUN, Senior Warden, Lodge No. 366
Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
*Grand Secretary reported receipt of this resolution on August 3, 1962.
Under our law (Sec. 104 CMC) the Grand Master ruled it was nonemergent, hence it was held over for the 1963 Annual Communication.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REMOVE EMBLEMS, ETC. FROM BUILDINGS
NO LONGER USED BY MASONS
(24)

WHEREAS, the National Emblem should be displayed in front of,
or on top of, our Memorial Temple,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, by Coachella Lodge,
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, that the Grand
Lodge of Masons of the State of California be requested to display the
National Emblem from an appropriate flagstaff, atop or in front of the
the Memorial Temple between the hours of sunrise and sunset on every
day of the year, except in inclement weather.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT K. HAGER, Master, Lodge No. 476
F. B. DozIER, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
A.H. WEINER, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
FRIEND F. WILSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Ledge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERAS. California Masonic Bodies and Organizations are permitted to identify the buildings housing such organizations by use of
appropriate Masonic emblems, or names, and
WHEREAS, ownership and custody of these buildings are permitted to change hands, and
WHEREAS. such future use may not be compatible with Masonic
teachings, principles, and .gtandai'ds, and
WHEREAS. the Grand Master of Masons for the State of California is responsible for the action. conduct and impressions given by all
Masons under his jurisdiction,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. that it shall be the
duty of the Grand Lodge of Masons for the State of California, under
the direction of the Grand Master or his duly appointed assistant. to see
that all identifying names, insignia, and emblems are removed or obliterated from such buildings before ownership or custody is permitted to
pass from the Masonic Body responsible, and be it
FURTHER RESOLVED. that every effort be exerted by the
Grand Lodge to obtain permission from the owners of buildings now
displaying such emblems or identifying marks and no longer housing
Masonic Bodies to remove same at the expense of the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT K. HAGER, Master, Lodge No. 476
F. B. DozIER, Past Master. Lodge No. 476
REX T. JOHNSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
FRIEND F. WILSON. Past Master. Lodge No. 476
A. H. WEINER, Past Master, Lodge No. 476
Referred to Committees on Lodge Financing, and on Commercialism.

DISPLAY NATIONAL EMBLEM
(25)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Ledge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. The Masonic Order is the oldest fraternal organization and one which actively promotes the virtues of loyalty, fidelity and
patriotism, and
WHEREAS, all Masons are urged on all occasions to display
patriotism, love of country and pride in our heritage of freedom, and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of Masons of California does hold
forth its Annual Communication in a Memorial Masonic Temple, dedicated to the Masons of California who gave their lives in defense of
their country, and

85

WEARING MASONIC APRONS
(26)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Ledge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. in order that the officers and constituent Lodges be
correctly identified with the office to which they were elected or appointed and installed, I offer for your consideration the following resolution:
RESOLVED: that the officers wear the officer's apron appropriate
to the station to which they were elected or appointed and installed duTing all Lodge meetings regardless of the station which they may occupy
during the Lodge meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT E. STRASSER, Master, Lodge No. 780
MARK R. THROSSEL, Past Master, Lodge No. 780
WM. HowARD CROOKS, Senior Warden,
Lodge No. 780
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

LIMITING SIZE OF LODGES
(27)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Ledge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, our present Grand Master has been rightfully concerned about the decline of interest in our Lodges, and
WHEREAS, many of our Lodges have become so large that they
appear impersonal and offer nothing to a candidate, and
WHEREAS, according to the 1963* proceedings of this Grand
Lodge we have in this jurisdiction 162 Lodges with a membership of
over 500. With legislation to set a maximum membership of 500 this
•Undoubtedly means 1962.

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

could create 175 new Lodges, two Assistant Grand Lecturers, 40 to 50
Inspectors , 2100 Officers, and at least 4000 active side liners spreading
the teachings of Masonry.
THEREF ORE BE IT RESOLV ED, that the incoming Grand
Master appoint a special committee to prepare legislation governing the
size of our Lodges, for action of this Grand Lodge in 1964.
·
Respectfu lly submitted.
WILLIAM E. RIFE, Past Master, Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committe e on Policy and General Purposes.

MASON IC MUSEU M - COLUM BIA
(29)

THIRD DEGREE CANDID ATE'S LECTUR E
(28)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, this Grand Lodge has no requireme nt or definite plan
of action in having all candidate s learn the Candidate 's Lecture of the
Third Degree, and
WHEREA S, that there may be an authorized procedure to be followed by all Lodges to further the education of candidate s to have all
Masons on receiving the Third Degree pass a proficiency therein, the
following resolution is offered:
NOW THEREF ORE BE IT RESOLV ED, that it be the policy
of this Grand Lodge that all candidate s on becoming a ,Master Mason
be continuall y urged by their Masters and Coaches to qualify and receive a certificate of proficiency in the Candidate 's Lecture of the Third
Degree, and
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLV ED, that the Grand Lecturer estab. lish a system of reporting by the Lodges the names of all candidate s
raised during the preceding fiscal year, the date of their raising, the date
of their qualification, and also the names of all candidate s raised during
preceding years (not to exceed three) who have not so qualified, and
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLV ED, that the Grand Lecturer include
in his annual report a summary of the reports received from the ['espective Masonic Lodges. and
BE IT FURTHE R RESOLV ED, that the Grand Master be requested to refer this resolution to the Committe e on Policies and General Purposes.
Respectfu lly submitted ,
S. E. DOLLAR, Past Master, Lodge No. 465
CLARENCE L. FRASER, Past Master, Lodge No. 128
JAMES B. LAWSON, Past Master, Lodge No. 128
A. A. DANIELLS, Past Master, Lodge No. 416
WILSON E. LATHROP, Past Master, Lodge No. 98
H. R. HARGRAVE, Past Master, Lodge No. 530
Referred to Committe es on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

87

To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, Grand Lodge in 1949, built a replica of Columbia
Lodge No. 28 quarters at State Historical Monumen t, Columbia; and
WHERE AS. the upper floor rooms are used for visiting Lodges.
and the basement for Grand Lodge purposes: and
WHERE AS, the street level room of said building has not been
occupied since its completion; and
WHERE AS. Columbia State Historical Park is visited by thousands of people weekly seeking early California history, of which Masonry contribute d an important part, and
WHERE AS. many Masonic items of a historical interest could be
assembled and displayed for viewing by an enlightene d public,
THEREF ORE NOW BE IT RESOLV ED that a Masonic
Museum be installed on the 1gmund floor of Columbia Temple dedicated
to early California Masonry.
Respectfu lly submitted,
RAY M. WAGNER, Master, Lodge No. 8
EDMOND MICHEL, Past Master, Lodge No. 8
MARCEL M. BAER, Past Master, Lodge No. 8
LEWIS H. BACH, Past Master, Lodge No. 8
JoHN R. CASSADY, Master, Lodge No. 76
ROLAND M. GREXTON, Past Master, Lodge No. 76
JoHN A. KIRBY, Past Master, Lodge No. 76
ARTHUR R. KIEHN, Master, Lodge No. 33
FLOYD G. BOWMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 33
GEORGE G. HARD, Master, Lodge No. 391
IvAR C. EKMAN, Past Master, Lodge No. 391
W. D. ARCHER, Past Master, Lodge No. 391
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Finance, and on Columbia Temple.

CHANG ING NAME OF BAY CLAIRE VISTA LODGE
NO. 799, F.&A.M.
(30)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, Bay Claire Vista 799 F. & A. M. does not have a
meeting place in the geographi c location it is intended to serve and it
appears that neither the Masons in that area nor the other Lodges in
the San Diego County know that the Lodge was originally intended to
serve Bay Park, Clairemon t and Linda Vista areas because
(a) It was recently brought to my attention that some sojourners

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in the Clairemont area are interested in starting a Lodge for that area.
( b) The San Diego County Masonic Officers Association De Molay
Committee assigned Bay Claire Vista to be co-host, with East San
Diego 561 F. & A. M. and Crossroads 696 F. & A. M .. for East San
Diego Chapter of De Molay instead of assigning us as host for Clairemont Chapter of De Molay; and
WHEREA S. the Clairemont area now has a population of over
60,000. and
WHEREA S. the Bay Park and Linda Vista areas combined make
up only 7.5% of our total membership; therefore
BE IT RESOLVE D. that the name of Bay Claire Vista 799 F. &
A. M. be changed to Clairemont 799 F. & A. M.
Respectfully submitted,
WALDO 1Rv1N LANE, Master, Lodge No. 799
THOMAS F. McALEER, Past Master. Lodge No. 799
F. S. FIRKINS, Past Master, Lodge No. 799
JAMES ARTHUR FALLS, Senior Warden,
Lodge No. 799
FRANK R. DAVIS, Junior Warden, Lodge No. 799
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes. and on
Charters.

RESOLVE D. that Section 708-a re: Certificate of Service be renumbered Section 707-k.
RESOLVE D, that Section 721-n be repealed.
RESOLVE D, that Section 722-a and Section 722-b be re-numbered
Section 718-m and 718-n.
RESOLVE D. that Section 725-a be re-numbered Section 724-d.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Past Master, Lodge No. 560
Ref erred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

FUNCTIO NAL AMENDM ENTS C.M.C.
(31)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVE D, that Section 137-a be repealed.
RESOLVE D that Section 193-b be repealed.
RESOLVE D that Section 324 be amended by adding "in the Old
Masonic Hall in El Pueblo de Los Angeles State Historical Monument
at Los Angeles" as 324-d and the present 324-d to be numbered 324-e.
The Section will then read: "d. in the Old Masonic Hall in El Pueblo
de Los Angeles State Historical Monument at Los Angeles.
"e. in a building and at a place designated by the Grand Master in
a dispensation . . . ".
RESOLVE D. that Section 336 be amended to read as follows:
"Each chartered Lodge shall, within two months from the date of its
charter and after approval of the design by the Grand Secretary, provide a suitable seal ... ".
RESOLVE D. that Section 412-q be repealed. It has been superceded by Section 411 as amended in 1957.
RESOLVE D. that Section 697, Election of Commissio n, be
amended so that lines 11 and 12 will read:
" ... until the full number of Commissioners shall have been elected.
each by a majority of all the votes cast."
RESOLVE D. that Section 700-a be repealed.

89

CHARITA BLE FUND BOARD OF CONTRO L
(32)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVE D, that there is hereby established a separate fund of
this Grand Lodge, which fund shall be known as "Boards of Relief
Charitable Fund," and which is hereby created, and shall be operated
exclusively for charitable purposes. and which may be allocated among
the several Boards of Relief organized and operating for charitable purposes pursuant to the California Masonic Code, but which funds shall
be kept separate and apart fa-om the other funds of this Grand Lodge.
RESOLVE D FURTHER . that this Grand Lodge will accept, hold
and administer any gift, grant, devise, or bequest made to said fund,
subject to the terms and conditions of this resolution;
RESOLVE D FURTHER . that said fund, and the proceeds and
income therefrom, shall be administere d and distributed by the Grand
Master and Treasurer of this Grand Lodge, subject to the direction and
control of this Grand Lodge. pursuant to the terms and conditions of
this resolution;
RESOLVE D FURTHER . that the Grand Master and Treasurer of
the Grand Lodge shall maintain separate books and accounts for said
fund: that no part of the net earnings of said fund shall be used for the
benefit of any officer, trustee, member of, or individual associated with
this Grand Lodge; that no part of said fund shall be used for carrying
on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation or for
participation or intervention, directly or indirectly. in any political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public office;
RESOLVE D FURTHER . that this Grand Lodge shall have the
power, with respect to the assets of said fund or any part thereof, and
upon such terms and in such manner as it may deem advisable, to retain
in the fund, for such time as it may deem advisable, any property received by it; to manage, operate, control. sell, convey, exchange, partition, divide, subdivide, improve, repair: to grant options and to sell upon
deferred payments; to invest and reinvest the principal. and income if
accumulated, and to purchase or acquire therewith every kind of prop-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

erty, real. personal or mined, and every kind of investment it may deem
advisable; and to compromise or otherwise adjust any claims against or
in favor of the fund; to commence or defend such litigation with respect
to the fond or any property of the fund, at the expense of the fund; to
borrow and lend money for any fund purpose, to encumber of hypothecate by mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, or otherwise, and with respect
to securities held in the fund, to vote, give proxies, and pay assessments
or other ,c harges, to participate in foreclosures, reorganizations, consolidations, mergers, and liquidations, and incident thereto, to deposit securities with and transfer title to any protective or other committee upon
such terms as this Grand Lodge may deem advisable, and to exercise or
sell stock subscription or conversion rights; and the Grand Lodge shall
have such additional powers as may now or hereafter be conferred upon
it by law or as may be necessary to enable it to administer this fund in
accordance with the provisions of this resolution and subject to any
limitations thereof that may be provided for herein;
RESOLVED FURTHER. that distribution and application of the
income of said fund and of such portions of the principal thereof as may
from time to time be available for such distribution and application, shall
be made from time to time exclusively to or for the benefit of relieving
the distress of visiting Masons, their widows and orphans, by the
Boards of Relief of constituent Lodges of said Grand Lodge which, pursuant to the California Masonic Code, thus administer and pay the
expenses of the said charitable activities, subject to the direction and
control of the Grand Lodge; that no part of the assets of said fund shall
be expended, upon dissolution or otherwise, in payment of the general
obligations or expenses of this Grand Lodge; and that the property of
said fund shall be and is hereby forevocably dedicated to charitable purposes, and upon the liquidation, dissolution, or abandonment of the
fund, shall not inure to the benefit of this Grand Lodge or any private
person, but upon such liquidation, dissolution, or abandonment, all the
property of the fund shall be transferred to the Endowment Fund of
Masonic Homes of California, or its successor, organized and operated
exclusively for charitable purposes, and if there be no successor, then to
a fund, foundation or corporation organized and operated for charitable
purposes.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR DvoRIN, Past Master, Lodge No. 639
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the
Board of Control.

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

90

RESOLUTIONS WITHDRAWN
The Resolutions titled, "Changing Name of Bay Claire Vista Lodge
No. 799, F&AM," previously circulated as Number 30, and, "Charitable
Fund Board of Control." previously circulated as Number 32, were
withdrawn by their proponents.

91

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Herewith is my Third Annual Report as Grand Treasurer.
Attached will be found all of the financial reports and audits of the
Grand Lodge, Masonic Homes of California and the California Memorial Temple.
To fully appreciate the ever increasing size of the financial operations
of the Grand Lodge and its components, I urge the membership to give
strict attention to the material contained in the various schedules.
APPROPRIATIONS AND DISBURSEMENTS
All appropriations and disbursements have been carefully reviewed
by the professional auditors Lybrand, Ross Bros. and Montgomery,
C.P.A.'s as provided in Section l 94CMC.
Detailed records and vouchers are on file in the office of the Grand
Secretary.
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
. Last year the Finance Committee presented what they termed a
tight budget and the various Boards and Commissions are to be commended for their strict compliance with its provisions. The Grand Secretary has done an outstanding job in getting full measure for every
dollar expended and his careful attention to detail has saved a sizeable
sum for the Grand Lodge.
A number of items were most difficult to estimate and as a result
nine supplemental appropriations were approved by the Grand Master'.
They are listed below for reference.
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes .... $ 900.00
Retirement Pension Plan ................................... .
225.00
Pay Roll Processing ......................................... .
49.80
Grand Lodge Officers Travel ........................... .
800.00
Grand Lodge Printing ........................................ 2,000.00
Board of Control ............................................... .
150.00
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ................ 1,100.00
Commission on Masonic Practices ................... . 4,827.24
Miscellaneous ---·----·--·-----------------·-·--- ................................. .
900.00
$10,952.04

T~e largest item, $4,827.24, was for the Commission on Masonic
Prac~1~es, set up by our Grand Master as his project for the year. No

prov1s1on was made for this activity in the annual budget as neither the
Grand Master nor the Finance Committee were able to estimate its cost.

92

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Notwithstanding the supplemental appropriations we closed the
year with a budget surplus in excess of $35,000, which is quite satisfactory and compares favorably with previous experience.
As required by our law I participated with the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes of California at most of its meetings. Likewise,
I met with the Investment Committee at all of its meetings.
These two groups are composed of outstanding men who devote
hours upon hours of dedicated service in the interest of Masonry. It has
been a pleasure to serve with them.
I express my appreciation also to the Grand Secretary and his Staff
with whom I have almost daily contact.
It is my sincere hope that my services as Grand Treasurer meet with
approbation and approval.
Fraternally,
ARTHUR M. WARREN , Grand Treasurer

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

93

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M, OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

Yean End!d
June 30, 1963 June 30, 1962

lNCCME RECEIPTS:
Grand Lodges
Per capita, contribution•, and fees
Interest, dividends, and mi•cellaneous

$

334,413.10
59,21j!,§O
393,625.9Q

$

321,370.43
J!!,2§Q,Q!!
359 1 65Q.51

Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Grand Lodge per capita and contribution•
Payment• through Lodges for Homes
Interest, dividend•, and mi•cellaneou•

416,306.00
48,016.92
15;),119,H
6,J,7,4~il·!!!i

123,J20.~9
~9;) ,61;!,,;)il

Ma•onic HonU!'ll - Permanent Endowment Funds
Intere•t, dividends, and miscellaneous

474,059,!il

468,30j!.57

4,345.53

416.16·
j!l,745.JQ

Masonic Homes - Other Endowment Funds•
Contribution•
Intere•t and dividend•
Memorial Temple:
Interest
Memorial Tmnple operation•

il~.159.74

a2.~2~.a:z

421,781.00
48,509.83

aa.u.1..~!i

3,897. 20

2,060.60

;i,28 1 gn.~

114,!!U.~Q

l;)l,9;)!!,ti

;i.;!,6,§H,lQ

Total income (exclu•ive of
capital gain•)

l.M4,522.4!!

1.560,599.96

CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING LOANS AND
CAPITAL GAINS1
Grand Lodge1
Gain on sale of securitie•

7.9!13,0!!

4,299.03

(19,877.77)
908,505.75
4;),5 1 628.89
l,JQ4,25§,!!7

170,501.23
226,057.46

888,508.11

778,809.62

192,94§.Q:Z
1,081.454.18

l,051.007.96

Ma•onic Homes - Other Endowment and
Trust Fund•:
Gain on sale of securities
Received from residents fr;/r deposit
(net)

12,160.02

3,395.66

2,9§§.Ql!
22,146.11

6,156.20

M-orial Temple:
Grand Lodge per capita and
contribution•
Bequests and individual contribution•
Addition to reserve for renewals and
replacements

296,717.00
63,099.90

298,215.00
72,771.68

:l, 1 319.QO
;)61,U5 1 2Q

372 1 1~5 1 !i!!

~.~~l.~4§,§2

;),898,474,§!i

Ma•onic Homes - General Fund:
Gain or (loH) on •ale of
securitie•
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents
Masonic Homes - Permanent Endowment Fund:
Bequests arid contributions
Gain on sale of securities
and real estate

Total income and capital
receipts - forward

507,69§.~4

9Q4 1 255 1 l~

272,198.~4

2,761.2~

1,1§9.0Q

94

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS, Continued

I have the honor to present to you my Third Annual Report as
Grand Secretary.

Years Ended
June 30, 1963 June 30, 1962
Total income and capital
receipts - forward
EXPENSE DISBURSEMENTS:
Grand Lodge:
Operating expense
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Operation of Homes and outside relief
Administrative and general expense
Retirement income plan

$4.421.448.62

$3.898,474.66

329.616.56

342,890.16

1,294,244.16
154,534.46
40,307.33
1.489.085.95

1,155,001.35
138,019.21
33.553.38
l.326,573.94

4.148.75

1.350.00

9,227.43
135,607.87
47,751.60

5,581.57
130,217.86
55,151.60

1.319.00
193.905.90
2,016.757.16

l.169.00
192.120.03
l,862.934·.13

32,851.79
6,510.68
25. 951. 30
53,940.00
4.837.44
124,091.21

43,826.20
11,629.49
23,777.33
53,856.00
6, 711.02
139,800.04

2,140.848.37

127.898.00
2,130,632.17

$2.280.600.25

$1.767,@42.49

Masonic Homes - Endowment and Trust Funds1
Miscellaneous
Memorial Temple:
Administrative and general expense
Memorial Temple operations
Interest on notes payable
Transferred to reserve for renewals
and replacements
Total operating expenses
EXPENSES CHARGED TO RESERVES FOR
SPECIAL PURPOSES:
Masonic Homes - General Fund:
Replacements to Homes
Funeral expense
Entertainment expense
Grants to residents
Miscellaneous
EXPENSES CHARGED TO FUND BALANCE:
Grand Lodge:
Retirement pension plan
past service costs
Total expenses
Net increase in fund balances

The foregoing net increase in fund balances during the year ended
June 30, 1963, and year ended June 30, 1962, is.accounted for as follows:
Changes increasing (decreasing) fund
balances:
Increase in cash on deposit in banks
Increase in securities owned
Increase in buildings and equipnent
Decrease in loans from banks
Decrease in contract payable
Increase in miscellaneous
assets, net
Decrease (increase) in sundry
liabilities
Net increase in fund balances,
as above

$

659,696.22
960,322.69
443,418.75
180,000.00
23,751.00

$

95

86,074.91
1,296,703.37
99,065.33
180,000.00
23,751.00

56,948.07

81,269.54

(43,536.48)

978.34

$a.a§g.~gg.a~

$;L,2§Z.~ia1i2

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Cemetery at Jamestown, pages 210 and 270, 1962 Proceedings.
2. Columbia Temple Museum, pages 24 and 269, 1962 Proceedings.
3. Masonic Information Guide, pages 218 and 270, 1962 Proceedings.
4. Maundy Thursday Resolution, page 68, 1962 Proceedings.
5. Research Lodge Officers' Resolution, pages 61 and 281, 1962
Proceedings.
6. Trial Record No. 1554, page 257, 1962 Proceedings.
CovELO LODGE No. 231
On October 31, 1962, Covelo Lodge No. 231 lost their Temple in
a fii'e which destroyed most of the Lodge records and other possessions.
This is the third time that the Lodge lost its hall and records - once
shortly after it was organized, in 1873, again in 1903 and in 1962.
It was necessary to replace the charter for the third time. In the
absence of a photostatic copy of the charter of Covelo Lodge the present form of charter was completed with the information available.
The Grand Master was Isaac Sutvene Titus and the Grand Secretary was Alex G. Abell.
An appeal was made in the Winter issue of the California Freemason for furniture and equipment. The response was overwhelming and Covelo Lodge had offers of far more than they could use.
The Chairman of the Charters Committee was advised of extra paraphernalia and equipment available for possible use by new Lodges.
CHARTER

AMENDMENTS

Change of Meeting Place:
Los Alamitos Lodge No. 809 has changed its meeting place from
Artesia to Seal Beach. Millbrae Lodge No. 792 has changed its meeting place from Burlingame to Millbrae. James A. Foshay Lodge No.
641 has changed its meeting place from Los Angeles to Playa del
Rey.
These changes of meeting place have been officially approved under the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now
requests authority to properly endorse their Charters.
Consolidation of Lodges:
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been
complied with by Amity Lodge No. 370 and Seal Rock Lodge No. 536

96

PROCE EDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

they consolidated, effective Marc h 1, 1963, with the
appro val of the
Grand Maste r. The Lodg e will be know n as Amity
-Seal Rock Lodge
No. 370. locate d at San Franc isco.
The Grand Secre tary reque sts autho rity to prope rly
endor se these
Chart ers.

A detailed analy sis of the above tabula tion shows that
several of the
items are prope r basis for carefu l consi derati on, both
as to trend s which
are indica ted and the financial results which ensue.

LoDGE UNDE R DISPE NSATI ON

Plaza de Los Ange les Lodge U. D. was institu ted
on May 1,
1963. This Lodge collected a less amou nt of dues than
the per capita
tax, and in accor d with prece dent the Grand Maste
r, at our sugge stion, directed that they be not requir ed to pay the per
capita tax. It is
respe ctfull y reque sted that this be appro ved.
VETE RAN BUTT ON PRESE NTATI ONS

Most Wors hipfu l Ira W . Cobu rn. Grand Maste r, prese
nted Fifty
Year Veter an Butto ns to Arthu r Pauls en, Past Gran
d Maste r, and
Clare nce L. Frase r. The latter is the oldes t Inspe ctor
in point of service,
havin g been appoi nted in Decem ber 1927.
On Augu st 20, 1963, I accompanied the Grand Maste
r to Dinub a
where he prese nted the vetera n's award to Broth er Clare
nce Frase r at
a public cerem ony in the Dinub a Memorial Hall attend
ed by an overflow
crowd .
Past Gran d Maste r Arthu r M. Warr en and I accom
panied the
Grand Mast er to Weav ervill e where he prese nted the
award to Past
Gran d Maste r Arthu r Pauls en on Septe mber 9. The cerem
ony was held
in the Memo rial Building at Weav ervill e. Again , the
community turned
out to do honor to an old friend and Broth er, and
the building was
crowd ed.
MEMB ERSH IP

Membership Summary
1959
1960
New Lodge s Forme d. .........
5
9
Initia ted ................................
7,255
7,056
Passe d .................................... 6,946
6,755
Raised .................................... 7,047
6,805
Affilia ted ..............................
2,428
2,308
Reins tated ............................
320
339
Withd rawn ..................................
1,806
1,878
Suspe nded for NonPaym ent of Dues ............
1,270
1,413
Suspe nded or
Expel led for Cause..........
45
40
Died ........... .............................
4,219
4,411
Numb er of Memb ers.......... 240,128* 241,819*
Dues Remit ted .................... 3,437
3,381
Gain --·····---------·-···················2,474
1,691
Numb er of Lodge s..............
691
696
•Plura l Memb ers
(Inclu ded in total) .......-·
1,604
1,372
••4 Resea rch Lodge s not includ ed in total
t777 from other jurisd iction s

1961
5
6,815
6,589
6,698
2,404
367
1,983

1962
4
6,426
6,132
6,330
2,440
362
2,066

1963
4
6,223
5,743
5,833
2,365t
371
2,073

1,449

1,514

1,431

35
4,475
243,346*
3,415
1,527
700
1,448

23
36
4,633
4,777
244,242* 244,494*
3,451
3,515
896
252
703 ..
705 ..
1,653

1,770

97

Losses by Death
The steadi ly mounting numb er of death s is a factor
which is not
subje ct to control. In fact, it is fully under stand able
on the basis of an
increased membership each year, combined with the fact
that the avera ge
age of our membership is steadi ly higher. Recent check
s condu cted by
this office disclose that the avera ge age for curren t
new members is
appro ximat ely 44 years ( 41 years in the case of applic
ants for degrees
and 53 years for affiliates) .
Suspensions
This is a factor of membership losses which is subje ct
to some degre e
of control. Possi bly some of this contro l is alread y
being exercised,
becau se the loss repor ted on the 1963 annua l return s
indicated the least
numb er of suspensions over a three year period.
Even with this improvement, however, the number suspe
nded durin g
the past year rep~esented the astou nding figure of twent
y-fou r per cent
of the number game d by the confe rring of degrees. It
is true that durin g
the same year the Lodge s restor ed 371 of those previo
usly suspe nded.
~ven after this adjus tment the ratio of net
loss by suspension shows as
eighteen per cent of the numb er gained by degrees.
It is realized that some of those lost
this mann er reflect a failure
?n the part of the Lodges themselves toindemo
nstrat e that membership
~n th_e Frat~ity i~ worth while . The more
proba ble determining factor
is faih~re to mvest igate fully the cause for the delinq
uency. Wher e the
cause is actua l financial inability, the remed y of remis
sion is available
and will conserve the membership of a broth er who
is thereb y more
fully c~nvinced .of .our devotion to the principle of
"Brot herly Love,"
exemplified to him m a period of distress.
Remission of Dues
Here, as in the case of losses by death , the high avera
ge age of our
membership is a factor in the figures tabula ted. But,
eevn with this in
mind, the ratio involved (one and four-t enths per
cent of our entire
membeMhip) does not seem to be justified.
In the case of the most frequ ent remis sions -the accru
ed dues for
the prece ding year -it is easy to realize that such
action is the only
prope r ~emedy for a worth y but distressed member.
As the suggestion
~ade with refere nce to suspe nsion s is follow
ed, there will be an increase
m the numb er of members for whom this consideration
is applicable. It is
reaso nable to assume, howe ver, that even this increa
sed numb er of
worth y cases will fall far short of the total numb er
of remissions currently repor ted.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The basis for limiting the remission of dues to those cases where
such action is really justified lies, again, in following a program of more
careful investigation of each case. Avoid all those instance~ where
remission is voted, year after year, simply because the brother mvolved
was the basis for ,such action in the previous year. The Lodge cannot
afford to sacrifice dues income simply because a precedent has been
previously voted.
. .
.
.
The type of remission which is more subject to un~u~ttfi~d action ts
that taken under special provisions of Section 577-re~1ss1on •? advance.
While this section allows the Lodge authority to remit dues m advance
in two types of cases, members who have belonged in this jurisdiction
for forty or more years and members who have reached the . a~~ _of
seventy-five and have rendered special service to the ~dge •. ehg~b1hty
for such type of remission is still limited by the condition cited m the
first paragraph of the section: "those of its members who are unable to
pay."
This limiting factor is frequendy misunderstood. Its impoi:t ~as
clearly stated in a 1955 decision approved at the Annual Commumcatton
and set forth in annotation "h" of Section 577:
"It is a violation of our law to relieve a Mason of the duty to pay
dues merely because a certain number of years has been satisfied. The
provisions relating to 40-year Masons and 75-Y_ear old ~asons were
intended for distinguished service and to be applied only m thos~ ma~­
ginal cases where there may be ability to pay but where a hardship still
would be worked. A man should consider it a high privilege to help
bear the cost of his own Lodge and of the Grand Lodge, and thus make
his contribution toward the onward march of Masonry."
It should be borne in mind that the basis for any remission should
be the financial situation of the member and that the remission of such
dues in advance only constitutes an additional court~sy_ to a .m~m~er
who has satisfied the conditions of forty year membership m the JUrtsd1ction or of having attained the age of seventy-five.

Financial Aspects
.
. .
The comments made with reference to Suspension and Rem1ss1ons
have been presented from the standpoint of numbers involved a_nd
remedial steps available. An additional consideration is the results which
affect the entire membership of each Lodge involved.
Each case of an unwarranted suspension or remission places an
additional financial burden on the Lodge itself and on its dues parying
members. While it is true that the Lodge does not pay per capita on
the members who were suspended, or whose dues were remitted under
the qualifying conditions, this amount is small as compared with the
income the Lodge would have received from a brother who was continued as a dues paying member.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

For the jurisdiction as a whole the average dues specified in the
By-Laws is approximately sixteen dollars. After deducting from this
amount of specified dues the amount saved in per capita, we find that
the net loss to the average Lodge in each case of unjusti'fied action
amounts to approximately twelve dollars and a half.
Last year the net loss by suspension was 1060 and the number for
whom dues were remitted was 3515, a total of 4575. If we are conservative and assume that two-thirds of these cases represent justified action
we still find a total net income to the Lodges of nineteen thousand
dollars which could have been realized with proper understanding of
the regulations, proper investigation and limiting action to justifiable
cases. Without doubt there are cases where following proper procedure
would have avoided the necessity for the Lodge increasing the amount
of its annual dues.

Forfeiture of Fees and Contributions
This is another area in which there seems to be a degree of indifference. Such indifference is the basis for not attaining the number of new
members which would become potential if our candidates were fully
dedicated to the principles which Masonry emphasizes. The new method
of enabling the coaches to more effectively explain Masonry to the
candidates will undoubtedly result in decreasing the number of forfeitures. The Grand Lecturer and the other members of the Ritual
Committee have provided a very effective toll for accomplishing this end.
We are continuing the survey of candidates which was referred to
in my report last year. The required forms have been sent to all the
Lodges. The completion of the task will depend upon the promptness
with which the answers are returned to our office.
From the information developed bry this survey it appears that over
four thousand men who have been elected to receive the degrees, and
who have had one or two of the degrees conferred upon them, are now
subject to the procedure leading to forfeiture. Picture the beneficial
results, both as to increased membership and increased dues income,
which could result from a program of instilling in half of those indifferent candidates the same enthusiasm which led them to present their
original applications for the degrees.
Here, as in the handling of suspensions and remission of dues,
personal interviews with the men involved could well provide constructive answers as to the future of Masonry in this jurisdiction.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

100

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

FEES FOR DEGR EES

Amou nt

1959
No. Lodge s
99

$ 50.00
53.00
5
55.00
1
60.00
11
65.00
1
70.00
74.00
186
75.00
78.00
22
80.00
3
85.00
15
90.00
1
95.00
99.00
208
100.00
102.00
6
105.00
2
110.00
32
115.00
3
120.00
77
125.00
1
130.00
1
135.00
1
140.00
7
150.00
165.00
175.00
7
215.00
2
Total Lodge s 691
Avera ge
$89.58

1963
No. Lodge s
85

1960
No. Lodge s
92

1961
No. Lodge s
89

4

4

1962
No. Lodge s
90
1
4

2

2

2

2

11

13

13

13

1

1

1
1

1
1

182

172

169
1

169

22

22

22

3
17

2
20

22
2

21

22

1

1

1
1

1
1

215

222

218

217

6

1
9
3

1
3

1

3

3

3

1
8
3

35
3
78

38
3
79

40
3
76

42
3
79

1
1

6

7

8
3
696
$90.69

8
3

1
2
3
7
2
9
1

1
3

3

1
1
3

700
$91.11

703
$91.27

7
2
9
1
705
$91.90

1961
No. Lodge s
121
1
308
64

1962
No. Lodge s
114

1963
No. Lodge s
98

2
181
34
1
4
2
703
$15.76

5

3

ANNU AL DUES

Amou nt

1959
No. Lodge s
188

$12.00
1
14.00
316
15.00
52
16.00
1
17.00
117
18.00
10
20.00
21.00
24.00
3
25.00
2
Total Lodge s 691
Avera ie
$14.91

1960
No. Lodge s
140
1
320
62

2

2

151
16

177

3
1

4

696
$15.33

700
$15.56

22

1

1

298

66

283
63
2
207
41
4
5
2
705
$15.98

101

NEW LoDGE S

The following new Lodges were formed during the
year:
Moun t Baldy Lodge U.D., located at Ontar io. Dispensatio
n grant ed
Nove mber 14, 1962. The Lodge was instituted Nove
mber 24, 1962,
at Ontar io, Most Wors hipfu l Ira W. Cobu rn, Grand
Maste r, presiding.
The charte r membership is as follows: James Willa
rd David son
(Mas ter), Willi e Ray Bilke (Seni or Ward en). Willi
am Aaron Nichols (Junio r Ward en). Leonard Steph en Collins, Leyce
ster Carl Angel,
Robe rt James Sieber, John Lenox Hollinger, Philli
p Franc is Hofer ,
John Walt er Daley , Berna rd Joseph Griswold, Robe
rt Cook Jensen,
Ralph Thom as Mitchell, Clare nce MacK ey, Clare nce
Edwa rd Gray,
John Raym ond Kailer, Bunn Hiram Tumb ow, Melvi
n Dedri ck West ,
Theo dore Moffett Carow , John Edwa rd Colds now,
Melvin Leland
Hurst , John Laura n Sugar , Gene Arnol d Stodd ard,
Mago on Barnes
Condit, Willi am LaVe rne Gilbert, Home r James McCo
y, Lewis Arthur Wilt, Edwi n Perry Clements, Fred Willi am Parke
r, Edga r Walter Ogde n, Thom as Leland Hurst , Charl es Frank
lin Benninghoff,
Ralph Edwa rd Ketteringham, Jr., Dona ld Edwa rd Whit
e. Hoyt Hatch er
Lane, Russell Irwin Hanso n, Willi am Merri ll Jacobs,
Alfre d Eugen e
Carpe r, Edwa rd Boley Cales, Andr ew Corne lius Sprin
ger, John Philip
McCr eady, Olive r Hugh ey Whal ey, Dona ld Rodg er
Long, Richa rd
Gary Little, Walt er Victo r O'Bry ant, ldeale Emilio,
Lyles Leon Robertson, Ernes t Crosb y Pears on, Jeff Davis Schro der
and Dixon Windle Tuley .
Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge U-D., located at Los Ange
pensa tion grant ed April 9, 1963. The Lodge was institu les. Disted on May
1, 1963, Right Wors hipfu l Myro n E. Smith, Junior
Grand Ward en,
presiding.
The charte r membership is as follows: Arthu r Dvori
n (Mas ter).
Herbe rt Hargr ave, Jr. (Seni or Ward en), Cedric Holt
Cante r (Junio r
Ward en), Gaylo rd LeRoy Baker, Gran t Charl es Bende
r, Willi am Frank
Bernson, Silas Benson Birch, Jr., Richard Lee Bonne
r, James Harve y
Brown, Walt er Georg e Browne, Fredr ick Alexa nder
Chwo rowsk y,
Ira James Clampitt, Leon Thom as David, Ferdi nand
Marti n Fl.'anz.
Mark Daniel Fuller, Frank Raym ond Galloway, John
Samuel Gibson,
Jr., Evere tt LeRoy Halst ead, Joseph Wym an Hawt
horne , Herbe rt
Georg e Honig, Alexa nder Love Hutchison, Harol d
Thom as Jones.
Joe Woll ett Kennedy, Robe rt Hales Kirkman, Sr.. Leste
r LeRoy Larson, Oscar Willi am Meissner, Paul Edwa rd Moor
e, Hugh James
Murr ay, Samuel Baldwin Ne1son, Milto n Offner, Otto
Knudsen Olesen, Carl Frede rick Pahl. Lyall Alfre d Parde e, Ben
Reynolds Paris,
Sidne y A. Parke r, Walt er Conra d Peters on, Jr., Frank
Lincoln Richards, Carl Svant e Sandell, Edwa rd Wayn e Schneringer
, Lester Herbe rt

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sessions Milton Nathan Sherman, Lynn C. Slaten, George Charles
Sopp, Ll~yd Arthur Stone, Frederick Orva Swan, Jewett Fee Voorhies,
Jack Lloyd White, Richard Blythe Whittington, Monroe Bohannan
Wilson, and Peter Laurence Zook.
William B. Ogden Lodge U.D., located at Hollywood. Dispensation
granted October 1, 1963. The Lodge was instituted on C?c.tober 7, 1963,
Most Worshipful Ira W. Coburn, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Samuel Steelman (Master):
Merle Alvin Plummer (Senior Warden). John Milton Lamson (Junior
Warden). Leo Ellis Anderson, John William Baker, John Bonfiglio,
Sam Vincent Bonfiglio, Edwin Town Church, Reginald Denny Du~n.
Gustaf Ferdinand Ekdahl, Erwin Heincich Gebhardt, John Jumor
Hancock, Walter Leonard Hogan. Peter Tse-Yao Hsu, Miles Shatford
McPhee, Atwill Morgan, Richard Harlan Mumford, Laurence Ira
Nelson, George William Oliver, Melvin Arthur Pixley, Wallace Sc~tt
Pool, Robert Melvin Reich, Benjamin Philip Riskin, l,rvin Shulkm,
Harold Champ Shultz, Edward Abeel Underwood, Harold Irving
Weber, John Kenneth Winters, William Watkins Clarke and John
Herbert Bond.
Manhattan Lodge U.D., located at El Segundo. Dispensation
granted October 1, 1963. The Lodge was instituted on ~c~ober 4,
1963, Most Worshipful Ira W. Coburn, Grand Master, pres1dmg.
The chartec membership is as follows: Robert Le Roy Walker ( Master), Morris Elmer Marshall ( Senior Warden) , John Henry W ilkens (Junior Warden), William Sanford Keily, Alberto Perreira Oliveira, Robert Jerome Pifer, William Stephen Callahan, Thomas Arthur Durham, Hugh Stewart, Anthony Boschetto, Walter Guy Johnston John Andrew Hoffman, Jr., Alison Dexter Bailey. Roth Jeffrey
Na~ramore, Robert Carrol Dawes. Donald Thompson, Harold Ferdinand Penner, Floyd Brewer Mims, Spencer Harushigo Yamada. Vinton Arnett Buffenbarger, John Lee Heim, Brice Taylor Martin, Charles
Lamond Milne, Gordon Jessie Phillips, Robert Andrew Tjugum, Nicholas Matt Kerger, Kenneth Harold Boyer II. Howard Hall Koerner,
Howard Caldwell, John Tedmond Schulte, Jay Henry Woodward,
Howard Ellis Rollins, Chalmer Randolph Fowler, William Orville
Partridge, Olan Floyd Lowe. Oscar George Allen, Joseph Paul Tobin, Warren Basil Grant, Robert Clifford Overbeck, James Lowell
Miles, Stanley Lewis McGaffey, Connard Delmar Burks. Harvey Jerome Balsley. Paul Davis Barnes and Herman Raynold Brandt.

Revere No. 462; Alta Vista No. 464; Woodstock No. 491: Argonne
No. 514; Mount Vernon No. 517; La Jolla No. 518: Foothill No. 564;
Fort Crook No. 575; Fairview No. 629; Alta Loma No. 643: Lake
Tahoe No. 707; Lakewood No. 728: Los Alamitos No. 809.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Military Service No.
570: Service No. 594.
To receive and act upon an application for Degrees without reference to an investigating committee: Corinthian No. 9: Sisson No. 310.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees presented by
a rejected Candidate within less than twelve months: Scepter No. 808.
To open Lodge elsewhere than the regular meeting place: Trinity
No. 27: Los Angeles 42: Natoma No. 64; Fresno No. 247; Center No.
465: Neptune No. 619; Los Cerritos No. 674; Sierra No. 788; American River No. 795: Koolau No. 801.
Special permision for conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union
No. 17; Fullerton 339: Burbank No. 406: Clovis No. 417: La Puente
No. 446; Van Nuys No. 450: Lincoln No. 470: America No. 475;
Clarence F. Smith No. 482: Seaside No. 504: Utopia No. 537; San
Gabriel No. 546; Arcadia No. 547: Southland No. 618: Truth No. 628:
La Brea No. 650: Menlo Park No. 651; Liberal A,r ts No. 677: Altadena
No 678: Magnolia Park No. 715: Home No. 721; Riviera No. 780;
General Henry H. Arnold No. 791.
Miscellaneous: Silver Gate No. 296.

102

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To Elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Washington No. 20: Hiram No. 43: Enterprise No. 70: Ione No. 80: Alamo
No. 122: Guadalupe No. 237; Mt. Shasta No. 281: Pacific Grove No.
331; Arlington No. 414; Eagle Rock No. 422; Wilshire No. 445: Paul

103

LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: Santa Ana No. 241, to $375.00; Fullerton No. 339,
to $475.00; Hollywood No. 355, to $375.00: Parnassus No. 388, to
$375.00: Balder No. 393, to $450.00: Bay View No. 401, to $500.00:
George Washington No. 525. to $540.00: Belvedere No. 539, to $750.00:
Pyramid No. 562, to $425.00: South Park No. 563, to $375.00; Valley
Forge No. 587, to $425.00; Alta Loma No. 643, to $500.00.
Fixing fee: Koolau No. 801, at $315.00.
Rescinding fee: Amity-Seal Rock No. 370.
AMENDMENTS To BY-LAWS
Increasing fees: Curtis No. 140, to $75.00: San Simeon No. 196,
to $75.00; Athens No. 228. to $90.00: Fullerton No. 339, to $125.00;
San Dimas No. 428, to $65.00: Yorba Linda No. 469, to $100.00:
Clarence F. Smith No. 482, to $115.00: Azure No. 533, to $125.00; Baldwin Park No. 660, to $115.00: Mother Colony No. 750, to $105.00.
Decreasing fees: San Diego No. 35, to $100.00; Silver Gate No.
296, to $100.00: Los Alamitos No. 809, to $100.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Provident No. 609, at $10.00; William D. Stephens No. 698, dual or plural, at $25.00.

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decreasing affiliation fee: Sun Garden No. 530, to $5.00: Sierra
No. 788, to $5.00.
Rescinding affiliation fee: Wilshire No. 445: Mount Olive No. 506;
La Canada No. 739; Tila Pass No. 797.
Increasing dues: Volcano No. 56, to $15.00; Santa Rosa No. 57,
to $18.00; Gravel Range No. 59, to $15.00; Arcata No. 106, to $20.00;
Table Mountain No. 124, to $21.00; La Fayette No. 126. to $20.00;
Woodbridge No. 131, to $15.00: Curtis No. 140, to $15.00; San Simeon
No. 196, to $15.00; Athens No. 228. to $15.00; Santa Ana No. 241, to
$18.00: Pomona No. 246. to $18.00; Tuscan No. 261, to $18.00: Durant
No. 268. to $20.00; Selma No. 277. to $18.00; Mount Shasta No. 281, to
$15.00; San Miguel No. 285, to $15.00; Mt. Jackson No. 295, to $21.00;
Sisson No. 310, to $18.00; Fullerton No. 339, to $21.00; Hollywood
No. 355, to $18.00; Parnassus No. 388, to $18.00; Balder No. 393, to
$18.00: Bay View No. 401, to $18.00; Glendora No. 404, to $18.00;
La Mesa No. 407, to 15.00; Lindsay No. 416, to $24.00; Eagle Rock
No. 422, to $18.00; San Dimas No. 428, to $18.00; Carpinteria No.
444, to $18.00; Culver City No. 467. to $20.00; Fremont No. 497, to
$18.00; Westwood No. 501, to $18.00; Silver Cord No. 505, to $18.00:
Bellflower No. 523, to 18.00; Catalina Island No. 524, to $20.00; George
Washington No. 525, to $18.00; Azure No. 533, to $21.00; Pyramid
No. 562, to $20.00; South Park No. 563, to $18.00; James Madj.son No.
572, to $18.00; Valley Forge No. 587, to $18.00: Tujunga No. 592, to
$18.00; All States No. 593, to $18.00; Jubilee No. 604, to $20.00; The
Gardens No. 621, to $18.00; Palisades No. 637, to $18.00; Alto Loma
No. 643, to $18.00; Hawthorne No. 647, to $18.00; La Brea No. 650,
to $20.00; John D. Spreckels No. 657, to $20.00; Trana No. 684, to
$18.00; Crossroads No. 696, to $18.00; Lorenzo No. 709, to $18.00; Five
Points No. 779, to $20.00; Granada Hills No. 790, to $20.00
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Summit No. 112; Phoenix No.
178; Orland No. 265; Burbank No. 406; Utopia No. 537; Queen Beach
No. 540; James Madison No. 572; La Brea No. 650; Verdugo Hills No.
727; La Mirada No. 778; Woodland Hills No. 811.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Van Nuys No. 450.
Provision for legal holidays: Salinas No. 204; Azusa No. 305; Sisson
No. 310; Semper Virens No. 552; San Juan No. 732; Pinnacle No.
777.
Re Charity Committee: Guadalupe No. 237; Golden West No. 455;
Mount Olive No. 506.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Tuolumne No. 8; Nevada No. 13;
El Dorado No. 26; Trinity No. 27; Plumas No. 60; lone No. 80; Table
Mountain No. 124; LaFayette No. 126; Sincerity No. 132; Vitruvius
No. 145; Harmony No. 164; Ferndale No. 193; Confidence No. 203;
Olivet No. 205; North Butte No. 230; Covelo No. 231: Janesville No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

105

232; Hills Ferry No. 236; Fresno No. 247: Penrhyn No. 258; Durant
No. 268; Arroyo No. 274; Selma No. 277: San Miguel No. 285; Paso
Robles No. 286: Winnedumah No. 287; Porterville No. 303; Los Banos
No. 312; Emmanuel No. 318; Consuelo No. 325; Needles No. 326;
Valle de France No. 329; Kilauea No. 330; Amity-Seal Rock No. 370;
Dinuba No. 385; Coalinga No. 387: Brawley No. 402; Calexico No.
412; Holtville No. 425; Pittsburg No. 429; Claremont No. 436; Carpinteria No. 444; Mt. Oso No 460; Patterson No. 488; Corcoran No.
490; Atascadero No. 493; Catalina Island No. 524; Sun Garden No.
530; Semper Virens No. 552; Fort Crook No. 575: Santa Maria No.
580; Garden Grove No. 586; Pearl Harbor No. 598: Provident No.
609: James A. Foshay No. 641; Travelers No. 692; Anacapa No. 710;
Estero No. 719; Lakeside No. 760; Golden Valley No. 796; Old West
U.D.; Mount Badly U.D.; Plaza de Los Angeles U.D.
RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Natoma No. 64: Covelo No. 231; Fresno
No. 247; Liberty No. 299; Norwalk No. 315; Buena Park No. 357; Patterson No. 488; Utopia No. 537; James Madison No. 572; James A.
Foshay No. 641; La Brea No. 650; Westchester No. 703; La Mirada
No. 778; Millbrae No. 792; American River No. 795: Koolau No. 801:
Los Alamitos No. 809.
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1145-Petition for restoration. An Entered Apprentice of Whittier
Lodge No. 323. Expelled August 5, 1948.
No. 1235-Petition for restoration. A member of Mountain View Lodge
No. 194. Expelled January 2, 1951.
No. 1554-(Retrial). A member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179. Expelled October 13, 1962.
No. 1559-Petition for restoration. A member of Poinsettia Lodge No.
633. Expelled December 5, 1957.
No. 1574-Petition for restoration. A member of Belvedere Lodge No.
539. Expelled April 7, 1958.
No. 1580--Petition for restoration. A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No.
319. Expelled May 6, 1958.
No. 1628-Petition for restoration. A member of Ashlar Lodge No.
306. Expelled March 2, 1961.
No. 1630--Petition for restoration. A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247.
Expelled June 12, 1959.
No. 1646-Petition for restoration. A member of Foothill Lodge No.
564. Expelled September 27, 1960.
No. 1651-Petition for restoration. A member of The Gardens Lodge
No. 621. Expelled November 4, 1959.
No. 1772-A member of Pyramid Lodge No. 562. Expelled October 2
,
1962.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 1773-A member of Corcoran Lodge No. 490 and Clayton Valley
Lodge No. 756. Expelled October 4, 1962.
member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled October
1774-A
No.
4. 1962.
No. 1775-A member of Russian River Lodge No. 181. Expelled
November 6, 1962.
No. 1776-A member of S. W. Hackett Lodge No. 574. Suspended November 6, 1962.
No. 1777-A member of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366. Expelled November 15, 1962.
No. 1778-A member of Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422. Expelled December 3, 1962.
No. 1779-A member of Sisson Lodge No. 310. Suspended October
3, 1962.
No. 1780-A Fellow Craft of James H. Kew Lodge No. 766. Expelled
December 3, 1962.
No. 1781-A member of Harding Lodge No. 584. Reprimand December
6, 1962.
No. 1782-A member of Morning Star Lodge No. 68. Expelled December 6. 1962.
No. 1783-A member of Fontana Lodge No. 653. Suspended November
5, 1962.
No. 1784-A member of Morning Star Lodge No. 68. Expelled
February 2, 1963.
No. 1785-A member of Center Lodge No. 465. Expelled March 6,
1963.
No. 1786-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled March 1,
1963.
No. 1787-A member of Needles Lodge No. 326. Expelled February
11, 1963.
No. 1788-A member of Corinthian Lodge No. 9. Expelled March 6,
1963.
No. 1789-A member of R. E. Dolley Lodge No. 616. Tried by an
Ohio Lodge. Expelled March 1, 1963.
No. 1790-A member of San Gabriel Lodge No. 546. Expelled April 3,
1963.
".\Jo. 1791-An Entered Apprentice of Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Acquitted February 4. 1963.
No. 1792-A member of Elysian Lodge No. 418. Expelled April 4.
1963.
No. 1793-A member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409. Reprimand January
8, 1963.
No. 1794-A member of Whittier Lodge No. 323. Expelled May 2,
1963.

No. 1795-: member of a Lodge in Alberta (Canada). Expelled June
' 1963.
No. 1796-A member of Mount Shasta Lodge No 281 Exp eII ed J une
·
·
6, 1963.

106

107

No. : ;~~~member of Marin Lodge No. 191 . Expelled June 12, 1963.
~~mber of Blue Lakes Lodge No. 714. Expelled July 2,
No.

196

No. 1799-A member of Buckeye Lodge No. 195 . Expelled July 11 ,
1963.
No. 1800-A member of Turlock Lodge No. 395. Expelled July 4, 1963.
No. 1801-A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Acquitted March
1, 1963.
No. 1802-A member of Anchor Lodge No. 273 . Suspended March 4,
1963.
No. 1803-A member of Taft Lodge No. 516. Ex~elled August 12 ,
1963.
No. 1804-A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319. Acquitted August
6, 1963.
No. 1805-A member of San Gabriel Lodge No. 546. Expelled August
7, 1963.
No. 1806-A member of Natoma Lodge No. 64 . Suspended July 11 .
1963.
II d
No. 1807-A member of John Marshall Lodge No 636 E
· xpe e
·
March 4, 1963.
No. 1808-A member of Truckee Lodge No. 200. Expelled September
5, 1963.
No. 1809-A member of Molino Lodge No. 150 Expelled August 14 .
.
1963.
No. 1810--A member of Mt. Shasta Lodge No. 281. Expelled September 5, 1963.
No. 1811-A member of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705. Expelled September 9, 1963.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

108

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FIFTY YEAR BurroNs

NAME AND LODGE

Issued September l, 1962 through August 31, 1963 (626)
Total Issued to Date 8502
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OF RAISING

Aberle, Frank Henry, Woodbridge_ N o. 131.................,...........-·-·····-·-···fuly 12, 1913
Adams, David Quincy, Landmark No. 253........ ·-··································~···-..Aard 13, 1913
Adams, Nelson Julius Jr., Parnassus No. 388........................................ _...•0ctoOer 29, 1912
Adams, William Woods, Landmark No. 253..............................................•-.April 19, 1913
Agnew, Albert Conant, Brooklyn No. 225.............................. ·-·······-····~ 22, 1913
Albert, Henry Carl Sr., Crockett No. 139...........................................____ •..August 13, 1913
Alton, Reuben, Alhambra No. 322............·-·········································--······.March 18, 1908
Anderson, Charles, Meridian No. 667....................·-·············-·············-··-···.April 12, 1913
Anderson, Robert Edwin, Palo Alto No. 346..............·-······················-·February 16, 1913
Anderson, Roy Leonard, MorniJ!g Star No. 68 ........................................ February 27, 1913
Andrew, Paul Edward, Estero No. 719 ....................................................... _.April 13, 1912
Andrews. Herbert Charles, Sequoia No. 349 .................................................... June 23, 1913
Andrews, Stanley Phillips, Silver Gate No. 296................................................July 25, 1913
Arend, Harry G., Capital City No. 499....................................................... .March 27, 1913
Atherton, Harvey H .• Silver Gate No. 296..........................................September 22, 1911
Atwell, John Boyd, Midway No. 426............................................................ August 21, 1913
Atwood, Henry Archaleus, Mendocino No. 179.....................................•Febniary 15, 1913
Bach, Lewis Harry, Tuolumne No. 8....·-····--········································December 14, 1912
Backus, John Everett, Santa Ana No. 241........................... _.................- ........June 24, 1912
Baer, Frederick, Starr King No. 344....................................................... - .. .March 16, 1910
Ballard, William Glen, Alturas No. 248....................................................February 4, 1913
Balsiger, Henry Walter, Pentalpha No. 202.......................................... November 12, 1912
Baltimore, Charles Ashbery, North Butte No. 230.......................................... April 19, 1913
Barlow, Harry Dales, San Marino No. 685......................................................May 7, 1913
Bernard, George Wilcox, Whittier No. 323..............................................._.....May 7, 1906
Barnes, Edward Melvin, San Jose No. 10................................................ February 17, 1913
Barrell, Edward Clifford, Colusa No. 240.................- .............................February 15, 1913
Barrett, George Richard, Santa Ana No. 241... ............................................... May 16, 1913
Barron, William, Fruitvale No. 336............................... ........................... February 15, 1910
Barrows, Raykip, Occidental No. 22............................................................March 31. 1913
Bates, Howard Russell, Crockett No. 139.............................................. September 11, 1912
Baum, Serf, East Gate No. 290.............................. .............................. ........August 30, 1912
Beckwith, Fred Elmer, Palestine No. 351....................................................January 27, 1913
Behrmann, Josep_h A.• Crockett No. 139...................................................-. anuary 17, 1912
Beisell, Daniel William, La Cumbre No. 642..................................................March 7, 1912
Bell, Arthur Howard, Piedmont No. 521................................................ November 27, 1912
Bell, William Elzvir, Victorville No. 634................................................December 12, 1912
Bennett, Louis Albert, Morning Star No. 68.............................................- .......July 9, 1912
Berk, Mey~r Simon, Los Angeles No. 42......................................................March 17, 1913
Berkson, Mark J .. Keith No. 187................ ·-······--·---·····································--··July 30, 1913
7, 1913
Berry, Frank Oris, Enterprise No. 70..·-·············---·························--···-··············June17,
1913
Betters, Edward, Madera No. 280..... _.........................................................January
1913
30,
September
Bigelow, Lebbens Isaac. Consuelo No. 325............................................
1912
Blacow, Robert, Alameda No. 167..·-··--·····················--·-··································April 27,
Blaess, Ernest Michael. Dimond No. 603............................................................June 3, 1911
Blair, Roy Whiteford, Sacramento No. 40.............................................- .......June 13, 1913
Blair, William L., Corona No. 324................................................................ March 13, 1913
Blankanship, Irwin Gladstone, Alamo No. 122..........................................January 16, 1912
Blum, Israel. Tehachapi No. 313.............................................................. December 19, 1912
Bobbitt, Harry, San Jose No. 10....................................................................March 24, 1913
Boe, Domenick, Drytown No. 171.............................. ............................... ..... March 19, 1913
Boemer, Charles August, Excelsior No. 166..............................................January 29, 1913
Bonhag. John Peter, Marin No. 191..................................................................June 13, 1913
Bossen William Clarence, Corinthian No. 9.................................................. March 5, 1913
Bower~ox, Charles Allen, Fairmount No. 135....................................................July 8, 1911
Boynton, Howard Lee, Van Nuys No. 150.................................................... April 26, 1913

109
DATE OF RAISING

················December 16, 1912
~~~-~·····----······················
t>I<l~!r~d~rt:'H~~
• 375......................·-··················-···1une 23, 1913
&k sB

gJ
Band H
~ ':unry
Br

Fruen._

er . eld No. 224................................................0ctober 12, 1912

·······--·····---·········NFeobvrembuaryer277,' 11991131
l!1~··N~."-657"·····
B~rken~dg~j~::J~·J~~r})~eSp~et
................................
S
B · Alf ed N I

rG"lb e En, unset No. 352.................................................................... May9, 19l 3
Bnn,
Bronso°Ai, 1 e{tr ugene, Alpha No. 131................................................September 19, 1912
rown, G ner olcott, Richmond No. 375 ...................................................... May 11. 1912
B
eor~eifhristi~, Progressive No. 578 ............................... ............... August8, 1913
Brown,
Brown, ~osep I R)r.. _huenga No, 513....................·-····-····················-Tanuary20, 1912
Brown, VamL 1tty, Kilauea No. l30.................................................. _November9, 1912
Santa Ana No. 241... ..............-······--···········----······--June 6, 1912
B rown,Robn Eda~d,
wm, ammonton No. 433...............·-···········--·-···········February 26, 1913
fuuce, Afut
eg Henry, West Lake No. 392.............................- ......... _November 11, 1912
B unneA
Ferr~· Crockett No. 139.................................................. February 19, 1913
Bruh,
,B orwalk No. 315............................................................March 11, 1911
Bue n,w·i)·1s
Bunn, \\/im B Hntwood No. 345 ................................................... .December 21, 1912
Burger, W a ter D., dol~nbeck No. 319 .......................................................... May 27, 1913
Burger, Fa1~r Fl avd . . emple City No. 612.............·-······················-· ·---June 29, 1912
Burress, h r t Ly , Palestine No. 35 l............·-·--····-··········--······-········OctOber 21, 1912
urroug s, ew yon, Chico No. 111 .......................·-···············-·················March l, 1913

W'"

f!"!' E

~arde, ~rt~urCor~ell, Sunrise No. 522............................................................-July 15, 19l3
Ca wed-I ver'(t Hmmett, Alturas No. 218..................................................March 31, 1913
c!mp, Wal "b enry Knox No. 662.....................................................- ...May 23, 1913
Gannon, Ha terE ewitt, HeNcerian No 264..........................................December 16, 1912
C n~ber, h aVJ·u· ., CAna o. 321................................................................March 4, 1913
·Jone No. 80.......·-·············································-····.April 19. 1913
c!s R"gh, d
aEti:r, I umb?ldt No. 79............................................... ·--····June 16, 1913
Ch ve, 1c
················-·················March 6, 1912
~~····················
N~~ha~~~~:n~No
Ch:fa~ki~·Lewill~~
68..........................................·-··-···-July 30, 1912
.
I w·1
Ch
.•.._....•• _February 23, 1912
••••••..•...........•.•...•....
<f66
No.
Libertas
son,
1
m_ue
Cheney,
Ch em~, lrAYfg lsitor, Doric No. 216..............................................................June 13, 1912
re~ allet;le Fhance No. 329 .................................................. July 24, 1912
Ch e_va e6,
Cl nstop gson, artin, ehac api No. 313........................................September 19, 1912
ctnkeli eod1FEugene,_ s. w. Hackett No. 574................................ September 2. 1909
ct\• H ernarTh red, Willits No. 365.................................................... November 30, 1910
8
······~·····i·:f··································--····March_31. 1913
Tr:J; ';J;~~~r-;~·~f
Cl:rk~. Tuoinas
ty N · 6 .............................................. April 5, 1906
P
Ch 1 El" Go!
Cl
30................................................December 2. 1912
No.
Gate
den
ares I,
ctyton,
Clemjntsd PLrcy R~ert, King Solomons No. 260.................................... February 21, 1913
My arion L~oo, Hollenbeck No. 319 ..............................0ctober 22, 1912
~he
C In, Afux, Edmt M~h o. i-4......................................................................May 7, 1913
rpinteria No. 441.............................. ..................0ctober 22, 1912
C~ I :wsd'.
~lhs,
Condaff;; Fe~di~sancf1t~~s PNlmas No. 366..............................................August 7, 1912
• C::, 0 • 262 .................................................... December 27, 1912
G
C d
c:,n e11F ed°&e Hag_er, arvanza No. 192................................................August 7, 1911
an~ . s~ G'!te No. 290.............................................................. May 5, 1911
Cones,
Co nne 11, 1 1 1 j hatric , Silver Gate No. 296·-··--································--June 13, 1913
3

G

wi

0

M.

w·n·

8f':~~ 8:fam°1nn\J;n:~~~~:ts i~"i;D~~-·N;.""366::::::::::::::::::::::::J,~~~ 1~: m~

C z:rm. a!rK'.r~c No. 216........................................................................ August22, 1912
cramf LdwAlb elvm, Kaweah No. 665...................................................... February 20, 1913
Crawi°r ,G e'taEugene, Oakland No. 188..............................................Au 9ust 26, 1912
noga No. 611................................ ........................................July 26, 1912
Crow. eyh uyJ,
cU:mg aG, ames Stewart, Richmond No. 375 .................................. September 16, 1912
Cu thban, R~ Earl. Richmond No. 375 .................................................. August 26, 1912
ert, Sr., Harbor No. 502 .............................................. December 12, 1911
u ertson,
gamaJtiroySEdward, West Adams No. 565.............................................January 2, 1913
an, anta Monica No. 307..............................................................March 15, 1913
art,

PROCE EDING S OF THE

110
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA
DATE OF RAISING

Daughenbaugh. Leonard Richirt, Santa Ana No. 241.............
............,......- ...Aprll 20, 1910
Davene~ Colton Burton, McCloucl No. 430.................................
- .....Februa ry 11, 1913
Davie,
illiam, Since rii No. 132..................................... - ...............
Davies, Thoma s Leslie, tadena No. 678................................. ..............Januar y 3, 1913
Davis, Joseph Moise, Hesperian No. 261................................. .........................June 5, 1913
Davis, Roy Hale, Pajaro No. 110............................................ .......................May 30, 1912
Dearborn, Eugen e Lan~on, Suisun No. 55...................... ............. _.......A'1gust_21. 1913
Decius, John Harmon, ollenbeck No. 319...........................- .......................Metc b 8, 1913
...........................-.Apri l29, 1913
De Gro , Willia m L .• El Cajon Valle~ No. 576......................
Demartini, John Henrl. Alamo No. 1 2.................................. ..................Januar y 27, 1912
Demmon, Robert Hat eld, Solano No. 229 ....................... ........................ April 26, 1913
Denham, Henry L., Mendocino No. 179...................... .....................November 11, 1912
...........................May 9, 1906
Denton, Willar d E .• Palestine No. 351.. .................................
.......................- ...........lune 30, 1913
Dewey, Horace P&ker , Capita l City No. 499 ......................
..........................April 25, 1913
Dewing, James Andrew, Alamo No. 122.................................
............... September 14, 1912
Dester, Browning Dewey. Charte r Rock No. 410...........
...................................]uly 2, 1913
Dial, Sidne'J,. Byron. Forbestown No. 50.................................
Diederick, ugust, Mission No. 169................................. .........................!Viay 20, 1902
Dietz, William Fred, Apollo No. 396............................................................ March 26, 1913
.............................March 4, 1913
Dingle, William, Le Progres de !'Oceanie No. 371..............
Dower, David Walter , Burlin~e No. 400...................... ........................March 7, 1913
Drew, Roy He~, Humboldt o. 79 ................................. ..............................June 27, 1913
...............................June 12, 1913
Dunlap, Luther lbert, Charte r Rock No. 410...........
...............................Januar y 27, 1912
Dunn, William Hiram. Brooklyn No. 225 ........................
..........................January 28, 1913
Earl. Le Roi) Wilbu r, Sunrise No. 522.................................
...............................June 7, 1913
Eastwood, avid Samuel. America No. 475•..........
.......................0ctobe r 22, 1908
Eaton, Frederic R., S. W. Hackett No. 574.......................
.........................................June 23, 1903
Eber, Joseph, Doric No. 216
---·-···················································September 19, 1912
Edson, Mark Samuel, Sacram...........
ento No. 40............................................
..........August 6, 1913
Edwards, Alfred Booth, San Franci scoNic tory No. 360
................................July 15, 1913
Eggers, Carl Antone, KiniySolomon's No. 260......................
........................April 14, 1913
Ensign, Howar d Carlton, isalia No. 128...........
........................ Februa ry 27, 1913
Eoff. Jesse R .• Mount Moriah No. 44.................................
..........................................June 18. 1913
Erwin, weph , Forbestown No. 50.................................
............................ - ...March 1, 1913
Erwin,
illiam Everet t, Thous and Oaks No. 478 ......................
......... -----~Pril 26, 1913
Esmieu, lohn Fairman. West Lake No. 392......................
..............................May 16, 1913
Essel. C arles Julius, Amity-Seal Rock No. 370......................
..................Augus t30, 1912
Fahrion, Wallac e Glenn, Marin No. 191..............
.................................July 16. 1913
Fairchilds, John Hurbert, Woodb ridge No. 131..............
.......................................March 22, 1913
Falk, David B., Richmond No. 375.................................
...................................July 24, 1913
Fergusson, Alexander Franklin, Morning Star No. 68...........
...............November 30, 1912
Fergusson, Kennith Tyler, Morning Star No. 68 ......................
............November 30, 1912
Fergusson, William Percival. Morning Star No. 68...........
Fillmore. Frederick Donald, San Jose No. 10......................................... November 30, 1912
........................ August 19, 1912
Fletcher, Sidney Edwar d, Reseda No. 666.................................
Flo, Hans. San Fernan do No. 343............................................ ..................... April 16, 1912
Foote, Herbert D .. Capital City No. 499................................................. December 15, 1909
Forbes, Albert David, Ontari o No. 301.. ................................. ...................Januar y 24, 1906
Foster, Frank Clarence, Hollywood No. 355 ...................... ...............November 18, 1912
.................. September 13, 1905
Forbes, Frank Elmer, Francis K. Shattuck No. 571... ...........
.......................... April 3, 1913
Fothergill, Milner Reginald, Morning Star No. 68 ...........
................... November 19, 1908
Fraser , Clarence Lynn, Dinuba No. 385 ....................... ...........
Freeman, Herbert Gordon, Santa Barbar a No. 192 ........... .................... August 19, 1913
French, Curr)' Milton, Laurel No. 245 .................................................... November29, 1912
Friedberg, Jeffreys, Fidelity No. 120................................. .........................March ]8, 1913
.................................June26 , 1913
Friedman, Joseph Arthur, Starr King No. 344 ......................
Fritsche, Chester H., Sunset No. 352................................. ............................:Aoril 9, 1913
Froom, Warre n Irving, Crescenta Valley No. 652........... ...............................July 15, 1913
.........................Januar y 28, 1913
Fuller, Fred Hugh, Ascot No. 538.................................
......................... November 11, 1912

NAME AND LODGE

111
DATE OF RAISING

Gardnet,r,Arthur
PerkinsOwen,
Onel, Silver
HighlaGate
Garret
nd Park
No No
296 382..............................................Jun~ 11, 1912
Garzoli, Frank Albert, Presidio No. 35
.................................................... April 14, 1911
Gellersen, William Augustus, Rockrid 4e··N·····46s·················
···················October 17, 1912
Gercke, William J., Mission No. 169...
0
g
•
.......•.... .....•...... •.....•.•.. . October 30, 1912
Ger~w, Albert Percival, Mount Oso N~:-460·········
···········
······················· ····-Ma
G~w1rtz, Morris, Pacific No. 136..
1913
................................................Aprily 28,
28, 1912
~bson, 9yde Lewis, Clovis No. 4i7·-·························
···········
G~bson, William Bias, Yerba Buena N····io ........................ ···············September 9, 1912
...................October 20, 1911
G~l~ert, John Robert, Redondo No. 32s°" '.f...........
....................Februa ry 20, 1913
G~ll1land, James Robert, Marin No. 1 c········ --··········...........
··············--·····················May 20, 1913
9 ..128-····
G~lmer, Harve y Van Epps, Visalia No."
···········································March 19, 1913
G~lmore, William Wylie , Sacramento No
................................................March
19, 1913
Gitt, Charles Baker, Highland Park No. 34°·:··················
···················-December 20, 1912
Gloss, Anton Adolf, Mount Moriah N . 82·· ........................
............
.....
Februa
ry 3, 1913
Gl~ver, William Harold, Poinsettia N~. 443"·········································
Gom, Guy Lawson, Charte r Rock
63 ............................................·········-July 31, 1912
No 410
....March 18, 1913
Gonzawa, Jacob, Crockett No. 139 ·
·············································-···March 29, 1913
Goodrich, Henry Frederick, Washl~gt;;-;;·
N····2ci ....................................... Marc~ 24,
1913
Gorman, Valentine Francis, Inyo No. 22! 0 • ...........
........... ........... ......... Apnl 29, 1913
Gow, Thoma s Buchanan, Pomona No 46·······························
······················April 5, 1913
Graham, Clarence, Alameda No. 167.: 2 ...........
.......................... October 30, 1912
Graham, Frank, Fairmount No. 435.................................
...................................January 18, 1912
Gray, Albert Donald, Enterp
No··70···--·····················································-July 12, 1913
Grays, Crawford, Coronado rise
No. Hi. .............................................
Gre~nherg, Harry, West Gate No. 3!c·············--···--·················· ....... January 19, 1907
······-June 15, 1912
Gr~1g, Thomas Alexander, Eel River3 N;;··i47"····································-····
················-June 27, 1910
Grieve, Joh1_1. _valley Forge No. 587........:........-_---_-_-············
·····························-June 29, 1912
Gurnett, Wilham George, Orland No.
·· ....................................Octobe
r 17, 1911
.
265·····················-···········
··········September 14, 1912
Haight, Floyd N., Montebello No. 451
Hall, Everet t Cameron, Santa Cruz ~.""38::::
····························-July 14, 1913
Haller, Otto Frank, San Benito No 211 :::::::::··:-·······
···········-············-··-·········June l, 1908
Hallett, George, Glendale No. 544 ·
···············-·····································March 16,
1911
Hallowell, Lyman Earle, San
;;-;~·-N;;··"ii4····································-June 19, 1913
Ham, Walte r A.• Los AngelesBue~~~~~t
No. 42 .
·
............................December 31, 1912
Hancock, John Henry, Alcatraz No 24-4····························
·······························-May 9, 1913
Haneberg, Eugene, Maui No. 472 ·
···············-··················-··········-·February 27, 1913
Hannis, Russell Sage, Marin No."""i9T.·.·-~-~··············
·····························-··· November 2, 1912
Hansen, George Greyson, Alcatraz No. iii····· ······················
······················· -June 23, 1913
Hansen, Theod or Stone, Brook! n No.
································December 14, 1912
225 _··········
Harbaugh. Edwar d Henry, All States No.
93·······
···········
··················-September 17, 1912
Hardy , Frank Raymond, Highland Park No5 82"··················
Harkey, Willia m Pinckney! North Butte N~.3 30:······································-January 9, 1913
··················-M arch 31, 1913
Harmon, Arthur Walte r, Yolo No. 8l
2 .......................
.............. March 11, 1913
Hanno n, Merle Simpson, John D. Spr~k~i~·N;; ..65·f···············
···············-January 25, 1913
Harper, James P(l.y_ne, Santa Cruz No
•
................................ Februa ry 3, 1912
Harpe~, Russell Wallace, Chateau Thie38 ·····N~_--·569···
··············-················April 15, 1905
Ha.rtw1ck, Frederick, Presidio No. 354 rry
.......................... December 13, 1912
Harvey , Frank Allen, Moneta No. 405····························
···········
···············0ctober 31, 1912
Harvey, James Joseph. Palos
N~·jg9······--············--···········--·····September 24, 1912
Hasen, John S., Golden Rule Verdes
No. 479 '
.......................................... February 19, 1913
Hatch, Wheel ock Martin South p k··N·····56··················
·····················December 16, 1912
3
Hawkins, Leland Everett: Seq_u5>fa aNo
·····························-·······Feb~ 20, 1913
Hayden, Homer Byrns, Yolo No. 81 ·
....................................................May 24, 1912
Hazzard, Carroll Camper, Whitti er N;;~·".323""·················
·········-············-·······May 25, 1912
Hedg_cock. Charles Gordon, Rising Light N~··39j"···················
·························June 5, 1913
Hedr~ck, Benjamin Clinton, Santa Paula No."
............................................ M~y2, 1912
Hednc~. Herbert S., Santa Paula No. 29l . 291 ···········
························-·····April 25, 1912
Hemp~1ll, George Warre n, Woodb rid e N~:-i'.ff···················
·············November 14. 1912
Hendrickson, Arthur Howar
d, Athens ~o
............................................ July
26, 1913
Henkel, Karl Frederick, Oriental No. lH. 228.........................
...................March 20, 1913
............................................
....September 6, 1912

m

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE

112
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Henry, Kelly, Hi~land Park No. 382 ............................................................ August 2, 1910
Hess, Alexander esley, Jr., San Jose No. 10...................................... November 25, 1912
Hicks, Auzie Olea, Tehachapi No. 313....................................................December 12, 1912
Hill, Samuel Beattie, Mount Olive No. 506............................................ September 20, 1912
Hinton, Leroy Edmond, Temescal No. 314............................................December 26, 1912
Hoffman, Bert J., Foothill No. 564........................ ............................................May 30, 1913
HofFman, Harry M., West Gate No. 335 ......................................................January 9, 1913
Hogg, John Laurie, Blue Lakes No. 714 .................................................. ...... March 21 , 1912
Hollenbeck, Albert Harry, Rio Vista No. 208 ................................................May 28, 1912
Holsapple, Albert Fernando, Delano No. 309......................... .....................March H, 1912
Honn, George Edward, Illinoistown No. 51... .....................................................June 7, 1913
Hope, Thomas, Bakersfield No. 224........................ ..................................December 17, 1912
Hopfield, Archie William, Hammonton No. 433.................................... September 7, 1912
Hopkins, Frank Burns, Landmark No. 253................................................. ..... March 5, 1903
Hopkins, Ralfih Allen, San Marino No. 685........................ .................. November 22, 1912
Hoppe, Char es Edwin, Alexandria No. 531.. ................................................ April 22, 1913
Horowitz, Harry, York No. 423......................... ...............................................April 17, 1913
Horrigan, Jack Mathew, Salinas No. 204 ......................... .................................May 5, 1913
Howard, arry Robert, San Buenaventura No. 214............................December 30, 1912
Hudson, William Henry, Alcatraz No. 244..........................................December 14, 1912
Hughes, Charles Evans, Yucaipa No. 726.................................................. 0ctober 22, 1907
Hughes, Evan Jones, Union No. 58...- .............................................................March 9, 1913
Humpert, William Fritz, Eden No. 113.................................................. December 21 , 1912
Hunter, Clarence M .. Covina No. 334 .............- .............................................March 13. 1913
Hunter, Thomas Jefferson, Jubilee No. 604................................................ ......June 15, 1913
Huston, George Jerome, S. W . Hackett No. 574 ............................................ May 25, 1909
Hutchison, James Menter, Highland Park No. 382 ............................................June 2, 1913
Imhoff, Ralph E .. Phoenix No. 178................................................................March 11, 1912
Ingle, Earl Blaine, Imperial No. 390................................................................May 19, 1913
Itsell, William Forker, California No. L.............................................. November 21. 1912
Ivey, Herbert Dee, Golden State No. 358...................................................-June 26, 1913
ackson, John Washington, Glendora No. 404 ......................................September 27, 1912

Aaron, Fidelity No. 120......................................................................March 27, 1913
Jacobs,
acobs, Joseph, Fidelity No. 120................................................................ September 4, 1913

acobs, Oscar, Pacific No. 136..................................................................February 18, 1913
No. 21.. ......................... .......................0ctober 30, 1912
James, Frank Leicester, Hawaiian
enkins, Robert Wheeler, McKinley No. 347..............................................March 13, 1913
ensen, Niels Christian, Vitruvious No. 145................................................ August 24, 1912
ohns, Henry William, Crockett No. 139....................................................August 28, 1912
ohns, Percival Guy, Crockett No. 139............................................................June 26, 1912
ohnson, Carl Edwin, Vesper No. 84 ..................................................................July 23, 1913
ohnson, Carl John, Ocean Park No. 369..................................................February 25, 1913
ohnson, James Walter, Solano No. 229..................................................December 18, 1911
ohnson, Jim Ned, Vista No. 687.......- ...............................................................July 21, 1913
ones, Gerald Henry, Sacramento No • .fO................................................_.August 30, 1913
ones, Henr}iFrederick, Las Palmas No. 366..............................................Januaey 30, 1913
ones, John e~ Fairmount No. 435.......................................................:.August 29, 1913
ones, Lawrence van, Pomona No. 246...............................................-5eptember 10, 1913
·········-····.May 27, 1913
ones, Oscar, Las Palmas No. 366....------·······································....
ones, Roy G., Fairmount No. 435................................................ _......August 22, 1913

J

Kalsbury, Albert Otto, Eden No. 113.......................................................... March 20, 1913
Keltner, Walter Elmer, Tyrian No. 439................................................. .....August 24, 1912
Kennerly, George Oliver, Mount Diablo No. 448........................................ April 27, 1907
Kern, Harry Lewis, Las Palmas No. 366................................................. ...........June 5, 1913
Kerwin, John McHale, Mizpah No. 378......................... ....................... November 21. 1912
Ketcham, Minor Ellis, East Belt No. 391... .............................................November9, 1912
Kjelsberg, Trygve, Fruitvale No. 336..........................................................August 23, 1913
Kilborn, Delbert W .. Dunsmuir No. 297......................... .........................November7, 1912
Killingsworth, Laurens Harns, Sotoyome No. 123........................ ........ September 21. 1912

NAME AND LODGE

113
DATE OP RAISING

Kincaid, Charles, Mizpah No. 378......................... .....................................0ctober24, 1912
Kneese, George August Deidrich, Francis Drake No. 376..........................0ctober 4, 1912
Kraemer, Herman, Selma No. 277.......................................................... November 29, 1912
Krah, Jose_j)h Leo. Corona No. 324....................................................................June 12, 1913
Krimmel, William Addison, Redondo No. 328................................................April 7, 1913
Lackey, Grover Alonzo, Signal No. 543................................................November 29, 1912
Larsen, Ludwig C., San Miguel No. 285................................................Septemher 14, 1912
Laidlaw, Edward, Signal No. 543......................................................................May 8, 1912
Lasell, Ernest Randolph, Martinez No. 41.................................................--May 29, 1913
Latta, Guy Milton, San Jose No. 10.......... - ..- ......................................_ ..May 22. 1913
Lawrence, Otto Maurice, Mission No. 169......................... ................... September 25, 1912
Lee, Alfred William, Paul Revere No. 462 ......................................................April 19, 1913
Lefever, Robert Waite, Oxnard No. 34 1........................................................ April 16. 1910
Lefevre, Ora Linn, Belvedere No. 539 ......................................................November 7, 1912
Leighton, Fred William, Tuolumne No. 8........................................................May 31, 1911
P .• Tehama No. 3.............................................................. December 23, 1912
Leighton,
Lenox, Lione Tracy, Charity No. 362 ......................... ...........................November 12, 1912
Leonard, Arthur Edward, Morning Star No. 68..........................................January 2, 1913
Leonard.Jaco b Morton. San Benito No. 21!..................................................April8, 1913
Lerwick, erome Olaf, Corinthian No. 9.............................................. November 20, 1912
Leirsch, tto B.. Olivet No. 205 ................................................................December 3. 1912
Linderoth. Carl Arthur, Liberty No. 299 ..........................................................May 10, 1913
Lingenfelter, John Edgar, Pasadena No. 272................................................March 28, 1913
Lingle, Thomas H., Argonne No. 514 ............................................................March 26, 1913
Lindsay, Milton J. Robert, Arbuckle No. 182..................................................April 18, 1913
Lindsay, Robert Mealmaker, Kilauea No. 330..........................................0ctober 18, 1912
Link, Nick, Arcadia No. 547................................................. .............................June 21, 1913
Lloyd, Fred Osborn, Dunsmuir No. 297..................................................February 11, 1913
Long, Ruben Rowe. King David's No. 209..............................................January 29, 1913
Luhn, Morton, Pacific No. 136......................................................................... .April 22, 1913
Luis, Franklin Alfred, Palo Alto No. 346.............................................. Septemher 10, 1912
Ly·nde, George Osborne. Morning Star No. 68..................................:.......____June 19, 1908
Lyons, Archie Holman, Modesto No. 675..............................................December 19, 1912

Gur

McAdoo, John Waters, Jr.. Amity-Seal Rock No. 370........................September 13, 1912
McCaughey, William Dwight, Silver Trowel No. 415............................February 5, 1913
McCollum, Beverly B.. West Gate No. 335....................................................April 23, 1904
McCrea, Francis Randolph, Long Beach No. 327................................ September26, 1912
McCullough. John Summons, Jr.. Durant No. 268..........................................May 23, 1913
McCurdy. Glenn Walter, Ontario No. 301.................................................. March 12, 1913
McCutcheon, William Hugh, Brooklyn No. 225 ............................................May 24, 1913
McDonell, Rob Roy, Durant No. 268........................................................0ctober 18, 1910
McGee, Howard Burnside, James A. Garfield No. 566....................................June 9, 1913
McKee, Harry L .. West Gate No. 335.................................................... September 19, 1912
McMillan, John Pratt. El Dorado No. 26........................................................May 30, 1913
McMillian. William Claud, Mizpah No. 378.......................................... September 30, 1912
McMullen, Marion Joseph, Golden Gate No. 30........................................March 26, 1913
Maag, Claude C., West Lake No. 392 ..........................................................0ctober 5, 1912
Maag. Leroy Rudolph, Pentalpha No. 202 ....................................................April 13, 1913
Macdonald, Donald. Southern California No. 278 ..........................................July 30, 1913
Maddern, Marmaduke Henry, Brooklyn No. 225 ......................................January 28, 1913
Madsen, Leon. Utopia No. 537................................................. .......................March 9, 1912
Magnes, Irving, Brooklyn No. 225 ....................................................................May 13, 1913
Mancini, Frank, Stanislaus No. 206.................................................................. May 29, 1913
Mancke, William Shannon, Far West No. 673..............................................May 27, 1913
Manning, Arch Ray, Tehachapi No. 313 ........................................................April 17, 1913
Marden, Albert Hammond, Parnassus No. 388 ................................................April 8, 1913
Marsh, Frank Victor, Sierra Madre No. 408......................................................June 9, 1900
Marshall, Benton Frederick, Lompoc No. 262 ................................................ March 7, 1913
Martin, John Thomas, Liberty No. 299........................................................August 9, 1913

114

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

~artin, William Geor~e, Starr King No. 3+L------·-··-------···----·--···-···----·-·····July 30, 1913

aryatt, Elmer Faunt eroy, Foothill No. 56-4--------------------------------------December 20, 1912
Mason, Alfred Edwin, Oriental No. 144.............................................. November 26, 1912
~ason, Charles Richard, Golden State No. 358·------------·---------···--------·---····March 27, 1913
Matherly, Joe William, Consuelo No. 325 ............·-·-········--··········-···········--.April 26, 1913
Mattis, Gordon C., Burbank No. 406·---········-········--···---·---·---·-----·-··-······-·····March 10, 1911
ayer, Chris Henft, North Butte No. 230.·--··-···········----·-·--··------------------·December 7, 1912
~eyer, Frederick ugo, Hollywood No. 355.. ·---··---------···-------····-············January 28, 1905
ichael, William Riley, Service No. 594......---···-------·-·-------·--··-------··············-July 24, 1913
Middleton, James, San Buenaventura No. 214............... _______________________ December H, 1911
Millikin, Charles, Whittier No. 323·-··----·-···--···········-·······----·······-··-····-········0ctober 3, 1912
Mingle, Charles Trusten Perry, Silver Gate No. 296.·-----······-----···--·············May 26, 1913
Mingledorff, Henry Fletcher, Simi Valley No. 806..................................0ctober 3, 1912
Minister, Joseph Barber, Bay View No. ~L--·-·--··-------·--··--------·-··---·-----······.April 10, 1913
Mohr, Herman W., Fruitvale No. 336·-·-·-···-·····-··------·-··----·-·----·--·-····--··--·January 20, 1913
Montgomery, Grant, San Carlos No. 690... ·-···--····-·------·-··---·········-·---····-·-········May 5, 1910
Moore, Ernest C .. Van Nuys No. 450..... ·--------·----·----------------··-·-----·--·····----····-·.July 10, 1907
Moore, Milton E., Lompoc No. 262................ ·--··-···---·----····--··-·-··--····-·---···--March 7, 1913
Moore, William Andrew, Lodi No. 256........·-········-··---·-·--······----·----····November 21, 1912
Moss, Earl Edward, San Buenaventura No. 214..--··------··-·---·------------·-··November 13, 1909
Moss, Monroe L .. Fidelity No. 120. ____________________________________ _________________________________ May 8, 1913
Moxon, Clarence Hector, Trinity No. 27 ______________________ __________________________________ April 11, 1913
Mugford, John Clifton, Roseville No. 222----···--·------------------------------------November 29, 1912
Mullen, Lester Edward, Martinez No. 41.. ................. ·--·----····-·--------·-·-···-···January 18, 1913
Muller, Otto, Liberty No. 299...·------·----------···-·----------------------------------------·--··--·--Tune 29, 1912
Munkelt, Glen Henry, Blackmer No. 442. _______________________________________________________April 24, 1913
Munter, Bernard, Doric No. 216 ___________ ··----------------·-------------------------------------··---July 20, 1907
Murphy, Lee Orio, Durant No. 268...................... -.-·-----------------------------·----------June 27, 1913
Murray, Reuben G., John D. Spreckels No. 657 __ ____ ________________________________________ May 11, 1912
Myers, Harry Ernest, Oakland No. 188............. _______________________________________0ctober 28, 1912
Nash, William Barton, Hollywood No. 355........ ·----·-···--··-------·----------·····-····--·.Iune 2, 1913
Nation, George Roland. Stanislaus No. 206... -----------------·------·--·-----------···-------Apr!l 8, 1911
Neal, James Henry, Fairmount No. 435..·----·····-·-·-··------·----·-------·--------·-····.August 29, 1913
Neel, Jordan Stewart, Unity No. 368......·-·----··-···------·---·------------·------·-··-----January 21, 1913
Neher, Dunsmuir Sager, Live Oak No. 61.. ........................ ________________________ March 28, 1913
Nelson, William Charles, Searchlight No. 567.. ·----------·····-----·---·········-·---······---July 1, 1913
Nerell, David Nehemiah, Los Gatos No. 292.·--·-----------·-----·-·----·------·-·--·February 10, 1913
Nevin, Cecil Thomas, Doric No. 216..............................-----··-·---··-··-------·---·-August 14, 1912
Newby, George William, Silver Trowel No. 415·--------·----------------------·---···---Msy 29, 1912
Newcom, Oakes Blaine, Santa Ana No. 241.............. ____________________ ·---··-·····-·----July 18, 1912
Nichols, Arthur Duty, Evergreen No. 259.-----·---------··--------------------------November 24, 1911
Nicholson, John Richard, Suisun No. 55...... -----------··-----------------------------------·-·-----June 8, 1912
Nicholson, Oliver Perry, Lexington No. 104......... .... _________________________________ 0ctober 15, 1912
Niebling, William Fred, Capital City No. 499--·····-·-------·-----------------------··------June 20, 1913
Norberg, iohn, Doric No. 216.............. _________ ___________________ ____ ______ ________________ 0ctober 26, 1905
Norris, Jo n Phillip, Alhambra No. 322.·----···-·--------·---------------------------------······-July 22, 1912
Norton, Frank Logan, Signal No. 543·-·-·················--·--··-·-·------------···-·September 20, 1906
Nutt, Hugh, Claiborne No. 185..·--··-·-·········-··--·········----··-······-------····---·-········.May H, 1910
O'Hara, George Kane, Naval No. 87.•....•...·-··--·-·····-·----··-···-·-·--·-···-·----···--March 24, 1913
Oliverius, Frank Joseph, Pajaro No. 110......•................................................... May 3, 1913
Olney, Amos Dexter, Fillmore No. 379---·----····--·--·-·-···--·····--····--···---······----May 30, 1913
Olney, Elford Lake, Hollenbeck No. 319----···············---·-----····--·····---·-··--·····March 19, 1912
Ostrander, Henry Livingston, Josiah W. Roller No. 761... ......................... March 1, 1895
Otto, William Robert, Ashlar No. 306............•---·······-···-··-·····----·····--·--·····-··-·1·une 26, 1913
Outsen,James Bunt, Occidental No. 22.....·-····----·-······----··------······-··-·--·-········· une 30, 1913
Owen, avid John Robert, Fruitvale No. 336..·-·-·-·----·--··----······-·-·--·--···-·-··· pril 20, 1912
Paddison, Edward Geor~, Norwalk No. 315.·-·-···--··--·····--···-·-···-·-······December 31, 1912
Palmer, August, Balder o. 393.....................--······------·----·······---··-·-··-···November 29, 1912
Palmore, Clarence Cleveland, San Marino No. 685............................ November 23, 1912
Parker, Garth, Salinas No. 204____________________...............................................August 22, 1913

NAME AND LODGE

115
DATE OP RAISING

Parker, James Flourney, Temblor No. 477•..•.·----··-----·---·········-·····-··············-January9, 1911
Parker, Lloyd Warren, Utopia No. 537........... ·-·----···---···---·······--·-·-·········0ctcbet- 29, 1912
Parr, Fred Depler, California No. L---··-······-·····-----------------·----·---·······September 12, 1912
Parry, William John, Oakland No. 188---·-···----·--··-·---------·----·-··-------·---··-·········.June 28, 1913
Patterson, George Anderson, Golden Gate No. 30·------···---·-------··--·················April 26, 1913
Paul, John Murdoch, Atwater No. 622·-·····-··-·-·····-- ·-··-···--·---···-------···---·-----···---June 8, 1911
Paulsen, Charles Arthur, PGM .. Trinity No. 27....·-·--·-···--····----······---·--····--August 2, 1913
Pearce, Harry, Naval No. 87·-··-······-···--····-·-·-···----·-····--·····-----····--·-··---···-··--January 17, 1913
Pearson, Harry B.. Anaheim No. 207 .•....... ·-··-··--··-·········-·----·-··--·--·-----··-·--····--May 19, 1911
Pedersen, Theodore Alexander, Golden Gate No. 30..... ·------·--·-···----··-·----·---April 15, 1913
Perrier, Charles Reginald, Hills Ferry No. 236....................................November 26, 1909
Petersen, John Hans, Friendship No. 210........----------------··--···------·---···--·-·-0ctober 17, 1912
Peterson, August Herman, Ashlar No. 306............................................Septembtt 26, 1912
Peterson, John, Acom No. 494...·-·······-···············-····---·-···--···-·-········--------------·March 24, 1913
Petrocelli, George Joseph, Oakland No. 188•................. ----·····---··----····· November 11, 1912
Pfeiffer, Fred Louis, Golden Rule No. 479----------------------------------··-------·------··-··-June 24, 1912
Phelps, Frank Dale, Liberty No. 299------·-··-----------------------------------·--------··--·----.MaY 11, 1912
Phillips, Raymond Millard,~hland Park No. 382 ................................. .August 12, 1912
Pinkerton, James Wortley,
No. 256·------------------------·-·----···-··-····--···November 25, 1912
Pohlman, Harry Porter, Porterville No. 303·-·--------------------------·--·-------------------May 29, 1913
Ponticorvo, Pascal, Silver Trowel No. 415 ...... ------------···--··---·-·---·------------··-March 26, 1913
Porter, George Kabrick, Russian Riva- No. 18L................. ------·-·-·-----------Ausiust 10, 1913
Potter, Charles Guy, Redlands No. 30Q______________________________________________ ___ _____________ June 22, 1910
Potter, Robert Wilson, Las Palmas No. 366 .... --··----------··----···--·-------·---·-----··---··May 23, 1913
Po.undstone, Lawrence, Henry Cl~y No. 95·----···········-····-·-··--·--·----------·-----·-----May 27, 1911
Pnce, Ernest Edward, Beverly Hills No. 528 ___________ -------·-···------···-·---······February 6, 1913
Price, Thomas Henry, Parnassus No. 388 ........... ·--··----··-·--··-·-····-----·--·---·----August 26, 1913
Prior, Gustave Thomas, Crockett No. 139•··--·-···-········--·-·----···-···-·----------·-·0ctober 30, 1912
Pullen, Keats Abbott, Santa Cruz No. 38·-·-··-··---·--·····----·-··----··---···----------December 16, 1912
Purdy, William Orville, Fal.nnount No. 435.. -------------·---·-·-·-·-····-·--·--------··-··-June 24, 1913
Pyle, Edward G., West Lake No. 392.............. -------------·------······--·--------.December 16, 1912
Radford, Elmer G .. Huntington Beach No. 380..............................................July 31, 1913
Ramond. Jules, La Parfaite Union No. 17............ ____________________________________ September27, 1912
Ramsdell, Fred Stanley, Pittsburg No. 429.......·-----·-····-------·----·-····-······S_eptember 22, 1911
Ranson, Harry Eugene, Golden State No. 358 ....----·--·····------·-··-·-----------·November 4, 1912
Rasmussen, Thorwald Emil, Acorn No. 494..·--····-··-······-·--·-----------------·----··January 3, 1913
Ream, Frank Pattison, Pasadena No. 272.... ·-·-·····--·--------------------·-····------NO'Vember 11, 1912
Reinig, Rowland Bernard, Acom No. 494-------·---·-·--------···---··-··--··---------------March 11, 1913
Reuss, Frederick William, Rialto No. 582·--···-····-·----·----------------·----·-··-····--······April l, 1913
Rhine, Samuel, Pacific No. 136..---·-··----·---·-·-·-·------···---·······-------------·-----------·····-June 25, 1912
Rhoads, George W .. Fairmount No. 435·-----··--··---------------------------------·------·-----May 17, 1913
Richards, John A .. Henry S. Orme No. 458....................... _____________________________ April 30, 1912
Richards, Wm., Concord No. 117......... ·-·····--···-------·------------------------·-----------···--APril 30, 1913
Riddle, James Aubrey, Thousand Oaks No. 478........ ·-··------------·--·-···------December 11, 1912
Riley, Marcelin Edgar, Ocean Park No. 369.......................................... November 15, 1912
Rindge, Samuel Knight, Southern California No. 278 ..................................March 19, 1913
Ritschel, Ray C. J., Seafaring No. 708....·-·····-·-··--··-·-·-·---------------···-······-·····-April 17, 1912
Robbins, Archie Harrison, Inglewood No. 421............................---------------······-July 30, 1913
Roberts. David Samuel, East Bay No. 489....•·-·······---·-·---·--·-·----·-···-------September 28, 1912
Roberts, Frank Henry, Cahuenga No. 513·---····-··-···---···-·-·-··-------·-·-·-·--··----0ctober 27, 1909
Roberson, Henry Alfred, Fruitvale No. 336.......·-··-···---··--·-·------······------Septemher 28, 1912
Robinson, David H., Covina No. 334.·--···--·-·-···-··-···-------------·---.. ·------------··-··--March 8, 1913
Robinson, Hamilton E., Rising Light No. 397.·---·-·----------··---·----·---·----·--September25, 1912
Robinson, Kelley Dunlap, Eureka No. 16..•............................................. February 21, 1913
Robison, William Edward, Oros! No. 383..........-------·--·-··---·------··----------September 16, 1912
Rohr, Alfred Andrew, Yolo No. 81............................................ ~---·--·--·-----··---April 12, 1913
Rookledge, Max De Witt, Holtville No: 425:·····--···-·--·······--··--····-----······-----March 25, 1913
Roome, Adolphe Edward, Southern Califol'Illa No. 278 ........·---·-·--·----··-······---July 23, 1913
Ross, Henry Raymond, Eden No. 113...........·---···-·--·-······--····-···-·-·-----·---··0ctober 24, 1912
Ross, Tindell Alan, Morning Star No. 68....................................................0ctober 17, 1912

116

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

?i··

~ostnWal~r
Mi~on No. 169....................·-····-······-······ ··········-·······-- Juoe 18, 1913
Rud aE, ui ~anF .. San Bernardino No. 348.........................
..... _____:July 18, 1912
Ru ge,R lbs~ an hcisco-Victo ry No. 360................................_.._-Auguat 12, 1913
yan, a p urton,
om No. 494.....................·-························-··__pebniary 10, 1912
~alom?n·Jielrll-J' \Vlflc No. 136.......................................................-.---Aprfl 29, 1913
Sarn;.1s, Edo c;l
..:J.·l Crockett No. 139............................................Pebruary 21, 1912
s an d!SOf'
D..
I rnlngton No. 198............................................Novembtt 16, 1912
San s. ~s~c('. L orado NoE.26...................................................................................... 1910
Sargean Ed w1H ysan, Jr., xcelsior No. 166..............................................June 24, 1913
s~~:~~: Ge2:~e L~~dge!.~};~~-RC:~i·N;··4fo····························-·······o···c··t·obeuner 2167' 11991132
Sch h G
v·
. ··················---·-·············
'
Sch:fbI;, Alb~~ K~~t~~ ~~~~ ~0 • ~-···················· ··························--·September 2, 1913
S h ·b Wilb Ph·ft· 'W
0·
L .....................................................May 25, 1912
chei.de, W ur H1 1p,
est Los Angeles No. 373......................................May 23, 1913
S
&hit t,M {11 iarnAlb enry, West Los Angeles No. 373 .......................... Septernber 20, 1912
Schulkr, Afuin E ert, Enterprise No. 70 .................................................. january 11, 1913
S hu enh
rt <![a~, Goldent Gate No. 30..........................................March 11, 1913
S~h~ah~ch~r. p~=~lcli~ D~~~eN~oi 2go-----·····················---·······························April 5, 1913
Schwinn, Kenneth Eva~. Ever reen ~;;:--2"············· ··························-·············-June 20, 1912
59·················································
Seifert, Richard F .• San Die ogNo
··-July 29, 1913
Service, Asher Ewinq, Coalfu a N 353".7"................................................February
15, 1913
Sh k If d GI
N
0 · 8 ....................................................... .April 24, 1913
Shaff e
R eH. ewton, eudell No. 695.........................
............... Decernber 20, 1912
Sha er, Ca
1\{}land Park No. 382........................................................August 4, 1913
Shannon, M; htoil J illiarn, Stanislaus No. 206......................................Decernber 9, 1912
SharenH, 1cCae "k Suflset ~o. 352..............................................................April 29, 1913
Sh aw, Gory .,Wall
8 ers eld o. 224.............................................................. April 13, 1910
Sh eaher,d Forgk I i iarn, Rialto No. 382 ..................................................December 9, 1911
Sh~~d:~ Earl Dav1d.f~~ ~.tl~:s1!J1i,a~0• 469··········································--Jaouary 2, 1909
Sh·
Ch I W I N
····················································January 18, 1913
Sh1rey,d
es Edey, I orth Hollywood No. 542 ........................................
June 24, 1912
Sho.ner 'M·~scoeB win nglewood No. 421... ........................................... August 28, 1912
s· bvew·1l- ton A yHn, 0 rinda No. 704............................................................June 28, 1912
s:e ek w-11~01 Ah llrNann No. 127......................... ............................... February 24, 1913
d BI 1arn,AI e o. 146..........................................................................Aprtl 12, 1913
s~ or • eEton Nxahn1er, Plymouth No. 560............................................ August 26, 1911
s~rnrnone; Ide~ i_c 0
~ollenbeck No. 319 ................................... -..... April 29, 1913
s~rnond Ea
ar1son, one No. 216...................................................... 0ctober 31, 1912
S~rnon s, J here!j,/" Monrovia No. 308................................................. .December 18, 1912
s~rnpjoh'
Busan~ Oaks No. 478 ................................................... January 30, 1913
Skz. oEdw
xcels10r No. 166..................................................................June,10, 1913
Skell1s, Th ar pnnett, Eureka No. 16.................................................... February 14, 1913
SI e yh
Edas, Mrnassus No. 388............................................................ 0ctober 17, 1912
~ug
d yr B onroe, Moneta No. 405................................................0ctober 31, 1912
S
A av! '&i'l ~YI~ 225......................... ......................................... April 26,1913
s~:th: A::~r Wiiliarn, Hof1t ~~9N·~:"3·············· ························ ·················April 24• 1913
Smith, Chester Francis Mo~ No. 40 55·················-··························Feb ruary 19, 1909
5····································---····-··············June 19, 1913
S Ith Cl d w·ll·
'
S h• CY e
Francis Drake No. 376................................................
June 16. 1913
1 EdessoB
~i\'
I, edlands No. 300 ........................................................ February 9, 1912
G gar rroR.'
Palrnas No. 366..........................................................July 6, 1912
Sm~\· H eorgeEl ., lo 1sta No. 208.................................................... .February 18, 1913

W

t'ih

0

M

D iY•

rt

s·'ft

SD,

Mb/s'

?J:· tg·

01

s \·

ih taR,

iv.

s~;~h: Le~Zrd E~t: . p~~tl!\~~~t ~~---28i:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~Feb:!':; ~~: igg

~m1t~, ~bsleyc°ixon, San Francisco-Vic tory No. 360........................ Septernber 17, 1912
S n~e An~ ert s·· P~drnont No. 521... ...............................................................Mav 10, 1910

S mrd Gew, an rancisco-Victory No. 360............................................ March 18, 1913
S nft
eor~ Samuel. Parnassus No. 388......................................................July 29, 1913
So .h allcuJs a:rew, Liberty No. 299 ......................................................August 23, 1913
Sout wN, h ohnW enry Sleath, San Joaquin No. 19..................................March 17, 1913
pero, at an,
est Gate No. 335.............................................................. 0ctober 4, 1912

M

NAME AND LODGE

117
DATE OP RAISING

Stanley, Harry Clyde, Morning Star No. 68-·-····················-··················-·..May 29, 1913
Stannard, John ~ert, James H. Kew No. 766...----·········-···················-····..May 14, 1912
Stanton, Edgar William Jr., North Butte, No. 230_............................•.November
23, 1912
Stark, Lynn Oliver, Mount Oso No. 460................................................- ... 0ctober 3, 1912
Steffensen, Peter, Tehama No. 3-·-····-·········· ····················· ············-·__M ay 19, 1913
Steneman, Walter Tillman, Phoenix No. 178.....................- ...................
September 2, 1912
Stephens. William Fulton, Landmark No. 253......................................December 28, 1912
Stevens, Ernest Andrew, Vallee de France No. 329 ..............................December 30, 1912
Stevens, Harry Wilber, Palestine No. 351..-·····-··························-········-0ctober 21. 1912
Stigrnan, John Joseph, Hollenbeck No. 319................................................
February 20, 1912
Stocker, Leslie Wrightson, California No. L ........................................ December 12, 1912
Stokes, Everett Stinson, Table Mountain No. 124............................................ June 6, 1913
Storey, Nathaniel, Burbank No. 406..................................................................June 13, 1912
Strobrid_g_e, James Harvey, San Buenaventura No. 214---··········- ·················May 2, 1913
Stuart, Herbert Hansen, Humbodt No. 79...................................................... March 4, 1912
Stump, Noah Albert, Rosemead No. 702................................................... February 3, 1913
Sudden, Robert E .• Lompoc No. 262--··-·······················································May 30, 1913
Swanson, Charles Andrew, Jubilee No. 604.....................................................May 12. 1911
Sweeney,_ Orville Clarence, Sacramento No. 40..........................................January 4, 1913
Sweet, Walter S., Palestine No. 351......-·····················-·················-··········--June 11, 1912
Taggart, lames Deacon, Pentalpha No. 202 .................................................... April 22,1913
Tainter, Carrol Anson, San Gabriel No. 546..............................................0ctober 25, 1912
Tandberg, Erling August Norman, Alexander Graham Bell No. 595 .... Septernber 1, 1909
Taylor, Harvey Kirk, Fruitvale No. 336....................................................February 8, 1913
Taylor, Theron Thomas, Oriental No. 144·-·········-············ ...................... .March 16, 1912
Taylor, Wilfred Allen, San Francisco-Victory No. 360................................April 15, 1913
Teague, Donald Spencer, Santa Paula No. 291........................... .............December 5, 1912
Thomas, George Isaac, Buena Park No. 357 ................................. ....... September 26, 1912
Thompson, John Horner, Liberty No. 299..........................................................June 20, 1903
Thompson, Louis Thomas, Guadalupe No. 237 ....................................... November 1. 1906
Thompson, William H .. Mission No. 169........................................................../uly 24, 1913
Toft, Arthur Christensen, Golden Gate No. 30................................................ une 30, 1911
Toman, Victor Hugo, Hollywood No. 355 ............................................ November 11. 1911
Tonkin, James Herbert, Sequoia No. 349........................ ..............................March 25, 1913
Travers, Richard Henry, Fairmount No. 435........................,.....................August 12, 1913
Tregoning, Herbert Henry Sequoia No. 349.......................................... November 19, 1912
Trornpas, Gregory Dernatrl, San Diego No. 35 .. ····································-·····May 10, 1913
Truitt, Franklin Earl, Downey No. 220................................................ :.Novernber
15, 1912
Turner. Garrison. Fairfax No. 556........................ ........................................August 26, 1912
Tyler, Willard Thurston, Palo Alto No. 346..........................................Decernber 28, 1912
Tyrrell, William Henry, Porterville No. 303 .................................................... April 1, 1913
Vanornen, Arnold, Francis Drake No. 376......................................................July 5, 1912
Van Orden, Howard Lowell, Oriental No. 144..........................................January 30, 1913
Van Westen, Phillip, Guardian No. 596............................................................July 31, 1913
Van Zandt, Robert L., Los Angeles No. 42............................................ September 16, 1912
Vieille, Albert, Silver Trowel No. 415..........................................................March 19, 1913
Vieth, Albert H., Chowchilla No. 485......................... ......................... ..............June 14, 1913
Vogelgsang, Stanley C., Warren G. Harding No. 579 ..................................April 19, 1913
Von Staden, George, Hermann No. 127....................................................December9, 1912
Voorhees, Clair Stout, Monterey No. 217....................................................March 18, 1912
Waas, Erwin John, Fairmount No. 435...................................................... August 22, 1913
Waddington, Alfred, Glendale No. 544...................... ............................. August 26, 1911
Wagenet, Harry_ Louis, Yerba Buena No. 403.......... ........ ....... ............ February 20, 1913
Wake, Charles Henry, Wilshire No. 445 ......................................................August 22, 1912
Waldron, Thomas Aloysius, Midway No. 426 ........................ .........................July 3, 1912
Walker, Cleveland King, San Joaquin No. 19........................................ December 30, 1912
Walker, Elmer Alexander, Maricopa No. 434 .............................................•-June 27, 1913

118

PROCEEDING S OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Walter, Elmer J., Schofield No. 443..•.....----------·-·-·--·-·------------··--------····--············May 7, 1912
Wanka, Louis Ferdinand, West Gate No. 335.-·-··---····-·-··--··--·-····--··-···-·····-···May 29, 1913
Waterlue, Ralph, Silver Trowel No. 415·-······-····--··----------·--··-···········-······-···-June 4, 1913
Webb, Harvey Layton, Beverly Hills No. 528------------------------------------····---March 21, 1913
Wechter, Abraham, Pacific No. 136·-----···---------····--·-----·-----------····---····--····--·--·-June 20, 1909
Weir, John P., Henry S. Orme No. ·458·-···---------------------------------········---··--·January 10, 1895
Wellman, David Eli, Stanislaus No. 206---···-----------·-··-·-·---------·······-··--······....March 29, 1912
Wells, James Bertrand, Palo Alto No. 346----------···-------------·---------···-·-·-··--November 9, 1912
Wells, 10sse Warren, Evergreen No. 259-------------------------··--·---------···------February 15, 1913
Wells, art Tull, Santa Cruz No. 38-------------------------·····---------···------------------------M ay 4, 1912
Wente, Ernest August, Mosaic No. 218·-·-------··-·····---·····----------·--···------November 23, 1912
Wessendorf. Lester Heyden, Santa Cruz No. 38---------····-··-----------------······-·--·----July 8, 1913
Whipple, Herbert Avelyn, San Pasqual No. 452·------···-·-------------------···--------April 24, 1913
White, James Thornwell, Glendale No. 544-------·····------·-··----------------------February 28, 1910
Wheeler, Frederich Smith, Libertas No. 466·--···---··-·-----------·-·-·-·····-·---··----January 16, 1913
Whitcomb, Horace Vomon. Francis K. Shattuck No. 57L.--·--------··-----October 24, 1907
Whittington, Charles Roy, Dinuba No. 385.-----------------·--·-···---··---·-·····---September 10, 1912
Wilcox, Philip Allen. Meridian No. 667..----------------------------------------------------------lune 30, 1913
Wilde, Fredric H., Anchor No. 273_·------------------------------------·················----------May 15, 1913
Willard, Charles Rufus, Reseda No. 666----··--·--···-----------·····----···-····------······0ctober 5, 1912
Williams, Nathaniel. Marin No. 191 .....---········-------········-------------------·--·-···0ctober 30, 1912
Wilson, Albert Lee, La Brea No. 650....---·····················-··-···-----···-····---------·····March 2, 1911
Wirsching, Carl Bernardino, Hollenbeck No. 319......------------·-----··-··-----------March 29. 1912
Witherspoon, Robert Hamilton, Thousand Oaks No. 478......................February 27, 1913
Wolf, Albert George, Roseville No. 222-----------------------------------------·--------------March 31. 1913
Wolff, Chester Albert, Arlington No. 414........ ·---···-····--------------------·-----------------May 9, 1913
Wonnenberg, Raymond Henry, Marin No. 191.........----------------------------······.April 16, 1913
Wood, Harry Maxfield, Union No. 58..---···----------·-·······--------------------··-·-········April 30, 1913
Woodin, Clarence Freeman, Oak Grove No. 215....·---------------------------------···-----May 1, 1913
Young, Ernest B., Silveyville No. 201.......................-----------------------------·-········Aprtl 3, 1913
Young, H . Douglas, Blackmer No. 442.------·····------·-----------------------··········February 27, 1913
Young, Harry Somers, Occidental No. 22..............................•.............•...........June 30,
1913
Young, John Robert, Corinthian No. 9..---···-····-···············-·······---···········--·February 25, 1913
Zitlau, August James, San Joaquin No. 19·-----······-············-----······---·········---.Tanuary 3, 1913
Zuckweiler, Gustave Charles, Silver Gate No. 296......------------------·······--·---March 28, 1913

119

CONCLUSION

Since submitting the editorial portion of this ·report for printing. two
matteM have come to my attention which I feel should be reported to
Gr~nd Lodge.
.
.
In accordance with the Grand Masters Edict of May 10, 1963, rela~
tive to Cuban Masonic Brethren, the Grand Secretary has now accepted
dues from three members of Cuban Lodges. The funds are held in trust,
and the money is placed in a savings account. I am happy to report that
one of these members has now affiliated with a California Lodge.
On October I. 1963, Grand Master Ira W. Coburn approved the
consolidation of Jonathan Lodge No. 545 and Veritas Lodge No. 640.
All requirement s of the law respecting consolidation does not become
effective until December 1, 1963.

Grand Secretary
Ref erred to Committee on Distribution.

120

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

REPORT OF GRAND LECTUR ER
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
As this report was in preparatio n, the Grand Lodge lost, through
death, one of its ablest and most dedicated members, Worshipf ul Ralph
W. Collins, who passed away July 23, 1963. Honor will be done him on
Wednesd ay morning during the Necrology service. The Grand Master
has appointed Worship Robert A. Crigler, a Past Master of John
Marshall Lodge No. 636, and Inspector of District No. 5.90, as the
successor Assistant Grand Lecturer of Division V.
This has been a year of advance in the practice of Masonry in this
jurisdiction. Advance in the perfection of the ritual is important, for
without it, we would have no foundation in Masonry. I can report to
you that, with few exceptions, the ritual as portrayed by our lodges, is
the envy of other jurisdictions. This comes about by reason of the
system of lodges in districts, districts in divisions, and, over it all, a
spirit and desire on the part of you Masters and Wardens to excel. The
total of schools held by Inspectors for the lodges numbers many hundreds and the number of divisional schools held by the Assistant Grand
Lecturers will number several dozen. Each of the Assistant Grand
Lecturers. at the annual conferenc e of his division, then reviews the
work under the eye of the entire Ritual Committee and, finally, on
Saturday, October 12, the Grand Lecturer, with all Inspectors present,
holds his annual school.
Divisional Conferenc es were held on the dates and at the lodges
shown. M,y thanks to the brethren of these lodges for making their
facilities available.
Division

I &II
III
IV

v
VI

Assistant Grand Lecturer
in Charge

Date

Clare Campbell (I )
H. N. Richards (II)
Arthur J. Kahn
Raymond E. Taylor
Ralph W. Collins
W. Ben Sorrells

Place of Meeting

June H-16
May 3-5
May 24-26
April 19-21
March 29-31

Lake Tahoe No. 707
Sotoyome No. 123
Pohona No. 689
Lancaster No. 437
Palm Springs No. 693

Additiona lly, for the Grand Lecturer, Harold N. Richards, A,ssistant
Grand Lecturer, schooled the Inspectors and Officers Coaches of the
lodges in the State of Hawaii. Neither in spirit nor in ritual can our
brethren be regarded as separated from us.
Much of your Grand Lecturer's time, and much more of his interest,
has been spent in the furtheranc e of the plan of Candidate Coaching
which you adopted for Grand Lodge last year. Time was permitted me
at several divisional meetings of the Commission on Masonic Practices

121

for explanation, questions and answers. This brought the problem and
the solution to the ones most vitally concerned with the inculcation of
the new Mason-t he Masters and Wardens of the lodges.
The fact that this is a lodge and district program with great flexibility is now very apparent. Reaction has ranged from apparent apathy
to great enthusiasm. Apathy is apparent in those lodges and those districts where leadership is lacking. Neither geography , nor age, nor the
size of a lodge need be a factor. Leadership and enthusiasm go together.
But, let the districts speak for themselves. The enthusiasm shows in the
following reports from a cross-section of districts up and down the
State. The leadership is apparent in each case.
District 212-"Ea ch lodge has gotten into the program to some extent,
but not as far as I believe they should. This will improve next year."
District 216--"Ho pe to get the plan into operation before Grand Lodge
meets."
District 224-"Ha ve issued only one Certificate at this time but anticipate examining and issuing certificates to some six or eight coaches in the
next two weeks."
District 306-"Th ere is considerable enthusiasm evinced concerning the
Candidate s Coaching Handbook and the policy presented by Grand
Lodge on Candidate instruction ."
District 318-"In addition to holding spring and fall Candidate s Coaches
meetings as usual. this year I also discussed the Grand Lodge program
for coaching at association meetings -held two meetings early in the
year for Masters. Senior Wardens, head Candidate s Coaches and Officers Coaches and have held special meetings with two lodges to help
their coaches along."
District 320-"We are now in the process of qualifying coaches for
the Handbook as soon as they meet the necessary requirements. This
will be done by questionn aire submitted by the Inspector and assisted
by the Senior W ardenis."
District 330-"A night is being planned to honor the Candidate s
Coaches and to present the certificates of qualification and appointme nt
in each lodge." ·
District 356--"Th e enclosed set of questions were made up by the
Senior Wardens of the District. I also enclose the answers as submitted
by one coach. This is being taken very seriously. Certificates are to be
presented at the August Stated Meetings. "
District 382-''Th e plan for Candidate Coaching has received unqualified support here. It has been needed for some time and we are enthusiastic about the whole procedure. We are working to get a group in
depth to fill the ranks of Candidate Coaching ."
District 532-"At our school of June 26th, we had a total attendanc e
of 52, of whom 13 were Candidate s Coaches, to discuss and study the

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Handbook. It will take time to perfect our procedures in this but we'll
make it."
District 586-"Certifkation is based upon the Coaches ability and interest in studying the subjects to the point that he can discuss them intelligently without reference to the Handbook and. in his own language.
impart the general knowledge afforded by the text."
District 614-"I have had two special meetings for Candidates Coaches
with 25 to 30 present each time. They all agreed that the plan was a
step forward in spreading Masonry among the members. They really
worked for their Certificates. Their enthusiasm should continue."
District 622-"I have appointed a District Head Candidates Coach. He
has charge of schooling through the Lodge Head Candidate Coach.
Each month when we hold our regular District meeting, the Candidates
Coaches meet in another part of the building and have their meeting.
They cover the Candidates Lectures and the Candidates Coaches
Handbook. As soon as they have mastered the subject matter, we
graduate them and issue the Certificate."
District 642-"We have not seemingly in the past been able to capture
or hold the interest of the average member. This has been the weak
spot in our organization. I believe that the new Candidate education
program will go a long way toward correcting the situation. The report
of 1962 expressed my ideas of many years standing. I agree that with
the tools here given, the Masters, Wardens and Coaches of our lodges
will produce over the years a better informed and more eagerly inter~
ested membership and Masonry will advance proportionately."
District 644-"A lodge~owned copy of the Handbook is provided for
each Coach for use while coaching the Candidate and for his study and
edification toward qualification for his Certification as a Coach. When
the Coach feels that he is ready, he. with the Head Candidates
Coach. appears before the Senior Warden, who interrogates him on
the contents of the Handbook. When. in the judgment of the Senior
Warden, he is indeed fully qualified, he is presented with a properly
inscribed copy of the Handbook in recognition of his efforts."
These reports illustrate that you Masters and Wardens have the
opportunity to lead and the responsibility of your high positions in
Masonry to spur you on in a great resurgence in Masonic teaching and
membership interest.
Respectfully submitted,
DONALD G. CAMPBELL

Grand Lecturer

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

123

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
their Seventy~first Annual Report for the year ending June 30, 1963.
together with the Annual Reports of the Superintendent of our Home in
Union City and the Superintendent of our Children's Home in Covina.
0RGANIZA TION

The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco on October 12, 1962,
for the purpose of organization. The election of Elmer W. Heald,
Deputy Grand Master; Theodore Meriam, Senior Grand Warden. and
Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the
Board. and on motion duly made. seconded and carried they were elected
members of the Board.
On motion duly made. seconded and carried, Edgar V. Stewart, Jr ..
was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, L. Harold Anderson
was elected Vice President of the Board.
By virtue to his offke as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge F. &
A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Arthur M. Warren is Treasurer
of Masonic Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge F. &
A. M. of California, Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems is Secretary
of Masonic Homes of California.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the following Trustees compose the Board. The date of the
termination of their three~year appointments is also shown.
Alfred F. Breslauer _______________________ J 963 ______________________ Edward J. Blickfeldt
L. Harold Anderson______________________ l 964 ____________________ Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
James Leo HalleY--·-----------------------1965 _________ ,______________________ Phil N. Myers
GENERAL REVIEW

Ten days after the close of the Grand Lodge Communication last
year, the sad news went out from our Grand Secretary's office that the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes had lost its one remaining
emeritus member, Most Worshipful Charles M. Wollenberg. Grand
Master in 1929. With the passing of this venerable brother at age 89,
California Masons lost one of their most devoted and loyal servants who
had served our Homes Board .for over a half century. 39 years as its
President. Our Necrology Committee will pay him due homage in their
report later in this communication. but we of the Board of Trustees want
to express our appreciation not only for his years of service, but for the

125

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

solid foundation which was laid during his leadership, upon which we
are still building. We shall always revere his name and his memory.
On February 14, 1963, the resignation of Trustee George D. Gavin
was received in order that he might continue to serve the craft in a new
capacity as Manager of this California Masonic Memorial Temple.
While his service on the Homes Board was relatively brief, we miss his
devoted activity. As of the same date the Grand Master appointed Past
Grand Master Alf red F. Breslauer to fill the vacancy and the Board
welcomed this talented brother who had been serving as our legal
advisor.
We wish to thank the several Board of Relief Managers who have
made preliminary investigations for us in connection with applications of
children of out of state Lodges. This is no easy task and these busy
brethren have cheerfully complied with out requests for assistance, and
their excellent services have been vei;y much appreciated.
We should like to again stress the importance of the preliminary
investigations required of the Lodges before filing a formal application
for admission to either Home. While we do not ask the Lodge committee
to pre-judge the case, the decision of course resting with the Trustees,
yet at the same time we feel that too many applications are filed which
obviously do not meet our entrance requirements of a financial need, and
in the case of oldsters - the requirement of being in satisfactory physical
condition and being ambulatory. Many miles are traveled by our two
Social Workers in making some of the investigations and this entails a
substantial expense which oftentimes could be saved by a proper preliminary investigation by the Lodge, together with a more complete understanding of our rules for admission. Your careful cooperation in this
respect will save the Homes Board both time and money.
We also remind you again that when your Lodge has the continuing
burden of helping to support a brother or his family who are not eligible
for admission to our Homes, an application for outside relief is always in
order. By outside relief is meant monthly financial assistance to the
Lodge by the Homes Board, where the Lodge is obligated beyond its
means in the care of a brother or his family. These cases, however,
should be just as carefully investigated by the Lodge as an application
for admission, and our investigation also will be just as thorough, including a check-up on the finances of the applying Lodge. You may be
interested to know that at present we are assisting 21 Lodges in their
permanent relief cases outside the Homes.

lovely young ladies were all interviewed by the entire Board of Trustees
and where needed and when requested were given scholarship assistance
for their further education.
You may recall that two years ago legislation was adopted to permit
the Trustees in their judgment to admit to our home Masonically affiliated children of other jurisdictions under proper circumstances and
limitations. You may be interested to know that since the approval of
these new regulations six such children have been admitted.
As some of you old-timers may remember, we at one time owned a
site on Balboa Island which was used as a permanent summer camp for
our Covina children. Since the disposal of this site many years ago, we
have been hoping that we could at some time acquire another location
for summer camp purposes. Your Trustees have made trips to see
various suggested locations at both the beach and the mountains but
until now without success. We are happy to say, however, that we are
now in negotiation with a wealthy gentleman - a non-Mason incidentally - who has a very well located mountain camp which he desires to
give us, and we have been told by his attorney that we can fully expect
to be in possession of the property in the very near future.
In our reports to you for the past two years we have also indicated
our desire eventually to acquire a new site for our Children's Home and
you have by the unqualified acceptance of our reports agreed that the
Board had the authority with the concurrence of the elected Grand
Lodge officers to do whatever was necessary to accomplish this end.
After investigating numerous ,sites we are now carrying on negotiations
which we feel hold great promise and if consumated will provide us with
an ideal location for a modern and flexible facility for our youngsters.

124

COVINA

Whereas in 1961 we reported a population in our Children's Home
of 38, and in 1962 a total of 49, this year has been an active one and as
of the end of our fiscal year, June 30, 1963, we have 55 children as our
guests after graduating four of our high school senior girls. These four

UNION

CITY

Last year is was reported to you and those of you who went to our
oldsters' home in Union City saw, that we had started construction on
three new buildings, two dormitories for our male employees and another
containing apartments for our employed married couples. We are glad
to report that these new accommodations have been in use since early
spring and have added greatly to the contentment of our employees and
materially reduced our labor turnover.
We can report demolition of the old employees' quarters. The ground
will be used to enlarge our parking area. The old hospital or infirmary,
which since the building of our new hospital has been condemned for
use by our guests, has also been demolished and there is now appearing
on the site a new dormitory to be called the Charles Albert Adams Hall
in memory of our late lamented and beloved "Charlie." This building
will be used to house our married guests and also to provide additional
rooms for those who may require some supervisory attention.
We are most grateful to have as the Vice President of this Board

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Master "Pete" Anderson, who by profession is an engineer.
With all of the building activity that we have been engaged in during
the past several years as well as that contemplated in the future, his
dedicated services to this Board have been invaluable. His personal
interest in and supervision of every aspect of our building program is
something that cannot be purchased with money, and to him we are all
very grateful.

FINANCES

While our guest population in Union City is near its all-time peak,
we have at the moment a number of vacant rooms for both men and
women. The chief reason for this is that our permanent hospital population is at an all-time high. Our hospital of course was built for the
need of those guests who after some years of residence in the Home come
to that point where hospital confinement seems necessary. Our admission requirements to the Home still require that the applicant be ambulatory and in reasonably good physical condition, but we have had many
cases in the past year where the favorable condition of the applicant, as
reported in the application, was not supported in fact. upon aorrival at
the Home. In a number of cases the guest was taken right into the hospital although there was nothing in the application to indicate any
untoward physical condition. This has caused us to overflow our new
hospital on several occasions although it was contemplated that its
capacity would not be taxed for several years at least. It has also increased our hospital costs out of all proportion.
For these reasons we must now require in ·some instances that the
applicant be required to be examined by a physician of our designation
so that we may have a complete and unbiased report. upon which to base
our decision for acceptance or denial.
Another problem confronting us has to do with application from
couples. It appears that since we announced a new dormitory for
couples. we have had a great inc·r ease in couple applications. We have
processed these applications in the usual manner and have acted upon
some of them, and presently five couples are waiting for accommodation s,
and we have quite a number of additional couple applications pending.
In one or two cases, due to the long wait for an apartment, one of the
couple became physically ineligible before a vacancy occurred, and this
was upsetting to everyone concerned. We must now announce that
applicants will only be investigated at the time we have accommodation s
for them.
To complicate the problem the Board has approved two marriages
between our guests during the past year and of course these folks anticipate an apartment also.
We hope of course that our new dormitory now under construction
will make it possible for us to eliminate all waiting lists.

127

It is an old story but one that we must repeat again. The cost of the
operation of our Homes is increasing. This is due to many factors
beyond our control, among which are increased labor costs, number of
guests, number of hospital patients. obsolescence, repairs, etc .. to say
nothing of general inflation.
To offset this in a great measure we have several factors working in
our favor. First of all we have our Homes Endowment Board which
each year raises more and more money for our Permanent Endowment
Fund. Their record this year of over $740,000 is a new high and the
income from this sum replaces to a great extent the loss of income from
our reserve funds which we are now using for building purposes. To
every member of the Board - our profound thanks for your valuable
service to the fraternity.
The Investment Committee under the direction of our most capable
Assistant Grand Ti'easurer also makes an invaluable contribution to our
welfare in keeping our funds soundly invested and frequently realizing
capital gains in addition to an excellent over-all interest return.
And last but by no means the least, we express our gratitude to the
dozens of brethren who named the Masonic Homes in their wills to
receive substantial amounts - oftentimes their entire estate. These gifts
are allotted, unless otherwise devised, to our various reserves which make
possible our building program.
· As you know, the balance of our funds come from two sources, the
$25 fees paid by each new applicant and affiliate and the per capita tax
on the Lodges. New applications are not coming in as fast as formerly
and the total membeI'Ship statewide is almost at a standstill, so that these
sources of funds are not keeping up with the inflationary trend. The
time may come when we might suggest raising the $25 fee to $30, and
the per capita on the Lodges may soon have to be increased. Your Board
of Trustees. however. is most anxious to defer action on both of these
matters as long as possible, and we therefore recommend a continuation
of the $1.00 per capita tax for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes
of California for the next fiscal year, the same amount as has been in
effect since 1960.
CONCLUSION

The management of each of our Homes is literally a 24-hour-a-day
job and one that requires not only ability in many lines but also a world
of tact. understanding and patience in dealing with many types of
people with greatly varying backgrounds.
Our fraternity may count itself most fortunate to have as the Superintendent of each of our Homes a Past Master of this jurisdiction. Each of
them is ideally suited to his position and gives unstintingly of his time
and effort, assisted in each case by an understanding wife. to maintain

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

our Homes on the high standard to which we have all become accustomed; and to these dedicated brothers the Board expresses its deep
appreciation. Their respective reports appended to this report will give
at least some indication of their manifold activities.
We wish, too, that we could pass on to you some of the intimate
letters we receive from guests and their families expressing appreciation
for the care and attention given to both our youngsters and our oldsters.
They are heartwarming to say the least and indeed compensate your
Board for the hours of time devoted to this great charity of ours. Each
of you has a part in it, and we hope that this report will bring to you the
glow of satisfaction which always accompanies a job well done.

ADDENDUM
Since June 30th we have come into possession of figures and information which were not available to us when this report was prepared.
We are adhering to the $1.00 per capita tax request for this year but
stating unequivocally that our request next year will have to be substantially increased. We make this statement at this time so that you
may be prepared for the inevitable. As late as yesterday the Board
seriously debated requesting a substantial upward revision in our per
capita request this year.
Respectfully submitted,
EDGAR V. STEWART, JR., President
L. HAROLD ANDERSON, Vice President
PHIL N. MYERS
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
JAMES LEO HALLEY
EDWARD J. BLICKFELDT
ELMER
HEALD
THEODORE MERIAM
MYRON E. SMITH

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

128-A

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SUPERINTEND ENT-MASONIC HOME
AT UNION CITY (Decoto)
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
We have just completed another year as of June 30, 1963, and it is
my pleasure and duty to submit to you my Seventh Annual Report.
The population of the Home on July 1, 1962, was 151 men and 225
women; this included 20 married couples. The overall average age was
81.65 years.
During the year 23 men, average age of 78.69 years and 25 women,
average age of 79.08 years entered the Home. We laid to rest 25 men,
average age of 84.95 years, and 27 women, average age 81.85 years.
As of June 30, 1963 our population was 372, which consisted of 149
men and 223 women, including 22 couples. The average age of the 372
residents is 81.70 years.

Age Groups
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99
100

Men
6
45
79
19
0

Women
6
69
121
26
1

Total
12
114
200
45
1

149

223

372

Of the 372 total, 119 were in the hospital, of which 102 are permanent.
In addition, 39 women are confined to the 4th floor North and East
Wings, who are receiving nursing care and under the supervision of the
hospital staff.
Our hospital has a capacity of 131, and on several occasions we had
many more than this number because of colds and other acute illnesses.
We have been very .fortunate to continue having the services of Mrs.
Eleanor Farris as our Hospital Supervisor. She has fulfilled her duties
most efficiently at all times, and it has been difficult, with the hospital
over-crowded and with shortage of help.
Our medical care program is under the direction of the Palo Alto
Medical Clinic, and our visiting doctors are Dr. Joseph Carson and Dr.
John Eckert; our dentist is Dr. Ken Lee from Fremont. Dr. Wayne
Collins is the podiatrist; Dr. Roger Wilson the optometrist; Dr. Frank
Siead the chiropractor, all of Hayward. We are using the services of
the local laboratory. In addition to our medical program, those who
prefer may have the service of a Christian Science Practitioner of their
choice within a radius of 50 miles.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The residents are quite happy with the entire medical plan at the
Home.
There have been several changes in the staff the past year. Brother
Hugh Herring came with us in September 1962, replacing Brother L. L.
Cain as Assistant to the Superintendent. Brother Hugh has taken a very
active part in the affairs of the Home and the residents. He is well-liked
by everyone. He is Junior Warden of Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448.
The position of Matron is now held by Mrs. Harriette Olson, who
came to us on June 5, 1963.
Mr. Al Soderholm has taken over as Chef. The residents seem to be
quite satisfied with the results. The new dishes are very pleasing.
Mrs. Eleanor Herring has taken the position of Office Manager and
doing very well. The Rev. Elliott Paulsen is filling the position as Home
Chaplain. Both Mr. Paul Reichert in Purchasing and Stock Control and
Mrs. Velma Huckabee as Recreation Coordinator are doing a fine job.
The residents enjoy the bus rides which were approved several
years ago. We endeavor to get a group out once a month. Some of the
places we have visited are: Ball Games, Ice Follies, Cinerama, Golden
Gate Park, Marin County, Carmel. and many points of interest.
Some of the visitations during the year that have caused enthusiasm
among the residents are: the visitation by our Most Worshipful Grand
Master and the reception .for him; the annual visitation of the Board of
Trustees for their quarterly meeting. It is always a pleaslli'e to welcome
both our Grand Master and members of the Board. It is also a great boost
for the residents.
During the year several of the Trustees visited on many occasions
to view the Home and the buildings that were under construction and
completed the latter par.t of January. These were quarters for employees,
both married couples and single men. This was a grand addition and the
turnover of single male help has diminished a great deal.
In addition, there were two other large and outstanding days. "Grand
Lodge Day" was held Wednesday, October 10, 1962. Approximately
1450 Grand Lodge representatives and their families enjoyed a box lunch
and a visitation of the Home. On August 18, 1962 The East Bay Past
Matrons Association held their annual "Jam and Jelly Day" and reception for their Grand Matron. There were approximately 800 in attendance for the day, and they brought with them a full year's supply of
jams and jellies and other goodies. We enjoyed having these groups
visit the Home, and on behalf of the residents we extend to them our
most sincere thanks and appreciation.
In addition, we want to acknowledge some of the outstanding contributions to the Home this past year. We apologize for not mentioning
all the gifts, but space won't permit.
We acknowledge with pleasure a beautiful color TV from Belmont

Shore Lodge delivered on December 24, 1962. We express our thanks
and appreciation on behalf of the residents who have enjoyed it very
much.
Our thanks and appreciation go to all the Lodges, groups and
individuals that sent Christmas contributions for the entertainment fund,
that the residents might have a very merry Christmas.
To all the organizations, individuals and groups who have contributed a large variety of items, such as TV's, wheel chairs, clothing,
foods, books, dressings, gowns, etc., we extend our sincere thanks and
appreciation for their thoughtfulness and generosity.
We are indebted to all the groups that brought all the fine entertainment to the Home for the benefit of the residents. This includes the
booking companies from which we received our movies. Our heartfelt
thanks to them and may they continue to entertain our people.
During the last year there has been much activity with new building
at the Home - as previously mentioned, the dormitories for single males
and apartments for married employees - then on May 20, 1963 the
contractors started demolition on the old hospital building, where there
will be erected a new three-story building. This will house about 60
ambulatory people plus some 35 semi-ambulatory patients who need
nursing care.
During the year there were 4,465 visitors that signed the register,
representing 495 Lodges in Californnia, 73 foreign jurisdictions and 8
foreign countries.
To the residents, on behalf of the staff and myself I wish to express
our sincere thanks for their cooperation and assistance in helping to
make this a home.
To all the personnel, my thanks for your cooperation, your interest
and untiring efforts in caring for our large family.
My thanks to the Board of Trustees for their confidence in me and
their interest and dedication to the Home and the cesidents. It has been
an extreme pleasure to serve both the Board and the Fraternity.
Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

128-D

PROCEED INGS OF THE

REPOR T OF THE SUPER INTEN DENT COVIN A HOME
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is indeed a special pleasure to submit my Fifteenth Annual Report
as Superint endent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina, for the
year ending June 30, 1963.
HoME MEMBERSHIP

As of June 30, 1963, the populatio n of the Covina Home shows a
slight increase. Presently , it numbers fifty-five children - thirty-th ree
boys and twenty-t wo girls. During the fiscal year of 1962-1963, eighteen
children joined the Home Family: eight boys and ten girls. Eleven young
people left the Home (five boys and six girls), four of them following
their graduatio n from high school this June. Of these four. all girls. one
(Georgia Cox) will enter La Verne College in the fall, enrolled in Education with a Music major; another (Karen Archinal ) plans to attend
Chapma n College in Orange. Californ ia, to work for a Bachelor of
Science degree in Business and Account ing: a third (Diana Werner)
will take a Liberal Arts Course at Mt. San Antonio Junior College; and
the fourth (Mary Mann) will take a specialized training program in a
beauticia n school. In addition to the above figures , one girl left on a
Leave of Absence , was re-admit ted, and then left the Home permane ntly,
and is included in the above as an admissio n and a single discharg e.
Family Status
Children
Families
Orphans
5
5
H / O Fathers Living
13
8
H / O Mothers Living
5
3
Both Parents Living
32
16
Family relations hips in the Home consist of the following:
Two families of four children; three families of three children; eleven
families of two children; and sixteen families of one child each. Eighteen
children. represen ting seven families, are in the Home under the
membership of a grandpa rent. Thirty-s even children from twenty-f ive
families are in the Covina Home under the membership of their father.
The thirty-tw o families represen t thirty-tw o Lodges, three of them out
of state: Benton No. 64 and Palatine No. 314, Illinois, and Sojourne rs
Lodge, Cristoba l. Canal Zone.
HOME, SCHOOL, AND COMMUN ITY ACTIVITI ES

Covina Home children continue to be outstand ing and influential in
the community. This year, one girl and two boys are enjoying the signal
honor of attendin g Boys' and Girls' State activities in the Sacrame nto
environs . Barbara Yungling was sponsore d by Union Labor Unit No.
352, America n Legion Auxiliary. Fred Clinksca le and Bruce Warrick

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

128-E

have been sponsore d by the Sunshine and F . J. Irwin Posts of the
American Legion. Receiving the coveted "Boy of the Year" presenta tion from Board Presiden t Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., this Christma s was
Bill Cooper. Georgia Cox and Steve Archinal were the recipient s of the
Adolph Koshland "Good Citizensh ip" award. At the recent Associat ed
Student Body elections at Charter Oak High School, Terry Henry was
named Presiden t; Fred Clinkscale, Vice Presiden t. Beverly Werner will
be in one of the Pep Units. During the past year, Karen Archinal acted
as Treasure r of the Drill Team, and M a ry Mann was a Lanceret te.
Chuck Henry was official photogra pher for the Scroll.
Grade placemen t of our Home Family is as follows: twenty-o ne
children in high school, nine in junior high. twenty~three in grade 'school.
one in kinderga rten, and one in pre-school. One of the graduate s, Diana
Werner. will reside at the Home while she attends classes at Mt. San
Antonio Junior College.
In order to foster a healthy mind in a healthy body, an athletic and
recreational program has been pursued. Home boys have participa ted at
the school. in Little League, and in the sports contests with other Homes
in the southern Californi a area. The Home is a member of a League
comprise d of Children 's Homes in the San Gabriel Valley. While it is
difficult to enter teams in all sports because of the number of boys
required in a special age group, the Home free-lanc es many activities.
Swimming is an attainme nt required of all the children , not only in
connection with their participa tion at summer camp but also as an important preparat ion for life. To this end, Red Cross instructio ns for
junior and senior lifeguard s were conducte d once again this spring. at
the close of which training five senior certificates and eight junior certificates were issued. Again this season there was the Swim for Distance
competition between the various Dorms, won this time by the Senior
Boys who swam a total of 31.75 miles, which bettered the record of the
group that won last year. Bob Warrick won the high individua l honor
by covering 8.16 miles in 4 1/ 6 hours. The combined total for the Home
was 136.75 miles.
All of the groups enjoyed a vacation period at the Coronad o Youth
Camp and at Mission Bay during the summer, where they participa ted
in surfing, bathing. boating, fishing, and sailing activities. This proved
to be one of the most popular camps ever conducte d for the children.
As part of the Easter holidays, the Senior and the Intermed iate groups
were able to ·spend a few days at Lake Mohave. Horseba ck riding !es~
sons have been arranged with the help of Mr. Smithson in the Farm
Departm ent.
Our 4-H Club. the Masonic Pioneers , has been reported on in detail
in previous years. The activity of the Club and its success has continued this past year. The value of this phase of our program takes on
increased meaning when one is fully aware of its therapeu tic significance.

128-F

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This year, also, there has been a Sewing Project for 4-H under the
supervision of Mrs. Young, and many of the girls have made great
strides in this womanly art.
We have members of Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 98, of George
Washington Chapter of De Mclay; children in Scouting and Brownies,
as well as other youth activitie-s. The children receive weekly piano and
voice lessons whenever talent, aptitude, or interest expresses itself.
The Home Tutor has assisted on all levels of education, with special
emphasis on remediel and accelerated work. Speed and remedial reading were offered during the past summer.
We have been fortuna te in having been able to continue the everpopular Movie Nights with films delivered to the Home courtesy of Mr.
Bliss and his delivery service. Participating distributors are Columbia
Pictures Corpora tion, Metro-Goldwyn-M ayer. Twentieth Century Fox,
Universal Films, Warner Brothers, and Allied Artists. Attendance at
these showings is open to guests of the children, too. Continuing activities which have become almost "institutions" are the Westerners' Scholastic Contest and Award Dinner, and the annual Monrovia Lodge
Christmas party now in its fortieth year. Another such event is the
annual trek to the Orange Show as guests of the San Bernardino Santa
Fe Masonic Club.
One of the most marked changes brought by fifteen years has been
the role of driving in the lives of the children. Not too many years ago,
the ability to drive was a nice accomplishment, nothing more; now it is
practically a "must" for the young people when they reach the required
age. In some areas, a car is almost an "essential" to enroll~ent .at col.le~e.
For this reason, the students are encouraged to take Drwers Training
and Behind the Wheel courses at high school. Only when they have
achieved sufficient proficiency to be licensed by the State, have been
further instructed by the Horne Staff in the proper handling of automobiles, and shown themselves to have a responsible attitude are they
permitted to drive the Home cars. A thorough knowledge of safe-drivin.g
methods is considered a prerequisite before they are launched in todays
world.
Licensed drivers are permitted to petition for the use of the "Date
Car" for specific events with approval of the Administration; otherwise
the Home provides the necessary transportation by means of the station
wagons or the Home bus. Those children permitted to use the "Date
Car" are responsible to see that it is maintained, thus providing them
with an additional opportunity for training.
HEALTH

Subscribing to the theory that it is better to keep the children well.
the policy has been continued of having complete yearly physical exami-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

128-G

nati.on~ at the .Magan Clinic, where the health program is supervised.

Peri~d1c examination of the children's teeth is made at the Home
hos~1tal. where the necessary dental care and hygiene are also, normally,
c~rried out. ~hen the need arises, additional consultations of a profes-

s10nal nature m the a reas of orthondontia, dermatology, opthamology,
optometry, orthopedics, and psychiatry are made available.
COTTAGE

In vi~w of the Home's admission of several young children under the
age of six years, a Cottage Program was established in a residence on
t~e Ho~e grounds. ~hese six youngest children, all having brothers and
s~ster~ m the Home . lived apart from the gene ral groups in a cottage-type
situation more nearly resembling that of a fa mily. While the meals were
pr~p.ared in ~he. H ome . kitchen .and transported to the Cottage, many
or1~10a~e? w1th10 the little family. Sunday dinners were eaten in the
mam. dmmg room with their brothers and sisters and our entire Home
Fam1l.y. It should also be noted that their brothers and sisters could stay
over~1ght on w;,e~ end~ at the Cottage. This Cottage had its own toys
and back yard m wh1Ch to play. Of these six youngest residents, two
attended nursery school, three kindergarten, and one was in the first
grade.
V ISITATIONS

The opportunity to visit the Home on third Sunday of every month
exc:pt December continues to be popular with Lodges and concordant
bodies. A~ .nearly as possible, the Board policy of limiting the number
of these v1srt~rs. to a maximum of four hundred for a given Sunday is
followed, as is also the p~~ctice of limiting the visit of any single group
to every second year. V1s1tors seem to enjoy both the chance to picnic
on the grounds and to tour the buildings, while on the other hand the
child~en ha:e the important experience of enacting the role of hosts
greeting their guests. Lodge visitors who drop in independently during
the week are a lways made welcome, and are guided through the Home
by a member of the Home Family.
Requests are received as well from nursery schools, kindergarten
classes. and church groups to visit the farm area and the aviary.
THE ALUM N I

Each year, we are proud to say, the contact between the Home and
the Alumni appears to be strengthened. The office force make a concentrate.cl effort to keep a current mailing list of as many graduates as
possible. and encourages all the Alumni to aid in keeping this roster
up-to-date. One-half the subject matter of each Newsletter is contributed by .or devoted to the Alumni , who in addition to change of
address notices are asked to mail in reports pertaining to weddings,

128-H

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

births, deaths, graduations, special honors or awards. interesting occupations , and all such matters.

wise might never have come about. This is a unique and satisfyin
compensation in itself. I am grateful to have had this opportunity t~
serve. with the friendships, associations, and stimulating contacts which
it has made possible.
The fifteen years have brought many changes . Covina , itself, has
metamorphosed from a sleepy little village to a bustling "suburb" of
Greater Los Angeles. The Charter Oak Unified School District not only
came into being, but is quickly mushrooming into a giant in itself. The
surrounding orange groves have given way to tracts, residences, and
shopping areas. Through it all. the children and their problems have
remained much the same. and have continued to provide the joyful incentive which is peculiar to the field of Child Care.

The 1963 New sletter will be half again as large as that published
in 1962, and will contain over one hundred more letters from former
Home children than appeared in the 1962 volume. These letters come
from many points on the globe and represent a diversity of occupations
and endeavors.
Two Home graduates are with the Peace Corps. one in Thailand
serving as a medical technologist, the other in Ethiopia as a teacher.
Both individuals have submitted contributions which provide an interesting picture of life in the countries to which they have been assigned.
Another graduate of the Home has had the privilege and honor of
designing the insignia for the space ships of the astronauts, and her
personal accounts of the contacts with these national heroes are memorable, indeed. Recent graduate Bill Barraclough, an Engineering Major
at the University of Southern California, was awarded a four-year scholarship by the Proctor and Gamble Company. Bill was also the recipient
of the top award in the Westerners' Scholastic Contest last year. Jim
Hoard, a classmate of Bill's , is also at the University of Southern California , where he received the John L. Burt Engineering Scholarship.
Through these contacts we are able to follow the progress and
achievements of the Home Alumni. Again in 1962 there were four
official Reunions: a picnic at Sacramento in the spring, a picnic at the
Covina Home in the late summer, a dinner in San Francisco during
Grand Lodge Communication, and a fall Dinner Dance in Covina. All
four evoked enthusiastic response.
Copies of each Newsletter are sent to all the Alumni who write letters
or send in notices of vital statistics or changes of address; all those who
visit the Home personally; and all those who register at any of the
Reunions. It is the Home policy to send a copy of the Newsletter to each
Lodge currently sponsoring a child in the Home, to Grand Lodge officers , to all members of the Board of Trustees, the Past Grand Masters,
and all members of the Endowment Board. Thus, the interested crosssection of Masonry in California is in a position to obtain a valid
impression of activities at the Home for Children.
Recent graduates at Covina continue to return to the Home to visit
for brief periods. They are able to return to their "old haunts" just like
any child coming "home" for a visit. Everything is done to make these
young people feel that there is a place to which they may return for
advice, help, and companionship as well as a warm welcome.
May I say, personally, that the years have been rewarding and full
of interest. One of the joys of the Child Care field is that an individual
privileged to serve in my capacity is able to see tangible proof of his
efforts in the form of living testimonials and "Success Stories" that other-

128-1

Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY. Superintendent

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

129

ANNU AL REPO RT OF THE
MASO NIC HOM ES ENDO WME NT BOAR D
The Mason ic Homes Endow ment Board hereby submit s its
31st
Annua l Report for your though tful conside ration, covering the
fiscal
year ending June 30, 1963.
BEQUE STS

Beques ts in the amoun t of $114.557.64 were receive d into the
Endowme nt Fund from brethre n and their families who gave a final
and
lasting tribute to their love for the fratern ity and its precep ts of
caring
for our own. This was in additio n to the very substan tial amoun
t of
beques ts which went directly to the Mason ic Homes for buildin
gs and
other purpos es.
To further stimula te the making of beques ts to the Homes and
the
Endow ment, this Board made anothe r mailing of inform ation
to the
1700 names of attorne ys who are Mason s. which we have in our
files.
In additio n, the Lodges ordere d 65,000 of the new pamph lets "My
Last
Will and Testam ent" from this Board, for sendin g to their membe
rs.
INCOM E FROM THE ENDOW MENT FUND

The earning s from the Endow ment Fund for the past fiscal
year
amoun ted to $474,059.61, which amoun t was credite d to the
cost of
operati on of our Mason ic Homes . This amoun t would have had
to be
raised throug h per capita tax or otherw ise. if we did not have the
Endow ment Fund.
INDIVID UAL PARTIC IPATION

This year, 116.339 brethre n made contrib utions to the Homes
Endowme nt Fund; for an increas e of 3.000 contrib utors above the previou
s
year. Even then. this was only 48 % of our membership. The
"other "
52% . or nearly 130,00 0 brethre n, "negle cted" to contrib ute to this
most
worthy cause, therefo re, there is still a great potenti al for a
materia l
increase in the amoun t of contrib utions. An increas e of only
5% in
percen tage of particip ation would bring an additio nal $80.000
to the
Endow ment annual ly.
CASH CONTR IBUTIO NS

Individ ual contrib utions throug h the Lodges amoun ted to $741.241:47, for an increas e of nearly $45,000 above the previou s year.
This
figure does not include the $114,557.64 from beques ts, $13,14 4.00
from
memorials. and $4.932 .53 from organiz ations and special gifts. This
substantia l gain was in spite of the fact that 246 Lodges decrea sed
in the
amoun t of their contrib utions compa red to a year ago. The numbe
r of
residen ts in the Homes is at an all-time high and still increas ing,
and
costs of operati on are still increas ing. therefo re all Lodges should
strive
diligen tly to increas e the amoun t of contrib utions.

130

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

The averag e contri bution per member this past year was
$3.03 and
the averag e per contri butor was $6.37, for an increa se
of 19 cents per
contri butor above the previo us yea r. An increa se of
$1 per contri butor. on averag e. would mean more than $115,0 00.00 additio
nal to the
Endow ment each year. There fore, our sloga n " G ive M
ore for '64."
H onor Roll stntus was a ttained this yea r by 644 Lodge
s by averaging $2 or more per member, a s compa red to 6 16 a year
ago. for a net
increa se of 28 Lodge s. Only 65 Lodge s failed to attain
the Honor Roll
this year. Only 25 Lodge s have never been on the Honor
Roll since its
incept ion , the other 40. of the 65. having been on it in previo
us years.
Howe ver. the Honor R oll is now consid ered simply as a
"stepp ingstone" or "mile post" on the way to greate r accom plishm
ents for the
Endow ment Fund.
$3 OR M OR E AVERA GE P ER MEMD ER
A much 11reater attainm ent and distinc tion than the Honor
Roll is
for a Lodge to be in the specia l listing of those Lodges
which averag ed
$3 or more per memb er. listed accord ing to averag e, and
to be as high
as possib le on that list. T o such Lodge s we give our specia
l thanks and
congra tulatio ns. Last year th ere were 269 Lodges on
that list. This
year there are 346, as follow s:

No.

Lodge

Averag e
amount
per member

797 Tila Pass .....
.......$ 12.85
805 Camellia ........_.. ,_................. 11 .89
780 Riviera ............. ................... 9.30
U.D. Triad ........ ......................... 9.26
800 Rio H ondo .......................... 7.29
786 Rio Linda ............ ................ 7.19
309 Delano ............. ................... 7.14
743 Oakwood ............................ 7.H
566 James A. G arfield................ 7.11
781 ~oiling Hills ........................ 7.00
378 Mizpah ........................ ........ 6.90
558 Point Firm in ........................ 6.76
808 Scepter ................................ 6.67
790 Granada Hills ............. ....... 6.55
595 Alexa nder G raham Bdl...... 6.54
326 Needles ...... ....... ... ............... 6.53
729 Centennial ......................... . 6.35
733 Golden Empire .................. 6.35
737 Hillsbo rough ...................... 6.30
779 Five Points .......................... 6 .2 1
5 13 Cahuen ga ............. ............... 6.05
745 Peninsula ............................ 5.95
739 La Canada ............ .............. 5.93
685 San Marino ........................ 5.83
778 La Mirada ........_................. 5.77
307 Santa Monica ...................... 5.76
768 Zenith .................................. 5.74
202 Pentalpha ............................ 5.60

No.
580

200

492
740
766

278
807

445
803
4 55
327
61 6
802

734

755
698
806
767
600

730
765
764
448
521
6 11
758
368
547

Lodge

Averag e
amount
per member

Santa Maria ........................
Trucke e ............ .................. ..
Garvan za ........................... .
Opport unity ............. ...........
James H . Kew ......................
Southern Californ ia .......... ..
Conejo V alley ....................
Wilshire ........................... ..
The Gabi lan ........................
Golden W est ..................... .
LonJJ Beach ....................... .
R. E . Dolley....................... .
Yucca Valley ......................
Kit Carso n ........................ .
Golden Bowl ..................... .
Wm. D. Stephen s .............. ..
Simi Valley ..........................
Wm. Rhodes Hervey ..........
Lynwoo d ............................. .
Polaris ..................................
Dana R. Weller............. ... ..
Heritag e ............. ............... ..
Mount Oiablo ................... .
Piedmo nt ............................ ..
Canoga ................................
West Covina ......................
Unity ........................ ......... ..
Arcadia ............................... .

5.59
5.53
5 .47
5.15
5.38

5.37

5.37

5.28
5.28
5.26
5.18

5. 16
5.1 1
5 .08
5.07
5.00
5.00
4.95
1.89
4.88
1.88
4.83
4 .82
1.81
4.81
1.81

4.80
4.78

No.

Lodge

Averag e
amount
per member

t+t Orienta l ............ ................ .. 4.72
Hollenbeck .......................... 4.72
56 Volca no ............................ .. 4.70
436 C laremont ......................... ... 4.67
791 Mt. Wilson ...................... .. 4.65
220 Downe y ............._................ 4.64
623 Menora h .............................. 4.63
637 Palisad es .............................. 4.62
662 HenqvKnox ........................ 1.60
464 Alta ista ............. ............. 4.57
373 West Los Angeles .............. 1.56
731 Two Rivers ........................ 4.50
599 Carmelita ............................ 1.49
699 Bixby Knolls .................... .. 1.19
811 Woodla nd Hills .................. 1.19
300 Redlands ............................. . 1 .4 7
450 Van Nuys ............. ............... 4.45
264 Hesperian .......................... .. 4 .13
622 Atwate r ......................... .... . 4.13
799 Bay Claire Vista ........... ..... . 4.42
727 Verdug o Hills .................... 4.37
379 Fillmore .............................. 4.37
697 Saint Elmo .......................... 4.37
437 Lancast er ............................ 4.36
763 Arabic ................................. . 1.36
642 La Cumhre .................. ........ 1 .31
510 Queen Beach ..................... . 4.30
783 Mojave ....-........................ ... 1.30
789 Oak Plains .......................... 4.30
20 Washin gton ........................ 1.29
774 Waikik i .............................. 4.29
702 Rosemead ............. .............. . 4.28
452 San Pasqua l ........................ 4.27
319

732
273
538

x~~J~;n_
_: : : : :: :::::::::::::: : : 14.24.25
Ascot ............................... .... . 4 .21

742 Morningside Park .............. 4.24

~~~:~:y:::::: :::::::~:::: : :::

614
4.23
728
1.23
467
4.22
542 North H ollywoo d .... _ ....... 4.19
719 Estero ..... .. ~ ............ ............. 4.15
194 Mounta in View ............ ....__ 1.11
242
1.13
254
..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4.12
646 Metrop olitan ...................... 4.12
596 Guard ia n ............_................. 4.11
769 Palmda le .............................. 4.10
598 Penrl Harbor ...................... 4.07
3 Teham a ......_......................... 1.06
483 Bell ......................................... 1.06
741 T yre ......................... ........... 1.06
372 Garden a .......................__ _ 4.<>f
716 Belmon t Shore .................... 4.01
125 H oltville ......................... ..... 4.00
717 Wayfar er ............................ 4.00
113 Franklin .............................. 3.98
629 Fairview ....- ....................... 3.97

~~~7~~ia

No.

Lodge

131
Averag e
amount
per member

H~ ~:eS~~f : :~: : : : : : : : ::: : : HI

322

~~

~lhambr a

............. ............... 3.88
itrol .................................... 3.87
Castro Valley .................... 3.87

~?~ ~~b~ii~--::::::: : : :: : ::::::::::: H~
3.82
t~~e~t~-~...::::::::::::::::::::::::=:: U8

477
~1~

San Gabriel ........................

421
13

Nevada ................................ 3.79

7g~ ~~~~~or__::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::: H~

7~~

219
475
793

Mission Bay ........................ 3.78
Henry Clay ............ ............ 3.77
Spera nza Ita liana ..._.......... 3.77

~~~~c~...::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~

~u fSouth
~,!~=~::::
:::::: : : : : : ::::~:: H~
ll?
G nte __ ,,,..................... 3.74
21

~~!

tt:~~ii;~···::::::=:::::::::::::::::::: H1

Pacific G rove ......................
Albert Pike ..........................
~~~ Elk Grove ..........................
A merican River ..................
40 Sacr<1mento ........................
~~~ H o llywood ............ ..............
H enry S. Orm e..... ..........
26A El D orado __ ,,........................
21 ... S ;i n Buenav entura ............. .

3.71

3.71

3.69

3.68
3.67

3.67
3.67
3.66
3.66

i~~ ~ld:l~si'.~.::::: ::=::::::::=:::::::= ~:~~
;~~

~~

H amilton ............................
W ilmingto n ........................
~I~~ D~~:on _.....................

3.66
3.65
3.64

701 Santa Ynez v~'ii~;;: :::::::::::::

Uj

64
I q5

3.61

~f' f~~:-d~:t:-:::;~-~-~!-~-~: ::::: : H~
41 7
571
791
40 2
1 70
57
394
628
636
690
706

Natoma ..............::::::::::::::::::
Buckeye ..............................
Clovis ............. .....................
S . W. Hackett....................
Gen. Henry H. Arnold........
Brawle y ............ ..................
Lincoln ................................
Santa Rosa .....-........... .........
U niversit y ..........................
Truth ..................................
John Marshall ....................
Sa n Carlos ............. .............
Hunters Point Naval..........

3.61
3.61
3.6 1
3.61
3.59
3.59
3.58
3.58
3.58
3.58
3.58
3.58

132

No.

293
645
237
313
462
505
578
641
668
422
457
615
644
659
169
506
776
259
677
710
191
604
650
390
80
35
718
10
226

282
486
193

.Hi
586
120
381
502
660
184
589
393
519
744
720
I

93
649
796
267

272
245
678
798
55
87
756
60
325
329

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge

Average
amount
per member

Orange Grove -··-··--···········-

A. F. E. lrwln ................_____ _

Guadalupe ·······---·····--···----··
Tehachapi -------------------------Paul Revere ---·---··············--·
Silver Cord ..........................
Progressive ........................ .
James A. Foshay ................. .
San Gorgonio ....................
Eagle Rock ..........................
Ramona ................................
Hemet ................................. .
Lomita ................................. .
La Habra ............................
Mission ............................... .
Mount Olive ......................
East \Vhittier ......................
Evergreen ............................
Liberal Arts ........................
Anacapa ............................. .
Marin ..................................

3.57
3.57
3.56
3.56
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.55
3.53
3.52
3.52
3.52
3.52
3.51
3.51
3.51
3.50
3.50
3.50
3.49

£:;'~~~;·:::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::: H9

3.49

Imperial ............................ ..
lone ................................ ..
San Diego ........................... .
San Lorenzo Valley............
San Jose ............................ ..
San Mateo ..........................
Callayomi ............................
Caledonia ............................
Ferndale ..............................
Glendale ......... .................. ..
Garden Grove ....................
Fidelity ............................... .
Oceanside .......................... ..
Harbor .............................. ..
Baldwin Park ......................
Sierra Valley ......................
Kauai ................................... .
Balder ...................··-----------·
Euclid ................................ ..
San Leandro ........................
Mineral King ......................
California ........................... .
St. Helena ........................
Florence ............................. .
Golden Valley ....................
Galt .......... ....................... . .
Pasadena .......................... ..
Laurel ..................................
Altadena ..............................
Ashland ..............................
Suisun ................................. .
Naval ................................ ..
Clayton Valley ................. .
Plumas ................................
Consuelo ............................ ..
Vallee de France............... .

H8
H7

3.46

H6
H5
Hi
3.H
H4
H2
H2
H2
HJ
HI
Hl
Hl

HO
HO

3.39
3.38
3.38
3.36
3.35
3.35
3.34
3.33
3.33
3.33
3.32
3.32
3.32
3.31
3.31
3.31
3.30
3.30
3.30

No.

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Average
amount
per member

618 Southland ........ ..
3.30
627 Lamanda Park ................... . 3.30
696 C rossroa<ls .......................... 3.30
128 Visalia .................................. 3.29
537 Utopia ................................ .. 3.29
693 Palm Springs ..................... . 3.29
383 Orosi ........................ .......... .. 3.28
635 Riverside ............................ 3.28
174
3.27
241
3.27
594 Service .............................. .. 3.27
370 Amity .................................. 3.26
204 Salinas ................................ 3.24
315 Norwalk .............................. 3.24
736 Lemon Grove .................... .. 3.24
367 South Pasadena .................. 3.23
412 Calexico ··-----··--------------------- 3.22
428 San Dimas ......................... . 3.22
612 Temple City ........................ 3.22
725 Saint John's ...................... .. 3.22
785 Paramount .......................... 3.22
543 Signal ................................ .. 3.21
631 Victorville ........................ .. 3.21
339 Fullerton ............................ .. 3.20
504 Seaside ......................... ...... . 3.20
375 Richmond ............................ 3.19
351 Palestine ............................ .. 3.18
139 Crockett .............................. 3.17
236 Hills Ferry ........................ .. 3.17
349 Sequoia .............................. .. 3.17
451 Montebello ....................·-·- 3.17
603 Dimond .............................. .. 3.17
666 Reseda .................................. 3.17
711 Rim of the World............... . 3.17
147 Eel River .......................... .. 3.16
563 South Park ........................ .. 3.16
593 All States .......................... .. 3.16
132 Sincerity ............................. . 3.15
387 Co;ilinga ........
3.15
482 Clarence F. Smith ............. . 3.15
509 Benjamin Franklin ............. . 3.15
181 Russian River .................... 3.14
617 Big Bear ............................ .. 3.14
630 Ingleside ............................. . 3.H
3(}t Reedley .............................. .. 3.13
324 Corona ................................ 3.13
H4 Carpinteria ........................ .. 3.13
503 Point .................................. .. 3.13
640 Veritas ............................... . 3.13
247 Fresno .................................. 3.12
507 El Segundo ...................... .. 3.12
208 Rio Vista .......................... .. 3.11
515 Vermont Square ............... . 3.11
605 Glassell Park ...................... 3.11
648 Damascus .......................... .. 3.11
131 Woodbridge ....................... . 3.10
396 Apollo ................................. . 3.10
694 San Antonio ........................ 3.10
801 Koolau ................................ 3.10

No.

5
663
721
581
608

655

708
24
68'2
705
168

~;~:Z'An~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::

243

403
435
548
670
106
127
215
330
584

749
770

43

211
328
395
408

Average
amount
per member

Lodge

Benicia ............................... .
Ojai ......................................
Horne ..................................
Security ..............................
Granada ............................ ..
Monte Vista ........................
Seafaring ........................... .
Mariposa ............................
Barstow ................................
El Cerrito .......................... ..
Redwood City ··---------·------·Eucalyptus ..........................
Yerba Buena ......................
Fairmount ............................

t~~~~y;~f --:: : :::::::::::::::::::::::

Arcata ..................................
Hermann ..............................
Oak Grove ..........................
Kilauea ............................... .
Harding ..............................
Merced ............................... .
Lake Chabot ......................
Hiram ................................ ..
San Benito ..........................
Redondo ..............................
Turlock .......... .....................
Sierra Madre ......................

3.09
3.09
3.09
3.08
3.08
3.08
3.08
3.07
3.07
3.07
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.06
3.05

3.05
3.05
3.05
3.05
3.05
3.05
3.04
3.0i
3.0i
3.0i
3.04

No.

Lodge

133
Average
amount
per member

466 Libertas ............................... . 3.04
ll.D. Old West .......................... .. 3.04
145 Vitruv ius ............................ 3.03
354 Presidio .............................. .. 3.03
358 Golden State ...................... 3.03
392 West Lake .......................... 3.03
530 Sun Garden ...................... .. 3.03
531 Alexander ........................... . 3.03
715 Magnolia Park .................... 3.03
809 Los Alamitos ...................... 3.03
42 Los Angeles ........................ 3.02
337 Carguine-z ............................ 3.02
HO McCloud ............................. . 3.02
68i Trena ................................. . 3.02
777 Pinnacle .............................. 3.02
289 Elsinore ................................ 3.01
399 Fraternity ........................... . 3.01
524 Catalina Island .................. 3.01
528 Beverly Hills ..................... . 3.01
583 Wasco ................................ 3.01
722 George E. Tutt... ................. 3.01
286 Paso Robles ........................ 3.00
333 Alta --·----·-···········--------······-· 3.00
418 Elysian ............................... . 3.00
497 Fremont .............................. 3.00
588 El Sereno ............................ 3.00
761 Josiah W. Roller.................. 3.00
792 Millbrae ·----------·----···-······· 3.00

LODGES WITH LARGEST AMOUNTS OP CONTRIBUTIONS

No.

Lodge.

Amount

No.

623 Menorah ............................$5.415.57
450 Van Nuys ......................... 5.150.83
220 Downey .............. ..... .... 4.539.99
355 Hollywood . ..................... 4.534.30
542 North Hollywood ............ 4,414.97
596 Guardian ............................ 4.114.27
20 Washington .................. __ 3.860.80
87 Naval ................................ 3,809.50
35 San Diego .......................... 3.473.00
319 Hollenbeck .......................... 3.447.70

3
483
513
506
327
42
335
594
40
349

Lodge

Amount

Tehama .............................. $3,412.70
Bell .................................... 3.324.30
Cahuenga .......................... 3,289.00
Mount Olive .................... 3,236.26
Long Beach ...................... 3,195.00
Los An_geles ...................... 3,145.00
West Gate ........................ 3.137.79
Service .............................. 3.014.12
Sacramento ...................... 3.012.75
Sequoia .............................. 3,002.00

SPECIAL HONOR DISTRICTS

.

lnspectoral Districts in which all Lodges in each District averaged

$i or more are listed as follows, with names of Inspectors:
No.
Inspector
572 Thomas J. Mc.Ktmson
588 Robert E. Crist
594 George Q, Evaru

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

lnspectoral District in which all Lodges averaged $3 or more are
listed as follows, with names of Inspectors:
No.

lns~tor

219

A. BJd Collier

No.

224 Alfre A. Penrose
378 John Behrens
428 Fred Chas. Pritschke
504 ~mes E . Bacon
516
arold S. Morrison
528 Mark E. Schrock
530 T. Wm. Heidner
532 Lawrence C. Lamb
544 Roy T. Kiele
516 Charles A. Thomasset

Inspector

518 George 'N. P erkins
552 B urton M~cr, Jr.

556

562
564
570
582
601
603
630

Alfre'!fi. avin
field hompson
Wendell L. ~win
Elvin C. Drake
William Robusch
Russell F. Bragg
Earl Moore V i~ us
John Lacy T ay or

PRINTED ITEMS OF PUBLICITY

During the past year, the Lodges ordered 1,400.000 printed items
from the Endowment Board, for sending to the members to "inform the
brethren" and to further encourage the brethren to make regular contributions to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund. This is in addition
to the countless thousands of letters and other items prepared by the
Lodges and sent to members, and many hundreds of articles written in
Lodge bulletins.
Obviously, a great amount of extra work was done by the Lodges
in sending these items to the members. Much of tha t extra work neces~
sarily falls to the Lodge Secretary and all such Secretarie.s a re to be
especially commended for their untiring efforts. The same applies to
the Masters . Wardens, Lodge Endowment Committeemen and all others
who contribute time and effort to this work.
Something new in printed items! This Christmas season, for the
first time. the Endowment Boa rd is offering a Christmas fold er. depicting the Christmas Party in our Children's Home in Covina, for mailing
to members. Also, a Holiday Season leaflet entitled "Have a Heart in
Your Holiday Season for Our H omes." These items should be appropriate and effective if sent to members in November and December,
during the season when most people are " thinking of others."
CHANGES IN ENDOWM ENT BOARD PERSONNEL

Fred Blanchard moved out of the area in which he was appointed to
serve and was replaced by Everett S. Todd. former Grand Standard
Bea rer. Howard L. Rose requested that he not be reappointed and was
replaced by Norman W. Shaw of Stockton . H enry G. Van Dyke requested that he not be reappointed, after serving the Board for three
years in the Long Beach area, and Myron E . Roudebush. fo rmer Inspector, was appointed to that area. Lester A. Price also requested that he
not be reappointed, a fter having served 16 years on the Board. and he
was replaced by R alph C. H ine of Santa Barbara, former Inspector and
Grand Orator. George C. Poloynis of Bakersfield, form er Senior Grand

135

Steward, was appointed to replace Harold R. De Tuncq, who resigned
the previous year.
To the brethren who left the Board, we say thanks so much for you r
devoted work, and we know you will continue to enthusiastically support
the Homes Endowm ent. The brethren who replaced these former
members of the Board have already demonstrated their ability and
devotion to the Homes Endowment progra m.
OuR APPRECIATION T O ALL

It would be impossible to na me the many hundreds of brethren who
have assisted in this work. but we do wish to especially thank the Grand
Master, M . W. Ira W. Coburn, fo r his devoted support, and the same
goes to all Grand Lodge Officers and Committeemen: to Don G. Campbell, Grand Lecturer. and his Assistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors
who have been of tremendous assistance in this work; to the Grand
Secretary, Edward H . S iems, P.G.M., and Assista nt Grand Secretary,
Verne W . Hendrix, together with members of their staff who have a ll
been so willing to assist; to the Masters, Wardens, Secretaries, local
Lodge Endowment Committeemen , and all other Lodge Officers and
members who assisted in so many ways; to the more than 11 5,000 brethren who contributed of their means: and we would not forget the
devoted brethren who are me mbers of the Board of Trustees of the
Homes, together with the Superintenden ts of the H omes, their wives
and members of their staffs , who are more directl y concerned with the
daily needs o ~ those children and elderlies in our two Masonic Homes.
To all, we give our sincere thanks and appreciation.
I N CONCLUSION

The members of this Endowment Board take great pride in the fact
that our H omes Endowment is a voluntary program, rather than compul~
sory. and we hope it will always remain as such. H owever, the cost of
operating the Homes is constantly increasing and will increase more in
the near future. The number of residents is at an all-time high a nd will
increase decidedly at the D ecato Home when the new Charles Albert
Adams residential building, now under construction, is completed, because of the number of elderlies on the waiting list of applicants for
admission to the Home, and costs will increase accordingly.
.These added costs must be borne, either voluntarily or compulsorily.
Lets keep it voluntary by an all-out effort for the H omes Endowment
during the coming months. The Endowment Board has changed the
calendar! The "Endowment M onth of May" starts this week and con-

136

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

tmues until next June 30th. May our motto be "Give More for '64" and
"Do More for '64."
We request an appropriation of $17,000 for printing and other
necessary expense.
Respectfully submitted.
THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWME NT BOARD
JOHN M . GORDON. Chairman
KERMIT A . JACOBSON, Vice-President (South)
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman (North)
ARTHUR M . WARREN , P .G.M •• Treasurer
EDWARD H . SIEMS, P .G.M •• Secretary

Referred to Committee on Finance.

1963

No. of Members

I

1964

1965

J.

ARTHUR A . ANDERSON
GLEN GLADSON
JoHN M . GORDON
RALPH C . HINE
CHARLES H. GRACE
GEORGE C. PoLOYNis
SY DENNIS
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
WILLIAM H. SCHOOLER MYRON E . ROUDEBUSH
K ENT 0. SEYMOUR
NoRMAN W . SHAW, JR.
FRANK R. PORATH
EVERETTS. ToDD

MEMORIALS

Year

Amount
1958 ··················--·········-··-···········$ 3,627.75
1959 ···················-·····················--· 3,977.90
1960 ·--·-·····-···--···-·-···---················ 6,610.60
1961 ·······························-············ 10,980.50
1962 ··························-····-············ 10,388.46
1963 ·············· ·-···················--······· 13,lH.OO
CONTRIBUTION S THROUGH l...oDGES

Year
1958 ••......•...........................•...$
1959 ........................................
1960 ·············--··············-··········
1961 ········································
1962 ···························-·········-··
1963 ........................................

INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

!~~~ ························
··-·····---·--·· --··-···························
·-··················-······ 93,
81 ,686
425

BOARD MEMBERS

s.

Year
Amount
~ ~~~ ........................................$ 589,730.78
1960 ........................................ 945, 762 .32
I
························· ·-············· 952,127.49
961 ........................................ 1,293,94
I .59
1962
········································ 1,051 ,007.96
1963 ········································ 1,024,140.77

Year

TERMS EXPIRING
RALPH
BROKA w
PAULA . BROM
BYRON COLEMAN
FRED F. ELLIOTT
HERSCHEL E. GRIFFIN
KERMIT A . JACO BSON
CHARLES F . M1NETTI

RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES

Amount
421,633.62
502,120.43
551.150.34
645,453.76
696,787.15
7il,241.47

960
1961
··-········ -···-···--·-·--····-· ············--··-·] 00,220
•..................•.............................. 109.733
: ~~; ·········-····-···········-················ ······.113,3i6
·····························--·-·········-······- 116,339
HONOR ROLL LODGES

Year

No. of Lodges

:m: :: : : : :·.·: :.·.·:•:. : : ••. ·:·: :.:.: : : : :u~
1961

:~~; ::::::::::::::::::::::::: : : : : : :: : : :::::=:::J~
$3 OR M ORE AVERAGE
Year

No. of Lodges

: ~;~ ·················································•······ 36

:~~~ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~H

: ~~; ........................................................ 269
···························---·-··-·-··-·············-·-346

137

142

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

GRAN D LODG E OP CALI FORN IA

REPO RT OF CON TRIB UTIO NS TO
END OWM ENT FUN D
•Den otes Hono r Roll
No.

1

2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13

Lodge

1963
Membe rohip

Calif ornia ·-···----·-------West ern Star ----·······
Teha ma ··-·---····--·-·······
Benic ia ······--- ------------Tuolu mne ·-·--··---·-·--Corin thian ······-····-····
San Jos e ...................
Youn t .........................
Neva da ··-···--- -·--··--·····

435

222
847
237
290
451
528
547
173

i~ ~~111: :::::::::: :::::::::::: ~~~

17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

30
32
33
35
37
38

40

41
42

43
44

45
46
50
51

55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64

65
68
70

76
78
79

80
81

84

La Parla ite Unio n . 104
Moun tain Shad e ......
59
San J oaqu in ............. 798
Wash ip.gto n ·····-···--··· ~gg
Hawa uan ......... ..........
Occid ental ............... . 601
Madi son ..................... 319
Mari posa ................... 191
Geor ge town ..............
~g
El Dora do .................
Trini ty .................. ... .. 17 3
Gold en Gate ............. ~i~
Gold Hill .................. .
Ophi r ................... ....... lO~~
San Diego .................
Howa rd ................... .. ;~g
Santa Cruz ...............
Sacra ment o .............. 8Zl
Ma rtinez . ......... ... .... 423
Los Ange les ............. 10 41
Hiram ..................... ... 122
Moun t Mori ah ......... 318
Cresce nt .. ................. 221
Texa s .......:.................
52
Forbe stown ......... ..... 139
Illino istow n .............. 81
Suisu n .......... .............. ~~i
Volca no .................. .. ..
Santa Rosa ......... ...... 661
Unio n ................... ...... 731
Grav el Rang e ····-···-- 102
Plum as ....................... 184
Live Oak ······-·-··--··-··- 890
Natom a...... ................ 366
Ama dor ................... ... 91
Morn ing Star ......... .. 659
Enter prise ................. 382
Bear Moun tain ........ 78
Calav eras ......... ......... 124
Hum boldt .................. 524
Ione ............................
99
Yolo ··-····--·······-··-········ 117
Vesp er ....... ......... ....... 242

2

t9 U Memb<>rohlp
196%
Partic ip•tion
l96S
Cont ributio no
%
Contrl bat:on •

1,648 .0o•
515.7 5•
3,531.50*
767.o o•
581.0 2·
1,100 .00•
1,909. 42•
1,358 .44•
607.5 0 •
388.5 0
751.00*
229_00•
174.50*
935.4 6
3,413.50*
1,592. 69•
1,473.00*
661.5 0*
562.o o•
186.75*
1,075. oo•
396.o o •
1,260.50*
241 .00*
165.00
3,325 .73*
559.0 0·
703.50
3,199 .54•
936.0 7•
3 ,025.16*
289.0 0*
838.50"
547.o o•
115.0 0·
383.2 5•
185.o o•
569.2 5
379.0 0·
1,658.75•
2,000 .00•
120.00
497.5 0"
2,785.71 *
1,096.79•
201.5 0•
1,407 .00*
816.o o•
85.00
265.o o•
1,081 .00·
362.0 0•
430.o o•

111.00

41
41
63
64
41
31
44
57
68
29
36
32
100
17
51
59
36
38
58
49
51
37
52
41
30
43
37
27
63
47
38
61
35
45

35
37
48
34

59
39

53
29

72
36
55

50
27
37

16
50
33
78
73

8

1,457.00*
468.25*
3,442 .70•
731.51 *
650.0 0•
940.0 0·
1,820.03*
1,208 .50·
655.50 •
543.2 9*
909.90*
290_50•
136.oo •
1,621.00*
3,860.80*
1,500 .00•
1,401. 00*
780.5 0*
587.0 0*
15.00
1,067. 50*
396.o o•
1,427 .51.
264.50*
267.0 0*
3 ,473.o o•
560.o o•
829.0 0
3 ,012.75*
1,081 .96•
3,145.oo•
370.70*
871.0 0·
440. 50°
123.0 0·
335_00•
149.0 0
998.85*
522.00*
2,364. 06*
1,600.00·
239.25*
612.81 *
2,275 .oo•
1,320.75*
345.22*
1,603 .25*
804.o o•
184.7 0•
326.o o•
1,097 .00·
343_50•
440.0 0"
290.5 0

N•·
ttC3
Portic ipatlon
Memb en %

143
90
483
141
144
139
214
288
129
89
167
28
59
240
431
190
186
162
87

5
130
70
270
46
46
460
109

147
603
209
355
71
104

93
33
64

34
160
84
226
350
49
140
234

220
44
239
126

30
67
226
63

66
51

33
41
57
59
50
31
41
53
75
36
44
27

100
30
48
47
31
51
46
7
45
40
51
39
48
46
40
27
73
49
34
58
33

42
63
46
42
53
76
34
48
48
76
26

60
48
36
33
38
54
43
64

56
21

19'3
Mo,.b enhip

87 Nava l ......................... 1152
89 Rose' s Bar ................ 60
91 North Star ................ 83
93 St. Helen a ................. 132
95 Henr y Clay-------·-·····
79
98 Hom itos .................. .. 109
99 Yose mite ................... 502
101 Clay ............................ 106
103 Orov ille ..................... 393
104 Lexin gton ........... ...... 642
106 Arca ta ....................... 356
110 Pajar o ........................ 427
111 Chico ....................... ... 609
112 Summ it .................. ...
64
113 Eden ........................... 447
117 Conc ord ..................... 383
120 Fidel ity ..................... 562
122 Alam o ......... ............... 450
123 Sotoy ome ......... ......... 240
124 Table Moun tain ..... 354
126 Lafay ette .................. 232
127 Herm ann ····--···········- 171
128 Visal ia ....................... 567
129 Nicol aus ................... . 137
131 Wood bridg e ............. 194
132 Since rity ......... ......... .
99
134 Vaca ville ................... 292
135 Valle y ........................
95
136 Pacific .................. ...... 531
139 Crock ett .................. .. 455
140 Curti s...... ...................
94
141 Graft on .................. .... 109
143 Frank lin ····--·····-·····
·· 151
144 Orien tal ......................
308
145 Vitru vius -~·-·····-········ 134
146 Abell .......................... 358
147 Eel Rive r ................... 268
149 L assen .................. ..... 241
150 Molin o ....................... 165
156 Wood land ................. 319
161 Keys tone ................... 42
164 Harm ony ...................
32
166 Exce lsior ................... 403
167 Alam eda ......... .......... 289
168 Redw ood City .......... 671
169 Miss ion .................. .... 583
173 Elk Grov e ................. 144
174 Dryto wn ...................
70
175 Antio ch .................. .... 413
178 Phoe nix ......... ......... ... 759
179 Mend ocino ····--··· ··-···114
180 Petal uma ................... 334
181 Russ ian Rive r .......... 120
182 Arbu ckle ...................
83
183 Clear Lake ......... ....... 149
184 Si erra Valle y ..........
31
185 Claib orne ............. ....
86
186 Even ing Star ............
75
187 Keith .......................... 198

1962 Membe rahlp
1961
Partici pation
1963
Contri bution •
%
Cont r ih11tion1

3 ,651.52.
122.00 •
254.o o•
318.5 0•
324_50 •
228.5 0•
1,031 .50•
380.o o •
818.50*
1,408 .09•
1,201.00 •
875.2 5•
1,421 .50•
172.5 0•
1,116.51 •
1,047.60*
1,865 .44•
925.65 *
654.7 5•
695.oo •
227.50
527.79 *
1,566.55 .
275.2 5•
594.00 ·
300.00 •
608.oo•
99.00
362.00
828.00
89.00
346.o o•
779.oo •
1,481 .50*
402.00 •
743.50*
824.00*
625.50*
250.2 5
671.75 *
46.00
67.00*
9 56.25 "
618.5 0·
1,668.50*
1,330 .50•
407.so •
213.3 0*
747.5 0
1,866.90*
125.0 0
669.0 0*
333.o o•
274.o o•
246.0 0
117.00
221.5 0*
414.50*

56
43
64
50
67
36
30
64
67
35
41
41
78
58

33
48
37
39
49
56
16
72
50
40
67
60
39
19
8
28
21

41
85
42
49

41
48
51
27
47

25
97
37
28
44

36
36
60

41
47
17

41
55
34

30
19

61

49

3,809 .50•
129.oo •
196.50*
442.o o •
297_50 •
230.0 0•
1,007.00*
301.50 *
866.7 2*
1,611.41 *
1,086. 25*
890.74*
1,628 .50•
160.0 0•
1,093.08•
1,055.00 *
1,9 15.50*
935.2 0*
67 3.00 *
711.25 •
221 .30
521.09 *
1,865.78*
292.00 •
601.o o •
311.85*
605.5 0 •
135.29
525.99
1,440 .25•
104.50
226.0 0•
601.00 *
1,454.75 •
406.50 •
672.50
846.o o•
487.o o•
229.7 5
687.o o•
10.00
74.oo •
1,193.50•
112.00 •
2,055. 50*
2,046.oo•
531.0 0*
229.o o•
696.0 0
1,856.80•
122.0 0
691.0 0 ·
376.2 5•
166.00 ·
230.0 0
105_50•
208. 50•
181.00 •
438.5 0*

143
uu

Pattici patien
!'tlemb en %

691
33
39
112
44
37
150
51
264
270
123
178
491
35
155
180
234
140
130
205
41
118
311
62
118
58

121

16
70
208
17

34
79
170
70
139
139
102
40

166

3

33
175
79

60
55
47
85
56
34
30
48
67
42
35
42
81
55
35
47
42
31
54
58
18
69
55
45
61
59
41
17
13
46
18
31

52
55
52
39

52
42
24
52
7
100

43
27

300

45

305
75

52

37

53
41
40

170
306

22

52

19

123

37

84
21
54

70
25
36

16
27

52
31

38
96

51

48

144

No.

188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
250
253
254
255

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodire

un

Neaberohlp

Oakland ··-··········-····Northern Light ·-····
Marin ..........................
Santa Barbara .........
Ferndale ....................
Mountain View .......
Buckeye ....................
San Simeon ..............
Wilmington ·······-·····
Hartley ......................
Truckee ......................
Sil ve yville ................
Pentalpha .................
Confidence ................
Salinas .......................
Olivet .......... ...............
Stanislaus .................
Anaheim ....................
Rio Vista ....................
King David's .............
Friendship .................
San Benito ............. ..
So. San Francisco ..
San Buenaventura .
Oak Grove .................
Doric ···-·-·············-·····
Monterey ..................
Mosa ic .......................
Speranza Italiana ....
Downey .....................
Inyo ............................
RosevHle ...................
Bakersfield ...............
Brookly n ...................
San Mateo ................
Athens .......................
Solano ........................
North Butte ..............
Covelo ............. ...........
Janesville .................
Calist oga ....... .............
Hope ............................
Su rprise Valley ......
Hills Ferry ................
Gu adalupe ................
Colusa ........... ....... ... ...
Sa nta Ana ................
Magn olia ...................
Eucalyptus ................
A lcatraz ------·-····-------Laurel ........................
Pomona ......................
F resno ........................
Alturas ·············--- ----A din ...........................
L a ndmark .................
Reading .....................
Welcome ...................

753
118
532
364
83
400
151
96
667
237
145
157
440
104
623
141
669
494
184
410
745
185
218
440
541
407
323
275
225
979
159
489
754
467
630
197
550
245
73
163
121
110
124
164
232
153
591
492
549
532
252
439
716
188
100
112
291
214

lHl ICemw..Ul11
lHS
Partielpatl1962
C..ntribqtion•
C...triba.tiena
%

1,1525.oo•
289.50•
2,089.25·
892.29•
168.50
1,523.00'
454.72•
246.50•
1,774.04•
424.50
611.15•
321.00°
1,713.34°
256.oo•
1,452.32•
308.00·
1,372.00•
1,442.29*
506.50•
1,019.94°
1,759.05°
557.oo•
661.25°
1,206.11 •
1,695.50°
855.00°
1,002.00•
569.oo•
1,008.00•
3,350.10°
373.50°
1,014.50°
1,809.65°
1,070.50°
1,787.oo•
520.00•
956.00
502.25°
35.00
344.65°
21 9.50
230.00•
49.00
432.75*
922.78•
164.00
1,784.77°
1,960.25°
1,476.23*
1,112.00•
71 3.oo•
1.109.41°
2;194.00·
-·--·-····-···

84.00
230.00*
1,509.50*
274.00

26
44
49
71
43
54
68
52
41
32
52
47
42
60
51
63
34
33
63
50
29
70
50
44
29
34
66
40
54
48
50
34
31
28
45
44
28
67
16
48
44
56
19
50
54
18
34
58
68
34
45
52
52
21
84
70
35

145

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2,060.50°
264.00·
1,859. 25°
1,021.74•
284.00*
1,657.00·
544.38°
233.25•
2,433.04•
501.25
801.35°
338.60•
2,464.oo•
334.oo•
2,021.52•
337.52°
1,517.50"
1,044.70°
571.50*
1,011.79°
618.00
562.75°
558.oo•
1,612.00°
1,648.oo•
1,014.00°
1,263.75°
651.oo•
848.50°
4,539.99°
441.50°
1,218.25*
1,697.50°
1,075.62*
2,168.00·
560.oo•
1,135.84*
505.26°
10.00
342.20'
250.00*
247.50*
67.50
520.00*
825.45*
199.00
1,931.28•
2,031.50•
1,680.35°
1,08 1.50°
835.50°
919.54°
2,236.50•
418.12*
75.00
228.00*
1,200.24°
257.00

IHI
Particlpatien
Member• •.4

260
35
55
47
253
48
228
63
69
83
224
56
126
83
43
45
296
44
57
24
95
66
70
45
193
44
81
78
408
65
77
55
232
35
131
27
216 100
279
68
123
17
98
53
115
53
197
45
232
43
150
37
253
78
124
45
107
48
520
53
89
56
187
38
215
29
137
29
337
53
86
44
144
26
159
65
4
5
75
46
61
50
72
65
12
10
103
63
51
11 9
35
23
234
40
67
331
271
49
34
183
11 5
46
43
189
47
338
188 100
19
19
90
101
167
57
29
62

}llo.

256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
31 2
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322

190
Membeuhip

Lodir•

Lodi ............................ 397
Penrhyn .................... 146
Evergreen ................. 714
King Solomon's ....... 395
Tuscan ...... .............. ...
93
Lompoc ...................... 253
Hesperian ................. 422
Orland ....................... 162
Galt ............................. 87
Durant ....................... 398
Olive Branch ........... 308
46
Snow Mounta in .......
Pasadena ................... 520
Anchor ....................... 633
Arroyo ....................... 186
Oakdale ..................... 212
Selma ......................... 229
So. California ........... 426
Hanford ..................... 227
Madera ............... ........ 283
Mount Shasta .......... 155
Callayomi .................. 67
South West ................ 575
San Miguel ................ 82
P aso Robles .............. 294
Winnedumah ........... 240
70
Maxw ell ....................
Elsinore ..................... 137
East Ga te ................... 638
Santa Paula ............. 412
Los Gatos .................. 411
Orange Grove .......... 356
Traver ........................ 149
Mt. Jackson .............. 118
Silver Gate ............... 1247
Dunsmuir .................. 253
Liberty........................ 390
Redla nds ................... 507
Ontario ....................... 535
Santa Luci a .............. 166
Port er ville ................ 508
Reedley ...................... 152
Azusa ............... .......... 349
Ashlar ........................ 341
Santa Monica ........... 368
Monrovia .................. 344
Delano ---------·-----·------- 254
Sisson ......................... 111
Los Banos ·--···--·---····· 145
Tehach ap i ................. 188
Temescal ................... 286
Norwa lk----------·--------- 461
Sanger ........................ 338
Fallbrook .................. 174
Emmanue l ................. 92
Hollenbeck ·---·--------·· 730
South G ate ............... 490
Alisal ......................... 191
Alhambra .................. 635

--

-

19U Membuohlp
196%
Partid11&tlon
1963
Contributlona
Contribution•
%

803.75•
300.00'
1,793.47•
844.oo•
166.00
505.25*
1,749.50•
356.25°
335.oo•
977.oo•
638.00°
63.00
2,407.12°
2,012.60°
399.50°
631.75•
714.00·
2,421.93*
407.00
654.50°
396.00°
74.00
1,173.50°
112.00
652.oo•
570.09°
130.00•
365.00·
2,866.76°
1,170.22*
960.50°
1,056.67•
37i.50•
327.50•
4,083.17°
412.50
900.50*
2,168.75°
1,149.50°
344.50°
1,038.50•
298.50
812.97°
1,171.26°
2,044.39*
630.88
1,425.00°
119.50
352.75°
213.00
775.25•
1,195.73•
434.00
20.00
153.00
2,300.05•
2,035.70°
391.oo•
1,936.55*

34
40
29
30
37
39
48
51
67
31
34
38
52
53
48
100
52
41
25
42
61
32
42
48
55
73
57
43
47
48
50
56
35
50
33
36
43
52
31
40
46
26
39
54
51
34
91
17
75
31
47
53
34
2
54
30
49
94
52

801.00·
205.50
2,501.14•
753.50
79.00
726.oo•
1,871.00·
430.00*
289.50•
836.50•
622.00•
24.00
1 .730.86°
2,683.22*
467.32°
397.00
489.50*
2,288.80*
137 .50
621.00°
388.50°
230_50•
1,127.00
135.25
883.00*
554.39°
140.00•
411.82•
2,439.68°
1,085.26°
91 5.oo•
1,272.29*
300.00•
226.00
2,929.47*
604.00°
888.oo•
2,264. 25*
1,124.oo•
277.50
705.50
47 6.oo•
865.95°
850.43•
2,120.71 *
893.88*
1,812.50°
289.oo•
309.50*
669.75°
803.50*
1,493.84•
537.00
325.00
148.00
3,447. 70°
1,834.74•
365.50
2,464.07•

IHI
Participation
Memben %

124
43
300
129
20
142
217
89
47
95
100
7
236
395
91
101
71
176
33
109
71
23
215
40
200
170
33
56
272
176
189
221
39
54
413
93
158
259
168
60
129
73
140
146
157
136
242
52
116
153
132
322
121
43
48
277
215
130
376

31
29
42
33
22
56
51
55
54
24
32
15
45
62
49
48
31
41
15
39
46
34
37
49
68
71
47
41
43
43
46
62
26
46
33
37
41
51
31
36
25
48
40
43
43
40
95
47
80
81
46
70
36
24
52
38
44
68
59

146

No.

323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Lodge

nu

ll'lomberoh ip

Whittie r ·····------·----·--- 806
Corona ···------------------· 438
Consuel o.................... 373
Needles ······-········--··· 349
Long Beach .............. 617
Redondo ····-··············· 768
Vallee de France .... 122
Kilauea ..................... 193
Pacific Grove ·······-··· 312
San Ped ro ·····-········· ·· 523
Alta ·················-····-····· 142
Covina ····---········ ········ 527
West Gate ................. 1205
Fruitval e ................... 763
Carquin ez ··········-·····-· 182
San Jacinto -···--········· 117
Fullerto n ................... 392
Oxnard ··············-·-····· 447
San Fernand o .......... 750
344 Star r King ···········-··- 511
345 Brentwo od ................ 152
346 Palo Alto -·················· 782
347 McKinle y .................. 492
348 San Bernard ino ...... 970
349 Sequoia ..................... 946
351 Palestin e ···············-··· 463
352 Sunset ........................ 297
353 Pinole ........................ 177
354 Presidio ··-············-····· 417
355 Hollywo od ............... . 1235
356 Mill Valley ·············- 446
357 Buena Park .............. 388
358 Golden State ···-······· 603
359 Loyalto n ············-·· ····· 84
360 San Francisc oVictory .................. 461
361 Fort Bragg ............... 162
362 Charity ····-················· 182
363 Berkele y ··--········-· ······ 576
365 Willits ............... ......... 157
366 Las Palmas ............... 1073
367 South Pasaden a ....... 570
368 Unity ···············-········· 580
369 Ocean Park ·-············· 502
370 Amity-Seal Rock ...... 552
371 le Progres de
l'Oceani e ............... 693
372 Gardena ..................... 528
373 West Los Angeles. .... 487
374 Jewel ......................... 196
375 Richmo nd .................. 429
376 Francis Drake... ....... 449
377 Artesia ··-···----···-·-------· 247
378 Mizpah ···----·--·----······-- 361
379 Fillmore ·····--···--········ 235
380 Hunting ton Beach... . 349
381 Oceansi de ................. 524
382 Highlan d Park ........ 573

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

1962 Membtrah ip
1962
Participat ion
1963
Contributi ons
o/c
Confributi on1

1,062.42
1,378.0J•
664.95
15.64
3,062.94•
2,000.76•
451.75*
658.50•
1,795.86°
1,162.20•
428.50•
1,658.38•
2,711.29•
1,661.50•
467. 50•
248.00*
1,052.34•
916.oo•
2,012.64*
1,563.oo•
348.00·
2,429.50*
1,407.25*
2,055.29•
3,019. 75•
1,457.02•
1,052.76 •
627.95
1,467.50*
4,405.88•
1,418.00 ·
860.38*
3,062.17*
14.00
1,012.50•
119.76
365.75°
1,067.50
143.00
1,725.75
2,056.05*
2,320.18°
1,630.94•
809.50•
1,503.50•
1,673.57•
1,962.19•
567.83•
1,196.50•
1,127.oo•
546.92•
1,967.54•
913.59*
100.00•
1,413.48*
1,427.86*

17
46
37
.3
59
39
77
60

54
33
63
45
28
46
46
50
41
29
63
58
48
57
40
31
41
54
56
58
40
40
44
38
45
3
44
15
31

24

15
19
46
65
53
40
37

45

42
56
53
34
41

51
56

43
50

35

1,748.17•
1.369.10•
1,231.90 •
2,211.50•
3,195.oo•
2,332.82°
402.00•
588.oo•
1,157.75•
1,213.50°
426.oo•
1,526.95·
3,137 _79 •
2,07 2.50*
549_50•
257.oo•
1,254_75•
711.88
1,735.14•
1,128.00*
390_50•
2,335 _50•
1,274.25°
2,584.57*
3,002.00"
1,473.36·
1,116.40•
414.oo•
1,263.oo•
4,534.30•
1,003.00•
794_41 •
1,829.66*
26.00
1,158.00*
181.50
504_50•
717.00
208.50
2,294.17•
1,840.54 .
2,782.01 •
1,467.33°
1,797.47•
1,391.75*
2,135.26•
2,222_55•
464.50°
1,369.75•
1,273.97•
705.40•
2,492.30•
1,027.50•
760.51•
1,788.01 .
1,412.73•

1963
PArticipat ion
Membcra %

217
27
212
48
239
64
399 100
361
59
298
39
89
73
102
53
162
52
174
33
142 100
249
47
450
37
421
55
95
52
50
43

141

36

98
441
217
70
419
176
415
390
237
1611
79
170
506
139
129
232
9

22
59
42
46
54
36
43
41
51
55
45
41
41
31
33
38
11

211
35
85
84
23
357
256
400
181
239

46
22
47
15
15
33
45
69
36
43

245
271
218
87

35
51
45

234

166
134
243
153
153
290
207

44
55

37
54
67
65
44

55

36

No.

Lodge

19'3
Me•benhi p

383 Orosi ···············-·--······ 149
384 El Centro ···-···-······ ··-- 484
385 Dinuba -·······-·····-·····-- 286
387 Coaling a .................... 373
388 Parnass us ............... ... 676
389 Palos Verdes ............ 688
390 Imperia l ····-·········· ·-··· 131
391 East Belt·········-·······--· 122
392 West Lake ·········-······ 705
393 Balder --··-··········-······· 472
394 Univers ity ................ 491
395 Turlock ·····-········ ······· 421
396 Apollo.. .... ................... 438
397 Rising Light ····-········ 953
399 Fraterni ty ............... .. 423
400 Burling ame ·······-······· 658
401 Bay View··················- 655
402 Brawley ········-········-··· 239
403 Yerba Buena ····-······ 869
404 Glendor a ·············-····· 281
405 Moneta ............... ....... 558
406 Burbank .................... 853
407 La Mesa .................... 651
408 Sierra Madre ............ 20 l
409 Honolul u ······-············ 409
410 Charter Rock ........... 255
411 Perris ··············-··-···-··· 146
412 Calexico .................... 140
414 Arlingto n .................. 267
415 Silver Trowel ·········- 423
416 Lindsay ..................... 208
417 Clovis ·---·-···········-·····- 575
418 Elysian --·-·········-········ 405
419 Upland ··············· -····-- 278
420 Kerman -- -···.-·····-······· 149
421 Inglewo od................. 750
422 Eagle Rock ···········-···- 502
423 York ........................... 342
424 Exeter ··-···········-········· 233
425 Holtvill e··--··············· 152
426 Midway ···················- 454
427 Chino Valley ............ 243
428 San Dimas ................ 179
429 Pittsbur gh ................ 354
430 McCloud ·-····-·········· 102
431 Alpha ·······················- 506
433 Hammo nton ·······-···-·- 106
434 Maricop a ·················- 198
435 Fairmou nt ····-··········· 409
436 Claremo nt ................ 200
437 Lancast er .................. 574
439 Tyrian ···········-···········- 232
440 Standar d
··-···-···-··· 342
441 Coronad o ·····--··········- 392
442 Blackm er ·······-·········· 1159
443 Schofiel d··········-········444 Carpinte ria ··-··········· 311
148
445 Wilshire ·········-·······-·· 474
446 La Puente ·········-······ 259

147

196! M~mberolllp
19U
Pa.rticipat ion
1915
c.ntrib11ti on•
%
Contrlbuti •n•

323.50°
1,231.54•
587.oo•
1,174.75•
1,587.50•
1,328.38
284.50•
259.25•
2,172.54•
1,521.50°
1,854.63•
1,200.25°
1,044.50•
2,026.72•
1,065.50°
1,633.38*
649.25
821.65•
1,81 4.50•
461.01
1,833.30•
2,067.29°
1.761.30 .
698.81.
1,012.50*
645.00°
269.82
325.45•
910.50°
1,318.09°
550.oo•
2,218.50•
1, 124.91 •
654.81 •
337_50•
2,893.27°
1,677.87*
796.94•
542_50•
494_79•
983.37•
289.00
481. 11 •
1,144.oo•
286.50 °
1,228.50•
273.oo•
460.39°
1,264.50•
459_75•
1,841.63•
510.30
1,043_50•
3,169.09°
678.25·
424.00*
2,405.24•
677.63°

43
38
32
41
36
23
46

47
52
46
35
56
42
24

43

30
18
57
16

37

51
71
52
52
39
38

34

30
40
36
55
54
37
44
50

46
57
27

38

45
42
27

52

47

57
35

50
35
58
36

61

18

36
50
40
60

49
38

488.oo •
1,174.54•
639.50•
1,175.24•
1,607.25•
1,786.62*
456.oo•
328.00•
2,137.02•
1,600.50•
1,758.97•
1,279.oo•
1,356.00°
2,125.78*
1,274.oo•
1,778.50•
626.71
857.50•
2,655.50•
391.18
1,664.12•
1,759.09•
1,521.33•
611.08.
1,142.75•
582.00•
137.26
450.45·
1,015.50°
958.54°
425.00*
2,075.so •
1,215.oo•
729_24•
404.50*
2,815.83 .
1,773.21 •
625.56
884.50°
608.15•
1,000.56°
493.95°
576.41 •
711.76•
308.00"
1,252.52•
212_50•
481.36°
1,250.31 •
934.26•
2,500.31 •
60.00
733.83•
921.75•
2,901.09•
629.50"
463.oo•
2,502.88•
742.29°

uu

rarticipat ion
Memben ';''o

78
132
114
160
265
216
93
64
247
204
188
241
205
340
171
150
95
132
264
90
265
340
265
85
192
71

37
67
124
113
68
290

147

127
95
337
291
106
80
77
193
82
105
125
56
192
58

65

191
142
367
15
266
135
432
130
96
252
91

52
27
40
43
39
31
71
52
35
43
38
57
47
36
40
23
15
55
30
32
47
40
41
42
47
28
25

48

46
27

33
50
36
46
64
45
58
31
34

51

43

34
59
35

55

38
55
33
47
71
64
6

78
34
37
42
65
53
35

148

No.

PROCEEDING S OP THE

I.Adi'•

1963

Memberohlp

447 Torrance .................... 608
448 Mount Diablo .......... 468
449 Park ......................__ 402
450 Van Nuys .................. 1158
451 Montebello .............. 733
452 San Pasqual .............. 571
454 Crocker .................... 599
455 Golden West ............ 528
457 Ramona .................... 536
458 Henry S. Orme ........ 580
459 Riverbank ................ 151
460 Mount Oso ................ 349
461 Argonaut .................. 356
462 Paul Revere ............ 588
463 Morgan Hill.............. 161
464 Alta Vista ................ 239
465 Center ........................ 540
466 Libertas .................... 710
467 Culver City .............. 431
468 Rockridge ...... .......... 417
469 Yorba Linda ............ 181
470 Lincoln ...................... 344
471 De I ta .......................... 506
472 Maui .......................... 195
473 Blythe ........................ 179
475 America .................... 425
476 Coachella .................. 257
477 Temblor .................... 139
478 Thousand Oaks ........ 495
479 Golden Rule ............ 702
480 Fellowship ................ 285
481 Mt. Davidson ............ 358
482 Clarence F. Smith.... 322
483 Bell ........................... 818
484 Albert Pike .............. 229
485 Chowchilla ................ 168
486 Caledonia .................. 556
487 Vallejo ...................... 388
488 Patterson .................. 177
489 East Bay .................... 310
490 Corcoran .................... 142
491 Woodstock ................ 422
492 Garvanza .................. 315
493 Atascadero ................ 150
494 Acorn ........................ 645
495 Lebanon .................... 421
497 Fremont .................... 529
498 Stockton .......... -....... 191
499 Capital City .............. 651
500 Roosevelt .................. 207
501 Westwood ................ 259
502 Harbor ...................... 572
503 Point .......................... 333
504 Seaside ...................... 546
505 Silver Cord .............. 596
506 Mount Olive ............ 921

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

196Z M~mbenhlp
1962
Particl11ation
19U
Contrlbationo
'%
Contrlbatlona

1,502.18•
2,091.30•
991.00·
4,101.33•
1,914.33•
2,435.54•
1,579.00·
2,619.oo•
1,903.15•
1,879.38•
171. 75
494.00
744.60•
2,162.00•
350.69•
1.246.46•
1,240.50•
2,184.25•
2,071.12•
8!lo.oo•
403.50•
1,113.05•
1,160.IO•
443.00·
193.00
1,584.43•
639.75•
506.32•
1,246.51 •
1,908.50•
688.50•
1,175.50•
1,096.63•
3,280.86•
556.08•
614.oo•
1,270.23•
765.00
277.50
615.00
663.75
1,205.21 •
501.66•
1,420.64•
856.oo•
1,421.95•
353.00
l ,811.25•
522.00•
580.00•
1,776.14•
1,037.27•
1,899.82•
1,870.51 •
3,091.80•

32
58
44
55
37
59
47
47
53
43
19
22
52
56
40
53

43

37
87

34
38
53

36

59
18
49
48
39

38
50

37

52
42
51
31
62
55

34
33
22

31

44
56
42
71

46

33
56
38
51
40
46
45

51
39

uu

ParticiP•"9n

!lfemben

%

1,268.45•
2,257.06•
913.00•
5,150.83•
2,326.42•
2,439.40•
1,573.50•
2,775.50•
1,885.03•
2,128.69.
210.00
500.50
782.50•
2,084.75•
403.88•
1,091.50•
1,170.79•
2,159.84•
1,819.15•
949.00·
423.54•
1,234.oo•
1,277.00·
491.00·

169
264
157
639
301
316
289
243
274
220
35
95
162
287
89
108
227
225
161
145
69
200
177
115

28
56
39
55
41
55
48
46
51
38
23
27
46
49
55
45
42
32
37
35

1,602.93•
980.51•
532.92•
1,169.13•
1,889.00•
723.50•
1,308.50•
1,015.69•
3,324.30•
850.44•
319.50
1,726.05•
812.00•
237.00
660.00•
343.oo•
944.95•
1,722.77•
399.oo•
1,348.75•
864.oo •
1,589.50•
340.50
1,789.50•
246.50
616.50•
1,942.51 •
1,043.oo•
1,748.41 *
2,115.55•
3,236.26•

216
158
65
180
345
116
220
151
421
102
65
336
155
51
160
136
176
152

85

243
201
252
63

337
49
139
246

132
255
311
380

38
58
35
59
0
51
61

47

11•·

509
1510 Cupertino .................. 245
511 SunnYvale ................ 462
512 Palms ........................ 506
513 Cahuenga .................. 544
514 Argonne .................... 333
515 Vermont Square ...... 449
516 Taft ............................ 311
517 Mount Vernon ........ 199
518 La Jolla .................... 334
519 Euclid ........................ 368
520 Ionic .......................... 1189
521 Piedmont .................. 246
522 Sunrise ...................... 285
523 Bellflower ................ 664
524 Catalina Island ........ 136
525 George Washington 418
526 Bay City .................. 421
527 Covenant .................. 256
528 Beverly Hills ............ 563
529 Loyalty ...................... 683
530 Sun Garden .............. 535
531 Alexandria................ 188
532 Smyrna...................... 213

533 Azure ........................ 394

534 Forest Hill ................ 198

535 Alexander Hamilton 300
536
537
538
539
540
542
543

39

544

33
52
24
54
43
40
47
52
41

l96S
Member.hip

El Segundo .............. 507
507 Joppa
........................ 100
508 Benjamin
Franklin.. 314

36
411
41
61
47
51
45
67
30
29
52
96
42
48
44
38
48
48

Locll'e

541

545
546
547

548

549
550

551
552
554
555

556

557

558
559
560
561

562
563
564

565
566

Seal Rock..................
0
Utopia ........................ 633
Ascot .......................... 336
Belvedere.................. 200
Queen Beach........... . 188
Henry M. Stephens.. 308
North Hollywood .... 1053
Signal ........................ 547
Glendale .................... 806
Jonathan .................. 178
San Gabriel.............. 591
Arcadia ...................... 624
Triangle .................... 337
Justice ...................... 382
Seaport ...................... 219
Lakeshore ................ 264
Semper Virens ...... 345
Educator .................. 388
White Pine................
99
Fairfax ...................... 485
Hermosa .................... 434
Point Firmin ............ 342
Craftsmen ................ 365
P lymouth .................. 399
East San Diego ........ 883
Pyramid .................... 324
South Park .............. 403
Foothill .................... 1008
West Adams ............ 345
James A. Garfield.... 238

149

ltU Membenhlp
1962
Participation
1963
Contrlbutiona
%
C<>ntrlbutlona

1,225.63•
273.96•
936.16•
477.00
462.00
1,214.69•
2,495.94•
305.00
1,242.22"
1.607.83•
514.00"
559.75
1,073.30•
2,400.00•
818.50•
898.06°
2,062.36•
341.18°
1,071.00·
1,105.00"
550.72"
1,392.60°
2,451.50"
1,195.50•
123.50
449.50*
1,734.72•
619.50"
1,245.34•
598.oo•
1,747.52°
1,193.16•
494.45°
834.16·
601.50
4,354.39•
1,669.80*
3,090.44°
417.25°
2,177.17•
2,351.89•
1,282.64•
1,098.34°
459.50·
750.50•
840.10•
788.00·
210.00•
1,120.80•
895.00·
1,122.35°
960.03"
976.50•
1,820.50°

848.88.

1,153.15•
2,037.25•
850.79•
1,308.79•

39
73
30
40
30
47
80
12

44

52
39
26
32
36
36

44

37
62
45
55
32
34
78
57
21
32
71
45
69
55
36
42
32
57
18
52

40

91

52
57

52

76
51
61
67

47

29
53
44
28
48
39

34

41
37
35

52

25

47

uu

Participation
Memben o/o

1,584.29"

231

990.64•
505.25"
399.00
1,101.14.
3,289.00*
812.00°
1,396.60°
1,127.oo•
454.50•
689.oo•
1,244.65°
2,408.00·
1,183.50°
741.29•
1,789.lO•
408.73°
1,054.50°
1,212.00•
1,001.00·
1,693.03•
2,044.09*
1,620.61 *
569.75°
330.00
1,062.65*
506.00·
758.40*

98
102
85
240
500
97
184
200
83
102
124
402
129
110
170
100
181
194
163
232
382
220
216
44
180
73
106

2,080.71°
1,425.58*
512.15•
809.04•
622.25•
4,414.97•
1,755.51°
2,758.48°
421.50•
2,255.01 *
2,982.31 •
1,030.41°
906.60•
450.50•
646.00°
838.00•
795.75•
200.00•
1,146.50•
1,008.40°
2,312.42*
839.45•
919.00°
2,066.50*
751.70•
1,273.90•
2,129.00°
700.59°
1,692.79°

269
162
51

107
63
553
230
736
93
291
359
262
155
124
126
172
156

56

46
0
31
42
18
47
92
29
41
64
42
31
34
34
52
39
26
74
43
46
64
41
56
41
100
21
46

37
35
42
48
26
57
20
53
42
91
52
49
58
78
41
57
48
50
40
57
41

199
115 26
400 100
126 35
131
33
407
46
106
33
168
42
459
46
56
16
124
52

150

PROCEED INGS O F THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA
No.

567
568
569
570

Lodge

1963
llle mb•rshh>

Searchli ght
440
Park Bouleva rd ...... 418
Cha teau Thierry ...... 360
Military Service ...... 316
571 Francis K. Shattuc k 225
572 James Madison ........ 349
573 Hillcres t ....................
78
574 S. W. Hackett .......... 589
575 Fort Crook ................ 204
576 El Cajon Valley .... 560
577 Sunnys ide ................ 407
578 Progress ive
492
579 Warren G. Harding .. 655
580 Santa Maria ............ 124
581 Security .................... 398
582 Rialto ........................ 322
583 Wasco ........................ 349
584 Harding .................... 315
585 Manche ster .............. 334
586 Garden Grove .......... 436
587 Valley Forge... ......... 417
588 El Sereno .................. 430
589 Kauai ........................ 125
590 Compas s .................... 346
591 Escalon ...................... 169
592 Tujunga .................... 371
593 All States .................. 533
594 Service ...................... 922
595 Alexand er G. Bell.... 273
596 Guardia n .................. 1000
598 Pearl Harbor .......... 624
599 Carmeli ta .................. 367
600 Lynwoo d ............... ... 568
601 Grizzly ...................... 122
602 Melrose ............... ....... 258
603 Dimond ...................... 273
604 Jubilee ...................... 438
605 G!assell Park .......... 408
607 Sojourn er .................. 305
608 Granada .................... 797
609 P rovident ............... ... 509
610 Elmhurs t .................. 282
611 Canoga ...................... 468
612 Temple City ............ 553
613 Three Pillars ............ 460
614 Larchm ont ................ 396
615 Hemet ........................ 260
616 R. E. Do!Iey .............. 255
617 Big Bear .................. 162
618 Southla nd .................. 369
619 Neptune .................... 323
620 Point Loma .............. 719
621 The Gardens ............ 531
622 Atwater .................... 379
623 Menorah ............... ..... 1169
624 Fortitud e .................. 214
625 Angeles Mesa...... ...... 722

1962 Membersh ip
1962
Pntidpati on
1963
Con!rihu tio ns
%
Contributi ano

904.oo•
1,275.oo•
603.50
624.oo•
574.25•
922.00•
196.70•
2,242.74•
455.50•
l 518 50•
1'. 216:13•
1,711.95•
] ,697.25*
636.25*
905.51 •
672.56*
912.90•
995.45.
790.25*
l ,475.09•
1,157.09 •
] ,329.92.
491.25•
860.50•
154.50
923.08•
1,544.50•
2,884.70•
1,672.16*
3,630.14*
1.687.75•
1.634.78•
2,547.69*
304.oo•
681.5 l.
857.87•
1,065.08•
1.225.35*
821.45•
1,748.33*
1,512.00•
571.50•
1,790.21 •
1,931.86•
1,319.02•
1,298.00*
812.80•
1,083.30•
381.50•
1,150.50*
650.00•
1,498.25*
1,602.36•
1,547.00*
6,61 4.17*
308.75
1,509.25*

32
47
34
40
42
29

55
54
68
44
45
48
70
76
37

32
60
36
35
54

64

41
48
74
27
53

46
46

60
69
44
62
75

61

33
57
41

57
32
45
51

36
57
51

55

33

65
68
40

41

29
35

41
66
64
25
91

996.79*
908.00*
825. 75•
632.00*
461.00*
781.29•
204.87*
2,129.17*
604.00*
1,263.73*
1,164.00*
1,746.88•
1,884.96•
693.50*
1,227.64*
675.30*
i ,050.25•
959.33 *
938.69.
1,492.79*
1,150.03•
1,289.22*
424.50•
875.oo•
170.50
827.48•
1,686.50'"
3,014.12•
1,784.07*
4,114.27 •

2,541.06•

1,647.89*
2,777.77*
316.00·
636.19*
865.05*
1,526.57*
1,268.17*
801.05*
2,451.10*
1,100.00•
564.00*
2,251.62•
1,781.73•
1,287.44*
1,674.33 °
914.01 *
1,315.99'"
508.50*
1,218.64*
655.50*
1,532.00•
1,545.23*
1,679.51 *
5,415.57°
445.50*
1,515.47*

196S
Participat ion
Membera %

152
154
140
82
118
92
35
336
170
216
164
259
467
83
188
108
233

88
97
244
225
165
63
226

41

198
254
478
164
729

363
176
480

78
82
155
228
206
104
387
185

96
175
243
253
242
179
163
77
171
101
252
178
223
575

78

601

35
37
39

:!6

52
26
45
57
83
39
40
53
71
67
47
34
67
28

29
56
54
38

50

65
24
;;3
48
52
60
73
58
48
85
64
32
57
52
50

34

49
36
34

37

44
55
61
69
64

48
46
31
35
34
59
49

36
83

No.

Lod11•

1963

llt~mbership

626 Chula Vista .............. 680
627 Lamand a Park ........ 312
628 Truth ........................ 228
629 Fairview .................... 306
630 Inglesid e .................. 220
631 Benevolence ......... ... 259
632 Normal Heights ...... 822
633 Poinsett ia .................. 756
634 Victorvi lle ................ 277
635 Riversid e .. ................ 645
636 John Marshal l.......... 292
637 Palisade s .................. 452
638 Indian Rock .............. 209
639 Compos ite ................ 707
640 Veritas ............... ....... 155
641 James A. F oshay .... 212
642 La Cumbre ................ 361
643 Alta Loma ................ 401
644 Lomita ...................... 378
645 A. F. E . Irwin... ....... 265
646 Metropo litan ............ 185
647 Hawtho rne .............. 581
648 Damasc us .................. 733
649 Florence .................... 423
650 La Brea .................... 261
651 Menlo Park .............. 358
652 Crescen ta Valley .... 626
653 Fontana .................... 410
654 Jordan ...................... 428
655 Monte Vista ............ 863
656 Citrol .......................... 268
657 John D. Sprecke ls .... 687
658 Livingst on ................ 220
659 La Habra .................. 278
660 Baldwin Pa'.rk ........ 344
661 Malta .......................... 262
662 H~~ry Knox ............ 416
663 01a1 ............................ 184
665 Kaweah .................... 135
666 Reseda ...................... 812
667 Meridia n .................... 511
668 San Gorgoni o .......... 267
669 John P. Jarman ...... 303
670 Greenle af .................. 886
671 San Clemen te .......... 154
672 Laguna Beach... ....... 193
673 Far West .................... 349
674 Los Cerritos .............. 536
675 Modesto .................... 531
676 Willow Glen ............ 418
677 Liberal Arts ............ 435
678 Altaden a ............... ... 540
679 Canby Cross ............ 145
680 Carmel ...................... 256
681 Dos Palos .................. 166
682 Barstow .................... 434
683 Redwoo d Empire .... 130
884 Trona ........................ 161

151

196! Membersh ip
1962
Participat ion
1963
Contributi ons
%
Contributl ono

1,579.83°
805.56*
751.99*
1,381.76°
611.00*
580.23*
2,032.77°
2.060.01 *
659.50°
1,917 .84*
807.41 *
1,888.51 *
468.00*
2,433.oo•
318.50*
713.38°
1.358.25°
1,435.63 °
1,239.70*
907.26*
774.55°
1,141.93
1.864.75°
1,057.92°
559.96*
733.00*
1,529.21°
1,377.76*
1,000.00•
2,429.74°

817.50•
1,769.47°
452.oo•
613.22•
659.76
1,109.15•
2,278.25*
774.29*
349.50*
2,342.58*
1,556. 58°
535.10°
629.oo•
2,234.44*
189.00
272.50
956.oo•
1,607.67°
1,151.13 °
593.50
1,504.85°
1,650.60*
321.00°
538.50•
350.00•
1,284.oo•
400.00°
550.50*

44
42
43
52
54
80
37
39
51
70
51
48
33
62
45
53
60
40
49
53
(if!

26

28
48

42
33
38
45

40

37
51

27
46
58
22

62
52
72

57
49
57

55
46

51
27
28
55
63
32
42

90
49
53
37
67

42
46
63

1,848.06*
1,028.47*
816.56*
1,213.66•
690.00*
538.31°
1,902.04'"
1,897.26•
390.50*
2,ll4.07*
1,046.78'"
2,087.59•
505.00*
2,586.oo•
485.25*
753.39*
1,556.oo•
1,460.85°
1,329.69*
9-16.94*
762.61 •
1.505.99*
2,283.17•
1,411.38*
911.38°
753.32•
1,632.31 •
1,128.43•
1.131.13°
2,661.96*
1,035.85°
1,791.51 *
472.50*
978.90*
1,174.17*
980.98*
1,912.56•
568.00·
280.00•
2,573.73•
1,242.67°
946.75°
652.50•
2,709.27*
313.05°
470.50*
845.75°
1,543.68°
1,196.72*
956.98°
1,520.53°
1,792.56*
536.50*
355.50°
1,331.15*
302.00*
486.50•

1963
Partidpati on
Memben %

341
166
119
161
134
138
325
288
209
438
211
238
65
411
60
77
196
137
163
134
147
277
297
210
130
134
242
139
188
314
143
194
104
194
128
121

218

77
49
399
317
303

138

456

67
79
192
316
166
157
293
295
107

113

252
50

90

50
53
52
53
61
53
40
38
75
68
72
53

31

53
39
36
54
34
43
51
79
48
41
50
50
37
39
34
44

36
53
28

47

70
37
46
52

42

36
49

62
100
46
51
44
41
55

59

31
38
67
55
42

68

58

38
56

152
No.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
IAcige

1963
lllemberohlp

685 San Marino .............. 472
686 Albany ...................... 227
687 Vista .......................... 336
688 Oildale ...................... 284
689 Pohona ......................
85
690 San Carlos ................ 459
691 Indian Wells Valley 443
692 Travelers .................. 206
693 Palm Springs .......... 238
694 San Antonio ............ 269
695 Meudell .................... 215
696 Crossroads ................ 347
697 Saint Elmo ................ 262
698 Wm. D. Stephens.... 190
699 Bixby Knolls ............ 372
700 Ponderosa ................ 368
701 Santa Ynez Valley.. 142
702 Rosemead .................. 246
703 Westchester .............. 464
704 Orinda ...................... 243
705 El Cerrito ······---········ 213
706 Hunters Point Naval 247
707 Lake Tahoe ···········-· 93
708 Seafaring • ................ 480
709 Lorenzo..................... 381
710 Anacapa .................... 254
711 Rim of the World.. .. 166
712 Los Altos .................. 222
713 Castro Valley .......... 309
714 Blue Lakes
220
715 Magnolia Park ........ 284
716 Belmont Shore ...... 357
717 Wayfarer .................. 209
718 San Lorenzo Valley 97
719 Estero ...................... 155
720 Mineral King ............ 111
721 Home ........................ 503
722 Geoge E. Tutt.......... 174
723 Acalanes .................. 185
724 San Ramon Valley.. 162
725 Saint John's .............. 235
726 Yucaipa .................... 193
727 Verdugo Hills ........ 105
728 Lakewood ................ 249
729 Centennial ................ 163
730 Polaris ...................... 164
731 Two Rivers .............. 192
732 San Juan .................. 218
733 Golden Empire ...... 149
734 Kit Carson ................ 189
735 Oasis of Mara .......... 120
736 Lemon Grove .......... 426
737 Hillsborough ............ 178
738 Arvin ..................... ... 123
739 La Canada .............. 158
740 Opportunity
216
741
742 i/;~g;ia~--P~k:::: ~~5
743 Oakwood ·········-······· 103

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

19'2 Membenhlp
1962
Partlclpetion
1963
Contribution•
%
Contribution•

2,542.56"
680.00•
606.64
1,029.oo•
212.50•
1,031.47•
964.19*
614.50"
657.77•
954.90"
484.84*
1,135.50*
1,126.oo•
1,785.25"
1,597.80°
1,009.00"
340.50"
989.24•
1,709.13"
564. 75"
629.00"
796.00·
265.50"
1,156.46"
1,322.00•
992.91"
204.46
852.00"
879.00"
560.50°
820.25•
1,220.50"
781.38°
291.00·
520.75°
346.25°
1,442.00"
374.25°
564.00"
432.00•
567.25"
397.75"
546.60"
770.60•
663.88"
699.57*
644.05"
785.24"
2,073.50•
904.15"
238.50*
1,325.14•
1,000.00°
341.00*
770.13"
791.99"
768.70"
882.25"
734.53·

76
56
36
71
65
40
88
50
78
53
83
72
52
99
65
63
65
70
75
63
53
75
47
61
78
70
22
69
88
64
61
54
48
100
65
54
74
71
45
34
38
52
100
56
62
73
69
56
115
67
100
55
88
64
80
50
66
93
100

2,749.57"
502.75"
345.14
1,038.25"
174.50"
1,642.57"
1,030.80°
533.oo•
783.01°
832.84"
547.11°
1,145.10°
1,144.oo•
949.75"
1,668.84"
925.50*
515.25°
1,053.25"
1,142.63"
631.50"
653.03•
884.50"
233.00"
1,478.811°
1,117.oo•
888. 54°
525.46°
881.50"
1,196.50°
560.52•
860.01"
1,432.00•
836.oo•
336.oo•
642.50°
373.32"
1,553.01"
523.oo•
427.oo•
439.50°
756.75"
470.50"
458.76"
1,053.66"
1,034.79"
800.75"
863.28"
921.00·
946.oo•
960.50°
333.25"
1,380.40•
1,120.59"
466.34°
936.34*
1,177.20"
941.70°
819.10*
735.43*

l96J

Participation
Memben CJ(,

396
84
105
46
83
25
212
75
50
59
264 58
380
86
96
47
192 81
132
49
175
81
259
75
138
53
110
58
288
77
221
61
115
81
162
66
298
64
127
52
119
56
180
73
29
31
276
58
255
67
148
58
110
66
144 65
278
90
144
65
161
57
188
53
98 47
80
82
103
66
57
51
384 76
118
68
59 32
58 36
122 52
148 77
86 82
138 55
172 100
123 75
135 70
141
65
117
79
136 72
120 100
210
49
131
74
105
85
124 78
132 61
176 76
179 93
108 100

1963

153

UU Membenhip
~
1962
Participation
1963
Contribution•
%
C..ntrlbatlono

Lodge
Member.hip
N..
'744 San Leandro ............ 186
468.00·
'745 Peninsula .................. 150
827.50•
746 Soquel ...................... 156
359.50"
747 Claude H. Morrison 132
183.50
748 Highland ···············-· 215
420.50°
Merced
......................
153
749
416.25•
750 Mother Colony ........ 167
331.65•
Hamilton
..................
152
751
454.oo•
192
752 Luther Burbank
510.25"
Lawndale
.................. 206
753
787.42*
754 San Pablo .................. 123
260.75*
755 Golden Bowl ............ 188
900.18°
756 Clayton Valley ........ 259
741. 76"
757 Channel .................... 118
289.75•
758 West Covina ............ 198
741.05•
759 El Rancho ................ 211
416.66*
760 Lakeside .................... 114
423.70°
761 Josiah W. Roller .... 188
710.67•
762 Coastside .................. 120
345.25"
763 Arabic.......... .............. 167
711.25•
784 Heritage .................... 152
543.08"
Dana
R. Weller ...... 138
785
534.67"
766 James H. Kew ........ 155
831.35•
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey 150
596.25•
788 Zenith ..... ................. 242
1,121.69•
769 Palmdale .................. 218
843.23•
770 Lake Chabot ............ 133
254.oo•
771 Mission Bay ............ 181
548.50*
772 Avenal ......................
57
147.oo•
773 Tejon ........................ 180
325.75•
774 Waikiki .................... 135
344.25•
775 San Dieguito ............ 204
400.00•
'176 East Whittier ............ 177
577.19•
'177 Pinnacle .................... 55
108.oo•
'178 La Mirada .............._ 160
866.30"
'17t Five P oints .............. 96
405.83•
780 Riviera ...................... 140
775.oo•
'781 Rolling Hills ............ 116
498.55'
782 Silverado .................. 129
266.02°
783 Mojave ......................
79
280.15*
784 Leland Stanford .... 130
384.00•
785 Paramount .............. 98
232.50"
786 Rio Linda ................ 105
535.50°
787 Westminster ............ 112
333.oo•
788 Sierra ........................ 80
348.oo•
789 Oak Plains
147
489.oo•
790 Granada Hills ........ 136
548.63°
791 Gen. Henry
H. Arnold ............ 104
221.41°
792 Millbrae .................... 70
161.00•
793 Maya ........................ 81
203.00°
794 Mt. Wilson ............. ... 148
683.05"
795 American River ...... 135
557.50•
'196 Golden Valley ........ 141
267.oo•
79'7 Tila Pass ···········-····· 87
400.00•
798 Ashland
84
239.00'
799 Bay Claire....................
Vista...... 64
238.oo•
800 Rio Hondo ................ 92
461.02•
IOI
Koolau ··············-····
168.75°
78

IHS
P.rllcipetion
Mtmben %

51
75
66
46
52
53
34
100
57
56
32
88
51
53
63
38
76
85
83
82
58
93
62
61
60
82
66
65
50
96
60
34
51
76
99
89
72
45
61
93
76
79
100
69
50
76
79

628.50'
892.50"
378.oo•
292.50"
459.75°
466.25"
474.34•
555.93*
568.00°
559.98 °
167.00
953.06"
857.17"
342.00°
952.92"
459.56•
268.25*
564.67°
359.00'
728.25•
734.13°
674.06"
833.42"
742.00
l ,388.7P
893.41°
405.50"
684.00°
114.oo•
513.63"
579.35*
176.75
620.48•
166.00"
922.64°
596.17'
1,302.00'
812.49"
278.oo•
339.70°
471.00°
316.oo•
755.25"
293.84°
217.50'
631.75°
891.45"

104 56
119
79
109
70
75
57
95
44
78
51
71
43
116 76
71
37
71
34
25
20
139
74
144
56
58
49
136
69
83
39
54
47
121
64
86
72
121
72
103
68
112 81
103
66
94 63
158
65
143
66
104 78
134 74
26
46
151
84
91
67
29
14
68
38
48
87
152 95
81
84
140 100
72
62
81
63
70
89
108 83
79
81
107 100
71
63
38
48
103
70
99
73

57
44
66
98
81
36
82
68
73
94
74

375.20'
210.00•
305.50"
687.88*
497.00'
469.51"
1,117.75*
278.50°
282.75"
670.61"
242.00•

74
71
44
63
67
83
110
74
79
59
76
54
93 100
57
68
48
75
72
78
48
62

154

No.

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

Lodre

1963

Ment bership

802 Yucca Valley ............ 106
803 The Gabila n ............
57
804 Moren o Valley ........ 50
805 Camel lia ··--·------····--· 103
806 Simi Valley .............. 69
807 Conejo Valley .......... 89
808 Scepte r............ ............
80
809 Los Alamit os .............
53
810 Victor ia Palms ......... _ 47
811 Woodl and Hills.........
69
U.D. Triad ............................ 54
U.D. Old West... ............. .... 56
U.D. Mt. Baldy ............ .......
56
U.D. Plaza De Los
Angele s .......................
48
TOTA L
244,494

No. Calif. Resear ch ............
So. Calif. Resear ch ..........
El Camin o Resear ch ..........
Centra l Calif. Resear ch ....
GRAN D TOTA L

86
101
47
70

244,798

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

I 962 Member ship
Partitip ation
196?
1963
Contribu tions
Contribu tions
%

333.16 •
77.00
107.oo•
1,300.50•
117.50

52
31
57
100
50

415.26•
119.50•
82.00•
100.00•

100
63
76
100

·-------------

1963
Particip atl. .
11Ie1nbera ~

542.00•
301.oo•
111.00 ·
1,224.25•
345.oo•
477 _50•
533.63•
160.50•

91
29
33
103
69
124
77
31

86
51
66
100
100
100
9G
58

309.50•
500.00•
170.00*
125.00•

98
107
52
38

100
100
93
68

174.00 ·
49 100
741,016.53 116,292
48
Averag e Contri bution - $6.37

··········-·-··

216.00•

·-----------··
·-·--------···

49

224.94*

47

47

·········------

········-----·

Over-a ll Averag e Contri bution - $6.37
741 ,241.47 116,339 48

155

REPO RT OF BOA RD OF CON TRO L
To the Most Wor shipfu l Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Califo
rnia:
The Board of Contr ol herew ith submi ts its annua l report
incorp orating the activit ies of our Board s of Relief and Emplo yment
Burea us.
" To relieve the distres s is c:i duty incum bent on all men
but particu larly on Mason s." That doctri ne is as old as Mason ry and
it is one of
the founda tion stones of our Instit ution.
The Board of Contr ol is charge d with the respon sibility
of contro l
and superv ision of the activit ies of Board s of Relief and
Emplo yment
Bureau s and to establi sh such rules c:ind regula tions as
it shall deem
necess ary for their effectu al operat ion and to standa rdize
the work that
their operat ion may be condu cted econom ically and efficie
ntly. Rules
and regula tions and unifor m standa rds have been establ ished
for operations. report ing and auditin g, by w hich we are able to keep
a watch ful
eye upon all of the operat ions for which we are respon
sible.
The Board of Contr ol is made up of five Memb ers who
have been
so selecte d geogra phical ly as to best serve the interes ts of
those Board s
of Relief within their immed iate or adjace nt comm unity.
Durin g the
past year the Board of Contr ol has held meetin gs in
San Franc isco.
during the last Grand Lodge Comm unicat ion, San Diego
in Janua ry
and San Jose in May. These section al meetin gs are
held with our
Boards of Relief Secret aries in order that we may have
person al contact with them, they with each other c:ind that we may all
have a better
unders tandin g of our respec tive proble ms and respon sibiliti
es. In addition much time has been given by individ ual memb ers of
the Board of
Contro l in worki ng out specific proble ms a ssigne d to them
a nd in advising . counse ling and corres pondin g with Board s of R elief
and in the
analys is of audits and report s. Altho ugh our Board s of Relief
have been
operat ing efficien tly we are contin uously strivin g to
improv e their
operat ional metho ds.
The geogra phical locatio n of lodges within our Grand Lodge
jurisdiction has been conve rted to map form. These colore
d maps make
easily discern ible the non-m ember lodges of Board s of Relief
and have
been useful instrum ents in the study c:ind analys is of service
s render ed
by Board s of Relief within their territo rial enviro nment
. The series of
corres ponde nce. discus sions, visitat ions and addres
ses to lodges
throug hout the jurisdi ction by the Board of Contro l
hc:is been most
encour aging. Twelv e non-m ember lodges hc:ive joined a
Board of Rel ief
during the past year and it is possib le that two new Board
s of Relief
will be establi shed in the near future . We wish to welcome: these
Lodge s
into our Board s with the hope that they will contin ue to
carry the s pirit
of Brothe rly Love and Relief. The Board of Contro l will
contin ue its
planne d "educa tional progra m" of dissem inating inform
ation relatin g
to Board s of Relief in that our Brethr en may becom e more
enligh tened

156

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

as to the purposes, functions and objectives of our Boards. A Board of
Rel ief is not an autonomous organization. each Lodge has equal representation in its government and operation.
BOARDS OP RELIEP

Within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California we maintain and operate nineteen Boards of Relief, five of which also operate
Employment Bureaus. The Boards are established to perform those
duties and obligations which have been so clearly defined by Grand
Lodge in the matter of relief to the distressed or needy worthy brother,
his widow and orphans. By custom and procedure in the matter of
charity they are endeavoring to create a virtual California Masonic
landmark.
The continued migration into California with its accompanied proportion of sojourning brethren has caused considerable increased activities in our Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. Notwithstanding
the additional work that has been thrust upon them these devoted brethren and their employees continue to go far beyond the call of duty, on
foot and out of their way, in carrying out their work. No money can
buy that kind of devotion and dedication; Brethren, it can only be
acquired by the application of the tenets of Freemasonry to the hearts
,..,f men.
The Board of Control assun..; you that relief as administered in this
jurisdiction conforms in every detail to our ancient and honored custom.
Long practice in administration of relief has permitted us to develop
business-like methods without distracting from proper consideration,
understanding and courteous attitude in the granting of relief. Changing conditions of prosperity, depression, peace or war have not permitted them any de..,·iation from our established practices. A review of
the rulings will show that relief as administered within the jurisdiction
of California has kept to the spirit and intent which our ancient Brethren so wisely and carefully established.
After carefully analyzing the audited reports which have been submitted by our nineteen Boards of Relief. we ask your brief indulgence
in the following condensed statistics covering their operations during
the Masonic Year ended June 30, 1963:
Advanced for Relief--------·-· --------·············· .. ········-$30,723.43
Funerals conducted·-················-········-··-···--·-·--·-········· l ,lOi
Total calls made ............ --------------·-······--····--·--·-··--···-···34,305
Calls on the sick .......................................................... 10,832
Investigations conducted --···--·····--·····-·····-··--··---------· 3,i46
Relief calls made....................................................... .11 ,084
Miscellaneous calls made............................................ 8,820
The magnitude of these activities warrants for these heroic Masons
the undying gratitude of the entire Craft.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

157

BLOOD BANKS

Many of our Boards of Relief operate Masonic Blood Banks and
those which do not usually have some other arrangement for prO\.'iding
blood t~ ~asons or their dependents when necessary. The following
.Agures md1cate the extent of our blood donation activities during the
past year.
Units of blood donated .............................................. 3,422
Units of blood withdrawn .......................................... 3.289
ou will note that a substantial reserve of blood has been built up
during ~e year. The actual cost, in savings to our M asonic family, by
this service was $81, 710.00.

"!

EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

The prim~ pu~pose of our Employment Bureaus is to aid worthy
Br~th~en._ their. w1~~ws an~ orphans in securing employment, thereby
as~1stmg m '.11amta1.nmg their morale and avoiding the necessity of direct
re~1ef. The mcreasmg competition of our public placement agencies in
this fiel.d, as well as other factors, has occasioned a decline in our placements m the past year, and a corresponding rise in the cost of each
placement. The B~ard of Control has been keeping a concerned and
watc.bful eye on th~s trend for a number of years with the fear that if it
contmu.ed. there .mrg.ht somewhere come a time when the results in this
field m1gh~ not Justify their cost. The following .flgures briefly cover
tyhe operations of our Employment Bureaus during the past Masonic
ear:
Registered for employment.. ...................................... 4,239
Positions actually secured.......................................... 81 O
Our Emloyment Bureaus operate without charge either to employer
or empl~yee. Ha~ fees been charged on the basis of rate .flxed for
commercial agencies, s uch employment opportunities would have cost
the members of the Fraternity and their families $74.271.55.
APPROPRIATIONS

It has been a custom of this Grand Lodge to flnancially assist our
Employment Bureaus where deemed expedient. The Board of Control
has ma~e a careful analysis of the appropriations being requested by
the. vanous Bureaus and makes the following recommendations aggregating $12,312.00 for the current Masonic Year:
East Bay ·····················-·································-·-····--$2,500.00
Long Beach ·················-··············-··························· 2,900.00
~s A~geles .......................................................... 1,000.00
San FD1ego ···················-····························· ············· 3,412.00
an rancisco ........................................................ 2.500.00
We have _referred the matter of these appropriations to the Chair~
!'1an_of the Fmance Committee as required by Section 265 of the Caliiom1a Masonic Code.

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNli\

REIMBURSEMENTS TO MASONIC BOARDS OF RELIEF

REPORT OF TRUSTEES,
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

It has long been the policy of this Grand Lodge that no worthy
sojourning brother, or his immediate family, shall suffer in our Jurisdiction for the necessities of life, or shall have other than a decent
burial upon his demise:, regardless of the willingness or ability of the
brother's own Lodge to make us whole. Grand Lodge undertakes and
has in the past reimbursed Boards of Relief for such unrecoverable
advances. We are mos t pleased to report that although more than
$30,700.00 have been advanced to sojourners and their dependents all
monies have been repaid, thereby obviating the need for reim bursements.
In closing may I leave you with this thought: "Where. my Brethren,
can the tangible evidence of Masonry practiced out of the Lodge be so
evident as in a Board of Relief?"
The Board of Control has received the utmost cooperation during
this past year from the Most Worshipful Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and the Assistant Grand Secretary, as well as from their officers
and associates. We are: most grateful for all of their assistance and their
kindnesses.
Respectfully submitted.
ARTHUR OvoRJN
JOHN M. SWAN
IRVI NG MAGNES
NORMAN E. HALE
LESTER S. McELWAIN
ExPmi\TIO N OF TERM oF OFFI CE oF
BOARD OF CONTROL MEM BERS

Arthur Ovorin .................................................. 1963
Norman E. Hale................................................ 1964
Lester S. McElwain ...................... .................... 1964
Irving Magne:s .................................................. 1965
John M. Swan .................................................... 1965
Referred to Committee on Finance.

159

To the: Most Worshipful Grand Lodge: F. 6 A. M. of California:

This i·s the Ninth Annual Report of the Board of Trustees of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Immediately after the close of the 1962 Annual Communication of
Grand Lodge , in accordance: w ith legislation adopted, the then existing
Board of Trustees resigned and new Trustees appointed by Grand
Master Ira W. Coburn assumed their respective: positions as successor
Trustees.
The election of R. W. Elmer W. Heald . Deputy Grand Master,
R. W. Theodore: Me:riam , Senior Grand Warden and R. W. Myron E.
Smith. Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported and on proper
motion. they were duly elected members of the Board of Trustees, as
provided in Section 226 of the California Masonic Code.
The Board thereupon organized as follows :
President-Arthur M. Warren
Vice President-Jay A. Robinson
Treasurer-Paul A. Pflueger
Secretary-Edward H. Siems
The terms of the appointed Board Members are as follows : Expiring
in 1963, Jay A. Robinson, T. Galt Atwood: expiring in 1964, Paul A .
Pflueger, Samuel I. Jacobs; expiring in 1965. Arthur M. Warren, Ralph
H. Head.
During the course of the current year Brother A lvin A. Horwege.
Building Manager, tendered his resignation, and his position was assumed by Brother George D. Gavin, who then resigned as a member
of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes.
We are deeply indebted to Brother Horwege for his devotion and
dedicated service during the formative years of this project. He gave
unstintingly of his time and effort in furthering the interests of our
Temple. We all salute him and wish for him a healthy and fruitful
retirement.
George 0. Gavin brings to us a new approach and outlook. His long
service in busine.ss development and promotion , as well as his wide and
varied community and fraternal activi ty should provide us with new
horizons. W e look fo rward wi th optimism as we approach our sixth
year of operation.
The report of Brother Gavin as well as the financial report prepared

by Lybrand Ross Bros. & Montgomery, are recommended to your careful scrutiny and are to be considered as a part of thi·s report.
All p-ending litigation involving our Temple referred to in previous

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

reports has been completely settled, and the action dismissed without
any payment being made by the Temple Association.
The only debt on our balance sheet is the building loan secured by
a deed of trust on our property in favor of a number of San Francisco
banks and one final payment to the architect. Albert F . Roller. The
current balance due banks as of June 30. 1963 was $1.133,790 and the
payment of $23, 752.00 to the architect. Since then an additional payment of $252,000 has been made, reducing the obligation to $881,790.
The building is in good physical condition and your Trustees are
committed to a policy of full maintenance. We feel that this Temple
of which we a re justly proud must be kept in top condition worthy of
its prominence as a San Francisco landmark. We propose to carry
adequate reserves to provide for this purpose.
Last October our Grand Master made an appeal to the Lodges to
"Make the Temple Debt-Free." While we have not achieved the ultimate, the response has been excellent and we appreciate the efforts which
have been expended.
T wenty additional Lodges attained merit roll status this year. There
are still 145 Lodges in the Jurisdiction that have not yet raised sufficient
funds to gain this distinction. We hope that prior to the end of the
coming year we will be able to announce that all of our Lodges have
qualified, and thus contributed to the beautiful monument to California
Masonry of which we are all so proud.
Special mention should be given to the late Ralph W. Collins, Assistant Grand Lecturer. who inspired his lnspectors and their Lodges
to a remarkable degree. Under his strong leadership over 90% of the
Lodges in Division Five met the challenge to be "Builders of the Temple."
We are certain that his former associates on the Ritual Committee,
with whom he worked so closely. will respond in a similar fashion, and
we thank them all for their splendid efforts during the past year.
The Honor Districts in which each Lodge ha,s attained Merit Roll
status are listed for comparison: 104; 106: 116: 118: 208; 214; 216; 218:
219: 224; 226; 314: 316; 319; 320: 326; 328; 330: 332; 333; 334: 337:
338; 342:344;350;354:361:362;364;365; 367; 368;376; 378; 382: 384:
385: 390; 402; 404; 411; 412; 416; 418; 420: 421; 424; 428: 432; 500:
502; 504; 508: 510; 516; 520: 522; 524: 526: 528; 530; 532: 538; 542:
544: 546: 554; 556: 558: 560: 562; 566: 570: 572: 574: 580: 582; 586:
588: 590: 592; 601; 608: 614: 624; 625: 626; 628: 629; 630: 637; 638;
639; 640; 642; 646.
The California Masonic Memorial Temple has reached its maturity.
a nd its fame and excellence are known throughout the world. We can
be justly proud of our beautiful edifice and we look forward to that
great day when we can close our books on the debt. Then we will

devote our surplus funds , as required by our Constitution By-Laws, to
the support of the one great charity, which commands the respect and
pride of all Masons in our jurisdiction, the Masonic Homes of California.

161

Fraternally submitted,
ARTHU R M. WARREN, President
OFFICERS AND TRUSTEES:
JAY A. ROBINSON, Vice President

Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Secretary
ELMER W . HEALD, Deputy Grand Master
THEODORE MERI.AM, Senior Grand Warden
MYRON E. SMITH, funior Grand Warden
RALPH H . HEAD, Trustee
SAMUELL JACOBS, Trustee
T. GALT ATWOOD, Trustee
PAUL A. PFLUEGER,

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF MANAGER
To the Trustees of California Masonic Memorial Temple
Brethren:
We have now entered upon the 6th year of operation of the California Masonic Memorial Temple. The past six months have developed
several changes in personnel which will result in revised policies and
operating procedures.
Alvin Horwege, who has served as Building M anager for the past
five years, retired effective February I, 1963. We congratulate him in
his retirement and hope that he will enjoy his well-earned rest. In August
of 1963 our Building Superintendent, Harry Haines, also retired and
we wish him success in his new endeavors.
IMPROVEMENTS

During the past year new fixed spot and follow lights have been
installed which aid materially in servicing our concerts. We believe our
acoustical problems have been met and we look for little trouble in this
regard.
MAINTENANCE

As our Temple becomes older, maintenance might be expected to
increase. Constant attention is being given to preservation of our
facilities in order to avoid, as much as possible, any major overhauls.
During the last year the cost of janitorial and other service~ . ~nd
supplies has increased. This affects our income from use of our facilities.
We are endeavoring to offset these increases with economies in our
operating procedures.
CONVENTION COMPETITION

San Francisco and the Bay Area continue to be favorable localities
for conventions and entertainment attractions. Competition for occupancy of facilities for conventions has grown during the past year.
The Fairmont Hotel completed its new tower and ballroom, the Mark
Hopkins is developing plans, the new Hilton Hotel is under construction, the Cow Palace anticipates a 3Yi million dollar improvement for
convention purposes. and the Civic Auditorium is nearing completion
of its 7!/i million dollar face-lifting.
OCCUPANCY

The occupancy of our Exhibit Hall and particularly our Audit~~i~m
has increased satisfactorily during the year. Income from these fac1ht1~s
was approximately I Oo/o ove r last year. We have been fortunat~ m
being able to book several high-type attractions w?ich included eight
Pops Concerts conducted by Arthur Fiedler and six performances ~y
the Ballet Folklorico of Mexico. Such stars as Ray Bolger, John Raitt.
Pearl Bailey, Mahalia Jackson. Joey Bi~hop . Phyllis Diller. the Lime•

163

lighters, the Kingston Trio, and three Hootenany Shows have appeared
this year on our stage. Chief Justice Earl W a rren, P.G.M., spoke to the
State Bar of California in the Aduitorium. We are booked heavily for
the balance of this year and have a good number of top-name performers signed for the spring season of 1964.
It was gratifying to have the General Electric use our facilities for
their las~ annual ~hareholders meeting. They are particularly adapted
for meetings of this type and we have had other inquiries in this regard.
TOURS

We have continued our policy of keeping the Temple open on
Saturday and Sunday from 12:00 to i:OO p.m. for visitors. We are
revitalizing our Visitor's Committee to assure the proper handling of tour
groups which are again making requests for dates.
GARAGE

With the increased occupancy of our Auditorium and Exhibit Hall.
and the added attractions at the hotels on Nob Hill, our garage has
benefited through greater usage. This fiscal year, ending June 30, 1963,
will find our rental income in excess of $60,000, which is an increase of
over $9.000 above the previous year. Our lessee has been most co~
operative and diligent. We have confidence that we can continue the
upward trend of revenue from the garage through continued activity
and occupancy in the Temple.
OUR IMAGE

Every effort is being made to build a favorable image of our Temple
in theatrical, convention, and civic circles through personal contacts and

correspondence. We have been appointed a Director of the San Francisco and Visitors Bureau to fill a vacancy on the Board. This will
continue to be a very valuable point of contact for our future activities.
Our Temp~e has great dignity, beauty, comfort, and prestige for
those ':"ho. use 1t. We expect with realignment of our personnel to effect
the Objectives planned. We are happy to play a part in the operation of
our California Masonic Memorial Temple, and are most appreciative
of the confidence which you as Trustees have placed in us. It is our
hope that we shall fulfill your expectations.
Respectfully submitted.
GEORGE D. GAVIN, Manager

Referred to Committee on Finance.

164

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON DISTRIBUT ION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
The Committee on Distribution, to which bas been referred the
Annual Message of the Grand Master and Reports of the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary, submits the following report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
herein listed be referred to the Committees indicated:
1. To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
All decisions of the Grand Master, the same being numbered 1
to 5 inclusive.
2. To the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General Purposes, and on Finance :
The matter of the establishment of a museum at the Columbia
Temple.

3. To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
a. The edict with reference to members of Cuban Lodges.
b. The recommendatio n that cornerstone laying and dedication
ceremonies by Grand Lodge be confined only to public buildings.
c. Recommendati on for the expansion of the Committee on Constitution Observance.
d . The recommendatio n that a study be made of our present overall committee structure.
e. The recommendatio n that the work of the Special Commission
on Masonic Practices be continued.
4. To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Finance:
a. The recommendatio n that the Homes fee for sojourners be
maintained as at present.
b. The recommendatio n that the California Freemason be sent to
every California member at Grand Lodge expense.
The Message of the Grand Master reflects a year of untiring efforts
in promoting the welfare of the Fraternity and accomplishmen ts which
will be beneficial to the Craft for many years to come. The forthright
and effective manner in which he pursued the problems of the Fraternity
provide a fund of knowledge from which all Masons can draw. The
spirit and direction which his activities gave to Masonry during the year
reaffirm that the enduring strength of the Craft is encompassed by the
three basic tenets: Brotherly love, relief and truth.

165

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We recommend the referral of this report in its entirety to the Committee on F ina nce.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

We recommend the portions of the Grand Secretary's Report herein
listed be referred to the Committees indicated:
1. That portion of the report relative to changes of meeting place
to the Committee on Charters.
2. That portion of the report respecting Lodge consolidations to the
Committee on Charters.
3. That portion of the report relating to the per capita tax paid
by Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge U .D. to the Committee on
F inance.
The Reports of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary continue to reflect the services which these two offices are performing for
the Craft and for Grand Lodge. The staff of the Grand Secretary's
office is to be congratulated for the services they are performing for the
Lodges of California and for their individual helpfulness on all occasions.
Respectfully submitted,
NILES 0. MILLAR
TED R. SrEMS
KE NDALL
C OLE

c.

Adopted.
At 4 : 10 p.m., Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m .. Tuesday.

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAN D LODG E

record has been achieve d with the distribu tion of 160,000 Preamb les
by the Lodges in Californ ia and Hawaii.
With this backgro und of activity , it can be stated that Lodges and
District s through out the jurisdic tion have joined togethe r to show the
public where Masonr y s tands on the subject of the Constitu tion. The
doors have been opened and a ll have been invited to particip ate in such
a variety of program s: parades , concert s, tableaus , Commu nity sings,
picnics, speech and essay contests . proclam ations by public officials
.
address es by leading figures, costume balls, radio and televisio n "public
service" coverag e, naturali zation ceremon ies and numero us other outstandin g affairs.
Final credit must go to the Masters , to their Constit ution Commi ttees. and to the Masons themsel ves whose interest and support assured
success. Our hearty congrat ulations to every Lodge where a success ful
Observa nce was held.
In conclus ion, your Commi ttee unanim ously offers one recomm endation; namely, that its status be elevated from that of a Special Commit
tee to that of a Standin g Commit tee of the Grand Lodge. It is felt that
Masonr y's support of the Constitu tion should not take second place to
its support of any of the other great bulwark s of freedom and, therefore. that conside ration should be given at the appropr iate time to this
recomm endation .
Finally, your Chairm an is retiring and wishes to express warm and
sincere thanks to the Grand Master for the honor of serving and deep
apprecia tion to the Commi ttee member s for their help.
Respectfu_lly submitt ed,
HAMBLETON F. LEAS
JoHN F. PORTER
CARL E. MuMPER
ROBERT D . LINTNER
REYNOLD c. MACDONALD
WILLIAM G. BUXTON
ORAN w. PALMER
DANIEL M. CAMERON
EARL PATTERSON, JR.
WM . A. LoN FISHBACK
}ACK B. PATTERSON
}OH N C. GILBERT
EDWARD W. WREDE, }R.
CHARLES L. HAPAI
}AMES R. YouNG
Referre d to Commi ttee on Finance .

MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15. 1963
Grand Lodge wa s called on at 9: 30 a. m. , the Grand Master presiding. The invocat ion was delivere d by the Grand Chaplai n. The
minutes of the morning and afterno on sessions of Monday . Octobe r 14,
were read and approve d.

REPO RT OF COMM ITTEE ON
CONS TITUT ION OBSER VANC E
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
" . . . one Nation, under God, indivisib le, with Liberty and Justice
for all." When did we become a Nation? The Revolut ionary War made
the Americ an colonist s indepen dent of Great Britain, but it did not
make them a nation. The Articles of Confed eration created a league of
states with common interest s. But the history of the United States as
a Nation really began when the Constit ution was adopted one hundred
seventy -six years ago.
Of the thirty-n ine statesm en who signed the Constitu tion, twentythree are said to ha ve been Masons . It is therefor e fitting indeed that
this greatest of fraterna l orders sponsors annual public observa nces
commem orating the signing of the Constit ution.
Your Commi ttee on Constitu tion Observ ance takes pride in offering
assistan ce to the constitu ent Lodges in plannin g their celebrat ions.
Under the strong leadersh ip of the Grand Master, with the enthusia stic
support of the Ritual Commi ttee and the Inspect ors' Corps. and with the
coopera tion of Scottish and Y erk Rite Bodies and related organiz ations,
the Masoni c Lodges of Californ ia and Hawaii have demons trated an
increasi ng interest in this program .
To review our activitie s briefly for the record, the Commi ttee edited
and publish ed the Constit ution Observ ance Guide as a plannin g tool
for the Lodges. Fifteen Commit teemen. each function ing in his own
geograp hical area, accepte d the invitatio ns of interest ed Inspect ors
to
attend District Schools of Instruction and discuss Observ ance plans
with Lodge Officers and Constitu tion Chairm en present. Special commendati on should go to those Inspecto rs who respond ed and made these
visitatio ns possible, thereby greatly facilitat ing the work of this Committee.
It is notewo rthy to report the increasi ng success of our "Pream ble
Program ." An attractiv e parchm ent sheet, showing the flag in color.
the Preamb le to the Constitu tion, and indicati ng sponsor ship by local
Masoni c Lodges, is made available to the Lodges at nomina l cost with
the suggest ion that copies be distribu ted to public schools, churche
s,
civic groups and at Constit ution Observ ance program s. This year
a

167

REPO RT OF COMM ITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In the report of this Commit tee a year ago, attentio n was called to
the provisio ns of Section 343 as amende d in 1961 . The detail involved
concern ed the situatio n for those Lodges whose designa ted date for
Stated Meeting could occur during the five days of the Annual Communicat ion and whose individu al By-Law s, as reflected in the records

168

PROCEED INGS OP THE

of the Grand Secretar y's Office, did not contain provision for an alternate meeting date. A survey was made covering all Lodges which
might be so involved.
The above survey brought to light the many instances in which the
records referred to did not contain a copy of the Uniform Code as
adopted and submitte d for approval .
To remedy both types of deficiency a_s involved in Lodges whose
designat ed date for Stated Meeting might occur within the period of
the Annual Commun ication, a letter was sent to each of these Lodges
suggestin g they adopt and submit the complete Uniform Code, including a specified alternate date.
The cooperat ive response of the Lodges has been very gratifyin g.
Of 86 Lodges to whom the letter was addresse d, 52 have promptly
complied with the request. Of the 34 Lodges which have not yet taken
the suggeste d action, only 6 have Stated Meeting dates which fall during the period of this Annual Commun ication. The large number of
Lodges so involved explains the high number of instances of adoption
of Uniform Code as included in this Report.
During the past year close contact has been maintain ed with the
office of the Grand Secretar y and all cases of action by a Lodge in
adopting or amendin g By-Laws have been reviewed promptly . We wish
to commend the care and effectiveness with which the staff of that
office have studied each item submitte d to them and have immedia tely
taken steps to correct any procedur e which failed to comply with the
requirem ents of the regulations. In the very few instances where an
error or misunde rstanding was subseque ntly discovered, the same type
of efficiency has been demonst rated by the staff in correspo nding with
the Lodge involved and bringing about correct understa nding and procedure.
The items reviewed by the Committ ee show the totals of action by
the Lodges to be as follows:
Increasin g Fees ....................................................10 Lodges
Decreasi ng Fees .................................................. 3 Lodges
F ixing Affiliation Pee.......................................... 2 Lodges
Decreasi ng Affiliation Pee.................................. 2 Lodges
Rescindi ng Affiliation Pee.................................... 4 Lodges
Increasin g Dues ..................................................56 Lodges
Changin g Date of Stated Meeting ................... .11 Lodges
Changin g Time of Stated Meeting. ................... 1 Lodge
Provision for Legal Holidays.............................. 6 Lodges
Re Charity Committee........................................ 3 Lodges
Uniform Code of By-Laws............................ ....62 Lodges
Change of Meeting Place....................................l 7 Lodges

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORN IA

169

AMENDM ENTS TO BY-LAWS

Increasing fees: Curtis No. I 40, to $75.00; San Simeon No. 196,
to $75.00; Athens No. 228, to $90.00; Fullerton No. 339, to $ 125.00;
San Dimas No. 428, to $65.00; Yorba Linda No. 469, to $100.00:
Clarence F. Smith No. 482, to $115.00; Azure No. 533, to $125.00; Baldwin Park No. 660, to $115.00; Mother Colony No. 750, to $105.00.
Decreasi ng fees: San Diego No. 35, to $100.00; Silver Gate No.
296, to $100.00; Los Alamitos No. 809, to $100.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Providen t No. 609, at $ 10.00; W illiam D .
Stephens No. 698. dual or plural. at $25.00.
Decreasi ng affiliation fee : Sun Garden No. 530, to $5.00; Sierra
No. 788. to $5.00.
Rescindi ng affiliation fee: Wilshire No. 445; Mount Olive No. 506;
La Canada No. 739; Tila Pass No. 797.
Increasin g dues: Volcano No. 56, to $15.00; Santa Rosa No. 57,
to $18.00; Gravel Range No. 59, to $15.00; Arcata No. 106, to $20.00;
Table Mountai n No. 124, to $21.00; La Fayette No. 126, to $20.00;
Woodbr idge No. 131. to $15.00; Curtis No. I 40, to $15.00; San Simeon
No. 196, to $15.00; Athens No. 228, to $15.00; Santa Ana No. 241. to
$18.00; Pomona No. 246, to $18.00; Tuscan No. 261 , to $18.00; Durant
No. 268, to $20.00; Selma No. 277, to $18.00; Mount Shasta No. 281.
to $15.00; San Miguel No. 285, to $15.00; Mt. Jackson No. 295, to
$21.00; Sisson No. 310, to $18.00; Fullerton No. 339, to $21.00; H ollywood No. 355, to $18.00; Parnassu s No. 388, to $18.00: Balder No.
393, to $18.00; Bay View No. 401, to $18.00; Glendor a No. 404 , to
$18.00; La M~sa No. 407, to $15.00: Lindsay No. 416. to $24.00; Eagle
Rock No. 422, to $18.00; San Dimas No. 428, to $18.00; Carpinte ria
No. 444, to $18.00; Culver City No. 467, to $20.00; Fremont No. 497,
to $18.00; Westwo od No. 501. to $18.00; Silver Cord No. 505, to
$18.00; Bellflower No. 523, to $18.00; Catalina Island No. 524, to
$20.00: George Washing ton No. 525, to $18.00; Azu re No. 533, to
$21.00; Pyramid No. 562, to $20.00; South Park No. 563, to $18.00:
James Madison No. 572, to $18.00; Valley Forge No. 587, to $18.00:
Tujunga No. 592, to $18.00; All States No. 593, to $18.00; Jubilee
No. 604, to $20.00; The Gardens No. 621. to $1 8.00; Palisade s No.
637, to $18.00; Alta Loma No. 643, to $18.00; Hawthor ne No. 647, to
$18.00; La Brea No. 650, to $20.00; John D. Spreckel s No. 657, to
$20.00; Trona No. 684, to $18.00; Crossroa ds No. 696, to $18.00;
Lorenzo No. 709. to 18.00; Five Points No. 779. to $20.00: Granada
Hills No. 790, to $20.00.
Changin g date of Stated Meeting: Summit No. I 12; Phoenix No.
I 78; Orland No. 265; Burbank No. 406; Utopia No. 537; Queen Beach
No. 540; James Madison No. 572; La Brea No. 650; Verdugo Hills No.
727; La Mirada No. 778; Woodlan d Hills No. 811.

170

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Changing time of Stated Meeting: Van Nuys No. 450.
Provision for legal holidays: Salinas No. 204; Azusa No. 305: Sisson
No. 310; Semper Virens No. 552; San Juan No. 732; Pinnacle No. 777.
Re Charity Committee: Guadalupe No. 237; Golden West No. 455:
Mount Olive No. 506.
Uniform Code of By-Laws: Tuolumne No. 8; Nevada No. 13; El
Dorado No. 26; Trinity No. 27; Plumas No. 60; lone No. 80; Table
Mountain No. 124; La Fayette No. 126; Sincerity No. 132: Vitruvius
No. 145; Harmony No. 164; Ferndale No. 193: Confidence No. 203:
Olivet No. 205: North Butte No. 230: Covelo No. 231: Janesville No.
232; Hills Ferry No. 236; Fresno No. 247; Penrhyn No. 258; Durant
No. 268; Arroyo No. 274; Selma No. 277: San Miguel No. 285: Paso
Robles No. 286; Winnedumah No. 287; Porterville No. 303; Los Banos
No. 312; Emmanuel No. 318; Consuelo No. 325; Needles No. 326;
Valle de France No. 329: Kilauea No. 330; Amity-Seal Rock No. 370;
Dinuba No. 385; Coalinga No. 387: Brawley No. 402; Calexico No.
412; Holtville No. 425; Pittsburg No. 429; Claremont No. 436; Carpinteria No. 444; Mt. Oso No. 460; Patterson No. 488; Corcoran No.
490; Atascadero No. 493; Catalina Island No. 524; Sun Garden No.
530; Semper Virens No. 552; Fort Crook No. 575; Santa Maria No.
580; Garden Grove No. 586; Pearl Harbor No. 598; Provident No.
609; James A. Foshay No. 641 ; Travelers No. 692; Anacapa No. 710:
Estero No. 719; Lakeside No. 760; Golden Valley No. 796; Old West
U.D.; Mount Baldy U.D.; Plaza de Los Angeles U.D.
RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Natoma No. 64; Covelo No. 231; Fresno
No. 247; Liberty No. 299; Norwalk No. 315; Buena Park No. 357;
Patterson No. 488; Utopia No. 537; James Madison No. 572; James A.
Foshay No. 641; La Brea No. 650; Westchester No. 703; La Mirada
No. 778; Millbrae No. 792; American River No. 795; Koolau No. 801;
Los Alamitos No. 809.
Your Committee moves the approval of the items reviewed as listed
herewith and the adoption of this Report.
Respectfully submitted,

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History presents the following report:
The members of the Committee express their appreciation to the
Grand Lodge and especially to our Grand Master, Brother Ira W.
Coburn, for the privilege of serving.
Our Grand Master has been most friendly, cooperative, and understanding, so it has been a distinct pleasure to have served under him
during this past year.
The members of your Committee have attended numerous cornerstone layings and other Masonic events where history might be involved. The Colored Slide Lecture "Some Came by Land and Some by
Sea" has been presented to numerous Lodges and Masonic groups.
This lecture, though not a history of Masonry in California, does show
by means of color slides how some of our Lodges, one hund~ed or
more years old, were furnished, and makes one wonder how, with the
limited availability of furnishings of that period, such beautiful furnishings could have been obtained. This lecture is available to Masonic
groups by contacting one of the Committee members.
No new projects were formulated during the year, as it was felt
that Brother Wally Wohlgemuth, who was so ably following in the
footsteps of our one and only Mr. Masonic History . Past Gran~
Master Leon 0. Whitsell, would return to the Committee after his
special assignment this year. He had a number of projects in mind for
the Committee that would add to our historical data for presentation
to the brethren.
With his untimely passing we were unable to follow through with
this program.
We also regret the passing of Brother Frank Everett, who ser~ed
this Committee faithfully and well for many years, and who, like
Brother Wohlgemuth, was greatly loved and will be sorely missed by
all of us.
In order that the Committee can be reorganized, and definite programs can be set up for the coming years, we respectfu.lly request t~at
the ·sum of $500.00 be appropriated for our use durmg the <:ommg
Masonic year to cover expenses of meetings, stationery. and incidentals
required to effect these programs.
Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH H. DOWNS
LEON 0. WHITSELL
RALPH A. HERBOLD
KENNETH B. CONKLIN
A. LEWIS KouE
STANLEY B. GUSTAVSON
LEO J. ToDD

HENRY D. OLIPHANT
ALDEN J. FULKERSON
VIRL BENNEHOFF
THOMAS

w. THURMAN

R. WAYNE FILLPOT
EDGAR E. CHOATE, JR.
Adopted.

171

Referred to Committee on Finance.

172

PROCEEDING S OP THE

REPORT OF COMMIT TEE ON COMMER CIALISM
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California :
Your Committee on Commercial ism is most pleased to report that
infractions of our laws, rules, and regulations continue to lessen in
scope. seriousness, and number.
.
.
There were no infractions called to our attention in connection with
constituent Lodge's activities. In a few instances. apparently t.~rough
inadvertenc e individual members of the Craft were found to be out of
line." By ha~ing them gently admonished corrections were made without hurt to anyone.
At the start of this Masonic Year, our greatest problem continued
to be with privately owned, out of state, so-called Masonic Magazines.
In the report made to last year's annual communicat ion particular mention was made of two such magazines; one published in the Mid-West
and the other in a nearby State. As to the Mid-West publication, which
as far as we know, is still being published. the format, name and
appearance are so changed that it is hard to recognize it a~ .t he. sa~e
publica tion. We have had no complaints nor reports of ~ohc1tahon tn
our jurisdiction since the first of th is year, and we believe that .our
troubles from this source are ended. As to the nearby State publication, it has been giving us less and less trouble. Solicitation in this
jurisdiction apparently has not "paid off" in recent months. Latest
information indicates that this publication has been re-sold and the new
owner does not intend to solicit advertising in this jurisdiction.
From time to time we hear rumors of a ctivities of other so-called
Masonic publications in our jurisdiction but we have not been able to
"pin any down" nor secure anything definite in regard to them or to
their activities.
We have had brought to our attention several infractions by a certain concordant organization which were immediately passed on to
their Grand Officers who quickly took corrective action.
Several violations by appendant groups. both adult and adolescent,
had to be called to the attention of their Grand Officials. In each
instance the fullest cooperation was extended and prompt corrective
action taken.
In our endeavor to bring about conformity with the California
Masonic Code, infractions brought to our attention are generally called
to the attention of the Master of the Lodge and/ or the Inspector when
a Lodge or a Brother is involved. When a prerequisite organization . is
involved we work with its Grand Officers. This we feel is most desirable. not alone for our purposes, but it gives the prer~quisite organization the opportunity to " put their own house in order . . We have found
this to be the most effective way to handle, thus leaving no hard feelings or fences to mend.

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

173

More and more prerequisite groups are "asking before leaping" so
as to be certain that our law will not be violated. This is as it should
be and eliminates trouble all around.
In our report to last year's Communica tion, mention was made of a
cemetery in this State established by one of our Lodges some ninety
years ago for Masons. which gradually through the passing years lost
the Masonic characterist ics and Is now open to all Caucasians. Its name
has continued to carry the word "Masonic" in its corporate title. The
word "Masonic" is now in the process of being removed.
It is not the purpose of this committee to go on "witch hunts." Infractions which we investigate originate in complaints received by Grand
Lodge or are brought to the Committee's attention in various ways.
Once in a while an anonymous complaint is received, to such complaints
we seldom pay any attention. The complainant should either have the
intestinal fortitude to sign his name or not complain. As a matter of
fact our sources of complaint are considered confidential and are never
disclosed.
Let us repeat that continuous vigilance is most necessary if we are
to keep a check-rein on those who violate our law. whether it be through
ignorance. inadvertenc e or willfulness. Unfortunate ly there always
seem to be a few who are unable to conform and who, in order to
promote their own ideas try to find ways and means of circumventi ng
the intent and the spirit of our law instead of following the patterns of
Masonic behavior esta blished by the Grand Lodge.
In the work of this committee. we have at times found it necessary
to call on some of our Grand Lodge officers for counsel and guidance.
Our Grand Se~retary. Most Worshipful Edward H. S iems, several of
the Assistant Grand Lecturers and several Inspectors, when called on.
were most cooperative and gracious--o ur grateful thanks to them.
We particularly wish to express our sincere thanks and appreciation
to the Most Worshipful Ira W. Coburn, Grand Master, who has been
so very understandi ng of our problems and with whom we found it
necessary to counsel on occasions. His assistance and advice have been
exceedingly helpful. We feel highly honored to have served and worked
with him.
Respectfully submitted.
VINCENT P. McMuRoo
WILLARD A. BRAASCH
JACK L. BLAINE
HARVEY A. HARKNESS
ALBERT R. BENNISON

Referred to Committee on Finance.

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REP ORT OF INV EST MEN T COM MIT TEE
To the Mos t Wor shipf ul Gran d Lodg e F. &

A. M. of California:
The Inve stme nt Com mitte e conc ludes its thirte
enth year of activ ity,
and herew ith rend ers its repo rt for the twelv
e mont hs endin g June 30,
1963 . Each year' s repo rt gives a certa in amou nt
of histo rical b~ckground
and basic infor matio n. whic h shou ld be helpf
ul to those atten dmg Gran d
Lodg e for the first time.
The Prud ent Man Rule in modified form
was adop ted by Gran d
Lodg e at its 1950 Com muni catio n. For
the Cons titue nt Lodg es a
Prud ent Man Rule was adop ted in 1951.
The Inves tmen t Com mitte e of Gran d Lodg
e F. & A. M. of California was form ed for the purp ose of admi niste
ring the inves table fun~s
of Gran d Lodg e. the Masonic Hom es of Calif
ornia , and th~ Maso~1c
Hom es Endo wme nt Fund . The Com mitte e
does not supe rvise the mvestm ents of Cons titue nt Lodg es, but Gran
d Lod~e make s the servi ces
of its inves tmen t advis or avail able to the Lodg
es. Man y Lodg es are now
maki ng use of this service, as evide nced by
the following repo rt from
Moo dy's. unde r date of July 30. 1963:
"* * * Our lates t revie w has been
prep ared cove ring a year from
May 14, 1962 to May 14, 1963, and curre ntly
there are files on a total of
267 Lodg es. On the usual basis of activ ity we
cons ider 161 of. these to
be active, the balan ce inact ive (inac tive Lodg
es are those whic h have
not respo nded to Moo dy's perio dic reque st
for an up-to -date list for
revie w). * * * Ther e were ten Lodg es maki
ng an initial inqu iry of us
durin g this past year .
"Esti mate d mark et \'alue of the secur ities in
the activ e Lodg e portfolios as of May 14. 1963 was in exce ss of $8
.000.000. The last previ ous
figure repor ted to you was $7.920.000 .
and the curre nt figure is

$8.019.804.
"Dur ing the year Moo dy's made 376 reque
sts of the Lodg es then_isdve s for portf olio reviews. The actua l
revie ws made were 269 m
numb er. Ther e were only a few perso nal
visits to the office but there
were some 39 telep honic cons ultat ions. "
The Inves tmen t Com mitte e hope s that the
Lodg es are maki ng full
use of this valua ble service.
The Inves tmen t Com mitte e is comp osed of the
Gran d Trea surer , the
Assi stant Gran d Trea surer . the Chai rman of
the Fina nce Com mitte e. the
Presi dent of the Maso nic Hom es Boar d of Trus
tees or a Trus tee of that
Boar d desig nated by him. and the Chai rman
of the Maso nic Hom es
Endo wme nt Boar d or a mem ber of that Boar
d desig nated by him. The
prese nt mem bers of the Inves tmen t Com mitte
e are:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

175

ARTHUR M. WARREN , P.G. M ................ ........
................ .Gran d Trea surer
PAUL A. PFLUEGER. P.M ........................ ........
.......Asst . Gran d Trea surer
FRANK HARWELL, JR .. P.G. M ................. Chai
rman
E. V. STEWART, JR .. P.G .M ........ .. ..... .... ...... Pres , Fina nce Com mitte e
idcnt , Board of Trus tees
Maso nic Hom e s
JoHN M. GoRDON, P.M ............................... Chai
rman , Endo wme nt Board
The Gran d Secr etary , Edw ard H. Siem s, P.G.
M .. acts as Secr etary
of the Com mitte e.
By Ordi nanc e, unde r Secti on 246 (form erly
86) with respe ct to investm ent of Gran d Lodg e fund s, and Secti
on 403 {form erly 152.1 )
respe cting inves tmen ts by Cons titue nt Lodg
es. the following provi sions
preva iled as of June 30, 1963:
GRO UP I. At least 20 % of the fund s avail
able for inves tmen t mus t
be in :
A) Cash and/ or bank acco unts.
B) Obli gatio ns of the Unit ed Sta tes.
C) Obli gatio ns of the State of Calif ornia
and its political subdivis ions .
D) Such othe r securities as are legal inves
tmen ts for savin gs
bank s in Calif ornia or Haw aii (as a mend ed 1959
).
GRO UP II. Up to 20 % may be inves ted in :
A) Othe r evide nces of indeb tedne ss. whic
h are or will be fully
listed and regis tered on an exch ange regis
tered with the
Secu rities and Exch ange Com miss ion a s a
Natio nal Secu rit ies Exch ange , exce pt that this listin g requi
reme nt shall not
inclu de railro ad equip ment trust issues ( 1955
).
B) Prefe rred stock s. whic h are or will
be fully listed and
regis tered on an exch ange regis tered with the
Secu rities and
Exch ange Com missi on as a Natio nal Secu
rities Exch ange .
exce pt that full listin g and regis tratio n of
prefe rred stock
shall not be requi red when ever the comm
on stock of the
corp orati on issuing such prefe rred stock is
fully listed a nd
regis tered on such a n exch ange . prov ided
that such preferre d stock i·s trade d on such an exch ange ( 1956
).
GRO UP III . Up to 60% may be inves ted in:
A) Com mon stock s, which must be full y
listed and regis tered
on an exch ange regis tered with the Secu rities
and Exch ange
Com missi on as a Natio nal Secu rities Exch ange
, exce pt that
this listin g requi reme nt shall not apply to bank
and insur ance
stock s.
B) Shar es of Inve stme nt Trus ts.
C) Shar es and/ or certificates of insur ed Fede
ral or State Savings and L-Oan Asso ciatio ns ( 1957 and 1959
). The amou n t
inves ted in any one Asso ciatio n shall not exce
ed the runou nt
cove red by insur ance .

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

(THIS AMENDMENT APPLIES ONLY TO CONSTITUENT LODGES AND DOES NOT APPLY TO
THE INVESTMENT OF GRAND LODGE FUNDS).
With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and III , the
Ordinance reads as follows: "No such investments, however, shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market
values of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per
cent (or sixty per cent) of the total market va lue of all the cash, bank
accounts and securities held," - the controlling point being that there
cannot be more than 20% or 60% invested in Groups II and III, at the
time of purchase. ( 100% may of course be invested in Group I.)
At the 1959 Communication certain amendments were passed with
respect to the percentages which could be invested in Groups I and III.
Group I was reduced to 20% and Group III was increased to 60 % . In
this connection. it is very important to call a ttention to the following,
which ls contained in the Reports of the Committee on Jurisprudence
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
"Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully calls attention to
the fact that this proposed amendment is permissive only and is not a
directive. Great care should be exercised in making investments under
the authority granted by this proposed amendment."
"Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends the
adoption of Resolution D-7 but with this admonition to the Lodges:
"A) The authority granted is permissive only and is not suggested
as an investment guide under present economic conditions.
"B) That in making investments in Group III the Lodges be most
circumspect in taking advantage of this additional authority.
"C) And that they strictly comply with the provisions of the last
paragraph of Section 403 of our Ordinance-s, to consult with and heed
the advice of the professional investment advisors used by Grand Lodge,
and made available to the Constituent Lodges without charge to the
individual Lodge."
The above comments are included in the reports of the Committee
as they appear on page 282 of the 1959 Proceedings.
At the 1960 Communication Section 403 was amended. as follows:
"The provisions of this section requiring securities to be fully listed
and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Ex·
change Commission as a N ational Securities Exchange. shall not apply
to the Honolulu Stock Exchange. This exception is confined to Lodges
located in the State of Hawaii." (The H onolulu Stock Exchange is
not as yet a National Securities Exchange, as defined by the Securities
and Excha nge Commission.)
Since its formation the Investment Committee has met regularly
every three months. Between quarterly meetings the business of the
Committee is handled by correspondence or telephone.

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFORNIA

177

As stated, we have just completed thirteen years of operation. The
following is a summary of the consolidated market value of securities
owned. plus investable cash, together with a record of dollar income on
these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950, and for each
succeeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1963, including the percentage
income on the market value of each year.
CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES AND JNVESTABL.E CASH•
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) AND DOLLAH INCO'"E (In Parcn theaea)
Income
Per~~
GROUP J
GROUP II
GROUP Ill
TOTALS
Amount
Dat..
Amount
%
%
Amou.nt
%
Amount
Return+
$5,668,829
11/

•ir•

80/ 50

8/ts/G l
8/4/52
7/11/53
7/ 31/54
7/ 11/ 55
7/81/56

t/80/ 57°•
&/80/58
1/ 30/59
1/30/ 60
1/30/6 1
l /S0/62
1/80/ 68

($9 4,280)
4,558,248
($74,084)
4,21 8,637
($85,827)
4,693, 120
($102,38 1)
4,851.294
($95.258)
6 ,630,942
($126,621 )
6.011,460
($157,122)

6,205.938
($153,234)
6,397,647
($174.6 62)
6,664. 915
($242,718)
7,249,780
($ 282,574)
6, 741. 788
($246,625)
4 ,835,115
($169,025)
7 ,130,955
($256.948)

92.•

76.8
63.4
68.6

61.8
55.5

64.l
48.0
4S.1
48.8
63.8
41.4
30.4
34.8

s 102,140

1.7
($4,262)
889,000
6.5
($16,652)
574,096
8,7
($ 20, 832)
H9,627
8.5
($19,394)
771,lH
9.2
1$27 ,963)
678,610
6.7
($2',394)
l,596,Sfi2
14.4
($63,:.88)
1,928,381
17.0
( !S9, 399)
2,263, 739
17.9
($96,946)
l,8>4,635
18. 5
($87,858)
2,379,050
17. 7
($117,031)
2,951,093
18.1
($137,967)
3,101,090
19.S
0147,489)
1,522,535
7.6
($65,373)

s 364,003

5.9

( $22,056)
1.025, 725
17.2
($63,203)
1,856, 121
27.9
( $98.614)
2, 208,658
29.9
($112,815)
8. 278.814
89.0
($1.'i2,076)
3,820.1192
87.8
($158,330)
8,505.096
31.S
($100,697)
4,192.291
37 .0
($ln? ,673)
4 ,87~.339
38.9
(~225,340)

5.270.2 17
($186,854)
8.837 ,628
($14 ~.233 )

6.589,01 1
<i221.222)
7,973,485
($323,243)
11.068,171
(1875,150)

38.2
28.5

I 6.12• , 471
($120,598)
5,972,968
($1 68,939)
6,648.854
($205,272)
7.381 ,305
($236,690)
8,40 1.255
1$275,296)
10.129.544
($309.345)
11 , 113,108
( f371,407)
11 ,326. 608

($440.306)
12,529,625
($ 4U6,948)
13,789,767
($517.425)
13.466,458ft
(~541.8~8)

40.5
50.1
57.6

16,28 1,892
($605,814)
15,909,690f
($639,757)
19, 721,661
($697.•71)

1.97
5.58
S.09
1.21

3.28
S.05
8.84
8.92
8.97
3. 75
4.02
3.72
4.02
3.64

•Savlng1 hRnk deposi t• with interest e11tned thereon nre included in Group r.
tOn market value.
••Fiecal year chanired to J une 80.
ttThe amoun: of $1,180,000 " '.88 \vithd rnwn fr om the Muonie Homes General Fund and the
amount
of $80.000 from the Fhnt Fund, to pay for the new h ospital at D""oto (Uital $1 215 000
withdrawn).
•
•

~ amount of Sl28,000 w11a withtlrawn from the Grand Lodge portfolio to fund the unpaid
lance of Grand Lodge Pension F\md.

During the past year securities were sold a t prices yielding
$206.167 .61 more than their cost, thereby increasing the asset value.
Since the inauguration of the Prudent Man Rule in 1950, this total
amounts to $3,167.813.61. Sales always remain a part of capital assets
and are never included in income totals. With respect to the Endowment Fund, no capital assets a re ever withdrawn fro m the Fund.
Endowment Fund contributions made through the Lodges amounted
to $741.241.47 for the year ended June 30, 1963. Other gifts a nd
bequests for the Masonic Homes amounted to $1,024,140.77 (which
includes items other than stocks and bonds). The Masonic Homes
Board of Trustees determines how these gifts and bequests are allocated

178

PROCEED INGS O P THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

- these a llocation s are ma de in accordan ce with s pecific bequests . or
in the absence of such , at the direction o f the Trustees . The Endowm ent
Fund contribu tions remain in that Fund. a nd only the income is used.
The Investme nt Committ ee was informed at the February , 1962
meeting that two construc tion projects were to be undertak en at the
Home for Aged at Union C ity (Decato ). a t a cost of approxim ately
$1,500,0 00. While the money would not be needed for about a year.
neverthe less the Committ ee conclude d to make some funds ava ilable
as soon as possible. w hich was done. The major amount was invested
in one year bank certificat es of deposit. Inasmuc h as bank savings now
earn interest from date of deposit to date of withdraw al, this too has
come in good stead for readily available funds.
It was reported a t the Februa ry, 1963 meeting that work was a bout
to begin on the new building referred to above. which is to house 91 additional r esidents. a nd also on the employe es ' dormitor ies. It was expected that this work would start about April l , and run to February .
1964 - the total estimate d cost of the whole project ( a lteration s, furnishings, etc.) is about $1.500.0 00. The cost of the building will come
from the General Fund and the cost of the furnishin gs from the Flint
Fund. As mentione d above. some sales were ma de from the General
Fund in anticipat ion of requirem ents, and the funds placed in certificates of deposit earning 3Yi and 4 % interest.
May we also call attention to the fact that the to tal portfolio has increased since Novemb er, 1950, from $6,124,471 to $19,721, 661. or
about 222.01 %. and at the same time the income has increase d from
$120.598 to $697.471 , or 478.34 % . As mentione d above, $1 .215 .000
was withdraw n for the new Decoto hosp ital in the year ending June 30,
1960, $128 ,000 was withdraw n in the yea r ending June 30, 1962. to fund
the unpaid balance of the Grand Lodge Pension Fund and approxim ately
$354 ,000 was withdra wn for new dormitor y a nd living quarters for employees. The cost o f the construc tion being done in 1963/ 64 w ill be
withdraw n from next year's totals.
The following is the consolid ated investme nt portfolio of Grand
Lodge. with ma rket values as of June 30, 1963, divided into the various
groups, a nd showing the percenta ge of each group, together with the
income ret urn for each group on the ma rket value.

M a rket
Value

Cash ..........................................$ 1,709,791
Bank certificates of deposit..
600,000

Bonds:

Per C<nt

lncom•

Return on
Market

8.4
3.0

$ 59,842
22,250

3.5%
3.7

U. S. Governm ent.. ................. . 3,251 ,664
Municipa ls ............................... .
94,500
Railroad Equipme nt ............ .. 1,475,000
Total Bonds.......................... 4,821,164
TOTAL GROUP !... ...........$ 7,130,955

116,929
3,050
54,877
23.4
34.8

174,856
$256,948

GROUP II
Bonds:

Miscellaneous ..........................$
Industria ls ................................

45,770
970,365

Total Bonds ................. .........$ 1,016,135

Preferred Stocks:

Public Utility ..........................$
Convertibles ................. ...........

$
5.0

14,400
492,000

Total Preferred Stocks......$ 506,400
TOTAL GROUP 11............$ 1,522,535

$ 43,221
$

2.6
7.6

2,076
41,145
4.3

640
21,512

$ 22,152
$ 65,373

4.3
4.3

GROUP III
Common Stocks:

Railroad ................................... $ 491,100
Public Utility .......................... 2,326,848
Industrials ................. ............... 5,144,307
Finance .................................... 3,105,916
TOTAL GROUP III..........$11,068,171
GRAND TOTAL .......... $19,721,661

$ 20,740
87,138
179,648
87,624
57.6
100.0

$375,150
$697,471

3.4
3.5

..In the above schedule t he r l\ilroad equipment trust i••ues are figured
figured at marke t, t he tot.al value of t he portfo lio would lie e1>1>ro ximntely at Pnr. If they we""
$21 626 le•• tha n the
above figure of $19,721,661.
'

We have three principal a ccounts. the Masonic Homes Endowm ent
Fund, the M asonic Homes G eneral Fund. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
Californ ia , (plus the several smaller funds of the Masonic Homes ) . The
record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, ther eby reducing our cost
very ma terially. H owever. Grand Lodge records are kept separate as to
each fund. as a re the records of the Investme nt Committ ee. As a matter
of interest, we list here the market value of the portfolio s of the
individua l funds, together with the income and yield a t market prices:
Total Valu~•

Masonic Homes Endowment Fund ..................$14,224,48
Masonic Homes General Fund ................. ......... 3,980,9388
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California..............
882.484
Masonic Homes Flint Fund ................. ...............
362,202
Masonic Homes Luckenbach Fund ..................
75,653
Masonic Homes Brigham Scholarsh ip Fund ..
42, 161
Masonic Homes Residents ' Deposits Fund ....
35,602
Masonic Homes Perine Fund ............................
17,494
Masonic Homes Student Loan Fund ..............
16,628
Masonic Homes Wadleigh Fund ........................
12,500

lnrome•

Yield•

$506,821
133,017
32,074
12,985
3,045
1,503
1,360
610
680
423

3.56%
3.34
3.64
3.59
4.04
3.56
3.82
3.43
4.09
3.38

(•aa of J une 30, 19G3, in c luding inv~tnble cash. Intereat on
11ccounl• lnveotable cuh
only. ie figured nt 31h%. I n t h ia tnble r Rilrond eq uipment t aavings
issue• are t1irured at p...,,..,nt
market vnluc. _A ll of these fl gureM are rui of Ju ne 30. 1963. ru•t
and
the
yield
on the invcetmenU!
would v ary during the yea r. depending u1>0n the many factors which are irw
olved).

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFOR NIA
CONSOL IDATED PORTFO LIO- JUNE 30, 1963
(Market Value••)

GROUP I

179

3.7
3.6

The Masonic H o mes of Californ ia holds va rious Masonic Temple
shares or certificat es. lis ted as follows:
1
2
9

46
1
1
20

share Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd. capital stock
shares Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton capital stock
shar es Dunsmui r Masonic Temple Assn. capital stock
shares Masonic Hall Associati on of Alameda capital stock
cert. of members hip San Gabriel Masonic Temple Assn.
cert. for 10 members hips Rio Vista Masonic Temple Assn., Inc.
certs. Masonic Hall Associati on of Ontario

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

These evidences of debt or certificates are owned by the Masonic
Homes of _California. It would be appreciated if negotiations were undertaken by those Lodges or Temple Associations who could afford to
redeem these certificates. The Investment Committee would greatly
appreciate your consideration of this request. Just write to the Grand
Secretary for further information.
The entire portfolio is listed in the Auditor's Reports, and, therefore,
is not included herein. The securities are held in safekeeping for Grand
Lodge by the Trust Department of the Crocker Anglo National Bank,
at its One Montgomery Street Office, San Francisco.
The matter of stock dividends was discussed at the meeting on May
14, 1963. Whether or not stock dividends should be considered a part
of current income is a topic of discussion among financial institutions.
There is no uniform procedure as yet, although the majority apply stock
dividends to principal. It was the thought of the Committee that further
study should be made before any changes are recommended to Grand
Lodge. It was also suggested that an analysis be made of the value
of the stock dividends received by Grand Lodge. As a matter of
information, the stock dividends received by the various funds during
the past year had a value of approximately $68.500.00.
We have had excellent attendance at our Investment Committee
meetings. as has been the case in the past.
Again we come to that place in the Investment Committee report
when we try to summarize in few words the financial and investment
outlook as we see it.
We can again definitely state that we continue to pursue a conservative cour,se, with the objective of obtaining the greatest amount of
protection for our funds. under conditions as they exist.
The problems do not diminish, but we are prepared to meet them as
they arise. Fortunately, we can move swiftly, which we have done
when necessary.
We again repeat that our course of action can be quite different
from that of the individual for a variety of reasons. This statement is
made so as not to influence personal actions.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary. the Assistant Grand Secretary,
and my thanks to the members of the Investment Committee for their
wholehearted and generous cooperation at all times.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment Committee -

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MASONIC CLUB
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT LOS ANGELES

JoHN M. GORDON
FRANK HARWELL, JR.

E. v. STEWART, JR.
ARTHUR M. WARREN
PAULA. PFLUEGER, Chairman
Adopted.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
A detailed explanation of the Club's social activities is not necessary
at this time as we gave a .fairly complete summary in our report last
year, and the same schedule is applicable now.
Our Masonic Club movie continues to stimulate interest. We are
constantly getting requests for it from Lodges in both Northern and
Southern California, and it is always well received.
The matter that gives us the most concern, however, and one that
seems to be of concern to most Lodges, is the falling off of membership
and poor attendance.
A brochure has been printed. and by the time this report is incor~
porated in the Proceedings of Grand Lodge. we hope all Lodges will
have received their copies for inclusion in a monthly mailing with the
Trestle Board. This brochure gives many interesting details regarding
both clubs and it is hoped that it will be of <Sufficient interest to the
entire California membership so that their sons and daughters will be
made aware of the Masonic Club facilities at both Berkeley and Los
Angeles, and that those attending both universities will avail themselves
of those facilities. It is only by constant publicity that we will be able
to increase our membership and extend those benefits to those eligible.
We, in Los Angeles. are faced with the very difficult task of finding
a replacement for our very efficient, exceptionally capable Director, Mrs.
Faith C. Sheldon. who will retire on a service pension December 31.
1964. She has had over twenty years of faithful and loyal service and
while she well deserves her retirement, we shall certainly view her
going with extreme reluctance. She has done a really outstanding job.
We regretfully report the passing. during the year, of our Brother,
John R. Klarquist, who served on our House Committee for so many
years. Brother Klarquist, in his business life, was a general contractor
and his guidance and advice in the operation of our Club were invaluable; he will certainly be sorely missed.
The Grand Master appointed as a replacement for Brother Klarquist, Brother Herbert H. Cooper. who returns to our Board after an
absence of one year.
Again, as before. your Board of Directors feels gratified at the
functioning of the Club during the past year. and are proud to have
served in this very important adjunct of Grand Lodge.

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The budget for the fiscal year 1963-196 4 is shown below.
Respect fully submitte d,
1963
1964
1965
S. Rov HowELL,
PAUL R. NICHOLS.
HERBERT H. COOPER
Vice President
Presiden t
F RANK M . JENKI NS
c. EARLE CRANE,
THOMAS CARROLL
GEORGE KussMAN
Secretar y-Treasu rer ELVIN c. DRAKE
CLYDE c. SHOEMAKER
GEORGE E. HALL
M . A. DU NCA N
A . CURTIS SMITH
BATES MASON
EDWIN w. WADE
FRANK H. REINSCH
Referred to Committ ee on Finance.

BUDGE T 1963-1964
MASON IC CLUB
UNIVE RSITY OF CALIF ORNIA AT LOS ANGEL ES
1962-63
EXPENSE
Director ····---···-···--·--···-·····-··--·-···-·····-·-·-·····-·········$ 4 ,274 .SO
Associat e Director ·····-·-·----· ··············· ·······-··--····· 1,401.96
Building Assista nts ····-·····--··- --·········-···-············· 1,730.41
Gardenin g and Gardenin g Supplies .............. ....
599.70
Newspap ers and Magazin es..............................
96.52
Hea t, Light, Water a nd Power.......................... 1,243.61
Building Repairs. Supplies and Replacem ents. 5,296.25
Telepho ne ............................-... ............................
431.49
Office Supplies .......................................... ..........
22 .86
Postage ................................................................
14 7 .4 7
Taxes:
Property ....................................................... . 3,779.15
Withhol ding -·········--·--···········-··--·······-·-·--·····- 1.294.36
Payroll ............................................................
728.12
Insuranc e ......... ........................................... ......... . 1,871.03
S afe Deposit Rental.. ......................................... .
5.50
Auditing ............................ .............. ....................
150.00
Printing and Statione ry..................................... .
834.91
R efuse Service ....................................................
144.00
Retireme nt Fund Payment (Faith C. Sheldon )
180.00
436.32
Miscella neous ·············· ···········-·············-······- -···--D eprecia tion -----·-····-···········-···-·---.. ·-·--·-·-·············
Total ............................................ ...... $24,668.46

0 ur Deprecia tion is determin ed as follows:

Building and Landsca ping
(less deprecia tion) ·····-- ········-······----·······-$41 .697.03
D epreciation on basis of fourteen years ........ ....... ........ .
Our actua l expense increased during the past year due to

BuDGET
$ 5.700.00
1,500.00
1.800.00
600.00
100.00
1,300.00
3.000.00
430.00
50.00
200.00
3,800.00
1.350.00
750.00
1.200.00
5.50
150.00
300.00
144.00
200.00
1.200.00
2,978.00
$26,757. 50

$2.978.0 0

183

the necessity of replacing plumbing in the dressing rooms
and also to the installati on of showers in the latter.
Inasmuc h as Furnitur e and Equipme nt was fully depreciated last year our Deprecia tion is less.

REPOR T OF THE BOARD OF DIREC TORS
OF THE
MASON IC CLUB AT THE UNIVE RSITY
BERKELEY, CALIF ORNIA
To the Mo st Wor shipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M . of California:
One of the very importan t message s we desire to convey to
Grand Lodge in this report is our great apprecia tion, expresse d by
us not only for the members of this Board. but also for the hostesses
and the students , for the sincere interest, faith and confiden ce of our
Grand Master a nd the officers of Grand Lodge in this importan t
Masonic project. The Grand Master took time out from his very
busy schedule to a ddress the students a t one of their initiation s and
reception s and in his address to them asked the student Presiden t to
give him, through the Board, a personal report on their progress. In
answer to Presiden t Ja mes R. Cox's letters which followed that request, Brother Coburn wrote this on April 2, 1963 :
"Dear Mr. Cox:
"I want to thank you for the two excellen t reports that have been
sent to me in regard to the activities of the Masonic Clubhouse at
the Universi ty ..
" I want to congratu late you, not only on the complete ness of the
reports but the excellent picture you have portraye d on your activities. The Grand Lodge of Ca lifornia will support this activity more
strenuou slv if it is known that every effort is being made to increase
the memb~rs hip roster, bearing in mind, however , that quality comes
first. not quantity . Keep up the good work and I am sure that in no
time the Club will grow. A s I promised . two years ago, I wo uld lend
ever·y help at my comman d to further the interest of the Club and
I am sure my successo r shares my feeling . You will have the pleasure
of hearing him on M ay 4th. Among other things he will tell you of
his plans rega rdin g the future of the club.
" Kindly give my best rega rds to all.
Most sincerely ,
IRA W . COBURN. Grand M as ter."
This Board is dedica ted to the very objective a bove set forth by
our Grand Master. viz : "to increase the members hip roster." The
students know this and our two very splendid hos tesses know it also,

184

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

and all of us are strivin g const antly to attain this
goal. We are just
now begin ning to get some result s - very gratif ying
results - from
the new Broch ure which was last yea r prepa red
throu gh the efforts
of our Social Hostess a nd the Public ity Comm ittee
of this Board ;
throu gh the coope ration of the Grand Maste r. Gran
d Secre tary and
Assista nt and the Secre taries of all the various lodge
s in C alifor nia,
to whom we expre ss our thank s and wa rm appre ciatio
n, this pamp hlet
depict ing the advan tages of the two clubh ouses
at Berke ley a~d
Los Ange les and invitin g and urging the members
of our frater nity
to have their families make full use of the facilities
outlin ed and depicted , must ha ve reach ed appro ximat ely 244 ,000
families in the
early part of Septe mber. Nothi ng of this kind has
ever been done
befor e in the histor y of these clubh ouses .
It seems appro priate here to illustr ate the increa sed
emphasis by
the stude nts thems elves on this "publ icity progr am"
and early results
theref rom by quotin g from a letter dated Septe mber
3rd. 1963, from
Mrs. M a ry Kieru lff, Socia l Hostess, to the Presid
ent of this Board ,
in part as follow s :
"Perhaps the most impor tant step forwa rd durin
g the academic
schoo l years of 1962 and 1963 is the treme ndous
effort conce rning
public ity. To list a few :
"1. Skits put on by stude nts at the Maso nic Home (Unio
n City. )
"2. Musical progr am put on in the wards at the Shrin
er's Hospi tal.
"3. Club representati ves at the " Brigh t Side of
Youth ." Our
s tuden t Presid ent opene d the progr am.
"4. Stude nt speak ers at large Maso nic event s:
East Bay Mast er's and Ward en's Brea kfast
Boa rd of Relief Break fast at Sacra mento
DeMo lay State Conv ention s at Fresn o
Order of the Rainb ow. Gran d A ssembly. Sacra mento
Job's Daug hters Conv ention (7,00 0 attend ed) in
Oakla nd
"5. Partic ipa tion in Annu al Comm unica tion (displ
ay in lobby ) .
"6. Inform ative talks made by our Board members
at their own
Maso nic meeti ngs and event s.
"7. Accelerated partic ipatio n in camp us event s, makin
g the Masonic Club know n to the stude nt body and facult y
.
"8. Effective public ations :
"The Broch ure has alread y prove d to be worth all
effort and
expen se. We have receiv ed many inquir ies and subse
quent ly
new memb ers since its distrib ution in April 1963
to every
Bethe l, Rainb ow Assem bly and DeMo lay Chap
ter in the
State; and to the Intern ationa l Chap ters as the Unive
rsity's
stude nt body is made up of stude nts from many lands
.
" Gran d Lodge sent them out to 244,0 00 families
in Augu st

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF O RNIA

185

1963 and we are alread y receiv ing respo nses and memb
ers from
that distrib ution. We have receiv ed checks throu gh
the mail
this summ er for new memb ership s.
"The California Freemason. Judge Cond ee has been
most
gener ous in allotin g space for our article s and photo
graph s
sent him which have been very fruitfu l not only in
new members but in 'solici ting' the suppo rt of the benefactor
from Sacramen to, a Broth er C. M. Goeth e, who has contri
buted $180
to date for our hospi tality fund.
"You th maga zines - as The Cordo n. nation al DeMo
lay magazine, and The Pot of Gold, official public ation for
Rainb ow
Girls.
"This contin uity of conta ct with all Maso nic affilia
tes, the Unive rsity itself, and Grand Lodge was sta rted in 1961 , but
greatl y enlarg ed
in 1962 and 1963. Resum es of the semi- annua
l activi ties were s ent to
the Grand Maste r, Depu ty Gran d Maste r a nd Senio
r Grand Ward en
to keep them perso nally inform ed of our progr am,
our goals and our
'probl ems.'
"The stude nt coope ration is gratifying. This has
been greatl y
amplified by the treme ndous s uppor t of the memb
ers of the Board .
We intend to prove that your faith is not in vain, and
the memb ership
will soar to your expec tation s .. . "
On this same topic, the openi ng parag raph of Presid
ent James
R. Cox's Sprin g Repo rt is illuminating. He states :
"The activities of the Sprin g Seme ster were less typica
l than those
of prece ding semes ters. A renew ed outloo k was appar
ent in severa l of
the activities and projec ts initiat ed durin g this last
term. Partic ipatio n
in the 'Ugly Man' and 'Miss Beaut y' conte sts, public
ation of Murm urs.
prepa ration of a movie depic ting the Club and its
activi ties, and talks
before various Maso nic Bodies are just a few indica
tions of the desire
of the members to make others aware of the Maso
nic Club .•.
"A life memb er and former vice-p reside nt edited
Murm urs , our
news public ation, with two purpo ses in mind. First,
to inform our
members, and secon dly, to provi de a pictur e of the
Club suitab le for
friends and prosp ective members. Copie s were also
sent to most Bay
Area youth group s.
"Thro ughou t the first month s of the semes ter every
activity was
designed to draw in prosp ective members. Most
were free. and alJ
were open to the public . . . I perso nally feel that
the memb ership
as a whole shoul d be comm ended for sacrificing many
of their week ends to help recrui t new members.
"The intern al effort of the memb ership , and the
under stand ing
suppo rt of the Grand Lodg e are absolu tely essen
tial to a more enduring better functi oning Maso nic Club. The memb
ers of the Maso nic

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Club here at Berkeley are trying very hard to increase membership.
for all are aware that if only a limited number of new people join, the
work load for each member will be increased. This has, and will
continue to be detrimental to academic work, and I call for the understanding of the Masons should progress be slow at 11rst; I know,
however, that success is imminent. for we have a fine product to sell."
The augmented Board. increased from 9 to 15 members, has functioned harmoniously this past year. There has been excellent communication between the Board and the students as well as with the
hostesses. We continue to invite to Board Meetings the student
President and Social Chairman and on one occasion our Board met
jointly with the student council. with all the students being greatly
impressed by a talk by Brother A. Hopkins of the Publicity Committee directed to the important business of increasing their membership.
We adopted the Budget in conformity with the appropriation of
Grand Lodge; and the report of the auditor, copies of which have
been furnished to the Finance Committee. (See Exhibit B, page 7
thereof) indicates that we have fairly well lived within that Budget .
considering the figure of $3,777.40 representing our income under
(less than} expenditures for the year ended July 31. 1962 as an
addition to the General Working Fund. Grand Lodge appropriated
and gave us $1 9,100.00 of which we allocated $750.00 to our Insurance Fund, and the balance of $18,350.00 to said General W orking
Fund; this latter amount. added to said sum of $3,777.40, gave us a
total available of $22.127.40 in the General Working Fund. Actually,
we expended and charged to said Fund $22,021.29. leaving an excess
of income of only $106.11. However, it is important to note that our
building is 40 years old and during this past year we found it necessary, after some intensive investigation and work by the Building
Committee a nd Mrs. Janaice Kohl. to rebuild our furnace and expend
therefor $2,012.19. As further shown in said Exhibit B. page 7. the
bulk of our income from interest and dividends was allocated by us
to the Property R eplacement Fund, i.e. $2.172.93 and under Expenditures there was charged for Renovation and Replacement of Property items totalling $1.853.41, leaving a small excess of income over
expenditures in that field of $319.52.
With the appointment of certain new members to the Board has
come inspiration and drive - a challenge to approach the problems
of a Clubhouse with new ideas. This is manifested in a report published by the Publicity Committee of our Board and we feel that
the great effort and considered planning of this group should be
made known to the officers and members of the Grand Lodge. A few
quotations from this report will explain why we are asking for an
increase in the Budget. The Budget for the fiscal year ending July 31.
1964. adopted by the Board. and previously submitted to the Finance

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

Committee, is attached hereto as Exhibit Number One and is incorporated as a part of this report.
" The whole purpose of this Club, of Grand Lodge's investment of the Board who are giving of their valuable time and efforts - is
to reach students and to make these students conscious of the benefits
that can be theirs by belonging to The Masonic C lub. At the present
time less than 100 students belong to the Club, (the membership is
about 95.) To be abreast of an all time record high Be rkeley student
enrollment, to pay off on Grand Lodge's investment. to compensate
for the ti me and ability being put forth by a willing and dedic.:ited
Board. this Club's mem bership should be 400. The goal of your
Board for the year 1963~1964 is 200 - double that which we now have.
To reach this objective - to make Grand Lodge's investment in
this Clubhouse worthwhile and to back up a devoted and ded icated
Board we must have the necessary selling tools in the form of a well
planned promotional and public relations program. We are confident
that with this program we will not only attract more students to our
Clubhouse - but will make other students of the 26.000 on the
Berkeley Campus more appreciative of the Masonic Fraternity. Besides these all important factors - this program will be selling our
Blue Lodges on Our Youth - which is o f vital importance if our
Fraternity is going to continue to grow and exist.
We urge that you give whole hearted considera tion to giving your
Board of D irectors at Berkeley the means to create these necessary
selling tools so that our Berkeley Clubhouse can again attain its right~
ful standing in numbers and strength on the Berkeley Campus and
at the same time IJ1.ake our youth our future Masons more conscious
of our Fraternity. T o instigate this program of attracting more members to our Berkeley C lub this promotional and public relations program calls for Brochure -························-·-·································-········-·····$1 ,000.00
Open House for New Students (Two) ...................... .. 500.00
Spring and Fall Friendship Dinners ............................ 1,000.00
Faculty Invitational Dinner ····························-········--····· 400.00
Two Day Membership Drive - A Breakfast
and Victory Dinner ·········-·······-·-······························ 250.00
M aster and Wardens' Meeting at Clubhouse ········-······· 000.00
Masonic District Visitations ·····--············.. ····················-·· 300.00
Press Releases ··············-·················---······························. 200.00
Press Party ....................................................................... . 250.00
Clubhouse Sign ............................................................... . 1.000.00
University E vents - Campus Participation ................. . 250.00
TOTAL $5,150.00"
It is the hope of the Board that Grand Lodge will approve this

188

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Budget as submitted and that many Masons attending Grand Lodge's
Communication this year may take the time and visit the Clubhouse
on their return from the Home at Union City and observe "This
Home Away From Home" used by the students.
Your Board of Directors deems it a privilege to serve this worthwhile Masonry at this Clubhouse.
Respectfully submitted.
1%3
1%4
1965
CARLISLE D. NIELSON, c. MELVIN DAVIS,
PAUL s. BOREN.
President
Secretary
Treasurer
J. WALTER PROCTOR, ALFRED E. HOPKINS
R. C. HORSTMANN
Vice President
GENE c. OTWELL
WM H. NUTTING, JR.
JoHN L. W1xoN,
EDwARD H. REDFORD EDWARD A. REINKE
Assistant Secretary WALLACE E. YoRK
FRANK s. SPIRES
GORDON F. BLACK
ELTON L. TURNER
Referred to Committee on Finance.
MASONIC CLUB AT THE UNIVERSITY
BERKELEY. CALIFORNIA
BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDING JULY 31. 1964
SALARIES:
Resident Hostess .................... $3,600.00
Social Hostess ·-··-····-·--·-·-·-··-·· 4,000.00
Accountant -------·--·--------·-·-----·-- 600.00
Janitor and Gardener --------·-·--· 1,600.00

$ 9,800.00

UTILITIES:
Gas, electricity and water ·--·-· 1,200.00
Garbage ---------------·-····--·-··-·--·-75.00
Telephone ------------------·--·-·-------· 300.00

1,575.00

SUPPLIES:
Janitorial -·-··--··-···-··-·-···-·--········
Garden ·····--··---·-··-·----------·-··-···
Office and printing ................. .

325.00
100.00
300.00

725.00

TAXES :
Payroll -···---·----·-·-------·--·-····--·-· 350.00
Property -----------····-········-······--- 4,300.00

4,650.00

INSURANCE:
Fire
Liability
Compensation ·------··----···-···-·--·-

1,250.00
$18,000.00

BUILDING AND CONTENTS:
Repairs, maintenance (bldg.) 6.500.00
Repairs, furniture ------------------·- 1,200.00
Replacement, furniture ---------··· 1,500.00
Annual cleaning -------··--------·---- 500.00

9.700.00

PROMOTION-ADVERTISING
STUDENT AND
MASONIC RELATIONS .. 5,000.00
AUDIT --------·-----------·--·-·-·-··--------- 200.00
MISCELLANEOUS --·-·---------·- 150.00

5,350.00

189

15,050.00
DEPRECIATION -----·-··-·--·-····· 4,000.00
TOTAL BUDGET

$33,050.00
4.000.00
$37,050.00

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
An analysis of the report of the Committee on Lodge Financing for
the past year indicates a continuing increase in the interest and progress
in the construction, maintenance and operation of Masonic Temples
throughout the jurisdiction. A ·s tudy of the activities discloses definite
improvement in the administration and management of Temple financial
affairs. This improvement is reflected in a review of the annual financial
statements submitted by the Temple Associations concerning their financial transactions and other matters relating to Masonic Temple fiscal
processes and control. Due to continued educational information furnished by the Committee, resulting in increased interest and excellent
leadership, a great majority of Lodges throughout the jurisdiction are
being managed in a most excellent manner and, almost without exception, are in a very high degree of solvency. During the past year 262
Temple Associations and Lodges have submitted financial statements
and these statements reveal very intelligent and businesslike operation.
Each year more and more Lodges and Temple Associations are establishing necessary cash and depreciation reserves which are so important
for the repair, rehabilitation and replacement of the Temples as required
in the future. The increased and continued success of the financial operations of Masonic Temples gives cause for the Committee to again
recommend to the Lodges (who have not as yet done so) that they
form non-profit Temple Associations to carry on the business and
&nancial affairs of their Temples.

190

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GR/\ND LODGE OP CALIF ORN!f \

In the past year the Comm ittee was required to act
upon 93 specific
applic ations rela ting to the purch ase of prope rty.
the const ructio n and
repair s and other matte rs neces sary to the succe ss
ful condu ct of their
Lodge facilities. The Comm ittee appro ved 29 applic
ations for the transfer of funds from Lodge s to Temp le Assoc iation
s for use in variou s
matte rs relatin g to Temp le const ructio n and maint
enanc e; I 0 reque sts
for conse nt to purch ase prope rty for future Temp
le sites; I 0 requests
to start const ructio n on new Maso nic Temp les;
19 reque sts for the
renov ating and impro ving (and for additi onal const
ructio n) of existi ng
Temp les; 12 requests to borro w funds; eight reque sts
to form non-p rofit
Temp le corpo ration s; three reque sts to purch ase additi
onal prope rty for
expan sion and parkin g purpo ses and two applic
ations to enter into
saHsf actory lease agree ments . This, togeth er with
other misce llaneo us
items. requir ed neces sary action of the Comm ittee
in more than 110
proce eding s. More than I 00 visita tions were m;ide
to var ious Lodge s
to advis e and couns el with the brethr en conce rning
proble ms respec ting
Lodge and Temp le Assoc iation affairs . These visits
. made upon the
invita tion of the brethr en, were most succe ssful, and
in all instan ces the
proble ms resolv ed satisfactori ly to all conce rned .
The Comm ittee wishe s to point out the impor tance
of keepin g the
Masonic Temp les in prope r order and repair . An
unpai nted. rundo wn
Maso nic Temp le casts a very poor light in the eyes
of all who view it.
A well-o rdered Temp le, indica ting good house keepin
g. both inside and
out, will ga in and retain the respec t and regar d of
the neigh borho od
and comm unity in which the Temp le is located. So
much can be done
with very little effort and fin ancin g . We feel that
it is the obliga tion
of the Lodge s to keep pace with the growt h of the
comm unity in which
they are a part. We urge you to contin ually view
your T emples with
clear eyes in order to keep our Temp les and surrou
nding s in such
exem plary condi tion that they will have the respec
t and suppo rt of the
comm u nity which is so neces sary for the succe ss
and growt h of our
frater nity and which will enabl e us to a lways uphol
d the dignit y and
esteem that M asonr y deserv es.
Durin g the period of this repor t a study was condu
cted of severa l
Maso nic Temp le corpo ration s being condu cted upon
a profit corpo rate
basis in an effort to determ ine the corpo rate statu s
of such corpo ration s
and their opera tions. This study was institu ted a t
the request of stockholde rs in such Temp le corpo ration s who were intere
sted as to wheth er
comp liance was being made in all respe cts with the
corpo ration law of
the state and a lso with the Intern al Reven ue laws
as to the laws relat..
ing to taxati on. In almos t every case the study
reveal ed that s~ch
corpo ration s were being condu cted on a firm basis
a nd complying
entire ly with the requir ement s of state and federa l
regula tions. In the
few instan ces where such comp liance was not evide
nt. the Temp le
Assoc ia tions coope rated thoro ughly with the sugge
stions of the Corn..

rnittee and accep ted s uch recom mend ations as were
consid ered neces sary to bring the corpo rate status w ithin the scope
of existi ng laws and
regula tions.
T he Comm ittee recom mend s that the Lodge s and
Temp le Associa tions review their insura nce progr ams annua lly in order
to assure themselves that they are prope rly cover ed in all requir
emen ts neces sary to
protec t the indivi dua l memb ers and the Lodge s from
any loss by liability. fire . theft, or other items nor mally cover ed by
sufficient and prope r
insura nce. In some cases it was found that they
were overin sured .
thereb y result ing in a financ ial loss to the Lodge s and
Temp le Assoc iations. It is furthe r recom mend ed that occas ional exam
inatio n be made
of their status ;is to tax exemp tion requ ireme nts of
the state and fed eral
agencies. The establ ished requir ement s as to ta x exem
pt status shoul d
be strictl y adher ed to in order that no criticism may
be direct ed towar d
the indivi dual Lodge s, Temp le Assoc iation s, or the
frater nity allegi ng
that they are failing or disreg ard ing com pliance with
the requir emen ts
of state and federa l law. As our frater nity so strong
ly advoc ates a nd
promotes the Amer ican way of life. it well behoo
ves us to set an
examp le of our belief s by comp lying in all respe cts
to the la ws of the
land .
The yearly activi ties of the Comm ittee are conta ined
in detail on the
following pages of th is repor t and will be includ
ed in the publis hed
proceedings.

191

AUBU RN MASO NIC T EMPL E Assoc 1ATIO
N
EURE KA LoDGE No. 16

Comm ittee conse nt grante d to enter into a lease
with the Pacific
Telep hone and T elegra ph Comp any; also, consent
to borro w $70.0 00
from the Bank of Califo rnia for the purpo se of remod
eling the Temp le
building in Aubu rn.
SAN LEAN DRO MAso N1c TEMP LE Assoc
rATIO N

(744)

C onsen t grant ed to applic ation reque sting conse nt
to expen d approxim ately $4.70 8.00 for emerg ency const ructio n and
renov ation work.
SAN LEA NDRO MAso Nrc TEMP LE Assoc
rATIO N

Conse nt grante d the applic ation to borro w not to
excee d $45.0 00
(plus costs) for the purpo se of rehab ilitati ng and impro
ving the existi ng
Temp le prope rty in San Leand ro.
AMAD OR LoDGE No. 65

Conse nt granted to applic ation reque sting conse nt to
form the A lpha
Maso nic Temp le Assoc iation with the sugge stion that
a t least $100. 00
be transf erred from Lodge fu nds to the newly forme
d Assoc iation .
AMAD OR LODGE No . 65

Comm ittee conse nt grant ed to the reque st to const
ruct additi ona l
building to Lodge at appro ximate ly $8.00 0.

192

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
AMADOR LooGE No. 65

Committee consent granted to borrow $2,400 from William Leon
for the purpose of completing the Temple building in Jackson.
WoooBRIDGE LooGE No.

131

Application approved to transfer all title (land and improvements)
from Lodge to Woodbridge Masonic Temple Association.
MoRGAN H1LL LoocE No. 463
Consent granted the application to purchase a new Temple site for
Morgan Hill Lodge for $10.000.
KEITH LooGE No. 187
Application approved to purchase property for a new Masonic
Temple in Gilroy. Purchase price of $6,000, plus costs. to be paid in
cash with funds secured from Savings and Loan account.
MARIN LoocE No. 191
Committee consent granted authorizing the expenditure of approximately $17,500 for remodeling and rebuilding work on Marin Lodge in
San Rafael. Such consent being subject to the transmittal of the following :
I. Application requesting consent , setting forth the reasons for the
work, and stating sufficient funds are available for the purpose.
2. Copy of the minutes of Temple Association, if any, and, if not,
minutes of Lodge of action taken authorizing the expenditures.
3. Copy of financial statement (Form 200).
SAN SIMEON LooGE No. 196
Committee consent granted to application of Cambria Masonic
Building Association to purchase property adjacent to existing Temple
property in the sum of $1,200; also, consent to transfer said amount
from Lodge funds to the Association for such purpose.
OLIVET LoDGE No. 205
Application approved to purchase additional property in Corning
for Lodge purposes and to the securing of a loan of not to exceed
$7,500 from the Bank of America for said purchase; also, consent
granted to expend approximately $2,500 to rehabilitate the building
on the (adjacent) property to be purchased.
ARCADIA LoDGE No. 547
Committee consent granted to lease agreement between City of
Arcadia and Arcadia Masonic Temple Association relating to acquisition of property for new Masonic Temple and transfer of present
Temple property to the City.
POMONA LooGE No. 246
Application approved to form the Pomona Lodge No. 246 Masonic
Temple Association, and also the transfer of $550.00 from Lodge funds
to the newly formed (non-profit) Association.

193

READING LoocE No. 254
Application approved to purchase new Temple site for Reading
Lodge in the sum of $25 ,000.
ANcHoR LoDGE No. 273
Committee consent granted the application to install an elevator
in Anchor Lodge at approximately $9.500.
SILVER GATE LoocE No. 296
Application approved to expend approximately $16,000 for the installation of new carpeting throughout the Masonic Temple.
MONROVIA LoDGE No. 308
Application approved requesting committee consent to expend approximately $6,000 for engineer's and/ or architect 's fees for preparation plans for new Temple : also, consent to start construction to enclose
at an approximate cost of $60,000.

315

NoRWALK LooGE No.

Application approved to transfer $5.000 from Lodge funds to the
Building Association for the purpose of completing the new Lodge
in Norwalk.
NoRWALK LoocE No. 315
Committee consent granted the application from the Building Association to borrow $115,000 from Downey Savings and Loan Association for the purpose of completing the new Norwalk Masonic
Temple.
NORWALK LooGE No.

315

Application approved to purchase not to exceed 550 shares in the
Temple Building Association at the rate of $10.00 per share in the
total sum of $5.500.
HoLLENBECK LoDGE No.

319

Application approved requesti ng consent to purchase property adjacent to Temple site for parking and Lodge purposes in the sum of
$50,000; also. consent to borrow $25 ,000 for the purpose of assisting
in such purchase, said appro val and consent being subject to the following conditions :
I. Copy of minutes of meeting of the Lodge authorizing the transfer of funds from the Lodge to the Temple Association.
2. Statement as to the terms of the loan.
AusAL LooGE No.

321

Application approved requesting consent to form A lisa! Masonic
Memorial Temple Association: also, consent to transfer $I 00.00 from
Lodge funds to the newly formed Temple Association.

194

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SAN PEDRO LoDGE No. 332
Committee consent granted the application to expend not to exceed $12,000 for the installation of an air conditioning unit in San
Pedro Masonic Temple; also, consent to enter into a loan. agreem~nt
with the Bank of America for $7.500 to be used in the mstallat1on
(together with available funds).
CARQUINEZ LoDGE No. 337
Committee consent granted to application to transfer U. S. Treasury '"H'" Bond #508278H in the sum of $10,000 !rom the Lod.g e. to
the Temple Association for the purpose of purchasmg a ne~ building
or for the renovation and rehabilitation of the existing Masonic Temple.
PALO ALTo LODGE No.

346

Consent granted the application to expend approximately $4,000
for the building painting program on the Masonic Temple in Palo Alto.
SEQUOIA LoDGE No. 349
Consent granted to request for extension of previ.ous committ~e
action to purchase outstand ing individually held stock m the Sequoia
Temple Association; such extension to be to November 30, 1963.
BuENA PARK LoDGE No. 357
Committee consent granted to expend approximately $20,000 of
available funds for the purpose of completing the new Masonic Temple in Buena Park.
GOLDEN STATE LODGE No. 358
Application approved requesting consent to transfer $3.500 from
Lodge funds to the Temple Association for payment of taxes.
UNITY LoDGE No. 368
Application approved to start construction to enclose the Unity
Masonic Temple in Glendale at an estimated cost not to exceed $85,000.
Such approval being subject to the following conditions:
I. That no contract or agreement be entered into in excess of
funds available for the purpose.
2. That further consent be secured from the committee to complete the Temple.
3. That no funds be transferred from Lodge funds to the Temple
Association without consent of the committee.
UNtTY LODGE No. 368
Committee consent granted to transfer $20,000 from Lodge fun.ds
to the Temple Association for construction purposes on the new Umt·y
Masonic Temple in Glendale; the transfer to be in ~x~hange for 100
shares of regular memberships in the Temple Assoc1at1on.

195

UNIVERSITY L oDGE No. 394

Committee consent granted to borrow $6,500 for the purpose of
redeeming ~utstanding bonds in order that Temple Association may
have clear title to Temple property prior to proposed sale thereof.
119
Committee consent granted to borrow $10,000 from First National
Bank of U~l~nd. for the purpose of remodeling and reha bilitating the
Lodge fac1httes m order to comply with city building code.
UPLAND LoDGE No.

ALPHA LODG E No. 431
Committee consent granted to purchase outstanding shares in
Richmond Masonic Temple Association in a total sum not to exceed
$2,000 or at a price in excess of $10.00 per share.
LANCAST ER LoocE No. 137
Approval granted the application to proceed with format ion of
the new (non-profit) Lancaster Masonic Temple Association, subject
to the condition that all outstanding stock of the old corporation, which
is held by the Lodge, either will be cancelled or transferred to the
newly formed corporation in exchange for regular memberships therein;
also. that title to any property will vest in the new corporation and
that the dissolution of the old corporation will proceed in conformity
with the requirements of the state law.
SAN PASQUAL LoDGE No. 152
Consent granted the request to transfer $10.00 per member per
year for three ~ea.rs from Lodge general funds in exchange for a regular membership m the total sum thereof in the Pasadena Masonic
Temple Association.
RAMONA LODGE No.

457

Application approved requesting consent to expend not to exceed
the sum of $37, 500 for the improvement of the existing Masonic
Temple; also, consent to transfer $5,000 from Lodge funds to the
!emple Association for the purpose of such remodeling and rebuild~
mg. Such consent subject to the following conditions:
1. Transmittal of copies of minutes of Temple Association authorizing the expenditures.
2. That no expenditures are to be made in excess of funds on
hand for the purpose, and no contracts are to be entered into
unless sufficient cash is available.
SUNNYVALE LoocE No. 511
Consent granted to application to transfer $20,000 from Lodge
f~nds to the Tempie Association for the purpose of completing the
first phase of the new Temple construction in Sunnyvale.

196

PROl.EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BELLFLOWER LoDGE No. 523
Application approved to sell 271 contributing memberships in 1-h ,:
Bellflower Masonic Temple Association at $25.00 per membership
for a total amount of $6.775 for the purpose of purchasing property
adjacent to the Lodge for parking purposes.
SAN GABRIEL LoDGE No. 546

Application approved to expend approximately $14.150 for the
installation of air conditioning unit in the San Gabriel Masonic Temple.
ARCADIA LODGE No. 547
Application approved to transfer $9,300 from Lodge fund s to the
Temple Association: also. the transfer of 48 shares of American Tel.
and Tel. common stock from the Lodge to the Temple Association.
Such funds to be used for the construction of the new Arcadia Temple.

557
Application approved to start construction to enclose the new Masonic Temple for Hermosa Lodge at an estimated amount of $21 ,000.
subject to the condition that no funds be expended, borrowed or contracts entered into without further consent of the committee, and that
committee consent be again requested to complete construction.
HERMOSA LoDGE No.

CARMELITA LoDGE No.

599

Consent granted the application to transfer $3.780 from Lodge
general funds to the Pasadena Masonic Temple Association for the
purchase of 378 shares of stock in said association at $I 0.00 per
share. Said funds to be used in the painting and renovating of the
Masonic Temple in Pasadena.
GRIZZLY LODGE No. 601
Application approved requesting consent to purchase of the Odd
Fellows Hall in Portola at a price not to exceed $3.412.12, plus costs,
to be used for Masonic Lodge purposes; also. consent granted to expend $7.500 for the purpose of renovating the building.

R. E. DOLLEY LoDGE No. 616
Application approved to enter into a contract for new construction
work and necessary additions and repairs to the Masonic Temple for
approximately $11,000; also. consent to transfer $10.000 from Lodge
funds to the Temple Association for such purposes.
NoRMAL HEIGHTS LoDGE No. 632
Application approved to start construction on the new Normal
Heights Masonic Temple; said approval is for the expenditure of not
more than $40.000 and is for the enclosure only. Further consent
being required for completion: said approval also being subject to the
condition that no agreements be made or contracts entered into in
excess of available funds and that no funds are to be borrowed or

197

transferred from the Lodge without first securing consent of the
committee.
V1cTORVJLLE LoDGE No.

634

Committee consent granted application to proceed with construction of new Masonic Temple in Victorville at an estimated cost of
$53.588 .50; also, consent granted to transfer $25.000 from Lodge
general funds to the Building Association for the purpose of such
construction.
INDIAN RocK LoocE No. 638
Committee consent granted to the purchase of l O shares of stock
in the Thousand Oaks Masonic Temple Association at $10.00 per
share.
HAWTHORNE LoDGE No. 647
Consent granted to borrow $25,250, plus costs, for the purchase
of additional property adjacent to Hawthorne Temple.
SAN CARLOS LoDGE No. 690
Committee consent granted to transfer $1.000 from Lodge funds
to the Temple Association for the payment of property taxes due.
INDIAN WELLS VALLEY LODGE No. 691
Application approved requesting consent to start construction to
enclose (with utilities) the new Masonic Temple in Ridgecrest, subject to the following conditions:
1. That no expenditures be made or contracts entered into in
excess ~f the funds on hand for the purpose.
2. That no funds be borrowed without first securing consent
of the committee.
3. That upon completion of the enclosure an application be sub~
mitted to the committee for consent to complete the Temple.
YucAIPA LoDGE No.

726

. Com.mittee consent granted the application to purchase property
m Yucaipa for the future site of Yucaipa Masonic Lodge for $10,500,
plus costs.
PoLARIS LODGE No. 730
Committee consent granted the application to form a Masonic
Temple Association (non-profit). subject to the condition that at
least $250 be transferred from Lodge funds to the Temple Association.
HAMILTON LoocE No. 751
Consent granted to purchase property for new Masonic T emple
site in Novato for $I 0,000, plus costs; also, consent to transfer $4,500
from Lodge general funds to the Building Association in order to
consummate the purchase.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CLAYTON VALLEY LoDGE No. 756
Application approved to purchase property for new Temple site
in Concord in the sum of $6,600, plus costs; also. consent to borrow
$600 on unsecured note to be repaid at $175 per month. Said loan to
be used for the purpose of completing the purchase.
M1ss10N BAY LoDGE No. 771

Committee consent granted the request to expend $8,700 for the
construction of an addition to Mission Bay Masonic Temple.
LA MIRADA LoDGE No. 778

Consent granted to application to purchase property for future
Temple construction in the sum of $9,750.
LA MIRADA LoDGE No. 778

Consent granted Lodge to purchase regular membership shares in
the Temple Association. Said purchase to be 17 shares at $20.00 per
share; such funds to be placed in the building fund for future Temple
construction.
SIERRA LoDGE No. 788
Application approved requesting consent ~o borrow n~t to exceed
$36,000 for the construction of the new Sierra Masonic Lodge in
Oakhurst.
OAK PLAINS LoDGE No. 789
Consent granted request to construct the new Masonic Temple
at the estimated cost of $36,000; aJso, consent to transfer $2,000 from
Lodge funds to the Temple Association.
GRANADA H1LLs LoDGE No. 790
Committee consent granted the application to form Granada Hills
Masonic Temple Association, subject to the condition that at least
$250 be transferred from Lodge funds to the Temple Association
when formed.
KooLAu LoDGE No. 801
Application approved for the formation of the Koolau Lodge
Masonic Temple Association and to the transfer of not more than
$750 from Lodge funds to the Temple Association when formed.
Yucc.a. VALLEY LODGE No. 802
Consent granted to borrow not to exceed $25.000 for the purchase
of the interest of the Sojourner's Association and to the transfer of
the property to the Yucca Valley Masonic Temple Associati~n. Such
consent based upon furnishing the committee with the following:
I. Application requesting committee consent to borrow the money,
setting forth the purpose of the loan.
2. Copy of minutes of Temple Association authorizing the loan.
3. Statement regarding terms of the loan.
4. Financial statements (Form 200).

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

199

The past year has been a most successful one in the activities of
th~ Committee and this is largely due to the splendid cooperation received from th.e ?fficers and the brethren of the various Lodges and
Temple Associations. We especially desire to acknowledge our sincere appreciation to the full support and encouragement given by our
Grand Master, Ira W. Coburn, and his officers. Their wisdom in
difficult situations has safely carried us through any "rough seas"
encountered in our endeavors. We are equally grateful to the Grand
Secretar,y and the Assistant Grand Secretary for their counsel and
ad~ice. and also to their efficient and accommodating staff for the
assistance and cooperation given the Committee. Such advice and
assistance provided the Committee in its efforts on behalf of the
constituent Lodges has made our service on the Committee very
rewarding.
Masonry is on the move in California, and will continue onward
so long as its members have the determination and desire in their
hearts to build and to continue to build Temples creditable to the
c·r aft where they may gather together in unity and harmony to dedicate and re-dedicate themselves to work diligently, live creditably
and act honorably by all men.
In conclusion, it is the desire to include in this report a statement
of the Committee'·s high regard and esteem for John T. Bond, member of the Committee who passed away during the year.
In addition to the active, forthright and dedicated manner in which
he engaged in all his civic and Masonic endeavors, he was also recognized as a Senior Statesman in his business ability and success
and became kn'own throughout the country as Mr. Candy Man.
The memory of his good character and good works will live in
our hearts forever; these cannot be lost.
A life such as his does not need any footnotes. It is much better
that a man's good deeds should praise him rather than the words of
another person.
John Bond's life speaks for itself.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK A. GREEN
GEORGE
STURM
IVAN T. CRASE
GLEN
HOLBERT
ARTHUR S. BECKER
RICHARD L. RIEMER
BENJAMIN L. SUSMAN
HALE MEADER

w.

c.

CHARLES

Referred to Committee on Finance.

c. CADMAN

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDE NCE

mailed the quarterly, a nd in January of each year Grand Lod e bills
the Lodge at a rate not to exceed 60 cents for the number of m~mbers
shown on the last An_nual Return. Changes in membership durin th
year do not affect this charge.
g e
The Lodges now operating under this plan are:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The past Grand Lodge year marked the tenth that the Committee
has published the quarterly California Freemason. This has become its
principal function. although all proceedings of sister jurisdictions a re
carefully scanned and reviews are published in every issue. The present
format for the magazine was adopted in 1959.
The California Freemason is an official publication but its articles
do not necessarily present the opinion of Grand Lodge. It has attempted to maintain sound Masonic standards and to give our readers
Masonic information and inspiration, but it must always be understood
that its statements are not necessarily the official position of the Grand
Lodge of California. Articles are printed which have some Masonic
connection and which are educational, informative, stimulating and
even provocative. News of Grand Lodge activities is presented as well
as unusual and outstanding items about individual Lodges, but a
quarterly is not a news magazine and space is not available to mention
every local happening.
The publication of the California Freemason as a quarterly by
the Correspondence Committee was authorized by resolution adopted
in 1954. Section 203 was added to the California Masonic Code in
1957, and this is the present statutory provision for the publication.
The Section reads:
" In addition to its usual and customary duties. the Committee on
Correspondence shall publish and distribute the magazine California
Freemason . Said publication and distribution shall be made at least
once each quarter under the direction of the Grand Master."
This provision authorizes the Grand Master to determine the manner in which the magazine is distributed. The several Grand Mas ters
from time to time have set the subscription price at $1 a year. Sub~
scriptions paid in advance at the time the subscription for one year
is entered bea r a reduction of $.25 per year, which represents the
sa ving in sending expiration notices, etc. As the statutes now stand.
the Grand Master could direct that the magazine be delivered to all
members at the expense of Grand Lodge.
Section 411 of the Masonic Code . which sets out discretionary
expenditures permitted to individual Lodges, was amended in 1957
to provide that a Lodge may in its discretion purchase subscriptions
to California Freemason for its members. Thereafter, the Grand Master determined on what basis blanket subscriptions by Lodges could
be provided for. A number of Lodges now send the ma ga zine to their
entire membership. This pra ctice has more than paid for itself in
increased membership interest. The arrangement for blanket subscriptions is that if a Lodge adopts a resolution so to do, each member is

201

1o. 12, 17, 25. 27, 33. 44. 55. 57. 60, 78. 80, 91. 95. 99. 110. 123. 124
129, 143, 164, 169, 175. 180. 186. I 95. 198, 203. 205, 207 208 211 218.
220. 221 . 228.231, 233, 236. 240. 250, 253. 254. 255. 259: 262: 265. 267.
271. 275. 277, 285, 293. 294, 295, 300. 303. 309. 312. 314. 318, 320: 328.
329, 333. 334. 338.339. 354. 359. 361, 362. 372. 383. 384. 385. 391, 393'
395, 400. 402, 408,409, 421. 425. 427. 428, 436, 458 459 469 472 473 '
493. 504. 513. 519, 524. 531, 532, 546. 555, 573. 580: 582: 586~ 587. 589.
595, 596, 598, 611, 617, 622. 626. 635, 636. 637, 644. 645. 656. 658, 659,
660. 666. 672,677,680. 687, 689, 693. 702, 707, 710. 717 719 720. 722.
731, 732. 735, 739, 741 . 742, 746. 751. 758. 765. 766, 767: 769: 770: 772'.
774. 776. 777, 779, 780. 782. 783. 786. 791, 794. 800. 801 803 804 806
807.
.
.
.
.
These 162 Lodges have -B.681 members.
As of June 30, 1963, there were 33.681 regular subscribers at the
rate of $_1 ~er year (reduced 25 cents after the first year for additional

years ~a1~ m advance at the time of the initial year) .
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30, 1963:
INCOME
Collected from Lodge subscriptions ................... ... $26.382.90
Collected from individual subscribers ............ ..... 22,435.37
Cash sales .............. ,,............................... ...............
22.50

$48.840.77

EXPENDITURES
CosT OF OBTAINING Sussc RIPTIONS :

~rinting .................................... $ 2,467.79
~s~ge -··································· l ,618.23

C erical ....................................
Address Plates........................

9,237.47
3.447.79 $16,771.28

COST OF PRODUCING MAGAZINES :

Printing ................................... . 23.109.38
Pictures and art work..............
197.09
Editorial expense ................. .. .
839.81

24.146.28

COST OF DISTRIBUTION:

Mailing expense ..................... .
Postage ................................. ...
Excess ............... .

I ,828.12
1.154.50

2,982.62

43,900.18
$ 4.940.59

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

There is now $35.168.29 in the reserve for advance subscriptions.
If this is added, it will be $40.108.88.
As far as the Committee is concerned. we have no recommendations
to make for the coming year. We are pleased to work under the direction of each succeeding Grand Master and will continue to produce
as creditable a magazine as possible.
Respectfully submitted,

fulfillment of our aim. Be sure to visit the display in the exposition
hall. There are enough workable ideas on display to fit a lmost any
situation.
The Coordinating Council for Public Schools Week which was
referred to in our report last year, again made Public S chools Week
posters a~d _stickers available to the Lodges. In addition and among
other act1v1t1es they promoted a Pre-Public School Rally at Shrine
Auditorium in Los Angeles at a net cost to them of $447.93. Their
poster pr~gram netted a profit of $1,326.32, making a net profit from
all operations of $878.39 which added to the cash left over from prior
years leaves them with cash on hand of $1. 425.66. The above figures
~re taken ~rom reports submitted by the Council. a copy of which
1s .on file ~11th t_he _Grand Secretary. The latest information coming to
th1>s committee mdICated that the Council might be dissolved, and that
they were considering some means to dispose of the funds on hand.
. The program _o f collection and shipment of textbooks to the Philippines which received such magnificent support from so many of our
Lodges falls short of being an unqualified success due to several unfortunate circumstances.
Fir~t. we assumed that the Grand Lodge of the Philippines was
appealing to the Grand Lodge of California. This was perfectly true
but it happened to be true, also, that they had made an appeal t~
each and every grand jurisdiction in the United States. In addition,
the people of the Philippines appealed to the people of the United
States, and many organizations adopted textbook collection as a project.
About_ the time we arrived home from Grand Lodge last October
troub~e with C~ba was in full swing, and Navy supply ships usually
used m _the Paci.fie were transferred to the Atlantic. By the time January arnved, every available inch of Navy warehouses was filled to
overflowing with textbooks. The flow of textbooks from all over the
country continued.
By t~e time the Cuban situation was relieved. all supply s hips were
presse~ mto service in the Vietnam run. where they are still operating.
Thts, however. was not all. Our latest information indicates that
facilities in the Islands were not available for the textbooks which
did make their way over, and that in Manila there are tons of textbooks stored in the open.
·
We are sorry not to be able to report a more satisfactory conclusion, but _we can ~e ~ruly proud of the response to an appeal. We can
only advise at this time that if you have books on hand, you endeavor
t~ store them until matters mentioned above are cleared up. The matenal sent in the spring of 1963 is essentially for next year's Public
Schools Week program. If it is not now in use. you are already late.
We would like to close this report with an appeal to the Masters
and Wardens. To attain our aim, of an electorate which is informed

202

NEWCOMB CoNDEE
GEORGE
BURCH, JR.
JoHN WuLLSCHLEGER
MAURICE B. Ross
RALPH T. MERRIAM
MAURICE CHERRY
CLEMENT L. CARTER

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
To recite to you the record and accomplishments of the ~ublic
Schools Committee is a lengthy chore, but after months of trying to
condense our story into fitting length and form we will try to limit
ourselves to the bare essentials without any particular form or order.
It has been for years the aim of this Grand Lodge to perpetuate
democracy's greatest tap root. the American Public School System.
It is easily recognized that this major aim c~n only be at~amed by
enlisting the interest of the voting public. An 1_nformed an_d interested
electorate will surely cure any weaknesses which now ~x~st. . . .
How well California Masonry has fulfilled its m1ss1on is md1cated by the ever-increas ing number of Public School cornerstone
ceremonies-by the nationwide spread of Public Schools Week-by
the many hours spent by devoted members of the craft, as well as the
dollars s pent-by the numbers of our fraternity who participate ~s
school board members. administrators and teachers-by the official
s tands taken by other bodies, particularly the York and Scotti~h Rites.
How far we have fallen short in our efforts to have an informed
and interested public may be measured by the poor attendance of o~r
own members at meetings designed to keep them informed on Public
School matters-by the number of school bond issues and tax override elections which are lost-by the small turnout of voters at most
school elections- by school "drop-outs," and by the uninformed comments you hear from day to day.
.
.
Much has been accomplished since 1919, but there 1s still so much
more to be done. To be effective. this work must be done at the
local level. because our Public Schools must be kept local and close
to the people. Individual Lodges and their members are the key to

203

204

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

on, and vitally intere sted in Publi c Schoo ls. will
requi re Maso nic interest . exam ple and leade rship . It is obvio usly impo
ssible for the Gran d
Lodg e Comm ittee to conta ct all Calif ornia memb
ers. but you, throu gh
letter s and trestl eboar d messages, can. Inter
est yours elves- inform
your selve s-giv e leade rship to your members,
and you can f~el sure
that Maso nry will again give leade rship to our
State and.. Natio n. ,
You owe a whol ehear ted effort to Publi c Scho ols
for- Tom orrow s
Amer ica is in Scho ol Toda y."
Respe ctfull y subm itted.
CLAU DE E. COLE
IRVIN G A. BERL INER
ORVI LLE H. WUL F
WILL IAM
EDMU ND T. MAN WELL
DEWG AW
PERR Y BARR EIT
EARL L. VAN VoRS T

w.

JESS SHEE GOG
GEOR GE HtAI T
WtNS TON E. McPH ERSO N
CHES TER
KtMB ALL

w.

ALLE N CURR Y
LAMA R L. HILL
MELV IN
MORA N
ALVI N N. SCHM ITZ

c.

Refer red to Comm ittee on Finan ce.

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON
REC OGN ITIO N OF FOR EIGN GRA ND LOD

GES

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A. M.
of California:
Your Comm ittee on Reco gnitio n of Forei gn
Gran d Lodg es has
had unde r consi derat ion reque sts from two of the
State Gran d Lodg es
of Brazi l for recog nition by the Gran d Lodg e
of Calif ornia : ( 1) The
Gran d Lodg e of Paran a. found ed in 1941, and
( 2) the Gran d Lodg e
of Mato Gross o, organ ized in 1962.
Befor e maki ng any definite recom mend ation s for
recog nition . your
Comm ittee feels that more infor matio n is neede
d from each of the
Gran d Lodg es in quest ion and there fore recom
mend s that their appli catio ns be defer red for furth er study .
In the Comm ittee' s Repo rt to the 1961 Comm unica
tion. we recommend ed that the pendi ng appli cation of the Gran
d Lodg e of Turk ey
for recog nition by the Gran d Lodg e of Calif
ornia be defer red for
furth er study . So far no definite conclusion has
been reach ed becau se
of conflicting infor matio n regar ding the statu s
of Freem asonr y in Turkey and we there fore recommend that the appli
cation of the Gran d
Lodg e of Turk ey be furth er defer red.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted.
PHIL N. MYER S
WILL IAM RHOD ES HERV EY. JR.
ALFR ED F. BRES LAUE R

Adop ted.

205

REP ORT OF SPEC IAL COM MIT TEE ON
MAS ONI C EDU CAT ION
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodg e F. & A. M.

of California:
Almo st from the very formation of our Gran d
Lodg e, it has mani fest a keen and well deser ved intere st in educa
tion. Gran d Mast er
Char les M. Radcliff in his addre ss to Gran d
Lodg e May 2, 1854.
spoke of the need for atten tion to educa tion,
and Artic le VI of the
Revis ed Cons tituti on adop ted by that 1854
Sessi on provi des for a
stand ing Comm ittee on Educ ation .
In mode rn times. the first Comm ittee on Maso
nic Educ ation was
appoi nted by Gran d Mast er Bleds oe in 1915.
He stated , "I have
been impressed with the feeling that much good
woul d resul t to the
Frate rnity , if more effective mean s were taken
to instill in the minds
of its members, old as well as new, more of
its histo ry and philosophy." It was Gran d Mast er Bleds oe's idea that
the Maso nic Educ ation Comm ittee could make availa ble to the
avera ge worb a-day
memb er of the Craf t the great litera ture of Maso
nry. He indic ated
that a great work had been initia ted in Iowa
in this respe ct, and he
was hopef ul that Calif ornia migh t follow in her
footsteps. The repor t
of this Speci al Comm ittee on Maso nic Educ ation
is prese nted in full
in the Proce eding s of Gran d Lodg e for 1915 and
is indee d intere sting .
It sugge sted the forma tion of Maso nic Study Clubs
. it advis ed the use
of Maso nic lectur es, and the printi ng of lectur
es to be circu lated to
the Lodg es. It sugge sted that Maso nic educa
tion migh t be divid ed
into two segm ents: that for those who are now
members of the Fraternit y, and that for those who are yet to come
.
From I 915, in almo st every year, a repor t conta
ining valua ble suggestio ns and hopef ul predi ction s can be found
on Maso nic educa tion.
In 1942, the comm ittee becam e the Comm ittee
on Maso nic Infor mation, and in 1945, the Comm ittee on Maso nic Infor
matio n and Histo ry.
The committee subse quen tly became that on
Maso nic Resea rch and.
more recen tly, the name has return ed to Maso
nic Educ ation .
It is intere sting to note in the repor t, as in 1916
for exam ple. "If
ever there was a time in the histo ry of our Frate
rnity when men need
enlig htenm ent and unde rstan ding. that time is
now. They need the
unde rstan ding which will help them to unde rstan
d themselves. They
need the unde rsta nding which shall deepe n their
symp athie s for their
fellows."
As nearl y as can be deter mine d. the first appro
priati on for the
Maso nic Educ ation Comm ittee was that for a
sum not to excee d five
hund red dollars, appro ved by Gran d Lodg e in
1917. Since that time,
this Gran d Lodg e has appro priate d a very large
sum of mone y in the
cause of Maso nic educa tion.

206

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

This year your committee. well aware of the proud re~ord of ?ur
Grand Lodge in support of Masonic education, felt that 1t was time
to study what was being done elsewhere in this field in the hope. t~e
knowledge gained would offer an opportunity to improve Masonic
education in California. A questionnaire was prepared and letters were
sent by members of the committee to every Grand Lodge in the U.nit~d
States. As of the writing of this report 22 of the 48 Grand JurisdJCtions have replied. The questionnaire is made a part of this report.
Your committee wishes to express its appreciation to those Grand
Lodges which have provided so much of their time and publis~ed materials to assist this study. The committee proposes to continue the
study until it is completed and then to assemble the material for the
benefit and information of Masonry in general.
As a preliminary report. there are many interesting facts learned
from the replies received. Eight jurisdictions have Research Lodges,
one having two of them. The Grand Lodge of New Mexico has just
approved the formation of a Research Lodge.
.
As might be expected. the method of disseminating Masonic education is almost as varied as the number of jurisdictions. Texas and
Oklahoma have ta ken much of their plan from that of Arkansas.
Rhode Island has utilized much of Massachusetts and Indiana plans.
Some plans such as New York, New Mexico, Illinois and Ohio are
very elaborate. Virtually all plans are voluntary. The G~and. Lodge
of Arkansas publishes a handbook for Lodge Officers which is valuable. This plan establishes 15 zone Institutes throughout . the state.
These are somewhat like the all-day seminars of our committee. The
scope of this session in Arkansas may be seen from the cop~ of the
program attached. In some of the Grand Lodges. the ~asomc Ed~­
cation Committee has been responsible for the preparation of candidates' handbooks similar to the excellent Candidates' Coaches' Handbook prepared in California by our Grand Lecturer.
Many of the Masonic Education Committees are required to ~re­
pare and publish Grand Lodge magazines similar. though not supenor,
to our own California Freemason.
.
Several jurisdictions have adopted a so-called ment~r ~Ian. This
plan is perhaps most thoroughly exemplified by the Illin01s Intend.er
Handbook which acknowledges its indebtedness to Indiana and 0~10.
The Intender, to quote the Grand Lodge of Illinois handbook, den~es
from the old operative Lodges of Scotland. The Inten~er was. an important official in the Lodge in S cotland, entrusted with the instruction of new candidates. The Schaw Statutes of 1598 provided that an
Intender be chosen by each new Fellowcraft. The minutes of the Lodge
of Aitchison's Haven indicate that an Intender was provided for both
new Entered Apprentices and new Fellowcrafts.
.
The Grand Lodge of New York has a Committee on Masonic Edu-

207

cation and Lodge Service which has in addition to a Chairman, a fulltime, paid Director. All materials produced by this committee are
provi~ed t~e Lodges without charge. The brochure published by this
committee is perhaps the most complete of all educational systems. It
contains ma terial and suggestions for Lodge programs. instructions
f~r Masters: in~ormation on the use of the New Yark Grand Lodge
Library, which is one of the larges t. and is a circulating library. The
first page of the committee handbook reads as follows:
THE COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC EDUCATION AND LODGE SERVICE
CAN BE OF HELP TO YOU IN SECURING ANY OF
THE FOLLOWING :
SPEAKERS (Masonic or otherwise)
DEGREE LECTURERS
DEGREE TEAMS
ORGANISTS
TILERS
GLEE CLUB
DANCE ORCHESTRAS
ENTERTAINMENT F O R LADIES NIGHT
LEADS FOR SECURING MOVIES (Non~Masonic)
MASONIC PLAYS
In the light of this study of Masonic education in the U nited
States, your committee has reviewed its own activities this year. E very
effort has beeq made to assist and promote the activities of the four
Cali~o:nia Research Lodges. They have done a magnificent job of
prov1dmg speakers, preparing papers and circulating materials to
every Lodge which has requested any. Too many M asters, however,
are. not yet awa re of the opportunities available to them through the
assistance of the Res earch Lodges. Your committee has unanimously
endorsed the Grand Lodge resolution removing the restriction on Masters and W ardens of Research Lodges. This resolution will again be
voted upon at this session. The committee recognizes that unless
this resolution is adopted several of the Research Lodges will not be
able to contin ue and the cause of Masonic education in California will
be dealt a serious blow.
This year again the Grand Lodge Masonic Educa tion Committee
spons?red the second annual joint meeting of the four Research Lodges,
held in Fresno. California, June I. J 963. A copy of the program is
made a part of this report. It is most difficult to adequately acknowledge
the ~reat work done in preparation for this seminar by Central California Research Lodge, its Master, Wardens and Secretary. As a result
of the success and need for continuation of this type of Masonic edu-

208

209

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORNIA

cation. the Grand Mas ter has approved a third annual Research Lodge
Conference to be held in San Francisco in Jul y. 1964. which the Grand
Lodges of Oregon, Washington and Arizona have been invited to
attend or participate. All Master Masons are invited to be present.
The theme of the conference will be: Let Freedom Ring.
Again, this year, your committee will continue one of the most popular portions of Grand Lodge Week: the Tuesday evening Masonic
Education Seminar, beginning at 7 P .M. at the California Masonic
Memorial Temple a t 1111 California Street. There will be a special
added event this year. The nationally famous Northern California DeMolay Show and Band will perform in the main auditorium just prior
to the opening of the joint session. The complete program for the
seminar is attached.
Your Education Committee has also provided during the year a
small Masonic article on the Apron, suitable for reading in the Lodge or
reprinting in the Lodge Bulletin . This was so used by many of the
Lodges. The outstanding publication of the committee was the pamphlet
titled : " What C an A Mason Tell A Non-Mason About Freemasonry"
by Elbert W. Davis. Past Grand Lecturer. This pamphlet has been reprinted several times as many Lodges are now purchasing the pamphlet
for distribution to each member of the Lodge. Copies can be ordered
directly from Grand Lodge at 5 cents each.
The committee has been actively engaged in completing a question
and answer booklet which it hopes to publish this coming year. This
booklet will provide answers to many of the questions about Masonry
which are frequently a s ked.
Because of the considerable interest aroused by the televised Masonic interview with our Grand Secretary Edward H. Siems. a 16 mm.
motion picture film has been made from the original video tape. This
film is available for showing in Lodges and at open Masonic meetings.
The running time is 6 minutes. A special subcommittee of the M asonic
Education Committee is studying the question of the preparation of
additional Masonic films. tapes, etc. for general circulation to the California Lodges. A further report on this subject will be made during the
coming year.
The committee wishes to acknowledge the encouragement and support of our Grand M aster M. W. Ira W. Coburn, always willing to
lend of his time and energies in the cause of Masonic education.
Many details of our work could not have been accomplished without
the invaluable aid and assistance of our Grand Secretary, Assistant
Grand Secretary and their staffs.
In attempting to summarize the benefit of the va·s t expenditures of
time, energy and money on behalf of Masonic education, your committee would like to quote from the Illinois Intender Handbook: "In

recent decades the emphasis has been changing from merely producing
'bright' Masons, i.e .. those proficient in the rituals, to that of producing
;nte/ligent Masons - Masons who not only love their ritual and know
how to present it effectively, but who also have an ample knowledge of
the background. the aims. and the purposes of the Fraternity." If your
Committee on M osonic Education has been able to contribute to this
changing emphasis, then it is confident it has merited its existence.
Respectfully submitted.
EUGENE S. HOPP
LEONEL
PANOSH
FRANK REINSCH
HENNING J . LUEDERS
DAVID
LEE

MILTON E. AMMANN
JOSEPH A. P1VERNETZ
EDWARD L. KELLAS
CLYDE B. TYLER
lRVY
HARDAWAY

c.

c.

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
PRO G RAM
SECOND JorNT MEETING op THE CAuFoR:-JIA RESEARCH LoDGEs

I :30 P.M.-Opening Remarks by Right Worshipful Elmer W. Heald.
Deputy Grand Master.
I :45 P.M.- "What I Wish I Had Known About Masonry" by Vernon
T. F ike. S.W .. Central California Research Lodge.
2 : 15 P .M .- " How to Prepare M asonic Talks and Papers" by Alex ander Horne, Chairman of Board of Library Commissioners, Grand Lodge of California.
2:45 P.M .-P;eliminary Report on the Special Commission on Masonic
Practices by Robert B. Watts, Chairman.
3:30 P.M.- "What's Wrong With Masonry" by Elbert W. Davis.
Past Grand Lecturer.
4 :00 P.M.- " De Molay" by Homer Rathbun, Chairman, De Molay
Committee . Grand Lodge of California.
4:30 P .M .-"Useful German Masonic Customs" by Henning Lueders.
Master of Northern California Research Lodge and Member of the Grand Lodge Masonic Education Committee.
5 :00 P.M.- Musical Interlude.
5:15 to 5:45 P.M.-Round Table and Summation by Masters and
Wardens of the Four Research Lodges and the Grand
Lodge Masonic Education Committee.
"Let's Get Acquainted"
8:00 P.M. -Stated Meeting. Central California Research Lodge and
Welcoming Remarks by Leonard R. Ward, Junior Warden, C.C.R.L. and Cha irman for Fresno Arrangements.

211

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

8:30 P.M. -"Wh at a Mason Should Know About Mason ry"
by A. R.
Moberg, P.M .. Southern California Research Lodge.
9:00 P.M.- "Free maso nry Today " by Charles Becker, Grand
Orato r
of the Grand Lodge of California.
9:30 P.M. -"The Function and Importance of Secretaries
as Lodge
Officers" by Henry D. Oliphant, Past Assistant Grand
Secretary.
There will be a question and answer period at the conclu
sion of
each speaker's presentation. Questions are invited from the
floor.

NIC EDUCATION SURVEY INFORMATION
N ATIONAL MASO
Grand Lodge of ·······························:···················Yes
O No
Has a Masonic Education Committee
0
If yes, how composed: ······································································
······

210

A printed program similar to the above reflectin
Educati onal Institut e of Arkans as, which the Chairm ang ofactivity of the Zone Masoni c
the Califor nia Committee on
Masoni c Educat ion attende d in 1963, is available for inspecti
on in the Grand Lodge
Library .

PROG RAM : GRAND LoDGE MASONIC EDUCATION SEMINAR
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1963
7:00 P.M. to 7:45 P.M. Repeated 7:55 P.M. to 8:40 P.M.
OUR MASO NIC HOM ES - Truste es Panel
James Leo Halley ( 375)
Edwa rd J. Blickfeldt ( 535)
LODG E MEE TING & TRES TLE BOAR D PLAN NING
North ern California Research Lodge
Daniel M. Cameron ( 20)
Henning J. Lueders ( 20)
THE PUBL IC SCHO OLS
Southern California Research Lodge
Central California Research Lodge
Attilio G. Parisi (685)
Marshall Mortl and ( 530)
Earl Walla ce ( 24 7)
THE RELA TION SHIP BETW EEN LODG E OFFI CERS
,
OTHE R LODG E MEM BERS AND THE
GRAN D LODG E OFFI CE
Henry D. Oliphant ( 360)
Main Auditorium
8:40- NOR THER N CALI FORN IA DE MOL A Y SHO W
& BAND
General Session
9:05- A Television Masonic Interview with our Grand Secret
ary
Edwa rd H. Siems, P.G.M .
9:10- INTR ODU CTOR Y REMA RKS
Grand Maste r Ira W. Coburn
WHA T A MAS ON CAN TELL A NON~MASON
ALFO NSE CERZ A, Chairman, Masonic Education
Committee, Grand Lodge of Illinois and noted
Masonic author.

,,

--·········--·--------·-----·.·

··························································:···Ed·-~~~~~~--C~mmittee?
Do Constituent Lodges have Masonic
u
O Yes
0 No
O No How many ..................
Has Research Lodge
D yes
Plan of Masonic Education: ·························'····················-············
······-···

·o·-v~i~~~~~;········o··c:~~~~i~~~;·················

..·····················:·············-··

Masonic Education Meeting·s:
D 1•t
Area

Individual Lodge ................. ,..
......... .
Mem~:; ~f -~--R~~~~~al Mas~~~~ Education Conference?
O Yes
0 No
Library:
D Yes
0 No
0 Circulating
If yes:
0 Large
0 Small
Full time librarian 0
How well used ········································
Pu blications of the Committee: t
0 Temporary
0 Regular
0 P ermanen
0 Pamphlets
0 Leaflets
0 Papers
Any Additional Comments: ·······················································-····
-.....--

···········-······················-···············································-.:.--····:¥····~---·:.-········
......................................:................................................ .............._..........
..

_

···········································--··········"·····················--····················-········,......~
At 11 : 50 a.m.. G ran d Lodge was called off until 1 : 30 p.m.

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION -

Tuesday, October 15, 1963

At 1 : 30 p. m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grnnd Master presiding. The invoczition was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

GRAND ORATION
"WE ARE BUILDERS. YET"
CHARLES BECKER, Grand Orator
M o;,t Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Guests. My Brethren:
We belong to the great fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons.
The implements of our Craft, however, are no longer for operative toil.
We do not now. as part of our covenant, set fast the Doric pillar nor
release from marble the ornament of the Corinthian capit;:il. We no
longer sketch the complications of Gothic piles, and cement buttresses
of haughty towers, and carry up, course by course, the aspiring stones
of pinnacles. The tools of the Craft are representative now of speculative
truth and speak to the inward eye of laws and duties that make life
noble and character symetrical and strong. Yet, though we build no
structures such as our ancient brethren reared, though the temples in
which we meet are not the monuments of our own proficiency in the
art whose instruments we cherish, we are builders and preservers in a
richer sense, for our Order itself grows stronger and more precious
with years, and its uses are more varied and beautiful with the lapse
of time.
"The Masonic organization is far more remarkable and wonderful
than the noblest edifice it ever added to the landscape of history.
"Let us pause, brethren, on the word 'organization'. Man can arrange, manufacture, weave, forge, adjust, refine. but he cannot organize
as nature does. He can make machines through which the forces of
nature will play for cunning ends, but he cannot conjure the principle of
life into any mould of his making. He can start shuttles that will weave
a carpet for the reception room of a palace in one loom .... He can tell
how sugar is secreted in the veins of a clover blossom but he cannot make
a clover seed and you might well ask the wisest scientific man to fashion
a world, as to create one of the green needles which a pine tree produces
by the million, or one of the innumerable blades of grass.
"But the great glory of organization is when it is revealed in human
life.
"In savage life men are slightly organized. A savage tribe is like a
heap of sand, the atoms are distinct, they are aggregated, not combined;
no beautiful product springs from them; and the first wind of disaster
blows them away. A half civilized nation is but slightly organized, so
far as noble purposes and high sentiments are concerned. Progress is
marked by wider. higher, finer developments, issuing from the combination and co-partnership of souls. There can be no such thing as justice
until men, in la rge masses. are rightly related to each other. There can
be no prosperity in a community until the majority of its people are so

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

organized that their minds receive training, and their energies are unfettered. There can be no happiness, except as the result of proper
relations permanently established between the different classes or strata
of the social world.
"No man liveth to himself. Whether one member suffer, all members
suffer with it; or one member be honored , all the members rejoice with it.
... When a compacted unity of living beings is seen one of the most
precious objects for which the world was built is attained. A large and
well ordered family is such a jewel. A neighborhood at peace and free
from scandal is, - or rather I should say, would be - a still more precious jewel of the same quality. A state, a nation. so constructed that the
forces of all ranks of its inhabitants should be brought into play, and
rights of all ranks should be saved from pressure, would be a more
marvelous and a more inspiring structure than the material order and
harmony of our solid globe.
"It is in the light of this principle that the value and nobleness of
Masonry appear.
"This is the most remar kable social organization in the world. None
on the globe. with half so many elements in its composition, is so old .
. , . We delight to feel. brethren . that the past, measured by as many
ages, is under us; but it is not beneath us in broken symmetry, and a
dead grandeur as (the ruins) under Jerusalem . It is ra ther beneath us
as the roots are beneath the tree, and as the central rings are hidden in
the trunk. They give power ... to the structure still. They are parts
of its present majesty, sources of its living vigor, prophecies of its future
strength.
"We should take satisfaction. brethren, nay, a noble pride, in the
consciousness o.f the age and vastness of our organization. Shall we not
feel that there is dignity. that there is privilege, in being living :flber·s of
an organization which has passed from one era of the world to another
... which has on its roll names that sparkle in history like sovereign
stars, and which exists. not for purposes of private aggrandizement, or
the selfish joy of its members, but to give deeper root to good principles
in the world. and to diffuse the spirit of peace and order? If a Mason
is not grateful and glad over his fellowship, it is because he does not
appreciate the value in the world of the organization of good ....
"Society is struggling to reach the order which nature thus indicates.
Civilization is ye t in its infancy. There is no town, no village, yet where
the bounty of nature to all the needy is fulfilled. Let us be grateful.
brethren. that within our fellowship charity is organized, as well as law
and peace . ..•
"How good and how precious it is for brethren to dwell in such
unity!"
Would that those words were mine, but verily they are not. They
are the words of Thomas Staiir King spoken one hundred years ago, on
May 16th, 1863, as part of his address as Grand Orator of the Grand

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

k
Lodge of California And tho h h
e spo e those words to his brethren
ug
assembled one h d. d
W
ht f
un re years ago he th
e know this
od . us.
because he concluded his message ~ith the~ug
s.
e \VOr
..
b
r
May it (our fellowship)
rothers, and widen through
our .fidelity and servic., and b cfion mu,e.G od
. .·
ene cence
'preserve our organization
fl .
b
guard our Order i·nsp1're
·
h
our ene cence a d
·
·
.' ' ~ grant t at. a century
hence. our successors ma m
result of our faithfulness yanJet .hthe~e to en!oy m a larger fellowship the
"
wi m a nation not ·s undered
•
....
M
Thus we meet here today-a centur h
y ~rethren. what a
thrilling year this has been for me and f y ence.
or the opportunity and privilege
to serve I shall be forever grateful.

thumbed through the other pages in the volume and there on a headnote
we found the words "Grand Oration." We quickly turned the pages to
the beginning of the ora tion and there we found with chilling surprise
the Grand Oration of Thomas Starr King delivered May 16th. 1863.
We quickly realized tha t this volume contained the proceedings for the
years 1863 and 1864. and it was then obvious that Thomas Starr King .
though a M ason for but two years prior thereto, had been appointed
Grand Orator for two successive terms. A s I stood there among the
book shelves rejoicing in my find . I was suddenly overcome with the
realiza tion, as I read the opening words of his address, that there I stood
about to be installed as Gra nd Ora tor fo r this year. which was exactly
one hundred years after Thomas Starr King - a centennial to Th omas
Starr King. The sensation was thrilling and the impact was greater than
if this coincidence had been prearra nged. Thus, you can understand
what a truly inspirational year this has been for me.
In speaking of Starr King, Grand Master Belcher. who conducted
the funeral service had this to say:
"God had made a true Mason of him, long before. by our mystic
forms and ceremonies, his name was added to our roll of members. For
all the precepts and principles of M asonry h ad long been exemplified in
his daily life. Not to learn from us. but because Heaven directed , was he
passed into our inner chamber, to guide us by his bright example."
I mentioned that he was one of the two C illifornians chosen for a
place in National Statuary Hall. Let me read to you the concurrent resolution adopted by the Legislature of the State of California on April
26th, 1927:
"WHEREAS, the Congress of the U nited States of America. has by
statute enacted and declared as follows. to-wit, 'The P residen t is hereby
authorized to invite each and all the states to provide and furni sh statues,
in marble or bronze, not exceeding two in number for each state. of deceased persons, who ha ve been citizens thereof and illustrious for their
historic renown, or for distinguished civic or military service, such as
each state shall deem worthy of this national commemoratio n. and when
so furnished the same, shall be placed in the old hall of the H ouse of
Representative s in the Capitol of the United States. which is hereby set
apart or so much thereof as may be necessary as National Statuary Hall
for the purpose herein indicated;' and.
"WHEREAS. the State of California has never designated the deceased persons whose statues shall be so provided and furnished by the
State of California; now
"THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED. by the Senate and Assembly jointly.
that the Legislature of the State of California hereby selects a nd designates JU NJPERO SERRA and THOM AS STARR KING as the two deceased
persons who ha ve been citizens of the State of California and illu strious

I d
Would that I were able t d
the startling sensation whr'chowa equ~te y escbribe to you, my brethren,
f
as mrne upon ec ·
omrnq aware o what
I
I consider the truly remarkabl
. 'd
King
Starr
of
member
Lodge No 314 na <l . he cornc1 ent. Rm a
·
II b
me m onor o f that
·
·
·
ut mighty man . that
sma
th
Unitarian minister who d1·d
. d'iv1.d ua I to
. Ie m
an any other smg
more
.
preserve the State f C )'f
f S
a r orn1<1 as the part of th ll .
o
tates of
e rnon o
this great nation of ours d .
though he lived in Californ~1~~ ~u~ ~rme of the Civil War. and who.
two represent;itives of the State of Cfl7.';r y~ars. '~as ~nmed one of the
Honor in the National Capitol B . ' i ormahto t e all of Fame and
L d
· ei'lg a mem er of St<1rr K·
I
dmOq o ge.
G
was aware. of course. that at one time he h d b
rator of
een •ran
~
this Grand Lodge; and helievin
some time durinq the year tha t I g ~nh opportunity would present itself at
~r~ t properly allude to it, I endeavored
shortly before the inst;:illat'
C?rand Lodge to locate, the i~~a~d oo~:~~:to~h~~ast Communi~ation of
omas Starr Kmg. Ass1sted by our A ssistant Grand S
the archives and a ncient volum ecretary, ~e began searchin!=[ through
.es. o om ear y proceedings. I knew that
he had succumbed t
·h
b
o pneumonia m I 864 so
we f egan wit the proceedings of 1864 and quickly found in the . d.
St
Tho
to
m ex a re erence
H
K·
mas arr
d
owever. when we turned to the ref
mg.
erre page. we found not the
. d d.
oration but instead a
d L d
memona 1 e icatt>d bv th G
~
h e. r~n o qe to the
who
tor
honor and memory of the Grand Ora
ad died in that year. 1864.
h
It occurred to me then th elt
1 d b . " per aps no oration had ever been recorded
but I wa
.
.
ecause I was aware that an oration had b
s puzz e
een given.
S o, we proceeded to search th
h h
!'uccess. We went to the next roui· t e ]next earlier volume hut without
ear ier vo ume - still no success and the
.
. . .
.
next ear1ter volume - still no success B th'is time.
we wne m the
Y
·
f
d.
th
noth·
find
would
p~ocee mgs o l 859 and I knew we
m~ ere because he
did not arrive in California until 1860 V.,T b
e egan gomg forward a!'.jain
·
d
through I 860 '61 '62
an now we were back to the volume of 1864.
. I .k d '.
W e agam oo e m the index
d
. f
d
an again oun Cl reference to Thomas
K·
St
. I
me
the
to
• arr mg. but that reference was again
were about to replace the volume on .the shelf. in a ;~;:~n::~:~g~t~

h .

::

215

216

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

!or their historic renown, or for their distinguis hed civil or milital'y service, :-"hose sta tues in marble or bronze shall be hereafter provided and
furmshed by the State of California to be placed in the National Statuary Hall as so provided by act of Congress. "
At the unveiling ceremonie s in Washingt on, Senator Samuel Shortridge said of this man:
"I would have you kno~ him. as we knew him. He was frail of body,
but transcendent~y great m mind. Gentle, affectiona te, unassumin g,
happy when serving, and endowed with a marvelous gift of speech, he
quickly won the love and admiration of our people ... .
. "It c~n b~ said in very truth that Thomas Starr King fell in love
with California and that California fell in love with him. No pen , no
ton~ue , has more vividly or more eloquently described the physical
glories of that State than did pen and tongue of this reverend man.
. ".But you ask me why we loved him; w hy we exalt him; why we place
him m bro~ze here in the Capitol of the Republic. Soon a fter his coming
to California the battle of the brothers, the Civil War, broke out. Thomas
Starr King hated no man, no State. but oh how he reverenced the Constitution and loved the Republic. He flung himself in a spirit of loyalty
t~ the defense of the fl ag of Washingt on a nd Jefferson and Jackson and
~mcoln .. By da y and night, across va lleys and through mountain passes,
m sunshme and storm. he traveled and appealed in behalf of the Union.
Nobler or more eloquent appeals were never made in behalf of the Republic. Wearied, he never faltered; and though warned by his friends,
he ~.ever rested during those dark and doubtful days.
A~~ the?· like Moses in sight of the promised land-in sight of the
Republi.c s triumphan t flag- in sight of the Union he saved-in sight of
a re-united Republic- in sight of peace-he died. He died on March
4th. 1864. ~hus from the cradle to the grave he traveled but forty years.
H e passed mto the nobler life with a smile on his lips. repeating in a
clear, well-modu lated voice, the Twenty-t hird Psalm .. .. California
wept, the Nation wept.
"Though dead, he speaks to us a nd enjoins upon us to be faithful to
the Republic in the service of which he died. For even as the soldier falls
on the battlefield, so Thomas Starr King laid down his life for the Union.
. "?ad gran.t that we of California and of the Nation may be worthy
mhentors of his labors. God grant that this Republic may be true to the
principles for which he stood."
Such was the tribute to a man who was a Mason!
And now, my brothers, as we meet here one hundred years later, let
us examine our craft; let us exa mine our orga nization to see if we are
builders and preservers yet; whether our O rder itself has grown stonger
and more precious with years and whether its uses have become more
varied and beautiful with the lapse of time. Let us look at the business
in which we are engaged.
1

GRAND LODG E OF CALIFORNI A

217

It is obvious at the outset that our methods, policies, procedures and
practices are the same; that our ideals. principles and tenets are the
same; that our avowed purposes are the same; that Free M asonr y is
today the same as it has always been and always shall be. Certainly our
business has expanded in volume but do our records , a t the same time.
show that we have increased or expanded in either achieveme nt or activitiy? Do our records show that we a re builders yet, not of material buildings which decay and waste away by the lapse of time itself; but rather
builders of edifices with materials of integrity, ethics, mora ls, and virtues
which last forever ? Or have we stopped building?
The physical structures in many instances which housed the meeting
places of our brethren one hundred years ago no longer stand or exist
because they were made of pedshable physical. material things. But the
institution s which Free M asons build and establish wherever needed, any
place in the world, can never be affected by the lapse of time but continue
forever, so lon g as man exists. These structures are made not with stones
and bricks. They are built with truth, honesty, respect and justice for
all men-inde structible materials. Such constructi on may be, from time
to time, interrupte d by forces foreign to these truths; whose very existence is dependent upon suppressin g truth. suppressin g knowledg e, subjugating the wills of men , and where freedom. liberty and justice is
unknown . But as we have seen in each instance where such building was
interrupte d, it was only for a temporary period of time. because even
though the builders of such forces, systems or governme nts deny the
existence of. or necessity for our divine laws of human nature. freedom,
honesty and justice, their mere denial does not abolish these human laws.
which though spiritual in form are as much a part of nature as the physical laws themselves.
In evaluating the business in which we are engaged further, it a ppears to some perhaps that the Free M ason today is more speculatin g
than speculative; that h e has reached a point in his evolution, that he has
so progressed in his profession from the operative M ason to the speculative one, it is reasonabl e for him, in view of the great number of men
similarly occupied . to merely make his investmen t in the organizati on and
then leave it to the others to do all the necessary work, and hope that all
things will turn out well.
It appears, my brethren, that today we are perhaps more speculatin g
than speculativ e. While we have thousands upon thousands of men
employed in our craft, there are no signs, no obvious signs, of construction of worth while human structures . The greatest number of our craftsmen stand ready and willing at all times to expend their greatest effort
in doing whatever may be necessary of them to insure tha t the structures ,
the foundation s of which their ancient brothers built. remain strong and
sound at all times. Some cra ftsmen , of course, may be more technically

218

PROCEEDING S OP TH E

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

skilled than others but each is capable of doing hi s part a nd his share of
the necessary work. We must agree that the edifices our ancient
brethren reared, while they stand as beautiful and sturdy as when first
erected, they are today in need of some repair. S uch a structure, no
matter where built, is built to serve the world and the building cannot be
restored to its entire beauty and glory if there is need of repair any place
in the world.
We say that Masonry is universal and that in every age and every
clime are Masons to be found. Masons, yes, but masonry. no. We
have seen in our own time the disbanding of masonry by government al
decree, but we need only to look at the form of the government to understand the true basis for this infamous action. They would have their
people believe that such action is necessary because Free Masonry is a
secret organization and as such is a threat to their government . How
smug we would be to believe this. How powerful we would believe we
were, to be able to keep hidden any secrets whatver they may be, when
these same forces are able to acquire some of the most closely guarded
security information of a nation. If then there is work to be done. and
at the same time there is no apparent activity, if this be true, then in
evaluating the business in which we are engaged we must endeavor to
learn the reasons.
We know tha t when our brethren in this country had work to do at
the time of the Revolutiona ry W ar, they did it. We know that when
there was work to be done respecting h uman righ ts. as well as freedom,
that there should be no taxation without representation, our brethren
did it. And, we know tha t when a republic was to be formed by the
people, there were M asons there and they did it, and we gave support
to the public school at a time when it was most needed.
Can it be, my brethren. that our craftsmen, to some extent, are not
working today because they have no know ledge of what is expected of
them beyond attaining their certificate, or that they are unaware as to
where their efforts and energies might be usefully employed? H ave we
so impressed our craftsmen at the outset of their membership that they
believe all things Masonic are secret and confidential; or if this be not
so, then they do not even know what is to be, and should be revealed
and that which should not be revealed.
What a shame it is for any Mason when asked by a non-Mason,
" What is this masonry to which you belong? What does it do? What
does it stand for? " and tha t M ason replies, "I cannot tell you because it
is a secret." What a pity it is for any Mason w ho has just been initiated,
when on returning home, his family is patiently waiting for him and
asks, "What kind of organization did you join? What are you supposed
to do? and what is masonry all about?" and he replies, " Don't ask me
because I cannot tell you. " What a tragedy it is that we do not draw

clear. plain and understanda ble designs upon the trestle board so that
our craftsmen may know what is expected of them and where and when
and how it is to be performed.
It is not that we are unable to draw these proper designs but perha ps
it is that we have become so busy in bringing the workmen through their
apprenticesh ip to their positions as master craftsmen, we have little time
left to then set the master craftsmen to work. What the craftsmen have
been taught they have been taug ht well, and all that a Mason should
know is contained within his training while becoming a master mason;
but thou gh he has been taught well, and though he has passed his necessary examination s and has been found proficient, it appears in many
instances that he has not learned that which h e has been taught.
This situation, however, is not of recent origin. It has existed for
many years. The only observation which is worth y, however, is that we
have been derelict over the years in making the necessary and proper
adjustments , and have been content to let business go on as us ual. My
brethren, let me read to you from the Masonic Mirror, "Devo ted to the
in terest of Masonry on the Pacific Coast." This is Volume 1, Bulletin
No. 2, and I quote:
" Every well informed Mason will agree with us in the assertion, that
there is a strange lack of Masonic knowledge in Lodges. and among
Masons generally. This ignorance even extends to the officers of the
Lodges, who ought, at least. to be posted in the ordinary governmen t of
a Lodge, if not in Masonic jurisprudence. We make Masons of good
men and true, but w hen thus made, the work has just commenced ." That
was said in October, 1869.
It has been said with some degree of sincerity, that we raise a brother
and then bury him, and very little if anything occurs in between.
We are concerned. my brethren , and ri ghtfu lly so, in learning about
our so-called public image. What does the community think o f us; what
does anyone know of us; how are we regarded individually and collectively? My brethren . we can have no public image, nor can we merit the
respect of the uninformed community so long as so many of our bre thren
are unable to give any account or even an excuse. for the existence of
the organization itself or of the purposes for which they have banded
themselves together by an indissoluble chain. We are concerned when
others fear us, we are disturbed when others are suspicious of us. and
we are confused when others d istrust us, but it is really not their fault.
We have no right to the respect of anyone when all they can learn about
us, even those w ho are interested, is nothing except that all we stand
for and all we hope to do is not for them to know. It is perfectly natural
to fear the darkness . but w hat we actually fear is not the absence of
light, but the insecurity in not knowing what might be lurking there.
How ridiculous we must appear when we expect worthy men to join with
us without any knowledge of what their application might be leading

219

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

them into. We have been instructed and properly so. that the ritualistic
work of our ceremonies is confidential. known only to Masons, and is
the means by which we may identify one another. Therefore, the Mason
who says that Masonry is a secret organiza tion , is in fact saying that
there is nothing more to Masonry than ritual. Perhaps he is right.
We say that Masonry is a progressive moral science, but our progress
instead of being forward as progress should be, appears to be circular,
going round and round from one degree to another and then back to the
beginning again. What a shock it must have been to some, to see a fourpage spread in a nationally distributed magazine on "Free and Accepted
Masons," including pictures and symbols. There were many I know who
resented this article because they felt it was too revealing, however, the
artic:le concluded with this paragraph:
"While the ritual of Free Masonry remains secret from the world,
the fraternity has for hundreds of years taught its members that Masons
must share in the cons truction of the temple of brotherhood for all races,
religions, tongues and nationalities."
There for ten cents, my brethren, more good was done in explaining
Masonry for all to know than it appears we have been able to do regardless of the amount of our investment.
You may be wondering why I am belaboring this point. It is only
because such conditions do actually exist and any evaluation which did
not recognize them would be incomplete. What utter nonsense it is to
say that Masonry is secret when there is more information published
about this organization than any other, and you need only to go the any
encyclopedia to find page after page of the history, background, principles and obligations of a Mason. I have said many times that Masonry
by its very nature is not and cannot be secret. because if there is any
thought, any deed, any act contemplated or done by a Mason or a group
of Masons which cannot stand the gaze of public inspection then for
sure any such thought. deed or act is not Masonic.
How then does our business appear to you as we look at our situation today-one hundred yea rs later? There are many who say that our
principles today are just as pure and righteous as they always have been,
therefore, we should do nothing which might in the slightest affect the
purity of these principles. Certainly if we belie\'e that Masonry is a state
of mind , a philosophy, a .get of moral virtues which requ ires no doing, but
just believing. then we have made of Masonry an impotent source for
good and need expect nothing to result from it. On the other hand, there
are those who because of lack of knowledge, lack of understanding and
lack of true Masonic interest believe that our way of doing business is
archaic and old fashioned: therefore, we should change our methods and
become more competitive with other modern organizations. There then
is the conflict, not an unsurmountable one, but a conflict between those
who believe that any activity, regardless of how well intended, on the

part of Masons, might possibly be disapproved or misinterpreted by
others. thus causing a controversy. a nd rather than risk such a situation,
it is perhaps best not to do anything, or say anything or become involved
in anything at all . and those who say we should "do like the other
folks do."
The business of Masonry cannot progress nor can Masonry continue to be the progressive moral science we say it is under either theory
of this conflict. Masonry. though pure, and virtuous and righteous was
never intended to be so noble that it was not practical and unattainable:
nor was Masonry intended merely because it espoused the cause of the
common man, and requires that Masons respect and have a wholesome
concern for the welfare of all men that it should be reduced in its operations to the catering only to the whims and pleasures of man.
The real business of Masonry is serious and active and the action of
the Mason in his work is huma n and exemplary. It may be likened to
some extent to that of a non-profit corporation in that it was organized
to render public service for the good of all without any profit inuring to
any of the stockholders. This, therefore, means that for Masonry to be
progressive, it must be active and vital, current and living. The greatest
of literary manuscripts has no significance whatever, if it is not read.
The most sensitive of musical compositions gives no pleasure unless it
is played, and the mos t beautiful objects of art reflect no beauty unless
they are seen; so it is true with Free Masonry. The noblest of our tenets, the most virtuous of our principles are meaningless and as of naught
unless and not until they a re actively practiced by the craftsmen.
Knowledge that is not experienced is valueless and unfulfilled intentions
are worthless. •
We repeat with great and justifiable pride at every opportunity the
history of our early American brethren and the important feats which
they accomplished. We are proud of these accomplishments and we
are proud of these Masons because they portray Masons in action. As
we review our organization one hundred years later, I believe it is fair
for each of us to ask ourselves, "What have I done-what am I doing?"
How many times since becoming a Mason have we reminded ourselves
and proved to others by our actions that in us as Masons, hypocrisy
and deceit are unknown, that we. as Masons. are distinguished by our
sincerity and plain dealing , and that with heart and tongue, as Masons,
we join in promoting the welfare and happiness of others?
We require that a Mason's actions be efficient and proficient, that
they be uniform and conform, that they be traditional and customary
but, my brethren , what about brotherly love, relief and truth; temperance, fortitude. prudence and justice; charity. fraternity and good will
toward all men. We measure the success of our action not by any
power, position or possessions, but rather by the closeness of performance of our ideals. As Masons we have not only the duty to conscien-

221

222

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

tiously believe in the principles and tenets of Free Masonry but we
also have the duty and obligation to act at every opportunity and on
every occasion in their performance. We have the duty and responsibility to resist actively that which is wrong, unjust and untrue-it is not
enough just to say that we are against it. We must all realize that the
more we have the more we owe to others, and, my brothers. it takes a
big man to champion a small cause.
We must realize, and teach the others, that the Lodge Room is only
where Masons meet to be enlightened, but the real work of the Mason
is done ou~side the Lodge, wherever the need may be.
Our duty is then clear. If we are to prosper during the next century,
we must convince the world by our actions that on becoming Masons we
have become better men; and that we are engaged in the industry of
spreading useful knowledge, practicing unceasing and unostentatious
charity and inculcating fraternity and good will among all men.
By your actions outside the Lodge shall ye be judged, by your
actions outside the Lodge shall Masonry be judged: thus shall the image
of Free Masonry be born. On that day every Mason shall stand in the
pathway or at his doorway and all who pass him shall know, that he is
one to whom the burdened heart may pour its sorrows, one to whom
distress may prefer its suit, one whose hand is guided by justice and
whose heart is expanded by benevolence. We are builders, yet. On that
day, all Masons will say to all who are in need, to all who are in fear,
to all who are enslaved and to all who are not free, I am a Mason, try me.
The Grand Oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Ma·s ter directed the Grand Secretary to have the printed
copies of the oration made available to the members of Grand Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

223

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1962 Communication of Grand Lodge the dispensation of
Triad Lodge U.D. was continued for an additional year. It has no w
petitioned for a charter.
At the same Communication the Committee on Charters recorded
the fact that Old West Lodge U.D. had been instituted October 2.
1962, by authority of a dispensation dated the same day. The dispensation being dated and institution occurring during the month of the
1962 Communication, no action by Grand Lodge was called for, a nd
the Lodge continued under dispensation until October l, 1963. T his
Lodge has now petitioned for a charter.
Four more Lodges have been instituted since the close of the 1962
Communication and the Opening of the 1963 Communication. Of these
four, two have petitioned for charters, and two are not yet in a position
to do so for reasons which will be explained.
The two which have petitioned for charters are Mount Baldy U .D.
and Plaza de Los Angeles U.D.
We thus have a total of four Lodge~ seeking charters. They submitted their records and sent delegates who appeared before the Committee on Charters. We will treat our recommendations as to these in
two sections:
First, in the cases of Triad. Old West. and Plaza de Los Angeles.
we found some errors or omissions in their records. but these were not
sufficiently material to detract from the over-all favorable picture. The
Inspectors accompanied the delegates in their appearances before the
Committee, and as a result of constructive exchange of views, the errors
and omissions either were corrected or assurance given that this would
be done.
Therefore. we are able to report that the work and proceedings of
these three Lodges prove satisfactory; they have produced certificates
that their respective proposed Masters and Wardens are each thoroughly skilled in the work and lectures, and they have shown that they
are clear of all indebtedness.
The Committee on Charters, therefore, unanimously recommends
that charters be granted and numbers assigned as follows:
Triad Lodge No. 812 at Montebello, in the County of Los Angeles;
Old West Lodge No. 813 at Newhall, in the County of Los Angeles;
Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge No. 814 at Los Angeles, in the County
of Los Angeles.
Second, in the case of Mount Baldy Lodge U .D., this Lodge was
instituted on November 24, 1962, in the City of Ontario and as previously noted has presented a petition for a charter. In considering this

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

petition , the Committee finds many factors in their favor. The Lodge
has grown from 49 charter members to a present membership of 64 and
has been diligent in carrying out Grand Lodge activities.
The purpose of a Lodge being carried under a dispensation is to provide a period in which the Lodge can establish its ability to conduct its
affairs and prove to this Grand Lodge that it has a sound basis for
future growth and stability. The burden of proof is upon the Lodge and
the dispensation granted by the Grand Master charges the M aster and
W ardens with this responsibility : "To return the dispensation with
their Books of Records, an a ttested copy of their By-Laws. and a full
report of the doings of their said Lodge to our Grand Lodge ... for
examination and for su ch further action in the premises as sh~ll then be
deemed wise and proper."
In the present instance it proved inconvenient for the Master or
Wardens to be present so the Master appointed the Secretary. the
Senior and Junior Deacons to represent the Lodge before the Committee. It should be pointed out that these three Brethren had been very
active in the format ion of the Lodge and obviously had the interests of
the Lodge at heart. however, the Committee on Charters was unable
to confer with those officers directly responsible for past and immediate
future conduct of the Lodge.
The records submitted reflected very little gain in financial strength
during a year of operation. The Lodge had purchased equipment
amounting to about $600.00 and had dropped behind about this amount
in its cash position . In other words, had the purchases not been necessary, the Lodge would have about broken even. A projection of somewhat higher expenses reasonably to be expected in the future creates
doubt about the Lodge's ability to break even with present revenues.
The Lodge has been operating on minimum dues and fees and has considered increasing them but has taken no action to date.
We do not see any serious difficulties ahead for this Lodge that
cannot be remedied by proper action: however, we feel that the Lodge
will be strengthened by having their dispensation continued for another
year so that they \\'ill have an opportunity to put into effect such revisions in their operations as will tend to remove any possibility of
financial deficiency. We do not intend to overemphasize the question
of finances but set it forth here as merely one of the fa ctors needing
remedial action.
Another factor which cannot be overlooked, even though it is not
determinative on the question. is the apparent belief on the part of
those responsible for governing the Lodge. including their Inspector,
that the obtaining of a charter was routine and perfunctory. These
Brethren ha,·e in good faith. but erroneously, overlooked ( 1) the fact
that the Grand Lodge holds absolute determination of whether a c~ar­
ter will be granted. and ( 2) that it is mandatory for the Lodge to satisfy
Grand Lodge that its work and proceedings have been satisfactory

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

225

before a chac~er may be issued. The Committee on Charters functions
as the transmitter ~f facts to the Grand Lodge, and must rely for that
purpose o~ a showmg (or lack of showing) of pertinent facts. In this
case. certain pertinent facts are either unfavorable or are uncert ·
am.
Of · 'fl
·s1gn1 cant importance, it appears that the Master and Wardens
are p~emat~rely ~el.egating their responsibilities to Brethren of lesser
experience in admm1stering the affairs of the Lodge. We commend such
~cethren who .have accepted their tasks with complete M asonic unself1~hness an? with. full. ardor, but the Committee needs further information on this sub1ect m ord~r to pr~perly evaluate it and its probable
effect on the Lodge. Such information, and corrective steps, if any be
necessary, can only be explor~d by a continuance of the dispensation.
. For the foce~omg reasons 1t is the unanimous opinion of this Com·
mittee that the interests of Masonry in general, and of this L d
o ge m
par t'1cu 1ar, w1·11 b est b e serve d b y continuing the Lodge under dispensation foe the ensuing year. and we so recommend.
We now .c~mment with respect to the status of Manhattan Lodge
U.D. and W1ll1a m B. Ogden Lodge U.D. The dispensations foe these
Lodges were both dated October 1, 1963. Manhattan Lodge was instituted October 4, 1963, and William 8. Ogden Lodge was instituted
October 7, 1963.
In~sm~ch as these Lodges did not come into existence until they
wer~ mst1tuted: they obviously could not comply this year with that
portion ?f Secti~n 309 of the California Masonic Code requiring return
of the dispensation, etc. on October I, a date which had passed.
Thus these two Lodges are working under dispensations which do
not termi~ate until the first day of October, 1964, and they will have the
opportunity of either petitioning for charters at the I 964 Communication
or of requesting at that time that they be continued under dispensation
for the following year.
This portion of our report is advisory only. and requires no action
by Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER
ROBERT A. SMITH
KENNETH L. HEMPHILL
CHARLES WARREN

MARTIN ORTLIEB
ROBERT 0. WEST
THOMAS G. ALLAN FRANK B. PEEBLES
Pmup B . STONE
STANLEY L. CosART
WAYNE E. BURK

~y ~epar~te actions the portion of the report granting charters and
contmumg dispensations was adopted; that portion of the Report of the
tand Secreta~y requesting authority to endorse the charters of three
d~es requesting change of meeting places was approved; as was that
portion of the report regarding the consolidation and endorsement of
the charters of Amity Lodge No. 370 and Seal Rock Lodge No. 536,
the new Lodge to be known as Amity-Seal Rock Lodge No. 370, and of
~nathan Lodge No. 545 and Veritas Lodge No. 640, this Lodge to be
a1row~ as Veritas-Jonathan Lodge No. 545 (consolidation to become
11:11ective December 3, 1963).

226

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON MASON IC CEMETE RIES
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committe e on Cemeterie s submits the following report of its
accomplis hments and activities during the Gra nd Lodge year.
COLUMB IA: Much of the activity of this committee during the
past yea r has centered around improvem ents to the Grand Lodge owned
Cemetery in Columbia State Park.
A s reported at previous Grand Lodge sessions. this cemetery is
located in the Columbia State Park and about 300 feet from the completely restored Old School House. This cemetery was in a deplorable
condition and definitely a disgrace to the Fraternity. Expenditu re totaling $4 .760.00 as detailed below has been incurred, against an authorized
appropriat ion of $5,385.00.
General survey of boundaries ................................................$ 300.00
Survey of graves and plot lay-out ....................................... . 300.00
Removing unwanted trees. brush, etc. ---··········---··--····----···· 235.00
Installing white picket fence with gate
and iron archway .................................................. ................. . 1,750.00
Restoring headstone s. placing them on
new pads. putting in new curbs and realigning a nd restoring others, covering
graves with black paper and white rock ·---·····------·· ·····----···· 1,725 .00
Grading road-way through center and
putting on 3 inches of gravel ···------·····-----········----·· ····-············ 450.00
Entire area sprayed with weed killer ····----·····---- -······--------no charge
Total expenditu re 1963

in the very near future. The amount expended f

227
b

d

y and
gr~ve plot layout totaled $I 66.82 and the balan c~r or°~hne $~~;~~ve
. appro-

priation for Fiddletow n was not used.

. Contempl ~te~ work at F iddletown this coming year includes instal·
·
lmk fence and two gates . do u bl e spraymg
lation of chain
with weed
. f h
kil1
er, repair o eadstones and curbs damaged by fire and v an d a 1·ism.
fAMEST
0 WN: In our 1962 report, it was recommen ded b this
.
.
Committee tha .t hthe. Grand Lodge take title to th e Jamestown My
asonic
h
t
C
from
miles
three
bout
a
,
Jamestown
at
eme ery._ w ic .1s located
·
Sonora . Title to this property is now in th e name o f S amt
James Lodge
.
N o. 5"' w h'ic h surrender ed its charter in 1875 Th·
is property consists of
·
1
·
N
75
about
has
app_rox1mate y one and one-half a cres and
.graves. o
bunal has been made since about I 876 · 0 ur recommen d at1on
was re.
f erre d to t h e C omm1ttee
on Policy and G eneraI p urposes which
. b
· ' - ion
re f erred 1t ack . to the· Cemeterie s Comm1'tt ee f or f urt her investigat
.
C
d Lod
an d report at this present session of the G
ge. omplete mvesran .
d h
tigation has been mad
e an t e necessary informatio n given to the
.
C
omm1ttee. It was found th at we could get a clear title and a transfer
. th
to the Grand Lodge for a sum not to exceed $75 ·00 · It is
e recomf h" C
d f
for the
needed
Funds
~en a ion o t is ommittee that we proceed.
title, general clean-up and other work at th·is cemetery are shown in our
budget request.
Summary of expenditu res 1962-63 fiscal year:
~
Columbia ..............
···-··-·-··-·····-····-·--·-················i'4 ,760.00
Fiddletow n

Travel & G~-~~~-i--E~~~~~~~··:: :::::::::::::::·········

~~~:~;

$4.760.00

Our sincere thanks to the Soilserve Company of Salinas who donated $80.00 worth of weed killing chemicals and the use of their
equipment to apply this material. This equipment was hauled from
Salinas to Columbia by Brother Wilton Smith. who also applied the
weed killer at no cos t to the Fraternity . This gesture on the part of
Brother Smith and the Soilserve Company saved us about $380.00.
It is our belief that the restored cemetery at Columbia is now a
credit to the Fraternity .
FIDDLE TOWN: Very little was done during the past year at the
second cemetery owned by the Grand Lodge and located at Fiddletow n,
near Jackson .
Because of bad weather and other complicati ons. the survey was not
completed until May 22nd . Just prior to this date. the ma n who had
agreed to clean off the weeds and brush and do other general clean-up
work. underwen t serious eye surgery and was unable to get on the job.
He has now completel y recovered and it is hoped that he can get at it

$5.141.67

Buddget requested and allowed $6.460.00. unexpend ed $1 3 18 33
· ·
·
B u get requested for 1963-64 :
Columbia :
General Maintenan ce and clean- up .............. $ 600.00
Spraying with weed killer .
--·-····--····-········ 300.00
Spray materials ..
100.00
---······----···· ··----····
$1.000.00
Fiddletow n :
Chain Link Fence and 2 gates ····--·········· 1,750.00
Clearing of weeds, brush etc
375.00
Spraying with weed kille; . · -··············· 300.00
Spray materials ................. ::::::::::····-······-· 100.00
.. .............. .
Fix headstones, curbs. etc.
-----------·-··-·····- 300.00
Jamestown :
Clearing title & trans£er to G L
Survey ....................................:...:.::::::::::::::

75.00
300.00

2.825.00

228

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Clearing brush and weeds ....................... .
Wire fence and one gate ......................... .
Spraying with weed killer ....................... .
Spray material ..........................................

250.00
500.00
300.00
85.00

1.510.00

- - - Normal annual request for general
Committee use ............................................... .

275.00

Total budget request ......................................

$5.610.00

It is the opinion of this Committee that Grand Lodge has no other
Cemetery obligations than the three named in this report and t?at when
they are cleaned up and put in a respectable condition, the maintenance
for the combined three should not be over $1,500.00 or $2,000.00 per
year. It is felt, however, that some consideration _and study be made as
to the possibility and cost of placing the Columbia Cemetery under endowed care. If there is no objection from this Grand Lodge, the Committee will proceed to make such a study.
The neglected state of the cemetery in Grass V alley, owned by
Madison Lodge No. 23 has been corrected by that Lodge.
During the year a representative of this Committee visited a num~er
of cemeteries in the southern part of California. particularly those which
have set aside sections for the burial of Masons and their families. Included in such visits were: Rose Hills Memorial Park. Whittier; Forest
Lawn, Glendale; Valhalla, Burbank, and Memory Garden Memorial
Park, Brea. Each of these, as well as many others in the area, are operated by private corporations under State law providing for perpetual
care and reflect no discredit upon the Fraternity.
Specific assignments were as follows :
Hueneme Masonic Cemetery Association: This is a California corporation , originally started around the turn of the century by. members
of the now extinct Hueneme Lodge No. 311. The cemetery 1s located
in a remote but growing section between Oxnard and Port Hueneme
and is in a neglected condition. The whereabouts of many of the stockholders are unknown; however. some local Masons are on the Board of
Directors. For several years, this Committee has urged that the corporation take steps to eliminate the word "Masonic" from its corporate
title, without success. It is therefore recommended that the matter be
referred to the Committee on Commercialism, which has power to act
under Section 332-A CMC.
Memory Garden Memorial Park, Brea: This cemetery, a relatively
new operation, serves a large area in which there are seven Lodges of
the 628 and 629th Districts. It is tastefuUy laid out a nd well manag~d
by high grade people. A section has been set aside, known as Acacia

229

Lawn. upon which the corporation has contracted for the erection of a
marble altar with a replica of the open Holy Bible. It is desired, upon
completion of the altar, to dedicate the same with appropriate Grand
Lodge ceremony. This Committee recommends that ·s uch dedication be
approved with the proviso that the inscription on the Bible be biblical
rather than Masonic. The cemetery corporation has already gone on
record that it will not take advantage of the M asonic name in selling
lots in this section.
This Committee, operating under Section 204 CMC, would be
greatly aided in its efforts if the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts in the State would request Lodges under their jurisdiction owning
cemeteries or sections thereof, to see that such properties are creditably
maintained.
We wish to express our sincere thanks to the Grand Master, Most
Worshipful Ira W. Coburn, who has given us much encouragement and
sound advice, to the Grand Secretary and his gracious staff for all their
help, and to the Inspectors of the several Districts, who have always
been most helpful in lining up proper men for the various jobs that
had to be done. Our thanks also to those, who. while not members of
the Fraternity. have taken the time to phone or write letters expressing
their appreciation to the Grand Lodge for their efforts in restoring
the Columbia Cemetery.
Respectfully submitted.
BASIL R. GILLETT
HAROLD C. ScuROEDER
REUBEN
PORTER
FREDERICK H . CHAPMAN
WILTON
SMITH

v.
J.

Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Finance. and on Commercialism.

REPORT OF BOARD OF
LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Y our Board of Library Commissioners is glad to report a continued
interest in and usage of the facilities of the Library throughout the Jurisdiction. In this respect, the Lending Library has extended its operations
to include California Master Masons sojourning outside the confines of
this State. The expressions of appreciation that have been received from
those who have availed themselves of the facilities of the Library, 'both
inside a nd outside this Jurisdiction. demonstrate the fact that the Library
is successfully filling a long-felt need.
One new direction in which the Library has been performing a service is in the assistance it has been able to furnish to those wishing to
write papers for presentation in Lodge, as part of the program fostered

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

by the C ommittee on Masonic Education. One such paper, on the subject of " Elizabeth St. Leger, the Lady Freemason," by Brother Ford
E. S amuel. the Historian of Oak Grove Lodge N o. 215, was presented
at the Stated Meeting of the Lodge for April. and is indicative of the
type of activity our California Lodges might undertake. Masters and
Wardens of Lodges are urged to encourage similar activity in the future. as a means toward heightening interest in Masonry among their
members.
In this connection, it might be observed that requests for Masonic
information have come in even from hiHh school students desirous of
writing term papers on some aspect of Masonic history. These requests
have not only b een cheerfully met but have been encouraged wherever
possible.
In oddition to the lending activities of the Library. our Reference
Library has a lso been used by those able to come in and do research
work on materials that it is not deemed advisable to send out by mail.
The resources of both the Reference and the Lending Library have
been augmented this year, as in years past. by the addition of useful
and valuable Masonic works by standard authors. In this manner. 200
works have been added by gift. and 50 by purchase. At the present
writing. our stock of books stands at 2.415 volumes.
By gift, we have acquired a remarkable collection of ma terial that
has been accumula ted during a lifetime of Masonic endeavour by the
Most Worshipful Past Grand Master Leon Whitsell ( 1938). for many
years Chairman of the Committee on History, and who has given us
his voluminous notebooks. <Scrapbooks. papers and albums, all having
to do with the early history and development of California Freemasonry
and the numerous personalities involved therein, all of which will prove
more and more valuable as the years roll by. By gift, also. from the
estate of our late-lamented Brother 0. J. Wohlgemuth - "Wally," as
he was affectionately known by all. the first Chairman of the Committee
on Research (now the Committee on Masonic Education), and a past
Chairman also of the Committee on History. and a long-time collaborator with Brother Whitsell - we have acquired his equally remarkable collection of color slides of old California Masonic Temples and
their colorful interiors, with descriptive notes, and numerous memorabilia having to do with early California Masonic his tory.
One curious article that has come to us from out of this collection
of Wally Wohlgemu th's is a cylindrically -shaped object about five
inches in diameter and seven inches long, with a w ooden handle. that
looks very much like an operative stonemason's setting maul. except that
it is padded and soft. Just what practical use this curious object could
have served, we are at a loss to imagine; however, it will be preserved
in our Museum Cabinet as a relic out of the past, and perhaps some
imaginative archaeologist in the distant future may come up with some

fanciful theory as to its possible origin and purpose.
By purchase. the Museum has acquired an interesting German
M a rtin Luther Bible, first published about 1535 A.O . It is the first of
the Bibles translated from the original Hebrew into one of the languages
of Western Europe to use the name Hiram Abiff. Earlier translations.
and many of the later ones. leave out the Abiff. This collector's item
therefore has obvious Masonic interest and significance.
The continued purchase of books for the Library has been found
necessnry beca use of the fact that the acquisition of books by gift alone
has not been found to be adequate. The more s ubstantial works. that
give permanent and unusual value to any Masonic Library, are hard
to come by, and are generally not in the hands of the average Mason.
They must consequently be purchased, if our collection is to be rounded
out. and must be sought out. mostly in second-hand bookstores. in different parts of the world, since these valuable works are generally out
of print. A request has accordingly been made for an adequate appropriation for that purpose in the Budget we are submitting for your
approval. While the space available for our books helves is necessarily
limited . there is still plenty of room for expansion for years to come.
and it is planned that the Library will remain within its present confines
for the foreseeable future, and certanly within the limits of the Temple
building.
In addition to the acquistion of books by purchase. the continuous
donation of Masonic books and articles of related interest to your
Grand Lodge Library and Museum , by individual members and by
Lodges who may not have adequate facilities for storing them, is to be
encouraged. and is therefore brought to your attention once again. One
such article, recently donated to us by Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478
of Berkeley - a beautiful bust in Wedgewood China of a nineteenth
century Past Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England the Earl of Zetland - now proudly stands on a suitable pedestal in
your Grand Lodge Library.
We urge that the facilities the Library offers to California Masons
be br~ught to the attention of Lodge members regularly, throurih Lodge
bulletins. Unfortunately, too many Master Masons throughout the
Jurisdiction are still unaware that a Lending Library exists for their
benefit and is willing and anxious to be of service.
For the benefit of visitors to the Masonic Temple, the Library has
been kept open two days a week, on Mondays and Wednesdays, and
our gratitude goes out to those devoted brethren whose services have
ma~e _it _possible to keep the Library open to visitors not only of this
J unsd1ct1on but from Jurisdictions around the world. During the last
twelve-month period, as many as 1.215 signatures from su~h visitors
have been counted in our Registry Book, some from countries half-way
around the world. In this connection. thanks are due to Brother William

231

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

H. McMaster, who has faithfully and skilfully attended to the cataloging and indexing of the books on our shelves; to Brother William H.
Scott, who has attended to the mailing service of the Lending Library;
to Brother Andrew Burn, who has been manning the Monday "shift,"
and to Brother Philip Salzman , who has rendered valuable aid in connection with our bookshelves.
Suggestions have come to us that the Library could be advantageously kept open more than the present two days a week, especially
during the busy s ummer tourist months. This suggestion could no
doubt be carried out if we had the required personnel. M a sters and
Wardens of Lodges in the San Francisco Bay Area could perform a
valuable service if they were to publicize this need, and thus help us
enlarge our staff of Library Assistants to the end that the Library could
be kept open on additional days.
The Grand Lodge Museum has enjoyed a continually increasing
interest on the part of both Masons and non-Masons. Our exhibit, in
the Museum Area on the Second Floor, adjoining the Library. has been
evoking much favorable comment. Our first purchase last year of a
Museum Case to house our more important Masonic relics has been
augmented this year by the purchase of an additional Case to more
adequately display a part of the valuable collection donated to us some
time ago by Brother William T. Corbusier of Long Beach. A metal cabinet, for the storage and display on suitable occasions of such flat materials as Aprons, Certificates and Documents, Medals and Jewels, has
also been purchased and installed. To unify the display activities of the
Museum. a blueprint has been submitted to the Temple Board of Trustees , outlining the location of future display cases in the space that has
been designated as the "Museum Area," immediately outside the Library proper, and which it is thought will satisfy all normal requirements for at least ten years.
This year, another very valuable gift has been made to the Grand
Lodge by Brother Ed. Hudson of Paso Robles. in the form of an elaborate and highly decorative Model of King Solomon's Temple. On this
Model. Brother Hudson has expended some 5,000 hours of intensive
labor and many hundreds of dollars. The Model has been valued at
$10,000.00 and has been insured for that amount as a work of art. This
gift has been made to us with the sole proviso that an a dequate display
case be furnished so that the Model can be properly housed, illuminated. a nd protected. For this purpose, a suitable case has bttn selected
by your Library Commissioners, after consultation with Brother Hudson
as to details of design and construction, and the purchase and installation of this case, at a cost of $2,500.00. is being included in the Budget
for the coming year that we are submitting for your approval. This case
is necessarily large and is to be 3 1/4 ft. by 6 ft. long and 6 1/2 ft. high.
lt has been designed on lines similar to those of cases in the American
Museum of Natural History in New York City. and will be uniform in

233

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

workmansh_ip with the two others we now have on display. It will thus
present a n ch and attractive appearance. not only in keeping with the
appearance of the Masonic Temple itself. but also in keeping with th
:aluable Model it is intended to house. The approva l of this purchas:
1s therefore ur~ed upon the Grand Lodge, a s it is only in this way that
we c.a~ . come mto possession of this extremely valuable and arf t'
acqu1s1t1on.
is 1c
The architectural and ornamental details of this Mod I ·t

· h b

e f
cl h
b
k cl
e . 1 m1g t e
~ n 1one • ave een wor e out on the basis of the details furnished
m the Second Book of Chronicles of the Old Testament
I
cl

·11 ·
cl I
• on p ans an
spec1 cations eve oped by an architectura l writer. The Ground Floor
of the Temple, the Middle Chamber, and the Holy of Holies, with its
Ark of the Covenant; the Winding Staircase and the Two Pillars in the
Porc_h are all adequately and sumptuously represented, as well as other
architectural.. features. all of which "form a beaut1'ful p f t
. er ec an d comp Ie te w h ole.

~o Brothe_r Hudson must go an enormous am ount of credit for the
creation of this spl~ndid work of art, and the profound thanks of this
Grand Lodge for this unusual and munificent gift lt wo Jd b
.
h
·
u
e no exaggera t ion to say t at this Model of King Solomon 's Tempi ·
h
h
I
f ·
.
.
e is per aps
t e on Y ~ne o its kmd . m the world, and will constitute a center-point
of attract~on to Masonte and non-Masonic visitors from all over the
world. It is hoped tha.t, when the Museum C a se has been received. and
the Model properly mstalled therein . a special "unve·1·
1 mg " ceremony
may be h e Id , un d er the auspices of the Grand Lodge wh · h ·11
·
f
h
·
IC w1
convey
m pro~er o~m to t e public in general the acquisition of this valuable gift. lt is a possession of which this Grand Loci ge w1·11 eterna11y
be prou cl .
clTdhe Bl udget we offer for your approval. for the continued operation
an

eve opment of our Library and Museum. is as follows:
OPERATING EXPENSE
P~inti~g ~nd Circularising .............................. $ 250.00
L~branan s Expenses ...................................... 150.00
Lp1brary Supplies and Postage ........................
150.00
~rchase of Books .......................................... 250.00
1scellaneous ..................................................
150.00
$ 950.00
CAPlT AL EXPENSE_ __
Museum Cabinet and electrical
installation .................................................. 2.500.00
2.500.00

M

Respectfully submitted,
DAVID R. LANE

ALEX HORNE

ROBERT H. BURROWS

Referred to Committee on Finance.

WILLIAM H. Scorr
THOMAS W. S. Wu

$3,450.00

234

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

REP OR T OF CO MM ITT EE
ON MA SON IC INF OR MA TIO N

seco nd. the publ ic mus t know of thes
e activ ities . Such activ ities pres ently inclu de the dem onst ration of our
resp ect for the freed oms set forth
in the Bill of Righ ts, whic h is part of
our Unit ed Sta tes Con stitu tion ,
for exam ple. by obse rvan ces of the anni
versa ry of the sign ing of the
Constitu tion and the Dec larat ion of Inde
pend ence, the supp ort of public scho ols and enco urag eme nt of publ
ic mora lity. Publ ic awa rene ss o f
thes e activ ities is impo rtan t. The publ
ic shou ld be appr ised also in a
dignified. simp le a nd prou d man ner
that we espo use brot herl y love.
truth and justi ce; that we are God -fea
ring and God -lov ing, and that we
neve r open a Lod ge of Free and Acc
epte d Mas ons with out the Hol y
Bible upon the a ltar and the flag of our
coun try in the E ast. Kno wled ge
mus t be wide spre ad that the fund a men
tal aim of Mas onry is to foste r
the brot herh ood of man unde r the Fath
erho od of God .
2. Keep ing Mas on s info rmed of the actiu
itics of the Gra nd Lodg e
and its cons titue nt bodi es.
It mus t be reco gniz ed that mem bers of
qual ity arc the life- bloo d of
any orga niza tion . Prob lems of mem bers
hip and atten danc e conc ern all
Mas onic lodg es a s well as othe r orga niza
tions . Prid e in the good wor ks
of Mas onry and prog ram s of gene ral
inter est shou ld prov ide an incent ive for incr ease d coop erati on of mem
bers. Offi cers of lodg es shou ld
be lead ers in the deve lopm ent of spec
ial even ts that not only dem onstrat e the purp oses of Mas onry but
also prO\·ide socia l activ ity for
mem bers and their families. Info rmat ion
on the activ ities prop erly publicized in loca l new spap ers and othe r
publ ic med ia tend to incre ase interes t and supp ort and a dd s to the pres
tige and pote ncy of Mas onry .
Eve ry appl ican t for Mas onry mus t o f
cour se com e to us of his own
free will and acw rd. Cert ainl y we cann
ot nor wou ld we wan t to chan ge
this. The refo re our publ ic com mun icati
on activ ities mus t strin gent ly
avoi d any sem blan ce of adve rtisi ng.
How ever. appl ican ts have joined
our frate rnity beca use of the favo rable
impression they have obta ined .
not only of the aims of Masonry but
the characte r and repu tatio n o f
Mas ons. As indiv idua ls it is incu mbent
upon each of us in our daily lives
thro ugh our acts and our wor ks to
cont ribu te to such a fa vora ble
impr ession.
Surp risin gly, a lack of know ledg e of
the purp oses and prac tices of
Mas onry exis ts in the mind s of man
y Mas ons and more impo rtan tly
perh aps in the mind s of man y sojo urne
rs daily arriv ing in Cali forn ia.
It is repo rted that ther e a re thou sand
s of Masons in Cali forn ia from
othe r juris dicti ons w ho are not members
of Cali forn ia lodg es, and few
of them rece ive any lodg e com mun icati
ons. The se sojo urne rs by bein g
prop erly info rmed may be enco urag ed
to affiliate with Cali forn ia lodg es.
3. Crea ting a heal thy atmo sphe re in orde
r to mini mize the possibility of adve rse criticism .
Effe ctive plan ning and saga ciou s actio
n s houl d lead to the develop~

To the M ost Wor ship ful Gra n d Lodge F & A M of Cali forn ia:
·
· ·
·1·
t
.t
"vith
good taste and good
Pub lic relat ions is the ab1 tfty to ran~
m1f
r indiv idua l into term s
sens e the activ ities and aims o ma1:t~~~
:;1;~ ~t~e~ grou ps - or to the
foun d unde rstan dabl e and sy dp
bl"
It may be term e a prog ram of socia l actio n. Som e perpu IC a t 1a rge
. .
. k
t the activ ity repr esen ts on ly t he
sons ente rtain the m1sta en 1.d ea tha
. .
on mous with a ' 'sale s propurs uit of favo rable publ ic;ty , ~?-at
i:. s~: is ~imply the crea tion of the
gram ." How ever , the art~ pu ic re a
t~ aniz ation indiv idua l or othe r
kind of publ ic imag e des1redhby any
o
g pend millions of doll ars each
entit y. E ven gove rn men ts dsue f as ourl own s
II over the worl d in an e ff ort to
year and emp loy tho~s~n s ~ w~~
:uch a prog ram cont ains qual ity
crea te a prop er pu~hc im~g . d with
dign ity and good judg men t, it is
and subs tanc e and ts con uct:
.
Th Gra nd Lod ge Com mitt ee on
a most need ed and. im~ortant udnct:~~·
th
. e duty in beha lf of the Gran d
Mas onic Info rmat ion is char ge \\ i
is
Lod ge.
B t info rmat ion may be
Info rma tion itsel f is the basi.s o f knofwl d
e ge. ~ t'
The key to a
.
1 h
h
the
art
o
com
mun
ica ion.
mad e effect1ve on y t rougbl. h
t
ublic
imag
e is in the disse misucc essfu l prog ram to esta is a corr
ec p
.
natio n of truth ful and relia ble publ ic
info rmat ion.
.
. .
of conc ern esse ntial to t h e pu bl'ic
The re are thre e d istm
ct area s
. . ( 2 ) Kee ping
catin g the gene 1 pu bl IC,
imag e of M ason ry: ( 1· ) Edu
•
. . . of the Gra ndra Lod
ge
and its cons tituMas ons info rmed of t~e actl1v1t1le~ t
pher e in orde r to minimize the
ent bodi es; ( 3.) Crea tmg a iea t y a
mos
poss ibility of adve rse criticism .
1 Edu cati ng the gene ral public.
.
h
.
Amo ng non- Mas ons ther e is a gratthelack of know ledg e as to t e
abse nce of truth ful and repurp oses and prac tices of Mas onry.
incli ned to be distr ustfu l and
liable info rmat ion, peopl~ a re nordmah
yt·1·
t mus t be dispelled by edu· f ling of distr ust an
It y
host1·1e. Th is
ee
.
d t dosthe
high prin ciple s and purp oses
eatin g the gene ral publ ic to un ers an.
t ken idea s arise as to the ritua l
of Masonry. Beca use of Aigno_ranc et, h~ts
h:s led to unfa ir criticism both
·
f Mas onry
t
s is
an d aims
o.
. .
. . time
ot belie ved that Mas onry shou Id pu bl. 1
ic y
oral ly and m wr1t ifg. ltd i~;t e of a defe
nsive natu re. but rath er shou ld
ente r into a stru gg e odr e bl. h.
mov c positively towa r e~ta. is ing a repu tatio n as a frate rnity for honesty and idealism in a dign ified man ner.
b
d
Like a good repu tation, a fav~~a ble p~blic opin ion must e earn e .
the publ ic ther e are two esln orde r to a chie ve faith and con . en~~
~·es of a salu tary natu re; and
sent ials: Firs t. we mus t enga ge m
ac iv1 I

I\

i7

235

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

assist
ment of a long range progra m of public inform ation which should
genin
ry
Mason
of
m
criticis
of
lity
in allayin g or minimizing any possibi
estabin
effort
ed
sustain
and
atic
system
s
eral. Such a progra m require
and the
lishing a sound, favorab le relatio nship among membe rs, lodges
which
public. The art of bringin g about better public unders tanding
ds
deman
task
The
stimula tes greater public respect is a continu ous task.
right.
job
the
do
to
ence
the proper use of sufficient energy and intellig
and
Most assured ly this talent exists among the membe rs of the Craft,
report.
this
in
ted
sugges
r
manne
the
in
utilized
it is hoped that it may be
perThe commi ttee anticip ates the capabl e assista nce of experie nced
rn
Northe
of
and
s
Angele
Los
of
Clubs
sonnel of the Mason ic Press
radio
on,
televisi
pers,
newspa
media
public
of
Califor nia in the use
estaband the like - to make clear the true purpos es of Mason ry: the
moral
of
ement
lishmen t of harmon ious human relation s, the advanc
presthe
,
peoples
all
of
ce
and ethical guides for the everyd ay existen
rbrothe
the
of
ance
further
the
and
les
entatio n of basic Americ an princip
a
that
hoped
is
it
r
manne
this
In
ill.
good-w
hood of man in a world of
evolve.
should
ry
Mason
true public image of

. . f
tion of a sound progra m f M
~some m ormati on be, after approval of
the Grand Master fl nan o
ced, pnnted and transm itted to all of the lodges
in this jurisdic tion:

236

RECOM MENDA TIONS

s a
In an effort to accomp lish the foregoi ng, the commi ttee submit
:
follows
as
m
four-po int progra
policy
I. The establi shment by the Grand Lodge of Califor nia of a
acting
s
Mason
and
provid ing that the Master s of constit uent lodges,
inate
under their author ity. be authori zed and encour aged to dissem
lodges.
such
of
es
activiti
special
and
inform ation regard ing social
t
2. That the Master s of constit uent lodges be encour aged to appoin
for
lity
capabi
in their respect ive lodges a brothe r having interes t in and
ning the
promo ting the highes t degree of commu nity relation s concer
l to cogenera
in
asonry
activiti es of the individ ual lodge and of Freem
ittee on
Comm
Lodge
Grand
the
with
operat e in this genera l endeav or
Mason ic Inform ation.
con3. That the Grand Lodge Comm ittee on Mason ic Inform ation
Los
of
Club
Press
ic
Mason
the
with
p
tionshi
rela
tinue its cooper ative
.field
the
in
s
Angele s, which already has perform ed excelle nt service
nia
of public relation s, and the Mason ic Press Club of Northe rn Califor
conwill
that
n
nicatio
commu
in the develo pment of favorab le lines of
of the
tribute to the optimu m public recogn ition and unders tanding
sonry.
true purpos es of Freema
draft
4. That the "Hand book for Mason ic Inform ation" now in
the
for
ues
techniq
ational
inform
of
ts
elemen
many
ing
form and contain
proshould
which
conduc t of public relation s activiti es for constit uents
execuvide assista nce to the Master s of each lodge in the plannin g and

237

Respec tfully submit ted.
GERAL D LEVIN
CHARL ES A . THOMA SSET
CHARL ES J. SAVAG E
GLEND ALL W. McDER MOTT
ROGER EM ERY BUTLE R
R

C OPELAN D DAVIS
JAMES K. W1LSO N

efcrred to the Comm ittees o n p 1·icy an d G eneral Purpos es, and on
Financ e.

°

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON SOJO URNE RS
.
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F & A M f C z·t

a z orma:
· ·o
·
.
After having distrib uted in 1962 a co mprehens1ve
brochu re on the
d
sojourn ers problem as well
this probas su~ge~te proced ures to meet
,
lem, the 1963
l
, .
year was spent v1ewmg how th e \anous
odges went
about handlin g this matter· Q ues t'1onna1. res wer
t out to approx isen
e
.
3
lodges
mately 675
22 rep 11es were rece·1 d Of h .
t ts numbe r 77
Pve ·
.
reporte d they were hand]i'ng th e S OJourn
· a very good
ers rog ram m
or excelle nt manne r · wi'th wo r k'mg commi.ttees s
· J · h ts, and gen . pec1a. mg
eral success . One hundre d and th' -l
makmg progre ss in a
were
oku.r
irty
hav·
positiv e directio n at least
mg a wor .mg com m1'ttee d evoted to so•
.
't
JOUrners. Ninete en reporte d spec· 1
ia s1 ua tions, such as being loca ted in
remote areas in which no s .
ke~s were availab le. One hundre. d and
two lodges replied they " 'eo1ourn
d
"' re ma mg no prog
h ress, an approx1~ately
350 did not reply at all possibl y indicat ·
mg t ey also were making no
progres s.

I
This would seem to mean that 450 f
odges were doing little
r
u
o.
o
b
the
leaving
nature
te
concre
of a
t1·o~ed approx imately 200 to
~arry the entire proj~ct in our jur~sd~~::omenwit
only 77 actuall y reportn,
mg success.

ff .
Genera lly speaki ng th 1
tc~1vl~ soj~u~ner activity was noted
e
o
coea~lt
Fr~nci:
San
of
city
the
for
y the city of Los An~e y o owe
geles. As one progre ssed to th,
of activity increas ed.
tempo
~~e
tr~s,
su
e
co
of
This is to be expect ed
returns of applithe
over
mg
oo
n
urse.
not
w~
year
the
cations for
our
Jurisdic tion. When• we not: at:r:~~ total ff 777 sojourn ers joined
rnia
Califo
in
gain
a I e 2tota annual
membe rship for the past year
mental arithm etic we can
:vas on y 5~.
observe that withou t th
1963 would have been
tons
affi.hat
:r
SOJ~urn
~se
a
in
year
the Brst
nia Mason ry would
Califor
which
m
time
ong
very

?Y

238

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

have shown a net decline. The 777 affiliates were rather widely scattered among ma ny lodges. A breakdown shows that 27 lodges secured
5 or more affiliates. with Los Angeles No. 42 leading with 13. Crescenta
Valley No. 652 reported 10 and Reseda No. 666, 9. Securing 8 were
Hollywood No. 355, East San Diego No. 561, and Home No. 721.
Reporting 7 were Loyalty No. 529, Glendale No. 544. La Cumbre No.
642 and Lemon Grove No. 736. Some lodges were particularly effective
in securing affiliates from other California lodges. and. while this does
not really qualify as meeting the sojourner problem, it does s how praiseworthy activity. Worthy of mention are Table Mountain (Paradise)
No. 124, with 20 California and 5 sojourner affiliates. Santa Ana No.
241 with 9 and 6, Palo Alto No. 346 with 10 and 3, Consuelo (Escondido) No. 325 with 8 and 4, Huntington Beach No. 380 with 10 and 1,
Arcadia No. 547 with 10 and 6. Hemet No. 615 with 13 and 2. La
Crescenta No. 652 with 10 and I 0, Reseda No. 660 with 8 and 9. Vista
No. 687 with 9 and 3, Palm Springs No. 693 with 12 and 4, Orinda No.
704 with 11 and 3, Lorenzo No. 709 with 6 and 5. Magnolia Park No.
715 (Burbank). 10 and 4, Home No. 721 (No. Hollywood) 6 and 8.
Lemon Grove No. 736 4 and 7, Riviera No. 780 (Pacific Palisades) 7
and 5, and Oak Plains No. 789 (Sacramento) 10 and 3.
Inspector Districts which reported better than average activity were
No. 117 Oroville, No. 215 and No. 218 Sacramento. No. 222 Woodbridge. No. 224 Jackson, No. 300 Arcata, No. 310 Napa. No. 316
Vallejo, No. 338 North San Mateo County. No. 350 Oakland . No. 361
Orinda. No. 365 San Carlos. No. 367 San Lorenzo. N o. 406 Modesto.
No. 510 Ventura. No. 518 Newhall, No. 594 Compton, No. 602 San
Bernardino, No. 607 Blythe. No. 618 Baldwin Park. No. 622 and No.
625 Long Beach . No. 628 La Habra, No. 634 Huntington Beach and
No. 639 San Diego.
Outstanding districts were No. 520 Burbank, No. 522 Sun Valley.
No. 524 Glendale, No. 584 Redondo Beach. No. 596 Downey, No.
603 Big Bear. No. 605 Yucaipa. No. 609 Palm Springs. No. 614 Buena
Park. No. 616 Riverside, No. 630 Santa Ana, No. 635 Newport
Beach. No. 636 Oceanside. No. 637 Vista. No. 638 Lemon Grove,
a nd No. 644 San Diego.
From the above figures one can easily perceive where th~ most effective action has taken place. It is true that it is easier to secure
sojourners in a small, growing residential community than in a more
static big city. Nevertheless, Los Angeles No. 42 and Hollywood No.
355. which a re situated in the midst of a city, had considerable success. It is the continued belief of this committee that success will attend
only the most diligent of effort by the Lodge Officers who may. or may
not. feel that it is worth this effort.
The questionnaires seemed to point out the belief of many Masters
that the problems of meeting this program were several and varied.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

239

Th ' ·
·
First. it seems to many that it is difficult to locate Sojourners.
ts is
h
M
eed So
me asters ave polled their entire membership by post card
ag~ .. ·
sohcitmg na~~s and addresses of sojourners known to the brethren
One enterpnsmg Master happened to be the operator o f a barber·
.
.
d h
h
~ made 1t hrs practice to identify every Mason sat in his
s . o~. an
chair. He did not disclose his exact method· W e cannot re Iy on any
. .d
h e IP f ram o th er Juns
ictions. It is almost a case of othe · · d ' t '
fearing to lose members. I am s ure you realize that r JUns icf ions
some o our
· woes t h an we are.
eas t ern coJI eagues are having more membersh 1p
(b h
Many Masters have felt that the question of h · h f
ot to
.ees
•g
affiliate and then to pay higher dues) blo k
c s many a Sojourner affili. .
J b 1·
·
d h
e 1eve thrs is very true and to this e d I
ation.
$25 fee to our Masonic Hornes be dropped ninsofraercornrn_etn t lat the
as 1 app 1es to
.
Th
·
sojourners. . . . ere 1s no place in this report for an economic anal sis
y
of this move · although I a m sure sueh a case could
of the feas1b1l1ty
.
b e ma d e f or it.
h
1· ·
I recommend to the Lodges that the
t e
affiliafo
1 fe S ome str·11 ch arge a s much as $50 a nd $25y ine immate
this re ard.
n e.
It has always seemed to me that the dues structure in some 0 our
states are regrettably low and inadequate b t f
• u • o course. we can do
nothing about this.

f

. Some people feel affiliation procedures are too cumbersome I w 0 ld
~
· .
· .th a t a II a soiournmg
like to reco mmend a simple procedure-that is
b
h
h
Id
S
d
L
the
and
affiliate
to
ave to do is to ask
mem er s ou
will handle the resulting paperwork This however ollghe ecretabry
ave to e
. w1
·
·
·h
k d
wor e out wit other Grand Jurisdictions.
Many sojourners complain that it is difficult to get in to v· ·t
is1 some
b
t'll
Lodges Some Tl
1 ers s 1 seem ent on proving how much of the M a. :
·
sonic ritual they know. This committee urges all M t
as ers to cautmn
b .
·
their T'l
be
not
should
It
regard.
this
in
over-zealous
emg
1 ers ag~mst
• ·
fid
b
difficult to satisfy oneself whether or not the visitor ·
e
is a ona
Mason.
In sun:iming u~•. let us not lose sight of the whole reason for
o~r . committee act1v1ty. w hich is to reach members from other ·urisd1ct1ons and return them to a ctive participation in fraternal acti~ities.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM A. CoHENDET

BEN T. SALMON
V. V. KOLOMBATOVIC

v.

ANTISTA
JOSEPH
HOWARD CAMPEN
}OSEPH P. D ENNEHY
WILLIAM W . DICKSON, ]R.

EDWARD M . D OWNS
]OHN RICHMOND

GEORGE CORNWELL
ALLA CE F . POWERS
FRANK] . HOMER
FISH ER
HOWARD

w

Referred to Committee on Finance.

s.

241

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON COLUMBIA TEMPLE

May I now take this opportunity to thank all of the members of this
committee, the custodian of the Temple and particularly the various
Blue Lodges that have made the pilgrimage to this grand replica .
Respectfully submitted.
CHESTER M . SMITH

240

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
May we the Committee for Columbia Temple, report that the building now meets with the approval of the State Park Fire & Safety Marshal. that approved type fire extinguishers and proper exit signs have
been installed.
The exterior of the building is being treated with a waterproofing
in preparation for the protection from the elements during the next
three years. The heating and cooling equipment have been inspected
and reported to be in good order.
The station emblems that were presented to Grand Lodge at the
1962 Communication have been installed. to the pleasure of all who
have attended Columbia Temple.
On November 15th, the committee received a letter from the Grand
Master with a copy of a report he received showing that the Jurisprudence and Finance Committees had concurred on the matter presented to them by Past Grand Master Guy Mize with regard to the
University of Pacific using the ground floor of the Columbia Temple
for a Museum of Early California H istory. In response to the Grand
Master's letter. the Committee on Columbia Temple met February 9,
1963. with representatives from University of Pacific in Columbia
to discuss the matter of a museum at Columbia Temple. The meeting
was well represented with members of the State Parks and Beaches,
Univel'sity of P acific and Columbia Temple Committee. The matter of the museum was discussed pro and con with the final result that
all were favorable to the museum but with the provision that Grand
Lodge should maintain control of its policy as well as exhibitions in
the museum proper. This matter was reported back to the Grand
Master a nd in turn the Grand Secretary was to contact the Depart.men t of State Parks and Beaches in regard to ·c onditions of lease, etc.
A meeting was held on this matter with the Grand Master and Grand
Secretary, members of California State Parks and Beaches, University
members, members o f Columbia State Park and California State Park
Historians. Many and various conditions were discussed at this rneet-ing with the final result that the State Parks and Beaches highly approves the proposed museum with the provision that Grand Lodge
maintain full and complete control.
On August 1st, Grand Lodge published a list of resolutions presented for 1963 Communication in which a resolution is printed with
regard to Columbia Temple and a Masonic Museum.
Your committee now stands ready and eager to fulfill the wishes
of Grand Lodge in the establishment of a museum on the ground Boor
of the Columbia Temple.

GEORGE A. JURGENS
A. T . KlERSCH
HENRY M . WELCH
BERT MENGE
DONALD M. STEWART. JR.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF CODE COMMISSION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Code Commission reports that, as the brethren are aware, a
cumula tive supplement for the California Masonic Code, covering the
decisions approved and changes made in our law between 1957 and
1962. was compiled and published following the close of the last Communication. It is regretted that there w<1s a delay in delivery due to
some unfortunate circumstances. and plans have been made to expedite
the publication of the next supplement covering the changes m<1de
this year so that the brethren may have those changes as soon as
possible a fter the close of this Communication.
In order to cover possible travel and other expenses of your commission, it is requested that an appropriation of $150 be made.
Respectfully submitted.
WILLIAM NANKERVIS, JR.
EDWARD T . KoFORD

EVERETT HOU SER
DAVID P. RUSSELL
LEONARD S. LURIE

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Brother Ebert and I recently reviewed the insurance program of
Grand Lodge, constituent Lodges, the Masonic Hornes and Club
Houses. and while complete blanketing of coverage has not yet been
accomplished, a great deal of headway has been made in this direction
which is the ultimate goal of the program recommended by this committee in our report to the Grand Lodge dated August 13. 1956.
We, the Insurance Committee, are not concerned with whom the

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORN IA

insurance is written but w
posure of Grand Lodg
~ are rnncerned, firstly, how best the exsecondly, with cost. e an constituent Lodges can be protected and,
It is common practice amon
II .
blanket their client's insu
g \ insurance agents and brokers to
are involved Th
d
h'ra~ce w erever multiple location of risks
.
ey o t is m order to obta· th b
d
in e roa est coverage
possible at the lowest cost.
Considering Masonry in Calif
.
orn1a and the hundreds of locations
involved, any insurance ma
'.net~od of writing the prot:c~~~nnof~;e~p but agree that by far the best
mg m cost is by blanket W·th
th· . roa~ness of coverage and sav1
th ·
·
is m mmd it · th
is committee that those Lodg
h. h ·11
'
is
e suggestion of
individual policies have ~
. es w dtc st1 have their risks covered by
. . b
., review ma e of the·
source to determine if th
b
ir po1ic1es y an impartial
t
h· h
e mem ers are getting th b
d
o w ic they me entitled a d th l
e roa est protection
Th f 11 .
n
e owest cost.
e o ow mg facts will ·s ubstantiate the position we are taking.

s·

h

Puauc LIABILITY COVERAGE

•

ix undred and seventy-nine have ac
Only 31 are still under individual 1· . T~epted the blanket policy.
po ic~e~.
e 679 who have elected to
come under the blanket policy
are rece1vmg a very b t
. I
cost as well as broadnes·s f
.
su s ant1a saving in
provide. Further reductioo .protection which only a blanket policy can
n m cost can be elfe t d "f 11 L
come under the blanket policy.
c e ' a
odges will
F·

.

FmE INSURANCE TEMPLES

fty-s1x Temple properties have I
d
e ect_e to come under the blanket
policy available. These 56 Tern le
surance in the amount of $2 50~ 18~roperties are receiving additional in$4.806.93. Replacement
' b. . on a cost new basis at a savings of
new as1s means that d
'
enter into the settlement of an loss
epreciation will not
deal to any Lodge.
y
..
his feature can mean a great
I

T.

Dependable appraisals of Tern 1 b . .
portant in any Lodge's insura
. p e luild1ngs are extremely imnee picture
understa d th
. b .
is emg worked on where such a
. .
n.
at a program
sonable cost. Our committe
ppra1salds can be obtained at very reaA f
e recommen s such
. I
urther streamlining of ti .
appra1sa s.
and its constituent Lodges
~e insurance program of Grand Lodge
can be placed on a per c~;~a ~ a~cot~~hed when the over-all cost
amount of paper work.
as1s.
is would eliminate a great
The insurance program which w
.
Grand Lodge and the constituent Lod :s reviewed covers adequately
the Masonic Homes and Cl b H
g covered thereunder and also
u
ouses.
E xcellent cooperation was
.
Siems and Ray Halloway th bg1v~n us by. Grand Secretary Edward
R . e rot er who is custodian of the policies
·
T • JAMES CARLILE espectfully submitted •
ALLERTON B. EBERT

213

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Since filing our repor t for 1962, there have been no changes in the
payroll ta x laws or the Federal Admission Tax which apply to our
various Masonic organizations.
As has been our custom in past years , we present, for reference
purposes, the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the variious payroll ta xes which will be in effect during the calendar year
1961 and thereafter. We again present in our report a section on
Federa l Admissions Tax.
FEDERAL WITHHOLDING (IN COM E) TAX

All wages paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are s ubject to
Federal income tax w ithholding. In order to determine the amou nt of
income tax which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees.
the Lodge should ask each employee to complete and file with the Secretary of the Lodge <l Federal Form W -1, Employee's Withholding
Exemption Certificate. Reference to withholding tax tables furn ished
by the Treasury Department will enable the Secretary to determine the
amount to be withheld.
FEDERAL I NSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS (SOCIAL SECURITY) ..

An employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject to tax for each calendar quarter during which he earns $50, or more. The tax ra tes shown
below are applicable to the first $1,800 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year. These rates are to be paid by both the employer and the employee.
Calendar Year
Percent
1964 th rough 1965
3%
1966 through 1967
1 Ys
1968 and thereafter
1%
There is a possibility that changes may be made by the Congress
in the wage base and/or percentage rate applicable to the year 1964.
FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if they employ fo ur or
more individuals who are paid $50 or more per calendar quarter, providing they have first qualified as an "employer" by employing four
or more employees on at least one day in each of twenty or more
weeks during the calendar year. For this purpose, all paid employees
of the Lodge, including the Secretary and those who are performing
ritualistic services (Tiler, Organist. Soloist), should be counted if they
recei ve $50 or more per calendar quarter.
Federal Unemployme nt Ta x at the rates shown below will be applicable to the first $3,000 of wages paid to each employee during the
calendar year. However, Lodges which are subject to the California

24 4

PROCEEDI NGS OF

TH E

Un em plo ym en t Ins ura
nc e Ta x law , an d wh
ich me et ce rta in req
me nts , wi ll be en tit led
uir epa ys Fe de ra l Un em plo to a cre dit up to 2.7 % . On ly the em plo
ye r
ym en t Ta x.
Calendar Ye ar

Ta x R.ate

1964
1965 an d the rea fte r

(G ros s)

3.1 %

Ma xim um Cr edi t
for Pa ym ent of
Calif. Un em p. lns . Ta x

3.1 %

CA LIF OR NIA UN EM

2.4 %
2.7 %

TIU Rate

.7%
.4%

PL OY ME NT

PL OY ME NT INS UR

AN CE TA X- SO LV
EN CY FU N D
W ag es su bje ct to the
tax
un
de
r the he ad ing " Ca lif
plo ym en t Ins ura nc e
orn ia Un em T a x" will be als o su
bje ct to thi s tax at
of .5%. On ly the em
the rat e
plo ye r pa ys this tax .
CA LIF OR NIA DIS AB

ILI TY

I NS UR AN CE TA X
Th e rul es reg ard ing
co ve rag e, dis cu sse d
un de r the he ading "C
for nia Un em plo ym en
ali t Ins ura nc e Ta x," are
the sam e for this pa
the law . On ly the em
rt of
plo ye e pa ys thi s tax .
Th e tax rat e is 1 %
an d it is ap pli ed to the
wa ge ba ses sh ow n be
-

CA LIF OR NIA

245

the tax wi ll ap ply to
. the ca len da r ye ar 19
l
(fo r ex am p1e, m
the
64
ow $5 100 pa id
)
to
ea
ch
em
plo
ye
e
.
first
'
W ag e Base
Ca len da r Ye ar

$5 .100.00
5 600.0 0

1964
1965 an d the rea fte r

(N et)

INS UR AN CE TA X
M a son ic Lo dg es wi ll
be su bje ct to thi s tax
du rin g a ca len da r qu
if the tot al wa ge s pa
a rte r to tax ab le em plo
id
ye es are in ex ce ss of
Fo r thi s pu rpo se a tax
$100.
ab le em plo ye e is on e
wh o is pa id $50 or
pe r ca len da r qu art er.
mo re
Ho we ve r, wh eth er or
no t ele cte d or ap po int
officia ls of a Lo dg e
ed
are to be co un ted
as tax ab le em plo ye es
de pe nd up on wh eth er
will
or no t the Lo dg e is
su bje ct to the Fe de ral
em plo ym en t Ta x Ac t.
Un If the Lo dg e is no t s ub jec
t to the Fe de ral Un em
the n the wa ge s pa id
ploymen t Ta x Ac t,
to an ele cte d or ap po
int ed official will be
fro m Ca lif orn ia Un em
ex em pt
ploym en t Ins ura nc e Ta
x un les s the wa ge s pa
the se officials ex cee d
id to
$100 pe r mo nth .
If the Lo dg e is su bje
ct to the Fe de ral Un
em plo ym en t Ta x Ac
the n the wa ge s pa id
to an electe d or ap po
t,
inted offici al will be
to Ca lif orn ia Un em plo
su bje ct
ym en t Ins ura nc e Ta x
if
officials am ou nt to $5
0, or mo re, pe r ca len da the wa ge s pa id to the se
r qu art er.
Fo r pu rpo ses of thi s
tax , the term "e lec ted
will inc lud e an y offici
or ap po int ed official"
al of the Lo dg e w ho
is co mp en sat ed for his
ices. Th os e us ua lly
ser vco mp en sa ted for the
ir ser vic es are the Se
Ti ler . Or ga nis t. an d
cre tar y,
So loi st.
If the Lo dg e is su bje ct
to Ca lif orn ia Un em plo
the tax rat e sh ow n be
y me nt Ins ura nc e Ta x
low will be ap pli cab le
,
to the first $3 ,80 0 pa
ea ch em plo ye e du rin g
id to
the ca len da r ye ar 1964
. On ly the em plo ye r pa
the tax .
ys
Ra tes ba sed on em plo
ym en t ex pe rie nce.
Gr ad ua ted from .3%
to a ma xim um of 3.0
%.
St ate wi ll fur nis h no
tif ica tio n of ra te.
CA LIF OR NIA UN EM

GR AN D LODGE OF

FE DE RA L AD MI SS

·

ION S

TA X
.
ct thi s tax wh en the ch
M a son ic Lo dg es are req uir ed to ~o He
arg e for
.
ad mi ssi on to soc ial or h
m ex ces s o E $1 ·00 pe r ad mi ssi on .
ot er eve n ts is
. fra cti on the reo f of
. 1~ for ea ch 10 ¢
the a mo un t
or ma1or
T he rat e 1s
,.
.
.
in ex ces s o f $1 .00 ~ er ad mi ssi on .
h t tic ke ts sep ara tel
Th ere are req uir em en
y sta te t he am au nt
ts t a k
t
use
o( tax be ing ch arg e d
d
h
tha t some me tho d
n
no
or . w e tic bets are
,
f pe rso ns ad mi tte d to h
fol low ed to de ter mi ne
t e pa rbe
the nu m erdo
tic ula r ev en t an d t he moun t o f tax ue .
a
Re sp ec tfu lly su bm itte
d.
AL EX AN DE R L. CR

OCE
]A MES E. HA MM ON
D
RO BE RT R. Yo RK

da y

At 4:3 0 p.m.. G ra nd Lo dg e wa s cal led off un til 9 :00 a.m ..

W ed n<?.s-

246

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IN GRA
w ND LOD

GE
M ORNING SESSION
BER 16, 1963
At 9:00 a.m .. Gran d Lod EONESDAY, OcTO
Gran d Mast
the
on,
d
calle
~·as
ge
sidin g. The Gran d Cha I .
. The . er Preation
invoc
the
ered
deliv
am
p
n
after
and
the morn ing
15 minu tes of
ber
Octo
day,
Tues
of
ons
oon sessi
and appro ved.
. were read
ORT OF COM MI

REP
E FON CRE DEN TIA LS
To ~e Mos t Wors hipfu l Gran d I~E
0
ge · & A. M . of Ca!if orn· .
.

our Com mitte e on C d
ent1~1s ~ubmits the following rep~:~ co
ering the I 14th Annu al
vmuni caho n of this Gran d Lodg e ·
First , we desir e to expr
.
·
app
our
ess
·
·
co
t1on for the assis tance and
S opera tion given to us by the Gra d ~ec1a
ry, the Assi stant Gran d
thecr gary a nd their s taff's as well as ~h t ec;e~ Build ing Man ager and
e
t
o
~
c
e rand Tiler; with out this ooperat1on our chore woul d h • b
more difficult.
ave een
.
Th
.
re
ex
e comm ittee desir es to
C
ciatio n to Brot her Kirby
R . /3~arles, E~e~utive Secr etary :f ~~:tt appreBeac
h Maso nic Boar d of
ong
. e ie . ~or assis ting in regis terin g th e I nspe
g the·1r sc h ooI of
durin
ctors
on .
ms truct1
T
_hat of the 70 J Char tered Lod
687 are repre sente d
Five of the six L 0 d ges unde r ges,
·
t·
dispe
·
·
to t I
nsa ton are repre sente d The
f 11
a reg1str.:i tion is made up
.
as o ows :
G rand Lodg e Offic er
.
.
........
s
.. 28
G
........
t
P
................
rand Mast ers........... ................................ ........
as
Il
......
........
........
........
................ ........
Pas t Gran d Lect urer
I
.......
....
........
........................
P cers a nd Represen tativ e;:_·::::·..............
.
..
........
........
464
I
.......
........................ ........
as t Mas ters and I nspe ctors
...... .. ................................................ l 68
........
t Mast ers and C omm itteem
P
as
en
p
........ ................ .............. 14 7
pas: ~asters and Secre tarie s....... .. ........ ........ ................ ......
l 80
........
........
........
.
aster s ................
as
.
...
........
........
........
........
........
S ecret aries ...............................
............................. 635
G cl f..f
........ .... ........ . 71
........
........
........
.;----.
Gran d S aster s. of othe r Jurisdl~tl~~
8
..........................
G;:~d ~~retaries from othe r Jurisdicti~~~--- -.... ........

c::i

om

.............

........... ..

i~·d;~-~i~~~-- ................

5

........................

6
3

( .Inc!udi~~~s3 aP:stc:~:;:a~::~ of othe·~-'j'~;
ers) .................................... ..
Spec ial Gues ts..........
...........................................

.........

217

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TOT AL ....
·:.·~:~----~~~----Mas ter Maso ns -~i~i-~i~~--G~~~-~i··c;d~~~~~~:~~........ ................ ...... 403
GRA NO TOT AL
3130
..........................
Resp ectfu lly submit·~~-d..... . ................ ........ ........
.....
FEw
M.
JESSE
·
Tttos. F . MASON
HARRY F. Lun 1cKE! N
Y
BERR
.
E
DoN
IAM REX HOOVER
WtLL
EMIL w . T REPTS
]AMES B. SMITH

.........................Vii

REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE ON
PAY OF MEM BER S

& A. M. of Calif ornia :
To the Mo st Wors hipfu l G rand Lodg e F.
ts the follo wing repor t
s
Your Com mitte e on P ay of Mem bers ubmi
d Lodg e.
Gran
of
n
catio
muni
cove ring the l l 4th Annu al Com
Mast er. or in his
the
are
tion
ensa
comp
Thos e entit led to milea ge
abse nce of the Mast er a nd
abse nce the ranki ng War den. or in the
; each Inspe ctor . prov ided
War dens. the duly elect ed Repr esent ative
with the Com mitte e on
he is repo rted prese nt on the certificate filed
d Mast ers: Offic ers
Gran
Past
rer;
P ay of Mem bers by the Gran d Lectu
erated in Secti on
enum
es
mitte
Com
of
of the Gran d Lodg e; Chai rmen
bers of the follo wing comI 92 of the Calif ornia Mas onic Code ; mem
mitte es:
Griev ance s; F inance;
Juris prud ence ; Polic y and Gene ral Purp oses;
; Corr espo nden ce;
aws
By-L
Cred entia ls: Pay of Mem bers; Char ters;
lly in attendactua
are
ho
w
on
missi
Lodge Fina ncing ; and Code Com
all prov ision s as noted
ance at Gran d Lodg e. a nd who comp ly with
Code .
in Secti on l 76 of the Calif ornia Maso nic
the S ta te of Calif ornia to
n
withi
s
point
us
vario
the
from
Mile age
shed recor ds of the CaliSan Fran cisco has been taken from the publi
from point s in the State
e
ileag
M
forni a State Auto mobi le Asso ciatio n.
the publi shed recfrom
taken
been
has
of H awai i to San Fran cisco
on 176, Calif ornia Maso nic
ords of air lines. in acco rdan ce with Secti
tion is allow ed to mem bers
Code. as amen ded in 1961. No compensa
ity. Com pens ation of mem from San Fran cisco . or the imme diate vicin
State of Haw aii has been
the
bers from the State of Calif ornia and
mile, the rate fixed by
per
cents
7)
(
comp uted on th£ basis of seven
the Com mitte e on Fina nce.
tratio n recor ds as su bThe payro ll has been chec ked with the regis
ls. and th e amou nts requi red
mitte d to us by the Com mitte e on Cred entia
Annu al Com muni catio n
1963
to meet the trans porta tion costs for the
are as follows :
..... $ 1,064 .65
Gran d Lodg e Officers ........ ............. ................
473.7 6
..
........
........
........
........
........
ters..
Past Gran d Mas
785. 77
6,
....
Inspe ctors ........................................ ........ ........
. 10
1,941
..
........
Com mitte es ................................................
3.38
27.28
..
........
........
........
Repr esen tativ es of Lodg es ........

$37, 548 .66
TOT AL ........ ..................................................
stration Desk on
Regi
the
at
n
ibutio
distr
for
y
read
Chec ks will be
the Junio r Gran d
of
elect ion
Frida y morn ing imme diate ly follow ing the
repre senti ng
den
War
or
,
War den . Brethren, if you are the Mas ter
the Pay of
e,
Lodg
your
of
your Lodg e. or the Elec ted Repr esent ative
check .
your
up
pick
to
ou
y
urge
to
M embe rs Com mitte e would like
cash their
who desir e
Arra ng emen ts ha ve been ma de so that those

to

248

PR OC EE DIN GS OP

TH E

checks may do so at
the Un ite d Ca lif orn ia
Ba nk . Fa irm on t Ho tel
Branch. located on the
Ca lif orn ia St ree t side
Yo ur Gr an d Lodge Cr
of the Fa irm on t Ho tel
ed en tia ls will ser ve as
.
suitable identification .
Re pe ctf ull y submitted,

w.

Re fer red to Co mm itt ee

on Fin an ce .

RE PO RT OF CO M

M IT

KE ITH
SC HL AE GE L
JO HN V. BA CIG AL
UP I
WI LL IA M D. KN
IG HT
GE RA LD A. SH AR
ER
MA TT HE W M . Co
oo N
AR CH ER R. RIC HA
RD SO N
BU RT ON 0. Yo uN
G

TE E O N GR IE VA NC
(It em s rep or ted on at
ES
dif fer en t times du rin g
the Co mm un ica tio n are
co ns oli da ted to facilitate
ref ere nc e.)
To the Mo st Wo rsh ipf
ul Gr an d Lo dg e F. &
A . M. of California:
Yo ur Co mm itte e on Gr
ievances rep ort s as fol
lows :
Th e committee ha s co
nsidered 50 trial rec ord
petitions for res tor ati
s. nine of which we re
on
the oth ers will be su bje . Th is omnibus rep ort covers 34 records
an d
cts of special rep ort s.
W e ag ain urg e tha t
copies of all ch arg es
the Gr an d Se cre tar y
flied be sen t at on ce
an d
to
him. In the se forms the tha t forms for pro ce du re be ob tai ne d from
re are all eg ati on s which
if no t ap pli ca ble to a
sh ou ld be crossed ou t
pa rti
Th e allegation tha t the cu lar cas e. and this sh ou ld be do ne ca ref ull
y.
ch arg e is being flied by
the direction of the M
the Junior W ar de n at
as ter should be cro sse
d ou t unless it is true.
Ju nio r W ar den should
A
it is his du ty to do thi seldom ha ve to be dir ec ted to fl le ch arg es
s wh en he kn ow s of
as
a M aso nic offense.
In the following trial
rec ord s th!.' pro ce du re
the res ult proper. Th
ha s been co rre ct an d
ere ha ve be en no misca
rriag es of justice in an
of the se rec ord s:
y
No . 15 54 -A member
of Me nd oc ino Lo dg e
No . 179. Ex pe lle d, Oc
be r 13, 1962.
toNo . 17 72 -A member
of Py ram id Lo dg e No
. 562 , Ex pe lle d, Oc tob
2, 1962 .
er
No. 17 73 -A member
of Cl ay ton Va lle y Lo
dg e No . 756, Ex pe lle
Oc tob er 4, 1962 (A lso
d.
au tom ati ca lly expelled
member of Co rco ran
as a plu ral
Lodge No . 49 0 un de r
432.6 M as on ic
Co de .)
No . 17 74 -A member
of Po ins ett ia Lodge No
. 633, Ex pe lle d, Oc tob
4, 1962.
er
No . 17 75 -A member
of Russian River Lo dg
e No . 181, Ex pe lle d,
vember 6. 1962.
No -

GR AN D LODGE OF

CA LIF OR NIA

249

No . 17 76 -A memb er f S W Ha ck ett Lo dg e No .
574, Su sp en de d.
o
·
·
No ve mb er 6, 1962 .
La d
l 77 7- A member of
N 366 Expelled . No
Las Pa lm as
No .
ge o.
'
62
vember 15. 19 E. l
N o. 17 78 -A member of ag e Rock Lodge No . 422. Ex pe lle d, De cember 3, 19 62 ·
78
La d e No . 766 . Expelle
0A member of James H K
N~ 1
d. De · ew
g
62
cember 3, 19 ·
.
La
d No 584 Re pri ma
N o. 17 81 -A member of Ha rd ing
nd , De ce mge
·
'
be r 6, 1962 .
. St · L dg e No . 68
N o. 178 2- A member of M orn ing
. Ex pe lle d. De ar o
62
ce mb er 6. 19f F.
N o. 17 83 -A member o on tan a Lo dg e No . 653, Su sp en de d, No ve mbe r 5. 1962.
.
No . 1784- A member of M or nm g St ar Lo d e No . 68, Ex pe lle d. Fe bg
ru ary 7, 196 3. C
N o. 17 85 -A member of en ter L o dge No 465 E xpelled. M arc h 6.
.
.
1A963. b
No. 17 86 - mem er f Sa n Di eg o Lo dg e No. 35, Ex
o
pe lle d . M ar ch
lA, 1963.b
f
Ne
ed les Lo dg e No . 326.
No . 17 87 - mem er
Ex pe lle d, Fe br ua ry
o
11. 1963.
.
N o. 17 88 -A member of Co nn th1.an Lo dge No 9 Ex pe lle d, M arc h 6,
. .
1A
963
.
b
f
Sa
n Ga briel Lo dg e No .
No . 17 90 -- mem er
546. Expelled. Ap ril
o
c
3, 1963.
17 91 -A n En ter ed Ap
pre nti ce of Go Iden R I Lo dg e No 479,
u e
.
No .
Ac qu itt ed
4,
No . I 79 2- A member,
No . 418, Ex pe lle d , Ap
o
ril 4,
ys1an
19
63
.
No . 17 94 -A member f W h't t' Lodge No . 323.
Expelled, M ay 2,
o
i ier
1963
No 17 95 -A me. m ber 0 f Lodge in Al be rta , Ca na da . E
xpelled, Ju ne
.
5 1963 un de r aSection
M
· C de
735, aso mc
.
o
.
,b
No . 17 96 -A mem er f M nt Sh as ta Lo dg e No . 28
1. Ex pe lle d, Ju ne
o
ou
6, 1963.b
f
Blue Lakes Lo dg e No
No . 17 98 -A mem er
. 714, Ex pe lle d. July
o
2, 1963.
fB
N o. 17 99 -A member o uc keye Lodge No . 195, Su sp en de d, Ju ly 11
.
1963.
La
18
d
00 -A member of Tu
N 395 Ex pe lle d . Ju1
No .
rlo ck
y 4,
ge o.
,
1963.
N o. 18 01 -A member of Sa cra me nto La dge No 40 Ac qu itt ed , M arc h
. .
1. 1963.

Fefb~t~ ~~~·e

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

1803-A member of Taft Lodge No. 516, Expelled, August 12,
1963.

No.

1805-A member of San Gabriel Lodge No. 546, Expelled, August 7, 1963.
No.
1807-A member of John Marshall Lodge No. 636, Expelled
March 4, 1963.
No.
1808-A member of Truckee Lodge No. 200, Expelled, September 5, 1963.
No.
1809-A member of Molino Lodge No. 150, Expelled, August
14, 1963.
No.
1810-A member of Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281, Expelled, September 5, 1963.
No.
1811-A member of El Cerrito Lodge No. 705, Expelled, September 9, 1963.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOL VEO, That in each of the trial records above-mentioned
the action taken and the result thereof be ratified, approved and
affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT F. Ross
ALBERT
WOLLENBERG
BYRON
MORTON
FOLGER EMERSON

c.
c.

Adopted.

WILLIAM N. Bowrn, JR.
RICHARD E. PATTON
JAY A. ROBINSON

TRIAL RECORDS NOS. 1145, 1235, 1559, 1574, 1580,
1628, 1630, 1646 AND 1651
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Petitions for restoration have been received from the accused in
the following trial records:
No. 1145-A member of Whittier Lodge No. 323.
No. 1235-A member of Mountain View Lodge No. 194.
No. 1559-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633.
No. 1574-A member of Belvedere Lodge No. 539.
No. 1580-A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319.
No. l 628-A member of Ashlar Lodge No. 306.
No. 1630-A member of Fresno Lodge No, 247,
No. 1646-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564.
No. 1651-A member of The Gardens Lodg e No. 621.
ln determining whether or not a petition for restoration should be
granted. your committee takes into consideration many facts such as
the seri~usness. of the Masonic offense of which the accused is charged,
the period which has elapsed from the date of expulsion by Grand

251

Lodge to the date of the petition for restoration, whether or not the
accused has sufficiently rehabilitated himself, letters of recommendation submitted on behalf of the accused , if any, and the feeling of
the accused's former Lodge as to whether he should be restore~ .
.
It should be pointed out that when a petition for restoration 1s
approved by Grand Lodge the accused becomes a member at large,
and consequently must petition his former Lodge or another Lodge
for affiliation.
Your committee has given full consideration to all th e petitions
submitted and, based upon facts of each individual record, offers the
following resolution:
.
.
RESOLVED: That the petitions for restorat10n m the following
trial records be granted:
No. 1235-A member of Mountain View Lodge No. 194.
No. 1559-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633.
No. 1574-A member of Belvedere Lodge No. 539.
No. 1580-A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319,
No. 1630-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247.
No. 1646-A member of Foothill Lodge No. 564,
No. 1651-A member of The Gardens Lodge No. 621,
and that the petitions for restoration in the following trial records be
denied:
No. 1145-A member of Whittier Lodge No. 323,
No. 1628-A member of Ashla r Lodge No. 306.
Adopted.

• TRIAL RECORD NO. 1797
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Accused member of Marin Lodge No. 191 was charged with moles ting a minor of which he had been found guilty in th~ state_ courts: H e
was given notice of the charges, which notice required him to file a
plea within five days. He filed no plea and eve~tually the Tr~al Master
reported to the Lodge, making a finding of guilty and ordermg expulsion.
There is no authority for a five-day notice. If the accused is in the
same county as the Lodge, ten days notice is required: if elsewhere,
thirty days.
Although the finding of guilt in this case is true and correct, th_e
lack of proper notice is jurisdictional. When we expel a Mason it
should be done properly, no matter how bad he may be.
We, therefore, off er the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the expulsion in Trial Record No. 1797 be re~
versed and the matter remanded to Marin Lodge No. 191 fo.r proper
proceedings.
Adopted.

252

PROCE EDING S OP THE

TRIA L REC ORD NO. 1802

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M.
of California:
A memb er of Anch or Lodge No. 273 was charg ed
with engag ing
in the saloo n busin ess and tendin g bar in violation
of Sectio n 513,
Califo rnia Maso nic Code.
After a trial befor e a commission he was found guilty
and order ed
suspe nded.
The main issue in the case was wheth er the accus ed
had a bona fide
restau rant. Some meals were serve d in the place
but the commissioner s appar ently found the serving of liquor over
the bar was the
main business. and this finding is suppo rted by the
evidence.
Howe ver, Maso nic law in this jurisd iction requir es
the penal ty for
any violation of Sectio n 513, Califo rnia Maso nic Code,
to be expulsion
(Secti on 513j) . We, theref ore, offer the following
resolu tion:
RESO LVED : That the finding of guilty in Trial Recor
d No. 1802
be appro ved but that the penal ty be raised to expul
sion and that the
accus ed be expel led from all the rights and privil eges
of Maso nry.
Adop ted.

TRIA L REC ORD NO. 1806

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M.
of California:
Your Comm ittee on Griev ances , to whom was referr
ed Trial Record No. 1806 relatin g to a member of Natom a Lodge
No. 64, after
carefu l review of all the evide nce respe ctfull y submi
ts the following
with its recom mend ation.
The member of Natom a Lodge No. 64 was charg
ed with the offense of securi ng credit upon a repres entati on that
he was a Maso n
and would not cheat, wrong or defra ud a Broth er
Maso n. The credit
was grant ed upon this repres entati on. The credit would
not have been
grant ed had the accus ed not misused his Maso nic affilia
tion. The credit
grant or relied solely upon his Maso nic statem ent
that he would not
cheat , wrong or defra ud.
In accor dance with the rules set down in the Maso
nic Code , the
accus ed was found guilty of the charg e and guilty
of unma sonic conduct, and the penal ty was fixed at suspe nsion .
On Augu st 13, 1963, the suspe nded memb er filed
an appea l from
the judgm ent of the Lodge .
Your committee carefu lly review ed all of the inform
ation conta ined
in the appea l as well as made a comp lete review of
the origin al file.
After a full discus sion of the origin al eviden ce, a
review of the
proce dure and a detail ed exam inatio n of the appea
l. your committee
subm its the following resolu tion:
BE IT RESO LVED : That the judgm ent rende red
by Natom a
Lodge No. 64 that the memb er be suspe nded is hereb
y affirmed.
Adop ted.

GRANO LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

ADD ITIO NAL TRIA L REC ORD S

253

To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M.
of California:
As all of the specia l repor ts of the Comm ittee on
Griev ances are
on file with the Grand Secre tary and copies are sent
to the ~odges .or
erson s intere sted, and there being no matte r of new
Masonic law m~olved in any of the following trial records :
.
No. 1779- A memb er of Sisson Lodge No. 310. Penal
ty raised to expulsion.
1789 -A member of R. E. Dolle y Lodg e No. 616
.. Recor d.
No.
completed by the Lodge. To be referr ed to this comm not
ittee
next year.
No. 1793 -A member of Hono lulu Lodge No. 409. Penal ty raised to
expul sion.
.
1804 -A memb er of Holle nbeck Lodge No. 319.
Acqu ittal .reNo.
versed , accus ed found guilty and penal ty fixed at expul
sion.
We offer the following resolu tion:
RESO LVED : That the repor ts in the foregoing trial
record s be not
printe d in the publis hed Proce eding s of Gran d Lodge
.
Adop ted.

254

255

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GR/\ND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

l\r
NEC ROL OGY
fEMO RIAL SERV ICE
Organ Prelud e.......
Harol d Mu e II
Invoc ation .......... _... _.-.~~~~---········· ·············· ···········--····- · ---......
~r
-··-·························Ver y Rever end I vol Ira C urt1s
Necro logy Repor t.
·······-················ ················-· ·--Ada m B• M orten
ocaI Solo....
····························
E 1
stin Mosh
u ogy- 0. J. Wohl gemu th. ·················-· ····················---Au
W. Cobu er
a
·····-.Ir
·········
·········
·-·······
····-····
Eulog y-Ra lph W. Collin s
b rn
C
G
ld
-Dona
······-·-·········
·········
·········
Vocal Solo...... .
. a mp ell
···-·-···-·····-············-·· ·······-·
Eu lo
·············-·········------······ ···-Vo calist
gy-C harle s M. WoHe nber
..
................ Alfre d F. Bresla u
.........
...
g
i
Keesl
Eulog y-Fra ncis V .
er
....
ng.. ..... ·········· ·-··············· H enry C Cl
' · .......
Bened iction
ausen
.
········· ····································
Ta
G ...... ..............Grand Chap lain
.. 1 Hps..... ................... ............. .
d
·
················-····· rand O r ga nist
n enry C Cl ausen 's absen
an Vocal ist
ce E 1
.
u ogy read by Edwa rd H . s·1ems.

that happy place,
Thou dost prepa re a place for us, prepa re us for
be.
may
too
that where they are and Thou art, we
t have passe d
We thank Thee for the goodn ess and coura ge tha
the world
left
have
and
,
others
of
lives
from Thy serva nts into the
ably dishonor
and
ully
faithf
task
life's
or
nce-f
richer for their prese
osity,
gener
kindly
charg ed, for good humo r and gracio us affection and
deut
witho
ed
endur
for sadne ss met witho ut surren der, and affliction
thank
we
,
hearts
our
of
s
anion
feat, and for all that made them comp
Thee .
on the Lord' s
Death hides, but it doth not divide. Thou art but
I still am
Him
n
other side. Thou a rt with Him, and He with me-i
close to thee .
ry of faithMay the God of peace and comfo rt bless us, the memo
depar t,
never
them
in
saw
we
light
the
ful broth ers depar ted, inspir e us,
.
Amen
.
above
Lodge
until we meet in the Grand

v

··-···········

INV OCA TION
Wisd om 3 ·I ..
. h
· - The souls of th
G d
g I~e~~: are in the hand of
th::i
touch
shall
r~ent
~ot~o
s::~e
th~y·
sight .of the un Wise
going from us die, and their depar ture is take for
misery and thei
n
h
b
ction
destru
utter
be
to
"I
r
peace "
in
are
ey
t
ut
,
ar
house
r's
n my Fathe
.
wer
it
If
ons.
mansi
many
e
would have told ou I
e not so, I
go to prepa re a place for
come again and r~ .'
and I will
you,
h
t
th
f
mysel
unto
you
ceive
"
may be als
. a w ere I am the
o.
..
re ye
,
Thou gh I walk throu h
I
yhof thde shado w of death , will
feea~. no evil. for Thou ilrtg wi~e ~:JleT
Y ro and sta ff . they comfo rt
·
· Al . h
.
m1g ty God, wh h
.
o as given us the com
we take tim
of our hearts .
onbs
al{mam
Thee
before
ber
remem
ttof
ternit y now :bosuet
p
em ers of
.
n ram us
h ra:~Ir
dead
ious
illustr
the
~al!y
~Sp~
lightfuller
e ssed into the
o ave
y presen ce in the E
o
odge, beyon d W k
nd
~~ra
f~~~a
t
absen
n~ver
are
they
t
forgo tten by Thee. ~;~~a~~a
or
ee_
earthJ
of
lives
their
for
Jhee
and the inspir ation of the·
e.
servic
y
.
deeds
and
We only seem to . rr wor s
Lo
0
.
Thee
to
back
gr ve t~em
them to us. Yet as
.. rd. who gaves t
not lost them by th . Thou drdst not lose them in g1v1ng . so we have
.
return
e1r
h
N
.
ot . as t e world g1vest
, gi\·est Th
Th
Fou. of Lover of Souls . Wh
not a
takest
Thou
ou ~ 1vest.
at
.
or what is Th .
way.
A
th.
are
ways, if we
is ours al~ne
.
,
1
And
l.
eterna
is
life
nd
t~e.
h
dea th is on!
ove is immortal A d
.
y a orizo n-and a h .
. h L
n
save th 1· . .
t
naugh
is
onzon
d
G
0
up
us
ift
t.
s1g
our
~f
s~m~~
Clea:
r.
furthe
see
that we may see, more ocle~~:t v..~ may
closer to Thys elf, thateyes
may know ourse lves neare r t~· th raww hus
we
o are with Th
ose
ee. And while

I

m

J

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON NEC ROL OGY
Califo rnia:
To the Mo st Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A M. of
o f, and pay
The hour has again arrive d when we pause to take note
last Mathe
g
durin
midst
our
from
tribut e to, those who have passed
Most of
ss.
sadne
of
re
measu
a
with
sonic Year. The hour is tinged
Many
ted.
depar
the
of
list
the
on
are
s
name
e
us will know some whos
our
been
have
of us will find on the list the names of men who
own.
our
with
oven
intima te friend s and whos e lives have been interw
painfu l and at this
The separ ation, even thoug h tempo rary, has been
hed smiles we
vanis
for
gone,
voices
hour "we long for house hold
has led our
"God
that
faith
the
in
rt
comfo
long," but we find some
dear ones on, and he can do no wrong ."
four hundr ed
Your committee has to repor t tha t durin g the year
from whose
land
the
into
and fifteen of our memb ers have crossed
three Maswere
er
numb
this
in
bourn no traveler return s. Includ ed
. The
asters
M
Past
seven
and
ed
hundr
ters, five Ward ens and four
hun~
Two
s.
Lodge
-seven
ninety
ed
hundr
two
losses were suffered by
each.
two
lost
s
dred nine Lodge s los t one each. Sixty- three Lodge
each. This is probtwent y Lodge s los t three, and fi ve Lodge s lost four
had. Many had
ever
has
e
a bly the heavi est death roll this Grand Lodg
aratively early
comp
a
at
off
cut
were
reach ed advan ced years . Some
and we must
done
was
earth
on
work
their
age. God decre ed that
humbly accep t His will.
and very disAmon g those who have gone are two of our oldest
and Frannberg
Wolle
M.
tingui shed Past Gran d Maste rs- Charl es
eulogy for
the
give
will
uer
Bresla
F.
cis V . Keesling. P.G.M . Alfre d
red that
prepa
has
en
Claus
C.
y
Henr
.
P.G.M
Broth er Wolle nberg . and
.
Siems
rd H.
for Broth er Keesling. It will be read by P.G.M . Edwa

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Also among the deceased is the name of Assistant Grand Lecturer
Ralph W. Collins. Brother Donald G. Campbell. the Grand Lecturer,
will give the eulogy for Brother Collins. Our Grand Master, Most
Worshipful Ira W. Coburn, wjJl give the eulogy for his close friend,
Brother 0. ]. Wohlgemuth, the Chairman of the Special Commission
on Masonic Practices, who passed away on April 1, 1963.
In addition to these just mentioned your committee is confronted
with a long list of those who have served this Grand Lodge as officers,
committeemen, or inspectors, and of others who have rendered outstanding service to Masonry and their fellowmen. Because of the
large number who have merited mention in this report the tribute
to individuals will have to be brief.
EARL LEE KELLY of Sacramento died at Fresno on November
1st after a brief illness. He was 70 years of age. Brother Kelly was
well known in banking and civic circles. Since 1939, until his retirement, he was a Vice President of the Bank of America. Prior to 1939
he had served as State Director of Public Works for seven years,
and for two years as Chairman of the California State Highway Commission. For some time he was President of the California State Fair
Board. Earl L. Kelly was raised in Reading Lodge No. 254 on February 27. 1920, and served as Master of that Lodge in l 923. He served
this Grand Lodge as Grand Standard Bearer for two years, in 1928
and 1929. Throughout the years he has been faithful in service. California public life and California Masonry have been enriched by the
faithful service of Brother Earl Lee KeJJy.
MAX ALARIC PLUMB. A Masonic veteran of over sixty years
left us when Max A. Plumb died on November 3, 1962, at the age of
92 years. Max was raised a Mason on April 19, 1902, in Oxnard
Lodge. He became a charter member of Charter Rock Lodge No. 11 O
in February, 1910, and was Master of this Lodge in 1913. He became
Secretary of Charter Rock Lodge in 1914 and served for forty-three
yea.rs in that office. He was a co-founder of the East Bay Masters and
Wardens Association. His service in Grand Lodge was long and
varied. In 1923-24 he was Executive Secretary, Grand Lodge Committee on Education. and published a booklet and bulletins which have
been used extensively. He was a member of the Necrology Committee
1925 to 1929; served as Inspector of Berkeley District No. 30 (now
No. 316) from 1916 to 1923; <Served as Senior Grand Steward in
1919-when Edward H. Siems was Grand Master. He also served and
wa.5 honored in York and Scottish Rite Commandery. Born and educated in Connecticut, he came to the west coast in 1899 and taught in
San Francisco high schools from 1907 until the time of his retirement.
He is survived by his widow and a son and daJJghter, all residing in
the East Bay. His was an abundant life, rich in service. He lived

257

and filled them with a recor d o f helpfulness. Those who
yearsh.im w1·11 I·ndeed call him blessed.
many
e after
on November 11.
d
com
HARRY HOWE POLLOCK J asse . a~~sco Lodge No. 583 .
2 Harry was raised a Ma ster ason t:~ of that Lodge. In 1953
M
as d S teward. A quiet and
MG
l96 .h 26 1940. and later served
.
a Semor ran
L d
·
arc
he served the Grand o ge s t f brotherly love and aff ect1on.
k" dly man. he spread the cemen o

a~

h had invested his life in San
EUGENE S. ELKUS. A man ;er~akings entered into rest on
Francisco business anBd ~elfa~~k~; had celeb~ated his 96th Abirth_day
N
He was a patriarch of menca.n
rot er
ovember 19, 1962.
th be fore he passed away.
of a cen t ury had been a dynamic
t
the mon
credit men and for three~q.uar ers ilanthropic life. His was a very
f
F ederal Arbitrator·t andf
ph
. San Francisco c1v1c and
Id he beca me a
orce m
5
7 !"ear~t; of California and at the Upniv~~s1 ~ ~f
active life and whenU
h had served as res1 en
.
I cturer on credit at nivers_
Seouthern California. At va;10Aus
the Credit Managers
·
ssoct
Mens
't
d
C
d f the
d Central California, and t h e S an Francisco
San Francisco re I
tive worker for Red Cross an or
ciation of Northern an
.
Board of Trade. He. was an ac
in

tu~aetsione

A~so­

Ma•o~ o~f
thGrougholu~ t;;o:e:a2'o~:ittee; Masoni~

M arch 13, 1903, in Paofk
that Lodge. He had mved
yHe wa. •ai.ed a Ma,te.
various committees. He
Lod e No 136 and was a Past Mas er
H omes
the
this gGrand Lodge
served on Policy and enher~ u f the Board of Control. an was a
B . d· as C airman o
. o
F
d f Relief of San ranc1sc .
Endowment oar ' .
trustee of the Masonic B.oar . o wo sons , grandchildren and great
He is survi\·ed by h1:' w1!e· t tt~r city i\nd California Mas~nry
d h
of this devoted c1t1zen
.
be services
is aable
Franosco
long ;rnd
h t he
. San
c i'ldren
gran
throug
is richer
Bo Scouts of America.

. d

and Mason.

Masonry was raise
L EO BRUC K. Another stalwart ofkCa lifornia
ummoned on December
d
s
was
Brue
eo
[
h
.
in the Celestial Lo ge w en , f 92 . ears. Brother Brue k ca me from
8
1962 at the advanced age o . y . 1898 H e was interested in
·
· Germany to San Francisco
• native
. of
and organ, both
in infor piano
his
music and had spent years c?mrs ~rancisco thea ters and at pri~at~
which instruments he played ~n an rind distinguished. He was raise
arties. His Masonic history ts long 1'898 and lived to within six days

Ma' te' M.,on on Dmmbe. H.O<tan; event. A cha<te< membec o:
~'f the
6'1 th an niversary of tha t im~ . Past Master of that Lodge a

r~:l~e~eand tendmd ou"tandmg ,.,._

oewel Lodge No. 374 , he was the

/he time of hi, death. _Foe Eocty

San Francisco Masonic Board o

enior served as the Secretary of the

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ice in that difficult field. He was a member of Scottish Rite and a 33rd
Degree Mason. He is no longer with us but we thank God for the inspired service of this devoted Mason.
CYRIL WESLEY McCLEAN. Brother Cyril W. McC!ean entered into rest on April 20, 1963. He was 70 years of age. He was a
native of Waitsburg, Washington, a graduate of the University of
California, and served in the Navy in World War I. He received his
law degree in 1923 from George Washington University and about
1926 moved to Oakland and established his law practice. He served as
Chairman of Alameda County Republican Central Committee and held
important positions in the Bar Association. Brother Mac was raised a
Master Mason on February 20, 1917, and served as Master of Sequoia
Lodge No. 349 in 1935. The follcYwing year he served as Junior Grand
Deacon of this Grand Lodge. In 1936 he assumed the duties of Secretary of Sequoia Lodge and continued in that office until l 957. The
loss of this loyal Mason is felt in his own Lodge and also in this Grand
Lodge. He is survived by his widow, a son, three daughters. and I 0
grandchildren. to whom we extend sincerest sympathy.
JOHN THOMAS BOND. On June 3, 1963, John T. Bond of
Hollywood, passed away on his sixty-seventh birthday. He was raised
in Hollywood Lodge No. 355 on November 12. 1936, and later served
as Master of that Lodge. Throughout Masonic circles he was affectionately known as "Mr. Hollywood Lodge." He also served as Master of Southern California Research Lodge. In 1958 he was the competent Grand Marshal of this Grand Lodge. He held many offices and
served with distinction in many Masonic organizations.
Born in Tacoma, Brother Bond received his formal education at the
University of Washington. For 43 years he had been in the confectionery business, operating his own firm, John T. Bond & Son. A member of his own Lodge says "he will be remembered as 'Johnny-CandyBond' who made life's rough and rugged road smoother and easier by
dispensing so many kinds of much-needed sweetness along the way."
Our sympathy goes out to the widow and family of this dynamic.
warm-hearted man.
HORACE WELLS RICE. Born in San Francisco on April 11,
1892, Brother Rice passed away on June 29, 1963. Moving to San
Rafael in his early youth he had spent practically all his life in that
city. He served in World War I. Since 1927 he had been engaged in
the insurance business, retiring in 1961. Being very fond of travel he
had visited Europe and the Orient twice. He died the morning a.fter
he and his wife had returned home from a Mediterranean cruise.
Brother Rice was raised a Master Mason in Marin Lodge No. 191
on April 1, 1914 and was Master of that Lodge in 1920. It was during
his year as Master that P.G.M., and P.G.S. Lloyd E. Wilson was

259

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

..

'sed" in Marin Lodge. He was Grand Sword Bearer during the year
ra1 her Wilson was Grand Master. He also served for some years on
Brot"Distinguished Guests" Committee of this Grand
?ne of
dominating interests was his family and our sympathy 1s extended
!Sh. ·
i·fe two daughters and five grandchildren.
b I d fl
to is w ,
EDWARD DELOR KOHLSTEDT. A familiar and e ove . gure
. Masonry was taken from us when Dr. Edward D. Kohlstedt died on
m
1o 1963 He was 88 years of age. Brother Kohlstedt was a
and had a distinguished career in the church_. He
- ed a two year term as President of the National Council o.f
ci:rche:s. For five years he: was President of Dakota W~sleyan Um. · S th Dakota and for many years was Executive Secretary
vers1ty m ou
h 0 h'
t'
t
of the Board of Missions of the Methodist C~urc . . n is re 1remen
h came to California and since 1947 had resided m Palo Alto.
e In 1949 Brother Ed affiliated with Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 and
· ce that time has been a very active and devoted Mason. He was also
suCharter member of Josiah W. Roller Lodge No. 761. In 1958-1?59 he
:erved this Grand Lodge with great distincti~n as Grand _Chaplam and
at the 1960 Communication he served for his successor m offi~e, wh.o
· the hospital at the time. Last year Dr. Kohlste:dt received his
was
·
33 d mdegree in Scottish Rite. He is survive d by h'1s w1·fe M aqo~y,
a
da: hter and two sons. who hold high positions in the educational
fd A man of fine mind and kindly character, he: was greatly loved
:n°J
be much missed by his fellow Methodists a~d Brother Masons.
Time fails us to even call the names of the remamder of .the 415 .. A
full list is attached to, and made a part of this report: The list contams
the names of sorue who have served their I:odges fo~ fifty years or more,
Who have served with outstandmg effectiveness both as Mad
an many
f
f h · ·t·
d
· th e: e ducat1'0 nal . cultural • and civic 1i e o t e1r c1 1es an
sons an d m
the: state. The sum total of the work of these brethren has been _greater
t h an we can com Prehend · They were men of faith
. who had
fi Id their
f h faces
turned toward better things and lived Masonry m every e o uman
endeavor.
d'd
·
"These all, are commemorated for their faith and _yet _1 not receive
the fulfillment of all their labors, because wi~h us m mmd, God had
made a better plan, that only in company with us should ~hey reach
their perfection. And what of ourselves? With all these witnesses to
faith around us, like a cloud. we must throw off every encumbrance,
every sin to which we cling, and run with resolution the race set before
us."

Lod~e.

~e

~~~~~~ist 'minist~r

V.:m

ADAM

B. MORTEN

RAYMOND

J. FISHER

E. RIFE
WALTER B. MEYERS
WILLIAM
MERLIN

J. TABER, JR.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

EULOGY
0. J. WOHL GEMUT H
By Ira W. Coburn
Mary Baker Eddy, the Discover er and Founder of Christian Science, has written:
. "When_ being is u~der~tood. Life will be recogniz ed as neither matenal n~r finite, ~ut as mfimte - as God, universa l good, and the belief
that life. or mind. w~s ever in a finite form . or good in evil. will be
destroye d. Then 1t will be ~nderstood that Spirit never entered matter
and was therefore never raised from matter.
" When advanced to spiritual being and the understa nding of God
man can no longer commun e with matter; neither can he return to
any more than a tree can return to its seed. Neither will man seem to
be corp~r~al. but _he w.ill be an individua l consciou sness, characte rized
by the d1vme Spmt a~ ~dea. n_o t matter. Suffering , sinning, dying beliefs
are unreal. When d1vme Science is universa lly understo od, they will
have no power over man. for man lives by divine authority ."
. Such wa s the creed of Brother 0. J. " Wally" Wohlgem uth _ that
Life was God - infinite and eternal - that Man is the reflection of
the Father.
And so it should not be with pain or sorrow that we recall to memory our ~eparted brot~er, but with pride in the knowled ge of his service
to m~nkind, pleasure m the warmth of his wonderf ul family life. comfort m the sure recogniti on of his long, varied and valued services to
Masonry and to the Grand Master, whom he served so willingly and
ably.
Worship ful Brother 0. J. "Wally" Wohlgem uth manifest ed his
tremendo us _e nergy, his ~ntegrity, his desire to serve his country and his
Masonry , his love for his family to his devoted wife, son . daughter and
grandchi ldren , as well as his fellow man, in his business life, his civic
and fraternal activities .
He was born in Wiscons in and came to San Francisc o in 1935. He
became a fo_unding partner in the Oroweat Baking Compan y. In 1948.
because of ill health, he retired as Vice Presiden t and General Sales
Manager : a~d moved t_o Walnut Creek. His consumi ng energy would
not permit hu~ t? remam retired. He took over a small shop in Walnut
Creek and built 1t mto an East Bay chain. During one of these ventures .
Wally, at a great personal financial loss, saw to it that all associate d
with him in the business lost none of their investme nt.
But ill hea lth a gain forced his retiremen t. and he sold out to another
firm and moved back to San Francisco. As he recovere d somewha t he
~ga!n entered .~usiness as Presiden t of the Sun berry Co., Inc., whole~ale
pnvate label food manufac turers for prestige firms.
In his civic life Wally's energies were just a s fruitful and boundles s.
He was a founding trustee. later Secretar y and Vice-Pre sident, and

it:

261

h n Presiden t of the Contra Costa County Junior College District.
While serving, he fought the battle against Com~~nism in th_e schools.
and he and the College received national recogmt10n for their courageous stand. Prior to his role in the Junior College. Wally had served
for several years on the Ignacio Valley School Board.
He found tim e during these activities to become one of the founders
d later Vice-Pre sident of the Contra Costa Historica l Society.
an His career in Masonry has been as long . as distingui shed and as
remarkable a s his career in business and in commun ity service. He applied for the degrees of Masonry in Alamo Lodge No_. 122: F&AM
_ becoming a Master Mason on October 1, 1945, serving nine years
later as its Master. In 1957, he was the Master of Northern Californ ia
Research Lodge.
He first began to serve the Grand Lodge of Californ ia in 1948 as a
member of the M asonic History Committ ee. From 1953 on he ~ad ~n
unbroken record of valuable service on the Committ ee - becomin g its
Chairma n in 1961. In addition, from 1956 through 1959, he was appointed Chairma n of the Cons titution Observa nce Committ ee. ~n 1959
he became Chairma n of the Masonic Research Committ ee, and in 1960,
Chairma n of the Masonic Educatio n Committ ee. This year he undertook the great responsib ility of Chairma nship of the Special Commi~­
sion on Masonic Practices. Wally's devotion to the cause of Masonic
History and Educatio n are too well known to need a~plifi~ation. I.t w as
a n unforget table experien ce to hear his lecture and view his magmfic ent
color slides on early C a lifornia Masonic history. For Freemas onr.>'
Wally, like the evergree n acacia. will always be a fond memory. His
ma rk is permane ntly engraved in our minds and hearts. He truly. ex~m­
plified our Craft in his brotherli ness, his regar~ for ~ruth and Justice ,
his temperan ce, his wisdom. his fortitude and his patience.
We might paraphra se Cervantes and say of our dep_a rted brother:
.. There is a strange charm in the thoughts of a good life well spent,
which wondrou sly alleviate s the sorrow that men otherwis e feel from
the death of friends. " Or. as Robert Hillyer has written:
.. We whom life changes with its every whim
Rememb er now his steadfast ness. In him
Was a perfectio n , an un consciou s grace
Life could not mar - and dea th cannot efface."
And finally, my friends . let us be comforte d by the love of the
Father for us. I quote from First John. third chapter. verses one through
three : " Behold . what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us,
that we should be called the sons of God; Therefo re the world knoweth
us not, because it knew him not. Beloved , now are we the sons of God,
and it doth not yet appea r what we s hall be : but we know that, when
he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. And
every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he
is pure."

262

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

EUL OG Y
RAL PH WIL LIA M COL LIN S

By Don ald G. Cam pbel l
Our Mas onic heri tage is one of Hop
e, yet of ten times the unce rtaint ies of life give evid ence that we cann
ot hope for rest or peac e exce pt
in the Fait h of the Eter nity of the hum
an soul . Dea th take s the stro ng
ofte n mor e quic kly than the wea k, for
the stron g are in the mids t of
battl e, whe re the stres s and strai n are
grea test.
Such a man was Ralp h W. Collins. who
had long serv ed this Gra nd
Lod ge and was. at the time of our losin
g him, filling the resp onsi ble and
disti ngui shed office of Assi stan t Gra nd
Lect urer . In this position he ably
repr esen ted the Gra nd Mas ter and Gra
nd Lect urer. and by his qual ities
of lead ersh ip, devo tion to duty and loya
lty to the Insp ecto ral Corp s and
the Lod ges of his division, acco mpli shed
gain s for Mas onry not soon
to be forg otten . It is as a repr esen tativ
e of the men who knew him best ,
the Ritu al Com mittee and the Insp ecto
ral Corp s, that I have aske d for
and been give n the priv ilege of thus part
icipa ting in this service.
Ralp h was born Mar ch 11, 1909, in the
town of Lavina, Mon tana .
He was educ ated in the Billings, Mon
tana publ ic schools , whe re one
of his scho olma tes was our pres ent
Gra nd Cha plai n Ver y Rev eren d
lvol Ira Curt is. The re too he met his
futu re wife Mar gare t Bay soar .
The call of Sou ther n Cali forn ia was irres
istible and Ralp h ente red the
Univ ersit y of Sou ther n Cali forn ia, whe
re he beca me a mem ber of the
foot ball team. and an activ e parti cipa
nt in the life of his chos en collegia te frate rnity - Sigm a Chi. June
29, 1929, saw Mar gare t Bay soar
and Ralp h unit ed in a marr iage \Vhich
surv ived until Ralp h's deat h on
July 23rd . Fort unat ely for Ralp h and
Peg , thei r long marr iage was rewarded by two lovely daug hters, Susa
n Coll ins Pain ter of San Rafa el
a nd Kath leen , who is with her moth er
and atten ding the public scho ols
of Pasa dena .
In his busi ness care er Ralp h exhi bited
the sam e drive and dete rmin ation whic h char acte rized all of his inter
ests. Afte r war- time duty with
Lock heed Airc raft Cor pora tion and the
Wa r Man pow er Commission.
Ra lph bega n a high ly succ essfu l insu ranc
e care er w hich even tuat ed in
beco ming a seni or part ner in the insu
ranc e brokerag e firm of Holt ,
Coll ins a nd Lam b.
Whi le a member of the Con cord ant Rite
s of Free mas onry , Ralp h's
cons uming inter est was in his lodg es,
his distr ict, his division and the
Gra nd Lod ge of Cali forn ia. Rais ed in
Jam es A . Garf ield Lod ge No. 566
in 1942, he served as its Mas ter in 194
7. Typ ical of his self imposed
task s of fellowship, Ralp h visit ed as a
War den or Mas ter a ll Los Angele s lodg es not mee ting on Garf ield'
s sche dule d meeting nigh ts a nd
afte r his relin quis hme nt of the Mas ter's
chai r be visit ed thos e who se

263

GRA ND LODG E OF CALI FORN IA

meeting nigh t had prev ious ly prev ente

d the visit ation . Serv.ice
with conc urre nt forma~n
on d service as the Cha rter Mas ter in
1954 of La Can ada Lod ge o.
of anA oint men t as Insp ecto r of the
then Dist~ict No .. 515 at the end
739.. t~~m as Master kept the strea m of
bis serv
this Gra nd Lodg_e
~~t~~~ and the qualities displayed in that po~tionJiceoftotrust
a~~ ~s~:i~1h
bilit y led agai n to a mor e demanding_
1
l
• st and
beca me Assi stan t Gra nd Le~tu:er_ ~1v1~o!I. n anu a7
s1on V, one o t e arge
mos t active divisions in the 1unsd1ction.
d Lod
t be
R l h's devo tion to Mas onry and to this
Gran
ge ~anno
b tte; :how n than on the Mer it Roll of
the Cali forn ia Mas onic Mem ori:l Tem ple.
lnspect~r, the odg d . .b d As Assi stan t Gra
nd Lect urer he voic ed
nd their nam es stan msc e .
.
~he hope that each lodg e ofnDivi
f h'
sion V wou ld join and at the ~mJ
o is
deat h bette r than nine ty perc ent of thes
e lodg es ~ad su~ce~ ~· . h nds
Wh at bett er mon ume nt to a man is ther
e than t e wor o is a
and the wor k of his hear t. We are no
long er op~rative , our h~ndsl~a~­
ha e with cunn ing skill the roug h
e. This man sh~pe . we. t e
~~~: othi s fellow men. Stea dfas t in his ston
principles, ~evote~ mb h1s fnen d.
has left to each of us the pictu
1
ship , he f 'th . h 's God in himself and re of indomrta e cour age
in
supr eme a1 m 1
his
brot
hers
and
that hope
•
that we too shal l mee t agai n.

com~~nCha rters Com mitt ee was followed

h 6

A~ M::t~~~!r L:isC:a::d;a~;~tg~h:e fi~~o:re~i:h:n~:~ia~~

EUL OGY

FRA NC IS V. KEESLING
Past Gra nd Mas ter
See Pag e 327

264

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE

PAST MASTERS. MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
California Lodge No. l
F ran k Arthur Williams, die d December 24, 1962
R a lph Gilbert Wadsworth. died J anuary 1, 1963
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8
T illo Cava gnaro, died S eptember 7. 1962
Cecil Ball Math ews, di ed Se ptember 16, 1962
Corinthian Lodge No. 9
James W illiam R obinson , died A ugust 15, 1962
San Jose Lodge No. 10
Harry F rederic k Schu mann, died April 15, 1963
Yount Lodge No. 12
Thomas Harold Townse nd, died November 17, 196::!
C larence Nye Riggins, died June 14. 1963
Nevada Lodge No. 13
George Bradley L egg, died J anuar y 4, 1963
Temple Lodge No. 14
A lton D avis Downey, died J une 8, 1963
James Cole Gottenbe rg, died J u ne 28, 1963
La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17
J ules Ramond , died F ebruary 3, 1963
Mountain Shade Lodge No. 18
Stanley Nease McCormick, d ied July 2. 19G2
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
C larence W. T rexler, died J u ne 7, 1963
Occidental Lodge No. 22
Geor ge William Kemper, died October 9, 1962
Orville Charles Baldwin. died December 8. 1962
David Porte r Vail, died J une 10. 1963
Madison Lodge No. 23
J ames J e nkin s Rowe, died Feb ru ary 16. 1963
Mariposa Lodge No. 24
G eorge W arren Fellows, died January 18. 1963
El Dorado Lodge No. 26
H arry Eugene Burk e, died March 26, 1963
Trinity Lodge No. 27
Clyde E verett Moser. died November 3. l!J62
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30
Augu st F e rdina nd H eu er, died S eptember 10, 1962
San Diego Lodge No. 35
Charles Wa lter Webb. died September 21, 1962
Howard Lodge No. 37
Sigurd Alfred Larse n . died September 27, 1962
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38
Daniel Morte n McPh e tres. died Non•mber 21. 1962
Martinez Lodge No. 41
L es lie Harris on Sharp, died August 6, 1962
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42
H enry S . Cohen. d ied September 25. 19ti2
Hiram Lodge No. 43
Edward Stanley Wen tz, died May 8, 1963
Texas Lodge No. 46
L ouis J ames Beu ttler, died August 10, 1962
Volcano Lodge No. 56
H e nry I . Talcott. died April l 0, 1963
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57
Elmer Dou glas Bills . died J une 16, 1963
Union Lodge No. 58
Earl Vernon Otwell, died December 4, 1962
Plumas Lodge No. 60
Solon F ranklin Luzzaddcr, died November 4, 1962

GRAND LODGE O F CA LI FORNIA

Live Oak Lodge No. 61
Char les Alfred And e rs on, died Novembe r 15. 1962
Lee S waney Griswold. died Ma rch 20, 1963
Natoma Lodge No. 64
Harvey D avid Bicker. Sr., died J une 7, 1963
Humboldt Lodge No. 79
Howard Burton Mel endy. died January 26. 1963
Yolo Lodge No. 81
John D anie l Woodard. di ed O ctober 6, 1962
Homer Byrns Hayde n. cl icd M:irch 8, 1963
Charles Rossiter Hoppin , die d July 30. 1963
North Star Lodge No. 91
Bernard Fletcher Davidson, died February 19 1963
Hornitos Lodge No. 98
'
Deward Lee Walker, died December 7, 1962
Clay Lodge No. 101
<;:laude Frank Herrold . died April 6. 1963
Oroville Lodge No. 103
.Harry Le roy P yk e. died October 10. I 962
Lexington Lodge No. 104
Osman Jess G e rhart, died December 18, 1962
P a ja ro Lodge No. 110
Howard Charles J ennings. d ied November 8, 1962
Walter Henry Reed , died March 16 1963
Chico Lodge No. 111
·
Clifton Earl Boysol, d ied January 4 1963
F idelity Lodge No. 120
'
Edgar Coleman Leve y , died October 8, l 962
Alamo Lodge No. 122
Walter A. Ridgway, died Novembe r 14. 1962
Othmer J oh n Woh lgemuth. died April 4. 1963
Charles Louis Berta. d ied June 20, 1963
Table Mountain Lodge No. 124
A lfred Richard Lull, d ied D ecember 2, 1962
Lafayette Lodge No. 126
S ydney Clair Ross, died Apri l 1, 1963
Nicolaus Lodge No. 129
J ohn Taresh. died A p ril 25, 1963
Woodbridge Lodge No. 131
A lbert F reeman Mills, died M a rch 7, 1963
Vacaville Lodge No. 134
S inclair Montgomery Dobbins, d ied August 14. 1962
Pacific Lodge No. 136
Eu gene S . E lkus, died Novem ber 19, 1962
Crockett Lodge No. 139
J ames Oscar L . Brunswig, died December 26, 1962
Grafton Lodge No. 141
Howard Briley, died Janu ary 15, 1963
Oriental Lodge No. 144
H a rry A. Goed j e, d ied S eptember 10, 1962
Delbert L . Berry, died February I. 1963
J oseph William Dris kill. d ied F e bruary 4. 1963
J . Theo Erlin, d ied Feb ruary 13, 1963
Molino Lodge No. ISO
Thomas Albert Dotherow, di ed April 2, 1963
Ulysses Sidney Litt le, d ied May 22, 1963
Excelsior Lodge No. 166
Walter J ames Pybon, died F ebr ua ry IO, 1963
Carl Victor K linker, die d June 10, 1963
Redwood City Lodge No. 168
Raym ond Kenyon Maynard. J r ., d ied Decembe r 14, 1962
Antioch Lodge No. 175
Gran ville Madison Guthrie, died November 23, 1962

265

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Petaluma Lodge No. 180
H enry Nelson Riblet. died October 14. 1962
Eugene Reginald Bell, died May 16, 1963
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182
Marshall Dopkin_s; died April 1, 1963
Sierra Valley Lodge No. 184
Arthur E. Strang, died February 23, 1963
Keith Lodge No. 187
J ohn Henry Britzius, died June 10, 1963
Oakland Lodge No. 188
J ohn Gethin Evans, died January 28, 1963
Northern Light Lodge No. 190
Samuel Gaston Smith, died December 31, 1962
Marin Lodge No. 191
Albert Becker Dewing, died J uly 22, 1962
Horace Wells Rice. died June 29, 1963
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192
Glen Sylvester Allen. died January 7, 1963
J ohn MacKellar, died April 20, 1963
Confidence Lodge No. 203
Harold Raymond White, died J anuary 13, 1963
Charles Charles. died May 14, 1963
Stanislaus Lodge No. 206
Oscar Franklin Thrasher, died September I . 1962
Clarence Walter Sikes, died J a nuary 25, 1963
Robert Yeakel Watson, died March 31, 1963
David Eli Wellman. died May 27, 1963
Anaheim Lodge No. 207
Eugene Emil H edricks. died November 21, 1962
Thomas Lee Hoag, died April 16, 1963
King David's Lodge No. 209
Benjamin Dix Fran klin. died February 24. 1963
South San Francisco Lodge No. 212
Benjamin Disraelie Rintoul. died April 25. I 963
Monterey Lodge No. 217
Frank Oberlin Massie, died J uly 20. 1962
Leslie Kirk Smith. died April 29, 1963
William James Crabbe, died June 21, 1963
Mos aic Lodge No. 218
George Alexander Therkof, died October 28. 1962
Downe y Lodge No. 220
Waldo Perry Towne, died March 27, 1963
Inyo Lodge No. 221
James Edward Rogers, died August 7, 1962
Gus tav Marsile, died December 21, 1962
Rose ville Lodge No. 222
Raleigh Weaver Terry, died October 24. 1962
Edmond Leland Sparks, died November 11 , 1962
Keith Armstrong Butler, died May 30, 1963
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225
Raymon d Frederick Staack, died January 9, 1963
Arthur Tennyson Dowse, died April 16, 1963
Janesville Lodge No. 232
J ohn Turner Crabtree, died January 25, 1963
Calistoga Lodge No. 233
Lawrence A. Tibbetts. died J uly 18, 1962
Lawrence A. Tamagni, died October 29, 1962
Charles W. Crouch, died April 28, 1963
Hills Ferry Lodge No. 236
Lloyd William Fink, died May 21, 1963
Colusa Lodge No. 240
William Ray Dunham, died January 21, 1963

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Santa Ana Lodge No. 241
Cyril Francis Yielding, died August 16, 1962
Charles Victor Doty, died June 19, 1963
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
Orange Ralph McNall, died March 11, 1963
Grosvenor Hiles, died J une 8, 1963
Eucalyptus Lodge No. 243
Harry Adelbert Scoville, died J anu ary 31, 1963
Jess Gilbert Grimsley, died April 17, 1963
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244
Nicholas John Mei nert, died December 26, 1961
Pomona Lodge No. 2<l6
Gordon Ralph Steiner, died May 16, 1963
Alturas Lodge No. 248
Cal C. Cook, died March 11, 1963
Reading Lodge No. 254
Earl Lee Kelly, Sr., died November 1, 1962
Welcome Lodge No. 255
Oscar L eander Odale, died December 15, 1962
Lodi Lodge No. 256
Wi ll iam Heckman Growden. died December 17, 1962
Herbert George Gaskill, died May 31, 1963
Penrhyn Lodge No. 258
William Decatur Bethell, died September 21, 1962
Evergreen Lodge No. 259
Herbert Leroy Thompson, died November 8, 1962
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260
Carl Joseph Lenzen, died September 13, 1962
Tuscan Lodge No. 261
Harry A. Smith, died August 23, 1962
Benjam in Franklin P eters, died August 27, 1962
Durant Lodge No. 268
Ingwald Edward Flaa, died December 24, 1962
Gustave Adolph Griesche, died May 14, 1963
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269
Robert Elgin Rounsaville, died J anuary 7, 1963
Pasadena Lodge J!{o. 272
Charles Hamilton Rubardt, died November 20, 1962
Lucius Allen Parmele, died December 7, 1962
Arroyo Lodge No. 274
Morris Otto Pruess, died December 8, 1962
Selma Lodge No. 277
George William Glines, died J uly 7, 1962
Emory Lewis Maxwell, died September 18, 1962
Charles Alfred West, died November IO, 1962
Hanford Lodge No. 279
Charles Jack Angelo, died April 8, 1963
Madera Lodge No. 280
Andrew Stephen Honeycutt, d ied June 13, 1963
Mount Shasta Lodge No. 281
George Garcelon Tyler, died November 18, 1962
Meredith Tolbert York, died March 2, 1963
Callayomi Lodge No. 282
Kenneth Va ljean Palmer, died October 13, 1962
South West Lodge No. 283
Nels Ingwall Berge, died July 15, 1962
San Miguel Lodge No. 285
Herman Leslie Anderson, died April 25, 1963
Otto John Nehf, died May 21, 1963
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286
Carl Bernard Fein, died April 25, 1963

267

268

PROCEEDI NGS OF T H E

East Gate Lodge No. 290
G ordon Robert M artin, died December 6, 1962
D aniel Myron H ollar, died January 9, 1963
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291
James Norris Procter. died September 5. 1962
Erwin Drayton S t uart, di e d No\·ember 7. 1962
Harry Ford Barnett. died December 8. 1962
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292
Jack Delbert Broderick , died July 16, 1962
H e n ry Owen Smith, died November 24, 1962
Fred B erryman, d ied March 1, 1963
Silver Gate Lodge No. 296
Edgar F e r guson Coope r. di ed N ovember 23, 1962
F rancis Mitchell, died Ma rc h 22. 1963
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297
Clyd e H aygood Weaver . died May 2, 1963
Redlands Lodge No. 300
Ra lph M urray V a n Dyke, died J u ly 26. HHi2
H arry "G" Wilson. died August 13, 1962
J effrey Joseph Prend erga st. d ied August 14. 1962
Ontario Lodge No. 301
A nson J . Smalley, died Febru ary 17, 1963
Santa Lucia Lodge No. 302
Pau l Stephens Vaugh a n , Sr.. died F ebruary 26, 1963
Porterville Lodge No. 303
Waldo Emerson Burford. died Augus t 26. 1962
Reedley Lodge No. 304
Chester Herbert Parlier, died Apr il 5, 19fi3
Delano Lodge No. 309
William David Mainl a nd, d ied February 19, 1963
Los Banos Lodge No. 312
LeRoy Hillyer. died Oc tober 3. 1962
A lexander MacK e nzie, died November 18. 1962
Sanger Lodge No. 316
W illiam Radley, died May 2. 1963
Fallbrook Lodge No. 317
Harry H. Smelser, die d October 24, 1962
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319
Walter James G r und y . died September 25, 1962
South Gate Lodge N o. 320
George Morris D onova n. d ied October 28. 1962
Frederick Edgeworth Us~ h e r. die d Oc.:tobe r 29, 1962
Edward John Olsen, d ied December 28. 196'.!
Corona Lodge No. 324
David Li nk Warden. di ed January 25, 1963
Consuelo Lodge No. 325
Harold Ransuler Brewer. died No\·ember 12, 1962
Long Beach Lodge No. 327
Cla ude Rober t Freeman. died September 20. 1962
Walter Leo Greassner. died J anuary I. 1063
Redondo Lodge No. 328
Charles Frank Mye rs. died September 17, 1962
Vallee De Fra nce Lodge N o. 329
Charles Bertrand, died July 24. 1962
Kilauea Lodge No. 330
George Duncan. die d February 9, 1963
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331
Clinton La Flare Ta ws 0. <lied Octobe r 23. 1962
Clyde Franklin Dyke. died April 5. l!l63
San P edro Lodge No. 332
George H. Francis. di ed Sep tember 29, 19G2
Ernest F. Brou se, d ied April 27, 1963

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Alta Lodge No. 333
J ames Cameron S tewart, d ied A pril 28, 1963
Covina Lod ge No. 334
Randall Thorton Ch ew, J r., died March 23, 1963
West Gate Lodge No. 335
Gus Stanley Bland, died J a nu ary 7, 1963
Ludwig Schiff, died Mar ch 8, 1963
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336
Gustave Adolf Lindh, died July 1, 1962
Lauren ce Leigh Yat er, d ied November 23, 1962
Starr King Lodge No. 344
Charles Maurice Wollenberg . d ied October 22, 1962
Raleigh Walter Burlingame, d ied November 25, 1962
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346
Edward Wilson P earce, di ed July 19, 1962
William Clowes Werry, died July 21. 1962
McKinley Lodge No. 347
E mile Arthur Pleau, died May 4, 1963
S equoia Lodge No. 349
Cyril Wes ley McC lean, died April 20, 1963
Palestine Lodge No. 351
Adolph 0. Altenburger, died August 6, 1962
Sunset Lodge No. 352
Charles Otto Miller, died September 8, 1962
Presidio Lodge No. 354
Ralph Sturtevan t Huck, died September 26, 1962
Hollywood Lodge No. 355
Robert Ray Rankin, died Ma y 9. 1963
George Thomas F oell, died May 19, 1963
John Thomas Bond, died J une 3, 1963
Philip John Michael Doyle, died June 7, 1963
Golden State Lodge No. 358
H arry Bruner Par k hurst, d ied July 6, 1962
Clarence Wright Bean, died F e bruary 21, 1963
San Francisco· Victory Lodge No. 360
Ernest Schumach er, died F e bruary 4, 1963
Harry Thomas Darr, died F e bruary rn, 1963
Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361
William Russel Todd, died August 15, 1962
Las Palmas Lodge No. 366
Marshall Berton Barker, died J uly 18, 1962
John Newton Lis le, died October 30, 1962
Unity Lodge No. 368
Henry Pooley Goodwin, die d F ebruary 24, 1963
Frank E llsw orth Albright, d ied Apr il 29. 1963
K enneth Wilcox Wilde. died May 24, 1963
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
G lenn Wa llace Gurtner, d ied December 14. 1962
Amity Lodge No. 370
William Palmer Stanton. d ied January 1, 1963
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373
Clifton Claude McCoy, died April 2, 1963
J ewel Lodge No. 374
Solon Carlos Leonhaeuser, died August 6, 1962
Leo Bruck, died Dece mber 8, 1962
Clarence J. Shipaug h, died February 27, 1963
Mizpah Lodge No. 378
Willian1 John Croker, d ied December 28. 1962
Oceanside Lodge No. 381
Will iam L. MacDona ld. died August 8, 1962
Fred Richmond Brownlee, died December 21. 1962
Highland Park Lodge No. 382
Ed m onde LeRoy Greene, died September 2, 1962

269

270

PROCEEDINGS OP TH E

El Centro Lodge No. 384
David Berwyn Roberts, died December 30 1962
Bert L ynn Major. died March 23, 1963
'
Dinuba Lodge No. 385
Charles Clifford Wooley, died November 29 1962
Coalinga Lodge No. 387
'
Thompson Roy Hays, died February 19, 1963
Parnassus Lodge No. 388
Clifford Thomas Dorman. died February 8 1963
James Merton H oyt, died May 5, 1963
'
Imperial Lodge No. 390
Atlas J ames Daves, died June 12, 1963
Balder Lodge No. 393
Victor Carl Olav P eterson, died November 7, 1962
University Lodge No. 394
Jack Edward Kern, died Augu st 20, 1963
Burlingame Lodge No. 400
Elverton Blakney Stark, died December 2, 1962
Brawley Lodge No. 402
Clarence John Park, died November 5, 1962
Burbank Lodge No. 406
Henry Knollmiller. died July 1, 1962
Honolulu Lodge No. 409
Howard Nicholas Mosher, died August 24, 1962
Walter Raymond Dunham, died March 3, 1963
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410
Max Alaric Plumb. died November 3, 1962
Arlington Lodge No. 414
Clarence William Jones, died August 11 1962
Ario Dale Squires, died December 9, 19B2
L este r Clayton Potts. died F ebruary 18, 1963
S ilver Trowel Lodge No. 415
Homer Childers Green, d ied June 15, 1963
Lindsay Lodge No. 416
Albe rt Ross Cline, died February 20, 1963
Marion K inmon Henderson, died February 22, 1963
Clovis Lodge No. 417
Richard Lee Bradford, died September 6, 1962
Upland Lodge No. 419
Walter Wesley Horak. died October 20, 1951
Inglewood Lodge No. 421
Robert Earl Briggs, died August 21, 1962
John Baxter Campbell, died November 23, 1962
Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422
Oliver Erskine Forsyth, died December 7, 1962
York Lodge No. 423
John Wallace DeFrance, died November 18, 1962
Midway Lodge No. 426
Thomas Albert Hillary, died June 18, 1963
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427
Harrie L. Benja min, died April 29, 1963
Alphan Lodge No. 431
James Nicklos Long, died May 30, 1963
Fairmount Lodge No. 435
Von Dewitt Downs, died March 15, 1963
Lancaster Lodge No. 437
Ross L . Raymond, died July 11 , 1962
Wallace Ward, died October 6, 1962
Charles Clinton Dewitte Nichols on, died November 16. 1962
J oseph Alston Martin, died April 7, 1963
Schofield Lodge No. 443
Albert Lyle Smith, died May 7, 1963

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Wi.llhire Lodge No. 445
Robert Murray Petersen, died J anuary 2 1963
John Adolph Klarquist, died February 3' 1963
Torrance Lodge No. 447
'
Gordon Arthur Motherse ll, died August 26, 1962
Park Lodge No. 449
Arthur William Bennett, died June 4, 1963
Montebello Lodge No. 451
George Golde n Osborn. died October 2 1962
Garnett Duncan Dilley, died Decembe~ 30, 1962
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452
Frank Ralph Wa lkup, died August 11, 1962
Crocker Lodge No. 454
Andrew McNeill McKeown, died May 18, 1963
Golden West Lodge No. 455
William Murray, died December 19, 1962
Ramona Lodge No. 457
Wesley Eben Boynton, died July 17, 1962
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462
Alonzo J ames Owens, died October 5, 1962
Wentworth Spen cer Wright died March 14 1963
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463
'
'
Jos eph Orland Leverton, died August 7, 1962
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464
Larned Torrey K im_merle, died J anuary 16, 1962
Earle L. S. Bagot, died December 27, 1962
Center Lodge No. 465
Roy Clark Lacy, died November 2 1962
Culver City Lodge No. 467
'
Danie l Fish Coombs, died July 17, 1962
Lincoln Lodge No. 470
H. J ames Frederick W illwerth, d ied August 3, 1962
Robert Austin P eab ody, died August 6, 1962
George Stewart McCullough, died November 26, 1962
Delta Lodge No. 471
Samuel Gossler Gearhart, Jr., died April 7 1962
Lodge Maui No. 472
'
James HaJVilton Pratt, died October 27 1962
America Lodge No. 475
'
David La Roy Church, died April 3, 1963
Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478
Edward Murray Walls, died November 17 1962
Fellowship Lodge No. 480
'
J ames Hamilton Rothberg, died J anuary 16 1963
Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482
'
Plu mmer Harmon Montgomery, died January 12, 1963
Bell Lodge No. 483
Loyd Joseph Kellum , died March 19, 1963
Chowchilla Lodge No. 485
Burpee 0 . Weber, died Ju ly 24, 1962
R obert H arry Yates, died October 24 1962
Carl Dewey Clausen, died December' 29, 19 62
Caledonia Lodge No. 486
F red Scoresby Baxter, died September 11, 1962
Patterson Lodge No. 488
J ames Choate Rarnsaur, died November 5, 1962
East Bay Lodge No. 489
L eonard Hogerheide, died F ebruary 11, 1963
Corcoran Lodge No. 490
E dward Louis Osborn, died May 5, 1963
Garvan:za Lodge No. 492
Fred Lorenzo Norton, died September 4, 1962

271

272

PROCEEDINGS OF T HE

Acorn Lodge No. 494
Rudolp h Gustav J ohanson, died January 17, 1%3
Fremont Lodge No. 497
William Manley N icholson, Sr., died August 17, 1962
Fred Farnham Morse, died December 1, 1962
Harold J oseph Kuech le r, died March 8, 1963
Mount Olive Lodge No. 506
K arl Victor Johnson, died October 19, 1962
J oppa Lodge No. 508
Willia m Ray mond Keefe r, died May 2, 1963
Benjamin Franklin Lodge No. 509
Ira J ames Smith. died March 8, 1963
Cupertino Lodge No. 510
Archibald Wilson, died September 5, 1962
Palms Lodge No. 512
Arthur Mathieson. died May 25, 1963
Argonne Lodge No. 514
F ran k Adolphus Fox, died December 30, 1962
Taft Lodge No. 516
Carl Lee Boon. died December 8, 1962
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517
Walter Leo Stobin g. died September 29, 1962
Cat alina Island Lodge No. 524
Philip Sidney All en, died July 31, 1962
Victor Collet Lytle, died April 26, 1963
G eorge Washin gton Lodge No. 525
Adolph Herman Franzen, died J anuary 21, 1963
Lynel Herbert Sill, died March 9, 1963
Bay City Lodge No. 526
Edgar Ulman Meyer, di ed August 9. 1962
Jesse J osep hus Brilliant, died October 11, 1962
Loyalty Lodge No. 529
Brice Herndon Martin, died J anuary 14, 1963
Ascot Lodge No. 538
Lloyd Russell Reeve, died J uly 3. 1962
H enry Morse Stephens Lodge N o. 541
William Wilbur Myers, d ied March 12, 1963
North Hollywood Lodge No. 542
Ernest Lynn Coolidge, died J anuary 11, 1963
Signal Lodge No. 543
J oh n Allen Kline, died October 20, 1962
Wil li am Chit tick, J r., di ed October 28, 1962
Carl Collins Hayford, died November 10, 1962
Glenda le Lodge No. 544
Paul Raymond Queen, died March 20, 1963
Just ice Lodge No. 549
Rush Manbert, died February 15, 1963
Lakeshore Lodge No. 551
Clyde Pickney Finger. died October 26, 1962
Sem p er Vir ens Lodge No. 552
Isaac Saff Minor, died December l, 1962
Educa tor Lodge No. 554
Max Brent Wilson, died December 6, 1962
H e rmosa Lodge No. 557
Lawrence Vincent Norman, died August 25, 1962
Plymouth Lodge No. 560
Th omas Moore Price, died September 12. 1962
South Park Lodge No. 563
Bert Raymond Gustelius, died November 14, 1962
F oothill Lodge No. 564
William Edwin H aske ll, died January 7, 1963
James A. Garfield Lodge No. 566
Arthur Nickerson Chaffee, died May 14, 1963

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Park Boulevard Lodge No. 568
Clarence Bernhard J orgen.~en , died April 18. 1963
Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569
Don Knight Hastings, d ied J une 17, 1963
Military Service Lodge N o. 570
Otto Vogt, died March 23, 1963
James Madison Lodge No. 572
J ohn Bernard Wolters, died February 4, 1963
S . W. H ackett Lodge No. 574
Burr Herbert Prentice, died February 16, 1963
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575
Norris Charles Bethel , died April 23, 1963
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
William E rnest Lyon, died August 30. I 962
J ames Byrnes Carson, died October 24, 1962
Progr essive Lodge No. 578
Travis Floyd Hollingsworth, d ied November 18, 1962
Fred W illiam Godard. died January 18, 1963
Wasco Lodge No. 583
Harry Howe Pollock, died November 30, 1962
Harding Lodge No. 584
Charles L eona rd Hanson, died December 30, 1952
Arthur L ucien Jepson. died March 24, 1963
Manchester Lodge N o. 585
Victor Tucker Wade, died J anuary 8, 1963
El S ereno Lodge No. 588
J ohn McGregor, d ied J anuary 7, 1963
Compass Lodge N o. 590
Hal Norris Byers. d ied February 7, 1963
Tujunga Lodge No. 592
Orley W. Segner, died September 16, 1962
Lynwood Lodge No. 600
Jesse Oliver Rulon, died February 20, 1963
Dimond Lodge No. 603
James J . T orrison, died J anuary 5, 1963
.
.
Sojourner Lodge No. 607
Edgar Wilson Parmelee, died Ap n l 11, 1963
Granada Lodge No. 608
Charles Robert Nicker!, died July 24, 1962
Albert L ester Deatrick, died February 24. 1963
Gus Aubrey Ha.rt. d ied May 17, 1963
Provid ent Lodge No. 609
Frederick William Whitney, died Augus t 9, 1962
Canoga Lodge No. 611
Anton Kragtorp, died January 11. 1963
Te mple City Lodge No. 612
J ohn Dw ight Logsdon, died July 16, 1962
W illiam Nickson Pedder, died J uly 16, 1962
Three Pillars Lodge No. 613
John Frank Wagner. died June 19, 1963
La rchmont Lodge No. 614
Harvey Walter Hill, died May 22, 1963
R . E . Dolley L od ge No. 616
William R. Treathway, died February 23, Hl63
Southland Lod ge No. 618
John Wellingt on Pringle, died Feb ruary 1, 1963
Will iam Wallace Kaye, died May 12, 1963
Neptune Lodge No. 61 9
Charles LeRoy Jack son, Jr., died November 29, 1962
Point Loma Lodge No. 620
Nels Ingwell Berge, died July 15, 1962
Robert Harold Harwood, died April 21, 1963

273

274

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

Chu la Vist a Lodg e No. 626
Char les Man ley Whi take
Lam anda Park Lodg e No. 627r, died June 17, 1963
Gust av H. Brei tenfe ld, d ied F ebru ary
4, 1963
Trut h Lodg e No. 628
L eRoy John Kolb , died Janu ary 7, 1963
Ingle side Lodg e No. 630
John Wes ley Pow ell, died Aug ust 22,
1962
Bene vole nce Lodg e No. 631
Roy H arris on Schw iege r, died Octo ber
17, 1962
Norm al Heig hts Lodg e No. 632
John Anth ony Mila n, die d Janu ary
22, 1963
Vict orvil le Lodg e No. 634
Theo dore Alle n L ee, died June 7, 1963
Jam es A. Fosh ay Lodg e No. 641
Jose ph Leo You n g, Sr., d ied A p ril 14,
1963
Char les Raym ond Woo lever . Sr., died
Wm. Mor gan Gille tte, Jr. , died Ju ne M a y 2, 1963
27, 1963
La Cum bre Lodg e No. 642
Will iam Bruc e War ren, died May 21,
1963
Lom ita Lodg e No. 644
Ceci l A. Goh een, died Ju ly 22, 1962
J ohn Roy Win ters, died F ebru ary 13,
1963
Char les Greig, died Apri l 22, 1963
Carl E. F asna c ht , died May 27, 1963
Metr opol itan Lodg e No. 646
Fran k New ton Eve r ett, died Octo ber
30, 1962
Dam ascu s Lodg e No. 648
Osca r Ervi a Adam son, died F ebru ary
25, 1963
Flor ence Lodg e No. 649
Erne st F. Full y, died July 21, 1962
Frank H. Bees on, died May 26, 1963
La Brea Lodg e No. 650
Wen dell Jenn ings H arvey, di ed Dece
mbe r 31, 1962
Walt er Lloy d Laum ann, di ed A pril 25,
1963
Men lo Park Lodg e No. 651
Vict or Louis Hug o, died May 17, 1963
Cres cent a Vall ey Lodg e No. 652
Why te Ama cy Wom ack, died A ugus
t 10, 1962
Mon te Vista Lodg e No. SSS
Burn ham Fras er Smit h, died Octo ber
Edw ard Wils on Heck er, died Apri l 13,24, 1962
1963
Livi ngsto n Lodg e No. 658
Still man Herbe1·t Swa n, die d June 5,
1963
Bald win Park Lodg e No. 660
Cliff ord Webster, died Febr uary 8, 1963
Mari on Me ll, died May 29, 1963
Hen ry Kno x Lodg e No. 662
Don ald Arth ur Pipe r, died Marc h 25,
1963
Kaw eah Lodg e No. 665
DeW itt C. Cole , died May 24, 1963
Rese da Lodg e No. 666
Will iam Kav anau gh Engl ish, died Marc
h 28, 1963
Gree nlea f Lodg e No. 670
Guy Coli n Shaw , died F eb ruar y 27,
Hora ce H. Wrig ht, died June 13, 19631963
Lagu na Beac h Lodg e No. 672
Geor ge Eldo n Thomp son, died May
14, 1963
Far Wes t Lodg e No. 673
Earl Will iam Rud een , died Janu ary
14, 1963
Los Cerr itos Lodg e No. 674
Sam Edw ard Ledd el, died Sept emb er
28, 1962

GRA ND LODGE OF CALI PORN IA

275

na Lodg No. 678
A ltade
Alfre d Phileip
D a vies, died J uly 16, 1962

Carj:~~dJ:l:h·z6~~k, died Nov emb er 11, 1962
TronH~~~gOl~~~6~teh l, died Dece mber 9, 1962

San Mari no Lodg e No. 685
Wilb ur Rob ert Tee ts, died July 26, 1962
Ado lph Oliv er Alte nbur ger , d1de.d tngu 7 1962
s~ber 6 1962
Will iam Clev elan d Mcin
tyre, ie
ece
,
B'xb
y
Knol
ls
Lodg
e
No. 699
1
Dona ld Bain McK ay, died Apri. l 3, 1963

Seaf0;~:r 1E~~; ~f;ii~8Jr., died May 31, 1963

Lore nzo Lodg e No. 7 o9
Linford Well s Hun ter, d 1.e d M arch 18 1963
•
Belm ont ShoreLLo<:fgeHN
I van Otto ouis o lom. 7glr :n ' die d Januar y 14, 1963
San Lore ru:o Vall ey LWodog11eN
yodI~~ N ovem ber 30. 1962
Harr y L awre nce
•
Lake woo d Lodg e No. 72~ A
Fre d Byro n Gray , died ugus t 6 , 1962
Oakw ood Lodg e No. 743
De los Herb ert Smi th, died Aug ust 6, 1962
Clau de H. Mon ison LodgSe N
Durw ard Law rence u dd~~~7· died Octob er 5, 1962
Wai kiki Lodd gNe.Nho. 1774M oshe r died
Aug ust 24. 1962
H ow ar
1c o as
•
San Dieg uito Lodg e No. 7_75
t
Brun o H en r y K a tt, d1~d Adu.gudsA21:·11962
22 1963
Edwa rd Gilb ert J e ff eries, ie
pn
,
Pinn acle Lodg e NVo. 7~7han died Febr
uary 26, 19G3
P a ul Stev en au.,
•

At 11 :00 a.m. Gra nd Lod ge was called

off until 9: 30 a.m. T hurs day.

276

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IN GRA ND LOD GE
17, 1963
MORNING SESSION-THURSDAY, OCTOBER
calJed on h G
.. At 9:30 a.m . Gran d Lodgde was
ter preh. t e rand Mas
d b
1·
was
n
. Th e
s1dmg. The invo catio
d Cha Iam.
Gran
e
t
y
ivere
e
p
h
f
.
d
minu tes o t e morn ing sessi on of Wed nes ay. Octo ber 16, were read
and appr oved .

JUR ISP RUD ENC E
REP ORT OF COM MIT TEE sON
d .

(I terns repo rted on at different time unn g the Com mun icati on are
cons olida ted to facilitate reference.)
.
& A M of Ca l'f
1 ornw ·
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gran d Lodg e F ·
·
·
.
W
as follo ws:
e repo rt on the Gran d Mas ter's decis ions
DEc1s10Ns Nos. 1 ANo 2
d 2
Deci sions Nos. J
are valid but it is not nece ssary to anno
tate Deci sion No. I. an
yes vote
Wde mov e appr oval of both and urge a
·
A opte d 5/ 6 vote .
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
JOHN R. MOORE
OSCAR LAWLER
Loui s C. DRAPEAU
LEO E. ANDERSON
HENRY c. CLAUSEN
JOE L. SHELL
W AKEPIELD TAYLOR
CHARLES J. WRIGHT
Rov J. HENVILLE
DEc1s10N No. 3
.
d M
a
The use of the nam e of Lod e the
ason1c and/ or Mas onic
.
d . ·1
insig nia of any kind by m e mb ersg o .f a bwor
t
g
owlm
earn an s1mi ar team s
b 'dd
fo
tly
stric
is
on,
fashi
any
in
ps,
grou
or
r 1 en.
.
. .
Th · d ec1si
on 1s soun d and · supp orted b y long stan ding law
ts
is
.
(683 -u CMC ) whic h red
a s m part:
..
.
.
· · · The symb ols and embl ems o f M ason ry, its sign s and toke ns,
its nam e and fame its rank
titles, belo ng not to an
indiv idua l for his ~w~ use and hono rable
but are talent~ entru sted to
him to be used for spec ial aanndd e~e7efi.t. purp oses whic h are pure ly
usive
c
Mas onic . .. "
. .
We mov e adop tion. of th.ts d ecis1
on and urge a yes vote .
Ado pted 5/ 6 vote

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

DEc1s10N No. 4
s
it is perm issib le for Lodg es to disp lay sign
thilt
s
hold
This decis ion
re
Squa
the
ing
bear
ed
locat
at the entra nces to town s wher e Lodg es are
and addr esse s of Lodg es.
bers
num
and
s
name
em,
embl
pass
and Com
date s and hour s of meet ing s.
fame of Mas onry to the
I. This woul d drop the grea t name and
stree t level.
verti sing beca use atten danc e
2. Serv ice clubs use this meth od of ad
Mas onry . This prac tice by
is the price of mem bersh ip - not so with
won 't respo nd to such
ays
freew
such clubs is decr easin g beca use the
prac tice.
rep11gnant to the tradi tions
3. Publ ic adve rtisin g ha~ alwa ys been
for the benefit of Mas on s
of Mas onry . Such publ ic adve rtisin g just
Mas ons must know or shou ld
chall enge s their intel ligen ce. Cert ainly all
know how to locat e Lodg es.
Lodg es and num erou s en4. The town of Los Ang eles has 67
ified in the decis ion wou ld
tranc es. To disp lay the in form ation spec
requ ire man y billb oard s of enor mou s size.
urge a no vote.
We move appr oval 0£ this decis ion but
A majo rity vote d agai nst the decision.
DEc 1s10N No. 5
but it seem s to impl y that an affiliated Mad
soun
is
5
Deci sion No.
to its own mem bers. No such
sonic body may not sell such ticke ts
impl icati on is inten ded.
5 toge ther with this repo rt
We move appr oval of said Deci sion N o.
and urge a ye~ vote .
Ado pted 5/ 6 vote .
DISPENSATIONS
wed the spec ial dispe nYou r Com mitte e on Jurisprud ence has revie
duri ng the past year and his
satio ns issue d by the Gran d Mas ter
bersh ips.
appr oval of resol ution s relat ing to life mem
ter in rega rd to these mat.
Mas
We feel that the acts of the Gran d
and reco mme nd that they
law
our
ters have been in comp lianc e with
be appr oved .
Ado pted .
E
LooGE CoN souo ATIO N-CL ARIP Y PRo<EDUR
( 9)
C be ;ime nded to rea d as
RES OLV ED: Thn t Sect ion 375 CM
follows :
olida ted upon the adop Sec. 375. Two or more Lodg es may be cons
exac t term s of cons olida tion .
tion of a writt en resol ution . spec ifyin g the

278

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

by all parti cipat ing Lodg es at their respe ctive
state d meet ings subje ct to
the following restr ictio ns:
1. At least three mont hs writt en notic e of such
resol ution must be
given to all mem bers of all ·s uch Lodg es prior
to the respe ctive
state d meeting at which the resol ution is to
be voted upon .
2. If such resol ution is adop ted by all
parti cipat ing Lodg es. the
writt en cons ent of three fourt hs of the mem
bers of each such
Lodg e must be obtai ned on a form presc ribed
by the Gran d
Secr etary .
3. How ever, if the Gran d Mast er deter mine
s that it is impr actic able
to hold such meet ings or to secur e the requi site
writt en cons ents,
he may appr ove the conso lidati on upon the
writt en cons ent of a
majo rity of the members of any such Lodg e.
The Lodg e thus form ed may bear the name
and numb er of one of
the Lodg es comp osing it, in whic h case it
may retain the char ter and
seal of that Lodg e; or it may bear the name
of one and the numb er of
anoth er of such Lodg es, and shall then recei
ve a new chart er, with out
charg e. and prov ide a new seal; or it may have
an endo rsem ent of the
autho rizat ion of such consolida tion by the Gran
d Lodg e made upon the
char ter of one of the comp onen t Lodg es.
A trans cript of all proce eding s respe cting
cons olida tion shall be
certified to the Gran d Secr etary by the secre
tary of every parti cipat ing
Lodg e.
Such cons olida tion shall become effective upon
the appro val of the
Gran d Mast er.
RES OLV ED FUR THE R: That Secti ons
375- e and 375- f CMC
be repea led.
We move adop tion of the resol ution and recom
mend a yes vote.
The Com mitte e on Polic y and Gene ral Purp
oses indic ated their
conc urren ce in the recom mend ation .
Adop ted 5/ 6 vote.
EXA.M INA.T ION

(I 1)

This resolution woul d subs titute a split lette
r in place of one of our
Anci ent Char ges ( 15) whic h reads , "You
agree that no visito rs shall
be received into your Lodg e with out due exam
inati on . . . "
It is shock ing to even cons ider a resol ution
bent on destr oyin g Masonic fund amen tals.
This resol ution viola tes Land mark Fifte en th.
(Pag e 343 CMC )
We recom mend the resol ution be not adop
ted and urge a no vote.
The Com mitte es on Polic y and Gene ral Purp
oses and on Ritua l indicat ed their conc urren ce in the recom mend ation
.
A majo rity voted again st the resol ution .

GRAN D LODG E OF CA.LIPORNIA.

279

PUBL I SH NAM ES OP ELEC TED CAND
IDA.T ES

( 16)
.
34
publi catio n of name s of
Section 518- e and Sect1~n 31 -g relatin. gg torule
of Maso nry affirmed
cand idate s for the degr ees is a ong stan d m
by these secti ons in 1?56.
d CMC are decisions. edict s, etc. and
The lette r anno tatio ns un er
led but cann ot be amen ded.
.
d
xnay b e re p ea f
We there ore move that the resolution be re}ected an urge a no
vote
The Com mitte e on Polic y a~ d G enera l Purp oses indic ated their
conc urren ce in the recom mend ation . .
A majo rity voted again st the resolution.
FUNC TION AL AME NDME NTS

C.M.C.

(31)

Secti on 137 a
Your Com mitte e, to whic h were ref er.red the sever al recommenda~
tions by Gran d Secr etary Edw ard H. Siem conta ined in Reso lutio n
s
No 31 repor ts as follows :
.Th, Gran d Secr etary sugg ests that Secti on 137a of the Calif ornia
e
Maso nic Co d e b e repea ]e d . It reads as follows:
. symb olic and cann ot be
"The ceremonial for layin g corne rston es IS
perfo rmed for placi_n~ a ~tab~:~~~ Mast er
Kees ling in 191 7, and ~­
This was a dec1s1on . y Gran d Lodg e in that
year.
ceive d the appro val of this
d 'th Secti on 137£ readi ng as follows :
Section 137si shou ld be rea w1
ortin g stone and Gran d
"A corne rston e need not be a true su~p
by insertin~ a so-ca lled
.
t
.
omes
Lodg e may o ffi c1a e 10 corne rston e cerem
. 1
.
th ·de of an outer wa ll o f a build ing. The cerem oma
corne rston e mto
e si
d
.
bolic
prim arily since mo ern
and purp ose of layin g cornerstone~ is s~;:e
corne rston e upon whic h a
types of cons truct ion do n.?t requi re a
wall or build ing may rest. . d the ritua l
adop ted by Gran d Lodg e
We have caref ully exam me d
'th the decision of Gran d
.
f
e
e w1
for the laym g o corn r stone s . an agre
.
ot appr opria te for placi.ng a
Mas ter Keesling that the cerem ond l~t: a
corne rston e. We. there fore.
table t and not a part of or .conn ecte w
off er the following resol ution :. 137
f the Calif ornia Maso nic Code
RES OLV ED: That Secti on
a 0
be repea led. h d t' of the resol ution
and recom mend a no vote
We move t e a op ion
.
A simple majo rity voted for the res~l¥~1~~·er
until the 1964 Annu al
Faili ng a. 5/ 6 vot~; the ::~e~==~d;ent to
the Cons tituti on" (Sec.
Com mum catto n as ~ Prop d
88 of these Proc eedin gs.
78 CMC ). Reso lutio n prmt e page

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

Section 193b
As a part of Resolution No. 31. the Grand Secretary suggests the
repeal of subsection 193b wh ich limits to ~300.00 the expenditure of
funds for a testimonial gift to the outgoing Grand Master. We believe
this expenditure may properly be left to the discretion of our Committee
on Finance, su bject of course to final approval by the Grand Lodge.
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED : That subsection l 93b be repealed.
We recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

Section 324
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to whom was referred Resolution
No. 31 offered by the Grand Secretary reports as follows: Therein he
offers the following resolution:
" RESOLVED THAT Section 324 be amended by adding the
words "in the Old Masonic Hall in El Pueblo de Los Angeles State
Historical Monument at Los Angeles" as 324-( d) and the present
324-( d) to be numbered 324-{ e) ."
This section designates the places where special meetings of Lodges
may be held, and if adopted will add the Old Masonic Hall in Los
Angeles to said places.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

Section 336
The fourth resolution offered by the Grand Secretary as a part of
Resolution N o. 31, is as follows:
RESOLVED THAT Section 336 be amended to read as follows:
"Each chartered Lodge shall, within two months from the date of
its charter and after approval of the design by the Grand Secretary,
provide a ·s uitable seal . . . etc . . . . "
This amendment merely adds the requirement that the seal of a
new Lodge shall. before its final adoption, be submitted to the Grand
Secretary for approval.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

Section 412q
The Grand Secretary suggests that Section 4 l 2q be repealed. it
being a decision by Grand Master Clausen that su bscriptions to the
California Freemason could properly be purchased for its members from
the refreshment funds of a Lodge. because Section 411 as amended in
1957 makes proper the expenditures of Lodge funds for the purchase
of such subscriptions for its members. We offer the following resolution:
"RESOLVED THAT Section 412q be repealed."

We move adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

Section 697
The Grand Secretary suggests that Section 697 concerning the election of trial commissioners be amended to provide for election by ~ ~a­
jority of all the votes cast instead of. as it now provides, by a ~aiority
of the votes o f those present. We are in accord with the suggest10n and
offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED THAT Section 697 be amended so that lines 11 and
12 will read "until the full number of Commissioners shall have been
elected. each by a ma jority of all the votes cast."
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vo te .
Adopted 5/6 vote.
Section 700a
As a part of Resolution No. 31, the Grand Secretary s~ggests that
Section 700a. being a decision of Grand Master Patton m 1900, be
repealed.
This decision held that a Master who directs the Junior Warden to
prefer charges against a member cannot preside at the trial. nor should
the charges so preferred be presented to such Master.
We believe it should be proper for the Master who orders a charge
of unmasonic conduct filed agains t a member should be authorized to
receive such charge. preside <it the mee ting for election of. ~omm.is­
sioners, and issue summons to the accused and other admm1stra t1ve
duties connected with such proceedings, but that such Master should
not preside at the trial. To repeal the e.ntire s ubsec~ion would remove
the in hibition that such Master not preside at the tnal. In order to accomplish what we believe to be proper. we offer. with the consent of
the Grand Secretary, the following resolution in two parts:
RESO LVED: That subsection 7000 be repealed, and tha t it
BE FURTHER RESOLVED : That Section 700 be amended and
that there be added thereto the words, "and provided further that a
Master who has ordered the Junior Warden to file a charge of unmasonic conduct against a member is disqualified to preside at the trial of
such member."
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a yes vote.
Adopted 5 / 6 vote.
Section 708a
The Grand Secre tary suggests that Section 708a be renu mbered
as 707k.
We believe this suggestion to be logical and off er the following
resolution :

282

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"RESOLV ED THAT Section 708a be renumbere d as Section
707k."
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommen d a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
Section 721n
The Grand Secretary suggests that Section 721 n be repealed. This
subsection is to the effect that the transcript of the trial proceedin gs
should show who participat ed in the verdict of the trial commissioners,
and how many commissio ners voted "aye" and "nay" on each question
submitted to such trial commissioners.
The requireme nts of Section 72In are completel y covered by Sections 726 and 727 of our Code and, therefore, Section 721 n is redundant
and perhaps confusing .
We offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED: That Section 72ln be repealed.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommen d a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
Sections 722a and b
The Grand Secretary suggests that Sections 722a and 722b be renumbered as Sections 718m and 718n. We believe the suggestion valid
and offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED THAT Section 722a be renumbere d as Section 718m
and that Section 722b be renumbere d as Section 7 l 8n.
We move the adoption of the resolution and recommen d a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
Section 725a
The Grand Secretary offers the following resolution :
RESOLV ED THAT Section 725a be renumbere d as Section 724d.
We believe this to be logical and move the adoption of the resolution
and recommen d a yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERA L PURPOS ES
(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes , to which were
referred the recommen dations contained in the Grand Master's message.
report our approval of the following recommen dations :
I. The Grand Master's edict, dated May 10. 1963. setting forth
the procedure by which members of Cuban Lodges and the Grand
Lodge of Cuba could pay their dues to our Grand Secretary, and on
proof of membe.r ship by examinati on visit our constituen t Lodges.

283

2. The recommen ded policy that Grand Lodge ceremonie s of laying
cornerston es and dedication programs should be confined to public
buildings.
3. The recommen dation that the work of the Constituti on Observance Committe e be expanded, with more programs and added activity.
4. The recommen dation that a special committee be appointed by
the incoming Grand Master to make a thorough study of our over-a ll
committee structure. their duties, activities and objectives, with the
objective of consolidat ion where possible. and the elimination of overlapping responsibilities.
5. The recommen dation that the Special Commissi on on Masonic
Practices be continued for another year, to collaborat e with the Lodges
throughou t the year for experimen tal action, and to make a further report covering areas of Masonic practices in respect to which the Commission has already gathered material.
We approve each of the recommen dations and move the adoption
of this report.
Respectfu lly submitted ,
JonN D. HOLLAND
LESLIE E. Wooo
DON K. BALDWIN
Guv B. M1zE
EDGAR v . STEWART, JR.
ELBERT w. DAVIS
NEWCOMB CoNDEE
LAIN
RICHARD H. CHAMBER
Adopted.
RESEARCH LoDGE OFFICERS
1962 RESOLUTION ( 11 )
( P. 61 - 1962 PROCEEDINGS)
The resolution relative to Research Lodges was before Grand Lodge
at its last Communi cation and received a majority vote of approval. Because it did not receive the required 5/ 6th vote. it must now come
before Grand Lodge for reconsider ation.
This resolution would eliminate Section 385 CMC which requires
that only a Past Master of a California Lodge is eligible for election as
Master or Warden of a Research Lodge and provides that if such Master or Warden is not a Past Master of a California Lodge, he must
posse&s a certificate of proficiency in the opening and closing cere~
monies. Tt would also amend paragraph 10 to clarify the distinction
between a Past Master of a Research Lodge and a Past Master of other
constituen t Lodges.
Section 385 makes it clear that it was never intended that Research
Lodges were to be governed by the s ame regulation s as other constituen t
Lodges, wherein it is stated that "A special classification of constituen t
Lodges is hereby establishe d."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

If we are to preser ve those Research Lodges that find it difficult, if
not impossible, to interest Past Masters to serve as M asters or Wardens
of the Research Lodges, we feel tha t this resolution should be adopted.
We therefore move the resolution and your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a yes vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence recommends a no vote.
The resolution was adopted by a 2/3 vote.

As required by California Masonic Code 554w. the F lag of our
C ountry is displayed at all Communications of Grand Lodge and at all
meetings of our Lodges ; on fre quent occasions it is formally presented
at the Altar of the Lodge by the Marshal. There is no question but tha t
the Fraternity by every appropriate means urges upon and inculcates in
its members devotion to the U nited States of A merica. It does not seem
to this Committee, however, that flying the Flag on or in front of the
California Masonic Memorial T emple. not only whe n the Grand Lodge
offices are open - as is done at the present time, but also on S atur days.
Sundays and holidays " from sunrise to sunset." w ill significantly impress our members or the public at large with any additional reverence
for the Colors or devotion to patriotism. Moreover. it is obvious tha t it
would be necessary to employ an additional building custodian to fully
perform the du~y of literal compliance with the resolution. which would
require the Flag to be flown as early as sunrise every morning. to remain there until sunset of each evening "on every day of the year."
The same resolutio n was defeated by a majority vote a t our 1962
Communication, and we again recommend that Resolution N o. 25 be not
adopted or approved.
The Committee on Finance indicated thei r c onc urr en ce in the
recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

284

ATTENDANCE CHURCH SERVICE MAU NDY THURSDAY
(23)
This resolution would require all Lodges to be dark on the Thursday preceding Easter , except for Stated Meetings.
Masonry unites men of every faith, sect and creed and it has done
so successfully in the past because of the inflexible rule that discussion
and contention are excluded as objects of Masonic concern . In 1875 it
was said ( CMC I 6j) '' Masonry has its own proper objects and purposes, and those must be considered by us to the absolute exclusion
of all others and particularly of such as would aro use contention and
confusion."
M aundy Thursday is strictly a Christian . secta rian observance. Our
many members of other faiths would be offended if such observance
were mandatory and they would be fully justified in aski ng for similar
treatment concerning their sectarian holidays.
We think that favoring one religion. as proposed in this Resolution
23, would arouse conten tion and con fusion and lead to disharmony
within the C ra ft.
The correct M asonic reply to all requests for such sectar ian observances is a firm denial. Thus will we continue to unify those of differing
creeds and promote the great objects of Freemasonry in California.
We move the adoption of the resolution and urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.
DISPLAY NATION/\L E MDLEM
{25)
Your Commi ttee on Policy and General Purposes, to w hich was referred Resolution No. 25, reports as follows :
The resolution would require the display of the Na tional Colors
from an appropriate flagstaff. on top or in front of the Ca lifornia
M asonic Memorial Temple, on ever y day of the year between the
hours of sunrise and sunset. except in inclement weat her.
The preliminary paragraphs of the resolution recite the traditiona l
devotion of Masons to patriotism and love of country and call attention
to the fact that our Temple is dedicated to those members of our C raft
who gave their lives in defense of their country.

285

LIMITING SIZE OP LODGES
(27)
Resolution No. 27 proposes that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee to prepare legislation governing the size of our
Lodges for action of this Gra nd Lodge in 1964. Smaller Lodges are
desirable but no jurisdiction has been able to achieve this result by stat~
utory ac tion. Insurmountable diffic ulties arise from any ri gid rules of
limitation. Lodges with members hip over the maximum provided would
have to cease their Masonic work. Lodges would be in the same dilemma
when their membership reached the max imum. Larger Lodges would
have to look forwa rd to many funerals for certainly there could be no
legislation forcing a certain nu mber of Brothers to withdraw from a
Lodge, by lot or otherwise. On the other hand voluntary action can be
most effective. In one city in our jurisdiction the old established Lodge
assisted in the formation of an additional Lodge, even to the extent of
giving some of its officers to the new group. The results were spectacular and soon led to the formation of still another Lodge. The mother
Lodge has prospered and Freemasonry in the communi ty has been
strengthened. This could not have been accomplished by legislation.
W e move the adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the r esolution.

286

PROCEED INGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA
MASONIC MUSEUM -COLUM BIA

(29)
Resolutio n No. 29 proposes that a Masonic Museum be installed
on the ground floor of Columbi a Temple.
In his message the Grand Master recomme nded that Grand Lodge
reaffirm its action of a year ago and that the incoming Grand Master be
authorize d to conclude the arrangem ent tenta tively agreed upon. This
recomme ndation will be mentione d in another report. Since the matter
is now being acted on this general resolutio n appears to be unnecess ary.
'vVe move the adoption of Resolutio n 29 and urge a no vote which
would be without prejudice to the general propositi on.
The Committ ees on Fina nce a nd Columbi a Temple indicated their
concurre nce in the recomme ndation.
Adopted .
CEMETER Y AT JAMESTO WN

That part of the report of the Committ ee on Cemeteri es, in which
they recomme nd that Grand Lodge acquire title to the Jamestow n Masonic Cemeter y, has been referred to the Committ ee on Policy and
General Purposes .
The same recomme ndation was before this Committ ee at the last
Commun ication, but sufficient informat ion was not presente d to warrant
our recomme ndation at that time.
The Committ ee on Cemeter ies has now caused a complete investigation to be made and has determin ed the proper procedur e to accomplish the transfer of title at a minimum cost to Grand Lodge and are
now recomme nding authoriza tion to proceed.
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the recomme ndation should be approved . We therefore move its
adoption and recomme nd a yes vote.
The Committ ees on Finance and Commer cialism indicated their
concurre nce in the recomme ndation.
Adopted .
COMMIT TEE ON MASONIC I NFORMA TION -

RECOMM ENDATIO NS

The Grand Lodge Committ ee on Masonic Informat ion conclude d
their report with four recomme ndations which have been referred to
your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes, for consider ation
and report.
The first three recomme ndations have to do with generally encouraging Masters of constitue nt Lodges to dissemin ate informat ion through
proper channels , regardin g special Masonic activities in cooperat ion
with the Grand Lodge Committ ee on Masonic Informat ion and the two
M asonic Press Clubs now existing in our jurisdicti on in order to "con-

287

tribute to the optimum public recogniti on and understa nding of the true
purposes of Freemas onry."
Your Committ ee sees no harm in the approval of these recomme nda tions as they are permissiv e matters only and bind no one to specific
action.
The fourth recomme ndation is that the "Handbo ok for Masonic
Informat ion" now in draft form "be, after approval of the Grand Master, financed, printed and transmit ted to all of the Lodges in this jurisdiction." Your Committ ee is reluctant to burden the incoming Grand
Master with the sole approval of such a widely distribut ed handboo k.
We feel that it is of sufficient importan ce to warrant a careful perusal
by this or some other Committ ee designat ed by the Grand Master before it is printed and distribut ed. We cannot in good conscien ce,
therefore , recomme nd approval of a publicati on about which we know
nothing.
We recomme nd approval of this report.
Adopted .
At 12:00 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30 p.m.

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thurs day, October 17, 1963

mittee has consistently refused to entertain them. If a change in the
law is desired we suggest that the change be enacted as an ordinance
and the annotation repealed . Furthermore, the section in question
( 17-d) is not law at all for it was not adopted pursuant to Secs. 76-77.
It relates only to the inherent power of Grand Lodge to legislate.
2. Amendments do not become effective upon passage. They become effective at the close of Grand Lodge. Secs. 77, 78, 782 & 783
CMC.
3. Our Code Commission is required to edit and prepare for publication the annual changes in our laws. (Sec. 202 CMC.) . This entails tedious efforts, time and study to do the excellent job which the
commission is now doing and accounts for the functiona l condition of
our Code. All changes relate to some section of this code. Standing
alone amendments are not too reliable. Then, too. the special treatment
required by the resolution would be costly.
4. Under our practice today all Masters are furnished copies of
all resolutions which they should have with them at Grand Lodge. A
little effort would enable them to note thereon the action takenwhether enacted or rejected.
We move that the resolution be adopted and urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

.. At l : 30 ?.m. Grand Lodge was called on. the Grand Master pres1dmg. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.
COMBINED COMMITTEE REPORTS

(Items reported on at different times during the Communication are
consolidated to facilitate reference.)
AMEND CMC SECTION 17(0)-AccELERATE PRINTING SUPPLEMENT
( 1)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Polky and General Purposes. to which was
referred Resolution No. I, reports as follows:
The resolution does not propose to amend the language of a section of the California Masonic Code, but proposes to amend one of
the annotations to Section 17-an annotation which merely summarizes
a report of the Grievance Committee of 1889, which was adopted by
Grand Lodge that same year. This, of course, cannot be done: the
report of the 1889 Grievance Committee could not be amended in 1963
74 years after it was adopted .
.
However, apparently the purpose of the authors of this resolution
is; to require the Grand Secretary's office to distribute to the constituent
Lodges the text of any changes in the Masonic Code "immediately following the moment action is had in the Grand Lodge." In our opinion
the procedure by which copies of our Annual Proceedings are now
distributed to the constituent Lodges is prompt, efficient and expeditious, nor are we aware of any situation in which the slight delay
necessitated by the processing and printing of the Proceedings has
result in any serious difficulties in the constituent Lodges. The representatives from each constituent Lodge should be able to report back
to their brethren concerning any subs tantial changes which will affect
the functioning of the Lodge. The resolution is neither necessary nor
desirable.
We. therefore. present the resolution for action and recommend a
no vote.
The Committee on jurisprudence:
This resolution is faulty and should not be adopted for the following reasons:
1. An edict or a decision, that is the letter annotations under numbered sections, may be repealed but cannot be amended. The reason
is that a decision or edict is based upon a special sta te of facts and a
decision is an interpretation of the meaning of the code section relating
to the set of facts. This is known as judicial or case law. Every year it
seems that resolutions come in to amend an annotation and our com-

289

CREATE OFFICE OF PAST INSPECTOR
(2)
THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which has
been referred Resolution No. 2, calling for the creation of the office of
P ast Inspector together with a special certificate, reports as follows :
We respectfully call attention to the fact that the premise upon
which this resolution is based is erroneous. We quote from that portion of the preamble of the resolution which reads, "Grand Lodge Officers retain their titles after their elected or appointed service, i. e ..
P ast Grand Master. Past Grand Sword Bearer, etc." This is not
correct.
Section No. 4 CMC specifically defines a Past Grand Officer as
"one of the seven elective Grand Lodge Officers who has been regularly elected and installed and who has ser ved his term as such in
this Grand Lodge.''
We agree w hole-heartedly with one section of the resolution's preamble which s tates that "ex-Inspector" is not a proper or dignified title.
Appointed Grand Lodge Officers, however, should always be referred
to as former Grand Lodge Officers, and of course, this applies to Inspectors also. Such a title is every bit as dignified as "Past Inspector"
and carries the same connotation.
W e wonder if the proposers of this resolution realize that every
Inspector, as well as Grand Lodge Officer. is presented with a pocket

290

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

parchmen t certificate with his name handsome ly inscribed and signed
by the Grand Master and Grand Secreta ry with the seal of the Grand
Lodge, naming his office and the date of his appointme nt. This seems
to comply substantia lly with the spirit of that portion of the resolution
recommen ding a certificate and we see no reason for any change.
This in no way should be construed as any slight to the office of
Inspector. We recognize Inspectors as devoted officers of Grand Lodge
but feel that presently they are receiving equal considerat ion with every
other Grand Lodge Officer. and that they are the last ones who would
want to be singled out for special considerat ion.
We move the adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
The Committe e on Jurisprudence:
To effect the purpose of this resolution we present the following:
RESOLV ED: That Sec. 160 CMC be amended by adding at the
end thereof the following :
Each Inspector, retiring with at least one year of service and each
retired Inspector, who served at least one year. shall receive a certificate signed by the Grand Master specifying his term of service conferring upon him the title of Past Inspector.
This resolution should not be enacted for the following reasons:
I. The only ex service members of Grand Lodge entitled to bear
the word Past are the seven elected Grand Lodge Officers (Sec. 40
CMC) and Masters (Sec. 490 CMC).
2. It would be unfair to all other former officers of Grand Lodge
and committee men to single out Inspectors for this dubious honor.
3. Inspectors do not desire such title.
We move adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution .
PERMIT GRAND LoDGE To INVEST FUNDS W1TH
INSURED SAVINGS & LoAN AssN.

( 3)

The Committe e on Finance:
There has been referred to the Committe e on Finance Resolution
No. 3 which seeks to amend Section 246, Subsection 3, of the Code by
authorizin g the investmen t of Grand Lodge, Homes and Endowme nt
funds in certificate s and/ or shares of savings and loan associatio ns.
In considerin g this resolution your Finance Committe e held extensive discussion s with the Grand Treasurer and the individual members
of the Investmen t Committe e and we find that they do not favor the
adoption of this amendme nt to our Grand Lodge investmen t law.
It should be pointed out that the Investmen t Committe e is charged
with the responsibi lity of deciding how all these funds shall be invested,
subject at all times to the restriction s and provisions of our law. This
responsibi lity covers the whole field of investmen ts - demand and term

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

291

deposits in banks : governme nt. municipal and corporate bonds; preferred and common stocks of corporatio ns. Endless research and analysis of financial reports is just one phase of the problem the Inves.tmen t
Committe e faces in making its decisions. Fortunate ly, such finanetal reports in detail and exhaustive backgroun d informatio n are readily available at all times when the Committee takes a look at a corporatio n with
the idea of investing Grand Lodge funds .
In considerin g certificate s and / or shares of savings and loan a ssociations as an investmen t medium. it must be remember ed that. a lthough
these institution s perform a necessary function in the mortgage loan
field. the vast majority of their assets are represente d by long term real
estate loans. Without attempting to weigh the quality of these loans.
the fact remains that the Investmen t Committe e could not, in good conscience, recommen d the purchase of the certificate s and/ or ,s hares of any
savings and loan without substantia l knowledg e of the type and size of
its outstandin g loans, the character and credit rating of the borrower,
and the location and sound value of the property against which the
loans are made. Such informatio n is rarely, if ever, made public; nor is
it readily available. Neither Grand Lodge nor the Investmen t Committe e
has the facilities to make the investigati on which would be necessary to
obtain all these fa cts upon which a judgment could be based.
The situation with the Lodge which wishes to invest in local savings
and loan association s, which it may do under our law, is different. Here
the Officers and Trustees of the Lodge are on the ground. The officen
of the savings and loan are probably known to them. Assuming that tht
Lodge would follow the sound procedure of any prudent investor. they
have the time and are in a position to obtain the facts upon which they
can make a w ise decision.
It is not enough for Grand Lodge or the constituen t Lodge to say,
'This mus t be okay because it is insured by a n agency of the United
States Governme nt." As valuable a safeguard as that may be, something
more is needed when one prepares to invest in the shares of any corporation, particular ly one which derives its earnings from and holds its
assets in long term real estate mortgages .
For all the above reasons, your Committe e on Finance is authorizeci
to report to you that neither the Grand Treasurer nor the Investment
Committe e seeks the privilege of investing in savings and loan certificates, and they oppose the adoption of this resolution .
The Committe e on Finance is also opposed and recommen ds a no
vote.
The Committe es on Policy and G~neral Purposes, and on Investment indicated their concurren ce in th~ recommen dation of the Committee on Finance.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution relates to deposit of Grand Lodg e funds in building
& loan associations.
We move adoption of the resolution as presented and urge a
yes vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

Lodge s hall be administered by this Committee under such rules.
approved by the Grand Master, which it shall promulgate.
We move adoption of the resolutions and urge a no vote.
The Committees on Policy and General Purposes. and on Lodge
Financing indicated their concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

292

CONTRIBUTIONS LEVIED UPON LODGES- REVOLVING BUILDING FUND
(4)
The Committee on Finance:
There has been referred to the Committee on Finance Resolution
No. 4 which seeks to levy n per capita tax of $1.00 on all Master Mason
members of Lodges for the purpose of creating a Masonic Lodge Temple Building Fund to be administered by the Grand Lodge Committee
on Lodge Financing in the form of loans to Lodges.
Your Committee believes that it would be unwise for Grand Lodge
to incorporate such a plan into our regulations.
Recognizing the good motive behind the proposal. we are of the
opinion nevertheless that it is outside the scope of Grand Lodge to go
into the loan business. It should be noted that in cases of emergency
and, at times. distress, Grand Lodge has not been unsympathetic to
the needs of constituent Lodges. and in a number of cases has voted
financial assistance.
The Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing is of considerable
assistance to Lodges in working out financial plans for new Mnsonic
Halls and for their repair and improvement.
If a proposed Lodge building project is sound. the combined knowledge and experience of this Committee and the Lodge members should
make it possible to arrange a financial program from the resources of
the Lodge itself. If not, we doubt the wisdom of asking all Lodges of
this jurisdiction to t<1x themselves to underwrite such a building project.
For the above reasons the Committee on Finnnce opposes the adoption of this resolution and recommends a no vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence :
This resolution requires amendment to two sections of CMC, so we
present two resolutions, as follows:
RESOLVED:
1. That Section 283 CMC be amended as follows:
Insert after subsection 5th the following:
6th. For each M aster Mason borne on its rolls ns of June 30, the
sum of $1.00 to be set aside as a Lodge Temple Building Loan Fund .
Add 6 after 5 in line 18.
2. That Section 199 CMC be amended by adding at the end
thereof the following:
4. The Lodge Temple Building Loan Fund establis hed by Grand

293

ELIMINATE HoMES CONTRIBUTION Bv AFFILIATES
( 5)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has before it
Resolution No. 5, which would delete that part of Section 384 CMC
requiring payment of the contribution to the M asonic Homes of California by sojourning brethren from other jurisdictions who apply for
affiliation with a Lodge in this jurisdiction.
Each petitioner to form a new Lodge and each applicant for the
degrees is requ ired to make this contribution and this resolution would
create a dis tinction among brethren and would grant a special privilege
to one group which would not be extended to others.
The Masonic Homes of California arc suppor ted by all Masons as
our greatest charity and your Committee is of the opinion that very few
sojourning brethren would hesitate to affilinte with us because they
were required to make this contribution.
We therefore move the resolution and recommend a no vote.
The Committee on f urisprudence:
We present the following:
RESOLVED: That Section 284 CMC be amended to read, as
follows:
Each applicant for the degrees shall accompany his application with
a contribution of $25.00 for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes
of California.
We move adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
The Committee on F inance indicated their concurrence m the
recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.
WEARING MASONIC CLOTHI NG AND ENCOURAGE PUBLIC PROCESSION
(6)
WEARING OF MASONIC CLOTHING- PUBLIC PROCESSION
(7 and 8)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
Resolutions numbered 6, 7 and 8. These have a com mon purpose and

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the first two of them have several common signers. Only one. however ,
No. 7, offers any specific amendm ent to the law.
Each of these resolutio ns assumes that it is in the interest of the
Fraterni ty to improve the "public image" of Masonry and seeks to
improve it by encourag ing Masons to participa te in civic affairs by
wearing Masonic clothing at public affairs without the present restrictions of our law, now embodie d in Section 328 of the CMC. That
Section forbids any Lodge or Mason to appear in Masonic clothing in
any public processio n or at any public meeting or place except for the
burial of a brother or for the performa nce of some strictly Masonic duty
or ceremon y or in accordan ce with a dispensa tion of the Grand Master.
We fail to sec just how the image of Masonry can be in any way
improved or enhanced by the wearing of aprons and other Masonic
regalia. things which the public does not understa nd. The image of
Masonry depends upon the characte r and reputatio n of the Masons
who as individua ls participa te in civic affairs and public life.
There are no public or civic affairs in which Masons, as such. do
or should participa te. If Masons were permitte d to appear in public
processio ns or parades wearing Masonic regalia, they could find themselves parading in public in the company of clandesti nes likewise wearing Masonic regalia. Such organiza tions are equally entitled to a place
in the public processio ns because the civic authoriti es cannot lawfully
discrimin ate against them. The image of Masonry could and would
be seriously damaged .
It is the opinion of your Committ ee that the public appearan ce of
Masons should be s trictly limited a s it is by our present law and that
the discretio n of the Grand Master should not be removed.
We, therefore , move the adoption of the resolutio ns, but urge a
no vote.

The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLUTION No. 6
RESOL VED : That Section 328 CMC be amended by adding at
the end thereof the following :
Provided . however , that a Lodge may participa te in such civic affairs
and public gatherin gs as will advance and promulg ate the public image
of the fraternit y and the members may wear Masonic clothing at such
affairs.
The effect of this resolutio n would be to solicit members hip. The
creation of a public image has never been one of the precepts of
Masonry .
We move adoption of the resolutio n but urge a no vote.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

295

RESOLUTION No. 7
This resolutio n attempts to saddle upon an Assistan t Grand Lecturer an executiv e power of Grand Lodge. Such power is conferre d
upon the Grand Master during the interval between Commun ications.
(Section 50 CMC-C onst.)
We move adoption of the resolutio n as presente d but urge a no vote.
REsoLun oN No. 8
RESOL VED: That Section 328 CMC be amended to rea d, as
follows:
A Lodge may participa te in public activities including church visits,
Public School Observa nce ceremon ies and others. At such meetings or
ceremon ies the Master and Warden s may wear their official aprons
and the members may wear white aprons.
RESOL VED further : That Sections 328-b and 605-f be repealed .
The purpose of this resolu tion like 6 and 7 appears to be to advertise Masonry for solicitati on purposes . Advertis ing is a child of politics
and economic s and has no place in Masonry . Let us keep our Masonry
in our temples and our hearts. M embers of the Mother Lodge of England wear no pins. rings or gadgets. They do not seek to identify themselves as Masons even to other brothers.
We move adoption of the resolution but urge a no vote.
The Committ ee on Ritual indicate d their c oncurre nce in the
recomme ndations .
A majority voted against the resolutio ns.
D1SCRETIONARY EXPENDITURE (MEMORIALS)
( 1O)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
CMC 411 . as it now stands, permits a Lodge to send a floral piece
for a deceased brother, or in lieu thereof. when requeste d by the fam ily. to make a contribu tion to the M asonic Homes Endowm ent Fund .
The proposed amendm ent would eliminate the requirem ent of a request
from the family and substitut e therefor , the discretio n of the Lodge
notwiths tanding the desires of the family. in making a contribu tion to
the Homes Endowm ent Fund.
The sending of floral pieces to the funeral of a brother is a custom
of long standing . Many families understa ndably wish the custom followed at such a time of stress and grief. We think Lodges should
conform to the custom and depart only at the express re ques t of the
family.
We move the adoption of the resolutio n and urge a no vote.
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
This resolutio n would empower a Lodge to contribu te to our Endowmen t Fund upon the death of a brother without regard to the
wishes of his family. This is a novel way to collect money for ourselve s

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

on the excuse of a brother's death. The sorrows of a brother's family
upon receiving notice of such contribution. made without its knowledge,
might not be materially assauged.
Since this would constitute a direct contribution to the Endowment
Fund by a Lodge. it is prohibited by 410-a CMC which reads: "Donating to the Endowment Fund is not a proper use of Lodge funds."
We move adoption as presented but urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

absence of the Mas ter they shall , in turn, succeed to and be charged
with all the power and duties of the Master.
This undoubtedly has been the practice on the part of our Lodges
from time immemorial and, in the opinion of this Committee, the proposed amendment is unnecessary.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves the adoption of the resolution but urges a no vote.

TITLE OF PAST MASTER
(12)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 12 proposes that Section 490 CMC be amended to
provide for the designation of Past Master for all Masters of Lodges
under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, who were regularly elected or named in a charter and installed as Master, and who
died during their term of office - provided the Lodge of which each
was Master, by resolution, designates him as a Past Master of said
Lodge.
Section 490 CMC was amended in 1961 to provide a means for the
bestowing of the title of Past Master on Mas ters who died during their
term of office subsequent to the close of the Annual Communication in
September. 1961. but no provision was made for such action for Masters
who had died before the enactment of the 1961 amendment.
The resolution which is now before us merely expands Section 490
CMC to provide for the bestowing of the title of Past Master on any
Master of any Lodge in this jurisdiction who died during his term
of office since the inception of this Grand Lodge, should his Lodge
so desire.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes feels that the legislation proposed in this resolution is equitable, moves its adoption, and
recommends a yes vote.
TITLE p AST MASTER
(13)
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes Resolution No. 13 which seeks to amend our law to provide
for the bestowing of the title of Past Master on a Master of a chartered
Lodge who, because of illness. is unable to complete his term of office.
While all are sympathetic to Brethren who are in physical distress,
the proposed amendment, in the opinion of your Committee, is not
needed. A Lodge can, and should, stand by its Master who, by reason
of illness. cannot carry out the duties of his office.
Section 489 CMC specifically states that it is the duty of the V./ardens to assist the Master in the discharge of his duties and that, in the

297

IN CONSOLIDATION CONFER TITLE PAST MASTER
(14)
This resolution proposes that in consolidation of Lodges, "the unreelected Master of a consolidated Lodge shall become a Past Master
of the consolidated Lodge, providing he has served more than half the
term for which he was originally elected."
The paramount issues in the consolidation of Lodges are the benefits
to be derived by Masonry in general and the Lodges in particular.
Undoubtedly. each Lodge where consolidations are involved, has
officers worthy of continuance in office. It is within the power of the
surviving Lodge to select former officers of a Lodge which has passed
out of existence and decisions to consolidate should not necessarily be
influenced by the fact that a Master canno t be continued in his office
at the moment of consolidation or receive the title of Past Master
without being re-elected to office in a succeeding year.
It is a reasonable assumption tha t the Lodge which becomes the
surviving Lodge will utilize all available officer material in the years
following a consolidation.
It is the opinion of your Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes. that this resolution should not be adopted and in moving its
adoption we recommend a no vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
(RESOLUTIONS Nos. 12, 13 AND I 4)
RESOLVED : That Section 490 CMC be amended, as follows :
S trike the language reading:
" ... provided, however, that where a Mas ter . who has been regularly elected or named in a charter and installed as Master of a
Chartered Lodge, dies while serving aos M aster, he may by resolution of his Lodge be designated as a Pas t M as ter of said Lodge; . .. "
and insert at the end of said section the following:
Provided, however, that a Lodge by resolution may designate a
Master as a Past Master in the following instances:
1. A Master. qualified under the first clause of this section.
who dies while in office or such a Master who has previously died
while in office.

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2. A Master, qualified under the first clause of this section who
resigns the office because of illness which renders him unable to
complete his term.
3. A Mas ter whose term ends beca use of a consolidation of
Lodges.
We move adoption but oppose the resolution because posthumous
awards are empty and hollow with benefit neither to the Lodge nor to
the deceased. Illness is not an excuse for conferring a title. If a title
conferred by legislation only is an honor, then it will be an injustice
to our dead Masters if all Lodges do not take steps to confer on them
the title of Past Ma ster. Our point is that this is really special not
general legislation for it is probable that only one or two Lodges will
desire to exercise the designation.
Relating to proviso 3 above we think it improper to enable a Master
to demand a title before he consents to a consolidation. This indicates
that a brother is more important than the welfare o f a Lodge or Lodges
which smacks of contemporary thinking. Our ancient brethren of California consolidated many Lodges without demanding preferential personal treatment.
We move adoption but urge a no vote .
A majority voted against the resolutions.

tution. just as are the regulations excluding women and minors . One of
the Ancient Landmarks stated by Dr. Mackey. and which for several
?ecad7,s ha~ _bee.n printed in the Ross Digest and our Masonic Code,
is the qualification of candidates for in itiation," as the 18th Landmark .
A natural sympath y for those unfortuna te men who have suffered
severe physical injuries has caused numerous proposals to change the
old requirements, and these have been presented throughout the history
of ~ur Grand ~dge. They have been rejected except for the compromise
which resulted tn the adoption of our present regulations many years
ago, n?w contame~ tn. Sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C.: " having
~o maim or defect m his body that may ·r ender him incapable of learnmg the art, and physically able to conform substantially to wha t the
sever~! degrees respectively require of him. " The question as to physical
suffi~1e~cy of th: applicant is left to the sound discretion of the Lodge,
and 1t IS determmed by the ritual.
S~n~e the rule as to physical qualification has existed for so long
that it is at least regarded a-s one of the Ancient Landmarks , it should
not be changed without some change in the condition of the Craft which
~ould com~~} it. We may properly inquire what change has occurred
tn the condition of the Cra ft which would now require a change in our
ancient re~ulation. We know of none. Masonry does not go out and
see~ candidates; we select those who apply. a nd they must apply of
their own free will and accord.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS

(15)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes. to which was
referred Resolution No. 15. proposing elimination of the requirements
of physical qualification, have carefully considered these proposals. We
have considered them without emotion and only from the standpoint of
what, in our opinion. would be good for Masonry.
Masonry selects its candidates and admits them only after careful
investigation and a unanimous ballot. No one has a right to become a
Mason. It is a privilege granted to a comparatively small number.
To begin with. we exclude half of the human race. No woman ca n
become a Mason. Half of the remainder of the population is likew ise
excluded, namel y any one under the required age o f 21 years. In California. for more than one hundred years. we have adhered to the regulation that no one having a maim or defect in his body that may render
him incapable of learning the art and physically unable to conform to
what the several degrees respectively require o f him. can become a
Mason.
The physical requirements for qualification of candidates for the
degrees of M asonry are probably as old as Masonry itself. They are a
survival of Operative Masonry and are peculiar to the Masonic insti-

299

If these proposals were adopted, it would require a different r itual
fo r each cas_e of physical defect. depending upon the nature and severity
of th_e p_arttcula~ deformity. This would completely destroy any unifor~1ty m the_.ntuaL Under our law, the conferring of a degree mus t
be m conformity with the established ritual taught by the Grand Lecturer. and the con ferring of a degree in a merely symbolic manner is
out of the q~estio~. (C_MC Section 512-j.) Unless we are prepared
to do away _with uniformity of the r itual. carefully built up for a century,
and prescnbed by Sections 554 and 555 of the CMC. we cannot
change the rule as to physical qualifications. This proposed legislation
does not purport to change Sections 554 or 555 of the Code.
The most appallin.g thing about the elimination of physical requirements. would be that 1t would s ubject a man who may have suffered a
repulsive physical injury to the required unanimous ballot with the
g~eat proba bility that some one or more of the members w~uld reject
him. Th~ res ulting damage to an already damaged personality would
be both 1~calculable and irreparable. It would be fa r kinder to reject
such candidates on purely legal grounds. w hich they can understand.
In ou~ opinio.n, this Grand Lodge has already gone as far in meeting
physical . msu!Ilc1e~cy as it can reasonably go. making it depend upo n
the applicants ability to conform substantially to what the ritual may
require of him.

300

PROCEED INGS OF THE

The argume nt will be made that the requirem ent of physica l suf.
ficiency is not one of the Ancient Landma rks, because it has not beet:
express ly adopted by this Grand Lodge. The same may be said for all
the other Landma rks, includin g belief in God and a future existenc
e,
and the Holy Bible as an indispen sable part of the furnitur e of a Lodge.
If a landma rk exists. it needs no adoptio n, bec<1use it has existed from
time immemo rial and will continu e to exist. and Section 16 of our
Constit ution states that the powers of the Grand Lodge are limited by
a strict adheren ce to the Ancient Landma rks of the Order.
We recomm end that the resoluti on be not adopted , and in view of
the fact that it would amend Section s 511 and 512 of the Ordinan ces,
we suggest that a 5/6ths vote would be required to adopt. .
We move the adoptio n of the resoluti on, but your Commi ttee emphatical ly urges a no vote.
The Commit tee on Jurisprudence:
This resoluti on seeks changes in our laws in several respects :
1. Amend s Section 511 CMC so as to permit the Lodge to assist
a physica lly disabled candida te to execute the requirem ents of .the
various degrees either actually , by demons tration or other appropr iate
means and to permit such candida te to wear. carry or use any prosthe ses
usually worn by him. Prosthe ses mean artificial parts of the human
body, as legs, arms, eyes. neck braces and harness . etc.
.
2. Amend s Section 512 CMC so as to leave the question o f the
candida te's ability to conform to the requirem ents of the degrees . under
Section 511 CMC. to the discreti on of the Lodge only.
3. Rescind s all other laws, written and unwritte n. relating to physical qualific ations. This would destroy a Landma rk. a section of ~ur
Constit ution and our Ritual as taught by the Grand Lecture r (Section
554 CMC).
The resoluti on argues that we are now specula tive and that the
foregoin g changes should be made. '1
vvrhat d oes t he .. now.. mean.? M asonry has been specula tive since the year 1717.
. ..
Landma rk Eightee nth: "The qualific ation of candida tes for m1t1a tion," is a part of the unwritt en law of Masonr y. It derives from the
written law - a ncient Constitu tions. regulati ons and charges , among
which are the followin g:
I. "A candida te must be without blemish and have the full and
proper use of his limbs; for a maimed man can do the Craft no
good." (Old York Constit ution of 926, Article 5, CMC. p. 344.)
2. "That no person shall hereafte r be accepte d a Freema son
but such as are of able body ... " (Regula tions of 1663 Section 2CMC. p. 346.)
3. "And that the Appren tice be freeborn . and of limbs whole as
a man ought to be, ... " Ancient Chc:irges at Making s. Section 2CMC. p. 348.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

301

The resoluti on argues that Grand Lodge has never adopted the
Landma rks. A son does not adopt his mother. It is unneces sary. He
is
the creature of his mother. And so it is with Masonr y. Grand Lodge
is the creature of the Landma rks. It must abide the Landma rks or give
up the name of Masonr y. The crownin g proof is found in Section s 16
and 17 of our Constit ution with emphas is supplied , as follows:
Section 16. Powers in general . The Grand Lodge is the Suprem e
M asonic Power and Authori ty in this jurisdic tion. possess ing all
the attribut es of soverei gnty and governm ent-leg islative , execu tive,
and judicial - limited only by a strict adheren ce to the Ancien t
Landma rks of the Order. and by the provisio ns of its own Constitution and Regulat ions. (Forme r R.D . Section 6.}
Section 17. Legi·slat ive powers. Its legislat ive powers extend to
every case of legislation not express ly delegat ed by itself to the
Lodges. The Constit ution, Regulat ions and Unifo rm Code of ByLaws for Lodges, which the Grand Lodge has an inaliena ble right
to adopt and promulg ate at its own conveni ence, and to alter,
amend. or repeal at its own pleasure , limited only by a strict adherence to the Ancient Landma rks of the Order, are final and binding
upon all Lodges and Masons within its jurisdic tion until so altered .
amende d. or repealed . (Forme r RD. Section 7.)
Order ... " This means the Order of Masonr y - not the Landma rks
Observ e carefull y the languag e " . . . Ancien t Landma rks of the
of Californ ia. Californ ia has no Landma rks but it is beholde n to the
Landma rks of the Order of Masonr y. The law of the United Grand
Lodge of Englan d is as follows:
"The Grand Lodge possess es the suprem e superin tending authority, and alone has the inheren t power of enacting laws and regulations for the governm ent of the Craft. and of altering , repealin g .
and abrogat ing them, always taking care that the ancient Landmarks of the Order be preserP ed."
The resoluti on in effect contend s that numero us jurisdic tions around
the world have elimina ted some of the Landma rks. Our travels have
ta ken us to many Grand Lodges around the world - north, south, east
and west and we have not found any regular body which has done this.
Even if this should be so, numero us wrongs do not make a righ t. So,
Californ ia should not follow the path of others who may pull down
and root out the Landma rks of the Order. Jn any event our Grand
Lodge still abides the La ndmark s of the Order and it is indeed the
greates t Grand Lodge on earth. The reason is simple - its member
s
continu ally respect their obligati on to maintai n and support its Constitu tion which boldly recogni zes the Landma rks of the Order. Every
Master in this jurisdic tion at his installa tion has solemnly pledged allegiance to the Ancient Charge s. Regula tions and L andma rk s b
y
answeri ng in the affirmat ive the followin g questio ns:

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Do you submit to these charges and promise to support these
regulations. as Masters have done in all ages before you?
The law of the United Grand Lodge of England is as follows :
"Every M aster Elect. before being placed in the Chair. shall
solemnly pledge himself to preserve the Landmarks of the Order .
to observe the antient usages and established customs. and strictly
to enforce them within his own Lodge." (Rule 111 p. 87 Eng.
Constitutions. )
Masonry is a peculiar organization - old and honorable. It solicits
membership from no one. It makes its own rules for admission. It prescribed the qualifications of applicants and the ritual for their initiation.
No man has a right to be made a Mason and he may become one by
sufferance only. All good men cannot be Masons but the ones we take
must meet our requirements. Yes, Masonry is a peculiar organization
and it is comforting, after the fires and cares of the day. to repair to
a Lodge and there enjoy the harmony and fellowship of the brethren
on the level. M ay we ever keep it that way.
This Resolution No. 15 is frightening and is practically the same
as Resolutions Nos. 7 and 8 ( 1961 Proc. pp. 291-293) which were
defeated. and Resolution No. 5 which was presented and rejected in
1962. We there fore take the same position in our report as we did
last year.
In refusing to present this resolution we raise a nd rely upon a point
of order, as follows:
In addition to numerous Regulations and a part of our Constitution
this resolution would wipe out and destroy Landmark Eighteenth "The qualification of candidates for initiation."
Landmark Twenty-fifth reads:
"The last and crowning landmark of all is. that these landmarks can never be changed." (Page 343 CMC.)
Authority:
"If it shall appear to the Grand Master that any proposed resolution contains anything contrary to the ancient Landmarks of the
Order. he may refuse to permit the sa me to be discussed." (Rule 55
p. 45 Eng. Constitutions.)
We urge the Grand Master to reject this resolution on the ground
that it is out of order.
The Grand Master ruled to reject this request and invited open
discussion.
The Committee on Ritual indicated their concurrence in the recommendation made by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
By secret ballot a majority voted against the resolution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
LIMIT PROMISE QUESTION

303

15 TO 5 YEARS

(17)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Resolution No. 17. which proposes to add a new section to the
Californ ia Masonic Code. regarding a waiver after a period of 5 years
of that portion of question 15 as stated in Section 527 and under which
an applicant for the degrees promises that he will not apply for or
receive any degree or be initiated in any Lodge, order or organization,
the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master
Mason. until he has given satisfactory evidence. by strict examination
in open Lodge. that he is entirely proficient and well qualified in the
Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason.
While this Committee appreciates the possible benefits which would
be derived by other bodies. the prerequisite of which demands tha t an
applicant be a Master Mason we feel that just because a man has
neglected to obtain his proficiency certificate in the Candidate's Lecture
~f the Master Mason degree, he should not be released from the promise he made when he applied for the degrees of Masonry. It is the
considered opinion of your Committee that it is the obligation of a
brother to endeavor to receive his proficiency certificate and that by
complying with this promise he will not only gain self satisfaction but
will also be stimulated in his Lodge attendance. which we as Masons
recognize as a fundamental duty necessary for our existence.
We move the adoption of the resolution , but your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a no vote.
The Committee on Jurispruden ce:
This resolution limits the period of the promise contained in question
15 of the application for degrees.
W e move adoption and urge a yes vote.
A majority voted agai ns t the resolution.
FORM OF APPLICATION

( 18)

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred Resolution No. 18. reports as follows:
The resolution proposes to include in the form of Applica tion for
Degrees an additional question reading: " Do you believe in the separation of Church and State?" The reason for proposing the resolu tion
may be summar ized as follows: In order that a candidate may understand the position of California Blue Lodge Masons with regard to the
separation of church and state and to avoid future misunderstanding.

304

PROCEED INGS OF THE

It seems to this Committ ee desirable that every candidat e for our
degrees be reminded of the "separat ion" doctrine and that he understand at the outset the position of Free Masonry in giving our wholehearted support to the doctrine. That objective can be accompli shed,
we believe. by including the ques tion in the Applicat ion for Degrees.
An affirmative answer to the question will in no way bind or commit
the candidat e to the applicati on of the principle to any particula r situation. The asking of the question cannot be construe d as an attack on
any creed or as slanted for or against any denomin ation. since the
principle of the separatio n of church and state is firmly embedde d in
the United States Constitu tion and the Constitu tion of almost every
State in the Union.
We. therefore , recomme nd that Resolutio n No. 18 be adopted and
approved , and that it be referred to the Committ ee on Jurisprud ence
for drafting as an amendm ent to Section 527 of the Californ ia Masonic
Code.
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
RESOL VED : That another question be added to Section 527 CMC
reading as follows:
Do you believe in separatio n of Church and State?
Our Constitu tion of the United States comman ds this separatio n.
So the question is a valid one.
We move adoption and urge a yes vote.
A simple majority voted for the resolutio n. Failing a 5 / 6 vote. the
matter was held over until the 1964 Annual Commun ication as a
"Propose d Amendm ent to the Constitu tion" (Sec. 78 CMC). Resolution printed page 80 of these Proceedi ngs.
PROFI CIENCY EXAMINA TION

( 19)
The Committ ee on Ritual:
The Committ ee on Ritual to which Resoluti on No. 19 was referred
reports as follows:
Section 554 provides that all lectures mus t be in conform ity with
the r itual now taught by the Grand Lecturer to " ... require conformity with the adopted ritual and work."
We do not believe that the introduc tion of such latitude in one section of the work as to place the candidat e anywher e in the Lodge room
can lead to anything but confusio n. This is illustrate d by the sole condition imposed by the resolutio n, that "Such examina tion shall be held
with the Candida te facing the East." This would permit the Candida te
to be placed beside the altar. between the pillars, or elsewher e, as long
as he faced the East.
We must also point out that the average lodge room, at time of
examinat ion, has many vacant seats in the east section of the side lines.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

305

H ere those Brethren who cannot hear in the West are able to sit in
close proximit y to both Candida te and Coach. Addition ally, Candida tes
are not all of sufficien dy strong voice to sit at the W est and be heard
in the East by the one man who must judge their proficiency. the
M aster of the Lodge. The present position was chosen that the Candidate might be near his coach and receive from him the needed encouragement of a proficien t craftsma n and near the Worship ful Master
who is to wisely judge and, with justice, determin e upon the Candidate's proficiency.
In order to conform to the required procedur e, we move the adoption of the resolutio n and recomme nd a no vote.
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
This resolutio n relates to the position of the candidat e during proficiency examinat ion.
We move adoption of the resolutio n as presente d and urge a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.
NOTICE To D ELINQUE NT MEMBER

( 20)
Purposes:
General
and
Policy
on
ee
The Committ
Your Committ ee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Resolution No. 20. which would amend Section 579 of the California Masonic Code regardin g notification by the Secretar y to any
member who has not paid his dues during a twelve month period.
This resolutio n proposes to delete from line 4 of this Section the
word "only." and adds the words "or his represen tative," thereby
causing line 4 to appear as follows. "Certifie d mail deliverab le to addressee or his represen tative . deposited in the U. S. Post O ffice."
Your Committ ee feel s that this resolutio n will be of great assistanc e
to the Secretar y, since it will eliminate much of the correspo ndence
sometim es required in regard to the notificati on of delinque nt members .
We believe that when the United States P ostal authoriti es recognize a person or in the case of a represen tative, as the proper recipient
of a registere d letter or certified mail. then they should be consider ed
as such by the Lodge. and it should be presume d that it was delivered
or forwarde d to the member concerne d.
We move the resolutio n be adopted and your Committ ee on Poliq
and General Purposes recomme nds a yes vote.
The Committ ee on Jurisprudence:
RESOL VED: That Section 579 CMC be amended a s follows:
Strike the words in line four reading " ... deliverable to addressef.
only . . . "
The reasons stated in the resolutio n justify this change.
We move adoption of the resolutio n as presente d and urge a yes
vote.
A majority voted against the resolutio n.

306

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OF C ALIFORNIA
WEARING

OF M ASONIC

cLOTHING-FUNERAL

( 21 )

The Committee on Ritual:

Thhe res~lution misreads sections of our law and bases its con 1 ·
on t e sectrnns thus misread.
c us1ons
Section 328, annotation c., refers to meetings and lim1'ts the
worn by me b
d
.
·
aprons
the t d.t . ml ers dan s.o iourners. exclusive of those filling offices, to
with r;e:t;~~a32~n st:;c1e~t w;it~. Section 605£. in full compliance
officers' ·e I
.
es t at urmg a Lodge Room funeral service
328c th J ~ds and apr~ns will be used. This is because, under Sectio~
Lod~ ~
ge must e formally opened to conduct a service in the
e oodmW.nord can such a service be held in the absence of the
Mast er an
ar ens.

serv~~er~/~ sp~cifi~ provisihon that any Mason may read the burial
·

en

e

oes so.

e does not become the Master nor is he

~~~;n:s othh'ethr than a brdo.ther to the departed. representing .all Master
· w 1 ersoever

1spersed.

. We believe that the lambskin apron, as the only bad e of a Ma
is the proper garb of every brother who attends Whe g
b .son.
the false pride f
1· f
h
·
n we su st1tute
. d d h
l o rega ia or t e simple truths we hold. we will then
m ee
ave ost all sense of value.
of t~: or:de; tot· confodrm to the required procedure, we move the adoption
so u ion an recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
. This r.e solution seeks repeal of Section 605-f of CMC h' h
quires white
f
I
w 1c re~p~ons at a unera ceremony and permits certain officers
t~ .weart~egal1a,dJe3w2els etc . on the ground that there is a conflict between
is sec ion an
8-c CMC.

t

There is no conflict. Section 328 CMC
J
Lodge meeting only.
-c
regu ates clothing in a

0 hThe whit~ apron is an emblem of purity and the badge of a Mason
er or~ani~at1ons may wear ridiculous trappings to emphasize par~

t. t.

~~~an¥h I~ .t e hfunMeral ceremony. Masons wear white to honor the
·

a is w y

REMOVE EMBLEMS, ETC., FROM BUILDIN GS

No LoNGER USED Bv MASONS

(24)

The Committee on Ritual to which was referred
reports as follows:
Resolution No. 2 l

.

307

asonry is different.

We move adoption of the resolution as presented but urge a no vote.
The Co~mittee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their
concurrence m the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

The Committee on Lodge Financing:
Your Committee on Lodge Financing has had referred to it Resolution No. 2':1 proposing removal of M asonic emblems. etc. from buildings
no longer used by Masons.
While the Committee agrees in principle with the intent of the resolution, it is our opinion that insufficient information has been gathered
to acquaint the Brethren of Grand Lodge with the cost and ramilkations
of the enforcement of this resolution and we. therefore. move the adoption of the resolution but recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Commercialism indicated their concurrence in
the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.
CALIFORNIA FREEMA SO N RECOMMENDATION

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
That portion of the Grand Master's Message in which he recommends that Grand Lodge establish a policy of sending the California
Freemason, at Grand Lodge expense. to every California member, has
been referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes .
The Grand Master cites as his reason for the recommendation that
·'the cost is relatively small for the advantage which would result and
that its receipt by all our members might inspire them to return to active
membership, re-develop their interest in Lodge activities. and thus aid
in meeting the· problem of membership apathy which is of so much
concern to all of us."
We agree with the Grand Master's reasoning and are convinced
that renewed interest in the Lodges might be engendered in the minds
of many of our members by receiving this official communication from
the Grand Lodge. Too many members do not attend Lodge meetings
and are entirely out of touch with the Fraternity. It is our opinion that
the reading of the California Freemason would do much to overcome
this sad condition .
We. therefore. move approval of the recommendation and your
Committee recommends a yes vote.
Committee on Finance:
There has been referred to the Committee on Finance that portion
of the Grand Master's Message in which he recommends that our
magazine. California Freemason. be distributed free by Grand Lodge
to all regular members of Lodges in this jurisdiction. This matter has
been before Grand Lodge on numerous occasions in the past and
Grand Lodge has consistently voted it down.

308

PROCE EDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

The position of the Comm ittee on Financ e on the matter
has been
equall y consis tent. W e have pointe d out that the adopti
on of this
propo sal on one hand would elimin ate a financ ially succes
sful plan of
public ation under which interes ted Mason s subscr ibe and
pay for the
magaz ine; on the other hand it would requir e an increa
se in your per
capita to underw rite the free distrib ution by Grand Lodge
. Grand Lodge
would be subjec ted to a ddi tiona l capita l expen se in the
prepar ation of
addres sograp h plates for mailin g to the memb ers who
are not now
subscr ibers.
You should remem ber that our regula tions were amend
ed to allow
Lodges to subscr ibe for all their memb ers and pay for
it out of Lodge
funds. Many Lodg es have voted to do this. A ma jority of
them have not.
In effect, you are here voting on the same thing. and
it is your
respon sibility to decide on increa sing the per capita of
every memb er
of every Lodge for a free distrib ution, regard less of the
decision which
individ ual Lodge s have previo usly made when the ma
tter was voted
on in their Lodge.
It is your money and it is your respon sibility to decide
how it shall
be spent.
A majori ty voted agains t the recom menda tio n.

GRA ND TREAS URER S REPO RT

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON FINA NCE
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of Califo

rnia:
As required in Sectio n 191 of our Code, the firm of Lybra
nd, R oss
Bros. and Montg omery , of which Brothe r James E.
Hamm ond is a
memb er, has audite d all accou nts of Grand Lodge for
the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1963. Brothe r H ammo nd has made himsel
f ava ilable
to your Comm ittee for a discus sion of the a udit at our
meetin gs and
during this Comm unication. We expres s our apprec iation
to him.
In our opinio n, the audit correc tly reports the fina ncia
l condit ion
of Grand Lodge and all its agenci es.
It shows total revenu e of Grand Lodge from consti tuent
Lod ges'
per capita and fees for degree s. and incom e from invest
ments a nd
intere st as $368.197.00. Again st this we spent for all
expen ses a nd
appro priatio ns $370,687.52. The latter figure includ es
the expen se of
the Endow ment Board , secreta rial and other ser vices
for the Home s
for which Grand Lodge was reimbu rsed by the Home s.
Severa l budge ted approp ria tions were not spent. but must
be carried again for the n ew fiscal year.
Again, your Comm ittee comm ends all Comm ittees and
Board s nnd
the Grand Secret ary for their carefu l use of approp rintion
s. makin g it
possible for Grand Lodge to show a surplu s.

309

0

The Grand Treas urer's report was exa mined by this
Committe_e.
It reflect s the diligence of Past Grand Maste r Arthu r M
. Warre n m
his superv ision of the financ es and capita l funds of Grand
Lodge . We
recom mend approv al.
His report lists. and to some extent explai ns . supple menta 1
appr~priatio ns approv ed by the Grand Maste r which were in
excess o; ~·e
budge t in the amoun t of $10.952.01. We recom mend approv
al o t is
action by the Grand Maste r.
0

GRAND SECRE TARY S REPOR T

There was referre d to this Comm ittee thnt portion of
the Grand
Secret ary's report in which he recom mends the remiss
ion of the pe~
ca pita tax on certain Lodge s under dispen sation . We
recommen
approv al.
MASO NIC HOME S

We hnve exami ned the audit of the accou nts of the M asonic
Homes
of Califo rnia and have review ed the report of the Truste
es. After ~
discus sion of the fina nces of the H omes \Vith the Trust~
es, we ~r~ o
the opinio n that a renew al of the per capita of $1.00 will
be su lClent
to suppo rt their operut ing budge t for the curren t fiscal
year.
. .
We deem it timely. however. to advise you that based
on preliminary estima tes for the 1964-65 fiscal year you will probab
ly be faced
with an increa se in the per capita for tha t yenr to $~
.50. In. the lust
three fiscal yenrs the Home s have had operat ing deficit
s rangm g from
$185,000.00 to $395,000.00. These deficits have been c?vere
d lnrgely
by tra ns fers from approp riate reserves. but they are near.m
g the bottom
·
of the ba rrel on such reserv es. If operat mg
c?s t s con ti nue to rise, it
seems inevita ble that the per capita must b e. increa sed
.
W e, theref ore, offer the followin g resolu tion:
.
RESO LVED that the sum of $1.00 per capita be levied
for the
fiscal year ending .June 30. 1964. the proceed s to be pa id
to the Truste es
of the Mason ic Home s of Califo rnia .
CALIFO RNIA FREEM ASON

The audit fo r the las t fiscal year shows tha t cash receip
ts from
public ation o f our official magaz ine. Califo rnia Freem
ason, were in
excess of cash disbur semen ts in the amoun t of $1.910.59.
. .
f
We recom mend that G ra nd Lodge a pprov e the appr~p
nat'.on ?
$4.910.59 to be paid into ''Calif ornia Freem ason Reserv
e. This w ill
bring the tota l a mount in this reserv e to $10.~08.81.
.
It is estima ted that 327,000 individ ual copies of future iss
ues o f the
ma azine we re subscribed a nd paid for at June 30. 1963.
':-t ~":enty
cen~s per copy this amoun ts to $65 ,400.0 0 and repre~ents a liabilit y to
Grand Lodge . Again st this we will have $-10. 108.81 m
the reserv e.

310

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BUDGET 1963-1964
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ................................................. ............................. $ 90,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense _______ _ 18.ooo.oo
3.000.()()
Audit·································---·------······· ·············--··········-···-··
Grand Treasurer ................................................. ......... ... .
250.00
Postage and Express ..................................................... ...
4.500.00
Telephone and Telegraph.................................................
4,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ..................... .
5.750.00
Investment Counsel ................................................. .........
500.00
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Office Employees ............................. . 10.200.00
Retirement Pension Plan Grand Lodge Agencies Employees ......... ............ .... .
8.300.00
Grand Lodge Employees Medical Benefits......... ........ .... .
1,000.00
Payroll Service Plan ............................. ...................... .... .
200.00
TOTAL ................................................. ................... $! 46,200.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication .................................................... $ 16,500.00
Conferences ............................................. ........................ .
5,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ........................ 11 .000.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler....................................
850.00
Grand Master's Travel. Secretarial.
and Miscellaneous Expense ........... ........................... 12.000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges....................... ................ .
6,000.00
Representatives' Mileage ................................................ .. 38.100.00
Printing ..... ................................................. ........................ 29,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer ·················-··················· ··--········--·· ····
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..... .......... ...........
2.700.00
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense ..... ...... .......... . 13.500.00
Retirement Pay ................................................................. .
900.00
Veteran Buttons ................................................ ............... .
3,800.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ............................................. .
3,700.00
Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ... ................ . 11.000.00
Fidelity Bond .......................... ..................................
None
Miscellaneous ........................................................... .
800.00
Grand Lodge Regalia ........................................................
2.700.00
TOTAL .................................................................... $158.150.00

/\PPR~:~~~~~N~ommittee

311

·········································~~~~~~~~::$ 4,650.00
2.000.00

Board of Control ····················································
750.00
Charters Committee ···································-·····················
1,570.00
Columbia Temple Committee ····_-·····································
750.00
Constitution Observance Committee ······························
750.00
DeMolay Committee ........................................................
12,325.00
Employment Bureaus -················································ ······· 17.000.00
Endowment Board ················································· ···········
500.00
History Committee ····················:·······································
2.000.00
Committee on Masonic Education ··································
3,000.00
Lodge Financing Committee ············································
Memorial Temple-Campaign Expense ·························· 1.500.00
Committee on Public Schools ........................................... . 1.500.00
Boards of Relief None
Reimbursement for Sojourners....... .................... .......
1.000.00
Committee on Commercialism·············· ····························
3,500.00
Sojourners Committee ................................................. .... .
University Clubhouses:
22.850.00
Berkeley .....................................
······················
21.750.00
Los Angeles ···················································· ··········
150.00
Code Commission······························································
None
Grand Lodge Legal Expense ············································
500.00
Investment Committee ······················································
500.00
Relief Fund-Grand Master ································ ··········
5.610.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteri~s ··································
1.000.00
Committee on Masonic Information ································
950.00
Library C~mmission ··························································
t .500.00
.
C omm1ttee
on Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles ··········· ·
4 ,500.00
Commission 011 Masonic Practices ....................... ..........._ _ __
TOTAL ................................... ..............

................................ $112.105 .00

. .... .................. $146,200.00
Administrative and Office ......... ................
158.150.00
General Expense ··························-····················--············· 11 2.105.00
Appropriations ··-···················-·················-···················· · · · · · - - - -

RECAPITULATION.

GRAND TOTAL ........... ... ................. ................. .... $416.455.00
$333 635 00
dges Fees for Degrees. etc........ ...............
• ·
D ues Erom Lo
·
Income from Investments, Interest.................................... 35 ·000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes 17,000.00
Endowment Board Expense ....................................

ESTIMATED I NCOME

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Payment from Masonic Homes Secretarial and Other Services..................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

313

APPROPRI ATIONS

24 .000.00

TOT AL ES TI MA TED INCO ME ................ $409,635.00
TOT AL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ............................ 416,455.00
ESTIMATED SURPLUS (DEFICIT) ........ ($6.820.00)
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Grand Lodge Miscellaneous ............................................ $

2,000.00

TOTAL ....................................................................$

2.000.00

BUDGET
ONE QUARTER-JULY 1, 1964, THROUGH
SEPTEMBER 30, 1964
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries .............................................................................. $ 25,000.00
Grand Lodge Offices Temple Operation and Maintenance Expense. .......
4 .500.00
Grand Treasurer ..............................................................
75.00
Postage and Express ........................................................
I ,500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ....................
I ,800.00
Grand Lodge Employees' Medical Benefits....................
275.00
Audit --·········································-·······--·····························
2,500.00
Payroll Service Plan..........................................................
50.00
Telephone and Telegraph ................................................
1,200.00
TOTAL ····························------·-··-···········------············$ 36.900.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication .................................................... $ 8,000.00
Conferences ......................................................................
I ,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense............................. .
3,000.00
Printing ............................................................................. .
5,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ····--·-········-········-············· ................ .
150.00
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense......................
1.000.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..........................
800.00
Retirement Pay ..................................................................
225.00
Veteran Buttons ................................................................
I ,000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ..............................................
I. I 00.00
Insurance- Miscellaneous ................................................
500.00
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges.................... 1I ,000.00
TOTAL .................................................................... $ 32, 775.00

Relief Fund~Grand Master................................... ......... $
Activities Committee ........................................................
Board of Control .................................. ............................
Charters Committee ................................ ........................ ..
Columbia Temple Committee ......................................... .
Constitution Observance Committee ..............................
DeMolay Committee ....................................................... .
Endowment Board ........................................................... .
History Committee ....................................... ..... ............... .
Committee on Masonic Education ................................. .
Lodge Financing Committee .................... .................. ......
Memorial Temple- Campaign Expense ........................
Committee on Public Schools ........................................ ..
Committee on Commercialism ........................................ ..
Code Commission ................................................... .......... .
Investment Committee ............................... .. ................... ..
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries ................... .............. .
Sojourners' Committee ..................................................... .
Committee on Masonic Information ............................ ..
Library Commission ......................................................... .
Committee on Old Masonic H all- Los Angeles ............
Commission on Masonic Practices ........................ ........ ..

1.900.00
2,000.00
500.00
200.00
350.00
200.00
100.00
2,000.00
350.00
500.00
750.00
500.00
400.00
200.00
50.00
150.00
1,000.00
1.000.00
250.00
300.00
300.00
l ,000.00

TOTAL .................................................................... $ 14.000.00
RECAPITULATION

Administrative a~d Office ................................................ $ 36.900.00
General Expense .............................................................. 32,775.00
Appropriations ....................... .......................................... . 14,000.00
GRAND TOT AL .................................................... $ 83,675.00

The deficit in the budget we are submitting is more than brought
about by three items : The appropriation of $4,500.00 for the Commission on Masonic Practices, and the increase in the appropriations
for the Sojourners' Committee of $3,200.00 and the University Clubhouse at Berkeley o f $3.750.00.
These are areas in the over-all program of Grand Lodge about
which both the Grand Master and the Deputy Grand Master have
deep and firm convictions.
The funds being provided to implement these programs it is antici~
pated are being well spent and should pay dividends to you in the
future.
All other items in the budget have be_en carefully screened. and

314

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

held to the minimum consistent with the welfare of Masonry in this
jurisdictio n and the efficient operation of Grand Lodge.
Your committee feels that it is unsound to dip into reserves for
operating deficits. A sound fiscal policy dictates that we pay our bills
when incurred from current income. For these reasons we recommen d
an increase in the per capita of 5 cents.
We. therefore, offer the following resolution :
RESOLV ED: That for the purpose of paying the expenses
of Grand Lodge. a per cnpit:-i aggregatin g $3.35 be levied for
the fiscal year ending June 30. 1964. divided as follows:
Constituti onal per capita for
California Masonic Memorial Temple .... ........................ $1.00
Masonic Homes ................ ................................. ....................... 1.00
Constituti onal per capita for Grand Lodge............... ............. .50
Additiona l per capita for Grand Lodge.................................. .85
Total Per Capita ................................................................$3.35
Respectfu lly submitted .
FRANK HARWELL . JR.
PAUL F. BALCK
FRED M. CLARK
GEORGE F . CHASE
KERN H. COPELAND , JR.

Each of the recommen dations of the Committe e on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the committee was then adopted.
IDENTIFY BANK AND BANK BALAN CE IN ANNUAL AUDIT

( 22)
There has been referred to the Committe e on Finance Resolution
No. 22 which would require that the names and location of all banks
and the a mount of monies on deposit in each be set forth in detail
in the annual report of the Investmen t Committe e of Grand Lodge
and the auditor's report of investmen ts of the Grand Lodge , the Masonic Homes of California , the Endowme nt Fund. the Memorial Temple. and any and all other funds under the control of Grand Lodge.
Your Committe e on Finance is opposed to the adoption of this
resolution because we feel that it is impractica l. serves no useful purpose. and is contrary to the auditing and reporting procedure s of
every corporatio n of any size in this country with which we are familiar.
Our regulation s place upon the Grand Treasurer full and complete
responsibi lity for the funds of Grand Lodge. Investmen ts in securities
are listed because they are more or less fixed. Ca·s h on hand held in
banks is an entirely different matter. These funds are fluid and fluctuate according to our banking and investmen t needs. We carry only

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

315

working balances in our commercia l accounts. Obviously . these balances change from day to day. Savi ngs deposits are maintaine d primarily to provide funds for a short term fixed need. such as a Homes
building program or as a part of a balanced investmen t program. These
are all subject to chan ge from month to month. The figures which
might be reported to you by Grand Lodge could be, and very likely
would be. quite different in the following thirty days.
These are the reasons why no audit or corporate report with which
we are familiar publishes these details of cash on hand in banks for
the use of its stockhold ers or the general public- because it is impractical and serves no useful purpose.
Our accounts are regularly audited by a firm of national and international standing. The audits follow procedure s consistent with practices approved by the American Institute of Accountan ts. The details
are at all times on hand in the Grand Lodge office and a re available
for inspection by any member of Grand Lodge.
In making this report your committee has consulted the Grand
Treasurer , the Assistant Grand Treasurer . the Grand Secretary. the
auditors. and the individual members of the Investmen t Committee .
We might add that each of these brethren unconditio nally supports
the position of this committee in opposing the adoption of this resolution. We recommen d a no vote.
A majority voted against the resolution .

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON RITUAL
To the Mo st Worshipfu l Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
WEARING MASONIC APRON S

(26)
The Committe e on Ritual. to which was referred Resolu tion No.
26, reports as follows :
This resolution would. in effect. destroy the uniformity of the
work and practice in those Lodges which have officers' aprons inscribed or embroider ed with insignia designatin g the office of the acting appointee at the time of degree work. It has been brought to the
floor of Grand Lodge before and each time the representa tives of
the Lodges have voted against the proposal.
We wish to point out several things:
F irst. no officer of any Lodge has ever been invested with his
apron. It is Lodge paraphern alia. If he is Master and if he surrender s
his office for a degree, he thinks nothin g of surrenderi ng the jewel
with which he was invested ; the gavel, which is the emblem of power;
or the hat, the symbol of authority. So, too, we believe he should .
with grace. surrender his embroider ed apron.
Secondly. degrees are conferred upon a candidate. The visual effect

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

is for the candidate. If a number of officers have vacated. a nd their
places are taken by side-line members. are we to greet the candidate,
half with white apron s. the rest with embroidered: and these , bea ring
no relationship to the office being occupied?
Those officers who have witnessed the opening of Grand Lodge
for one of its many ceremonies have seen these officers, both elective
and appointive, wearing the regalia indicative of the office of the day.
We suggest for any Lodge the sen sible and rational solution of
wearing white aprons in all stations at all conferrals of degrees. If
the Master then is to sit out. he may do so in the embroidered apron
without destroying the uniformity which is essential to the work. M a ny
Lodges use this custom of clothing all degree participants in the symbolic lambskin and enthusiastically report not only an absence of confusion in the Temple but better preservation of the embellished aprons
by use only at Stated Meetings.
Since our law requires, under Section 55-f. that each degree conferred must be in conformity with the ritual now taught by the Grand
Lecturer and recognized by the Grand Lodge. and, further, since this
resolution would destroy the uniformity required by this section. we
suggest that it purports to amend this section and would require a fivesixths vote of Grand Lodge.
In order to conform to the required procedure. we move the adoption of the resolution and recommend a no vote.
A majority voted a gainst the resolution.

struction. Your Committee has. for several years. worked to develop
material to be used by the coaches in their important work with the
Candidate.
This program, however, is a Lodge program, with help and supervision by the District Inspector. The Lodge already knows which of
its candidates becomes proficient. Each Inspector can, with little effort.
obtain up-to-date reports from the Lodges of his District. The Inspector
and the Masters and Wardens can lead the program and obtain real
participation in it. Many Lodges at the present time run better than
80 % in qualified M aster Masons. Lea dersh ip and enthusias tic support
of the Lodges' coaches will produce results in both the ritualistic and
the educational aspects of the program .
The resolution would place a tas k upon the Grand Lecturer which
cannot be successfully accomplished and add materially to the work
load of the Grand Secretary's office, through which all reports would.
of necessity, clear. No useful result would be accomplished and, like
other efforts to s hift responsibility from the local level. the Lodge would
end up getting less.
In order to conform to the required procedure, we move the adoption
of the report and recommend a no vote.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated their
concurrence in this recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

316

Respectfully submitted .
DONALD
CLARE

G. CAMPBELL
RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
ROBERT A. CRIGLER

B. CAMPBELL

HAROLD N. RICHArms
KAHN
ARTHUR

w . BE~ SORRELLS

J.

THIRD DEGREE CANDIDATES LECTURE

(28)
The Committee on Ritual to which w as referred Resolution No. 28
reports as follows:
The profiiciency of candidates in the lecture of the Third Degree
has long been of concern to this Grand Lodge. Var~ous means have be.e n
sought to attain this end. Resolutions have been introduced to require
proficiency but have been defeated a s either impractical or unenfor.ceable. Our present application contains, in Question No. 15, the requirement of proficiency in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of M aster
Mason as a prerequisite to the joining of concordant bodies or orders.
We are rightly concerned with the whole pattern of candidate in-

317

At 5:40 p .m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10 :00 a.m. Friday.

318

319

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

the Island of Maui, Hawaii. Also used were gavels presented
by Oak Plains No. 789. Pittsburg No. 429. San Mateo
County Master Masons, Imperial Valley Lodges, lnspectoral
District No. 388, and North Butte No. 230.
Thursday a.m ....... WES'l'EN JOHNSON, W.M.
Alameda Lodge No. 167, Fremont. using gavel (shillalah)
presented by East Bay Ma sters and Warden Association at
the Annual Breakfast March 17, 1963. Also used were gavels
presented by lnspectoral Districts 620 and 621. Master
Masons of Orange County. Santa Barbara Lodges, and
Naval No. 87 and Solano No. 229.
Thursday p.m .... ... ARCHIE RAY SHERMAN . W .M.
Redwood City Lodge No. 168, Redwood City, using gavel
presented by Mount Oso Lodge No. 460 011 occasions of the
cornerstone and dedication ceremonies for its new Temple.
Also used were gavels presented by Buena Park No. 357,
Coachella No. 476. Mount Baldy U.D .. Los Alamitos No.
809. and Glendora No. 40-1.
Friday a.m ........... RoBERT D. LINTNER, P.M.
Mis sion Lodge No. 169, San Francisco. using gavel presented
by the Grand Master's nephew, Horace W. Orear, W.M.
California Lodge No. J, San Francisco, on the occasion of
the I 14th Installation of that Lodge. Also used were gavels
presented by Natoma No. 64, Liberty No. 299. on the occasion of laying the cornerstone of the Temple City Library,
and Oakdale No. 275. A gavel was also used which had
been pr'isented by Bus, Chet and Earl. business associates.

MORNING SESS!ON-FRIDl\Y, OCTOBER 18. 1963
At I 0:00 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The
minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday. October
17, were read and approved.

CALLING UP PROCEDUR ES
The Grand Master specified , as listed, the gavels used during the
several sessions. The gavel used to call up Grand Lodge heads the
list for each session as follows :
Monday a.m ......... BEN SILBERSTEIN, P.M.
Doric Lodge No. 216, San Francisco, using gavel presented

by the Lodge on occasion of his installation as Grand Master.
Also used were gavels presented by San Gorgonio No. 668.
Plaza de Los Angeles U.D .. Service No. 594, on the occasion of laying the cornerstones of Carpinteria High School
and George Schurr Junior High School. Montebello, and at
the dedication of Orosi High S chool.
......... JAMES E. BACON. P.M.
p.m
Monday
Lancaster Lodge No. 137, Lancaster, using gavel presented
by the seventeen Lodges infapan on the occasion of his visit
to that Grand Jurisdiction. Also used were three other gavels
presented during that tiisit.
Tuesday a.m ......... ]OHN F. HELMS, P.M.
Keystone Lodge No. 161, Milton, using gavel presented by
Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691 on occasion of cornerstone ceremony for its new Temple. Also used were gavels
presented by Crescent No. 45, La Fayette No. 126, Oxnard
No. 311 and Anacapa No. 7 JO, Manchester No. 585, Abell
No. 146, and Hemet No. 615.
Tuesday p.m ......... }AMES LAMB, P.M.
Harmony Lodge No. 164, Sierra City, using gavel presented
by Newport Lodges on occasion of the three cornerstone
ceremonies at Costa Mesa. Also used were gatiels presented
by nine Lodges of District 22, New f ersey. Scepter No. 808.
Keystone No. 161, Harmony No. 161. ln spectoral Districts
500 and 502. and the San Mateo County Masters and Wardens.
Wednesday a.m ... LoYD W. T. GRAY, W.M.
Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San Francisco, using gavel presented by Lodge Maui No. 472 on occasion of his visit to

OPENING PRAYERS
Monday Morning
Almighty God. Great Architect and Creator of all. we place ourselves and what we are about to undertake, in Thy hands. Guide, direct and prosper us. we beseech Thee. Grant that this undertaking
will be a good success. and for Thy glory.
Make us feel that unless Thy blessing is with us, we cannot succeed. and that except the Lord build the house, their labour is lost that
build it. Direct us. then, in this and all our doings with Thy most gracious favor, and further us with Thy continual help. that in all our
works begun. continued and ended in Thee. we may magnify Thy
Holy Name. Amen.
Monday Afternoon
Let Thy peace come down. 0 God. upon our unquiet souls; still
the tumult of our stormy selves; close the gates against the disorder
and confusion of our time, until within us we may find a place to steady

320

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

321

our hands for prayer, and prepare our hearts for praise of Thee. If
we turn from the world. it is not to disdain it; if we shut it out. it is not
to forsake it; if we turn toward Thee, it is not to deny it.
We need Thy strength to meet it, Thy truth to understand it. Thy
grace to forgive it, Thy love to redeem it.

if in the wonder of the world. or in the goodness of our fellow men.
or in the faith of hard pressed people, we do not see Thy grace showing itself: if in the hour of unexpected delight or in the time of sudde~
adversity we have no hea rt to welcome Thee. then let Thy Holy Spmt
stab us wide awake. until we are alive-living souls in the kingdom of
Thy power and peace. and live with Thee the life of eternity in the

Tuesday Morning
Almighty God. who hast given us this good land for our heritage,
we humbly beseech Thee that we may always prove ourselves a people
mindful of Thy favor , and glad to do Thy will. Bless our land with
honorable industry, sound learning and pure manners. Save us from
violence. discord and confusion. from pride and arrogance. and from
every evil way. Defend our liberties. and fashion into one united people the multitude brought hither out of many kindreds and tongues.
Endue with the spirit of wisdom those to whom in Thy name we entrust the authority of government, that there may be justice and peace
at home. and that through obedience to Thy law we may show forth
Thy praise among the nations of the earth.
In the time of pros perity. fill our hearts with thankfulness. and in
the day of trouble. suffer not our trust in Thee to fail.

midst of time.

Tuesday Afternoon
Almighty God. who art King of Kings and Lord of Lords, ruler of
all the people of the earth. forgive. we beseech Thee, our shortcomings.
Purify our hearts to see and love the truth. Give wisdom to our counsellors. and steadfastness to our people. and bring us at last to that
Fair City of Peace. whose foundations are mercy. justice and good
will. whose Builder and Maker Thou art. that the earth may be filled
with the knowledge and love of God. as the waters cover the sea.
Wednesday Morning
May we never be so much occupied with our own affairs that we
have no concern about the needs of others.
Bless all works of charity, that the hearts and souls and bodies of
those in need may be comforted and enriched. Watch over all sick and
aged folk . over little children. widows and distressed worthy brothers.
May all Masonic institutions be places of contentment and peace.
Bless in particular our Homes at Decato a nd Covina, and so enkindle
fervent charities among us all that we be evermore kindly affectioned
with brotherly love. that Thy will may be done on earth as it is in
heaven. Amen.
Thursday Morning
Eternal God. whose days are without end, Who art the center
of life's fire and peace, deliver us from coldness of heart and complacency of soul, in this time of prayer. 1£. in strength of body or in
understanding of mind. or in joy of spirit we do not feel Thee present.

Thursday Afternoon
Creator a nd Redeemer of all mankind, we have labored. each in his
own place. trying to share in the work of the world. We have known
the anguish of incompetence, and we have tasted the bitterness of defeat. We have dreamed dreams and seen visions·--Our brains and our
ha nds have longed to lift our labor to such creative skill that it would
show our joy in Thy goodness.
Grant us patience to endure our failures. and humility to outgrow
our successes. and wisdom to follow the light as Thou givest us to see
the light. that step by step we. may travel toward the blessed land that
Thou hast prepared for them that love and serve Thee.
Friday Morning
Great Architect. Creator and Sustainer of all. we thank Thee for
every common thing that serves and supports our life. For the bread
we eat. the air we breathe. the roof that s helters us, for the earth on
which we live. and the air through which we fly.
Deeper than the things themselves. we see Thy providence moving
with loving kindness and mercy to bless us in a thousand. wa_ys. . .
Through fellowship with one another, through the souls high v1s10n.
the mind's deep truth, we follow paths wherein Thou hast led us to
greater and larger life. Continue to be with us as we return homestir us from our lethargy. enlighten our darkness. and encourage our
hope. that we may ascend from glory to glory, from s trength to stre~1gth
-in all things rejoicing in Thee, our Creator, Redeemer and Fnend.

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL ELECTION

Senior Grand Steward, J. Kenneth Savage. San Fernando Lodge
No. 343.
Junior Grand Steward. William McKennon Whitman. Kilauea
Lodge No. 330.
Grand Pursuivant, Richard A. Blechschmidt. Natoma Lodge No. 64 .
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.
Announcement was made of the following appointments by the
Grand Master-elect:
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, the re-appointment of Past Grand Master Alfred F. Breslauer and Edward J. Blickfeldt.
As Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the reappointment of T. Galt Atwood and the appointment of Chester R.
MacPhee to succeed Jay A . Robinson (term expired).

The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying thereto.
The R. W. Elmer W. Heald. El Centro Lodge No. 384. was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. Theodore Meriam, Chico Lodge No. 111 . was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W. Myron E. Smith. University Lodge No. 394, was elected
Senior Grand Warden.
The W. Laurence E. Dayton, Live Oak Lodge No. 61, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The M. W. Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master. Mt. Davidson
Lodge No. 481, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems. Past Grand Master. Plymouth Lodge
No. 560, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Donald G. Campbell, Granada Lodge No. 608, was
re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Dr. Lester E. Bond. Normal Heights Lodge No.
632.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Clare B. Campbell. North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Harold N. Richards, Washington Lodge No. 20; Arthur J.
Kahn. Paul Revere Lodge No. 462; Raymond G. Taylor, Libertas
Lodge No. 466: Robert A. Crigler, John Marshall Lodge No. 636 ; vV.
Ben Sorrells. Laguna Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Orator, Eugene S. Hopp, King Solomon's Lodge No. 260 .
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A . Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary. Verne W. Hendrix , Mount D iablo
Lodge No. 448.
Grand Marshal, Norbert P. Tester. El Centro Lodge No. 381.
Grand Standard Bearer, Joseph S. Roberts, Janesville Lodge No.
232.
Grand Sword Bearer, George P. Calderwood, Long Beach Lodge
No. 327.
Grand Bible Bearer, Edward L. Kellas. Fresno Lodge No. 24 7.
Senior Grand Deacon , Warren J. Blomseth. Dimond Lodge No. 603.
Junior Grand Deacon, James Edward Wellet. Granada Lodge No.
608.

At 11 :45 a .m.. Grand Lodge was called off until I :30 p.m .

323

324

GRA ND LO DG E OF CALJFO RJl< IA

PROC EEDINGS OF THE

AFTERN OON SESSIO N-Friday , October 18, 1963
At l :30 p.m. Grand Lodge assembled .

INSTAL LATION OF OFFICER S
The Most Worshipf ul John R. Moore. Past Grand Master. acted
as Master of Ceremoni es and the officers, elected and appointed , were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in accordanc e with the Ritual.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecess or with
a Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams lapel pin was transferre d from the retiring to the incumbent Grand Master. and the other chair officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The retiring Grand Orator presented the Everett Houser lapel pin
to the newly insta lled Grand Orator.
Most Worshipf ul Edward H. Siems. Grand Secretary. on be half of the retiring Gra nd Chaplain . presented the Robert B. Watt>
lapel pin to the newly installed Grand Chaplain.
Thereafte r the Grand Secretary invested Mos t Worshipf ul Ira \V.
Coburn with the apron of his new designatio n and presented his Pa~t
Grand Master Certificate .
The Junior Past Grand Master responded with remarks evidencing his appreciati on to the members for their achieveme nts during his
year as their Grand M a ster.
Immediate ly following the ceremonie s Most Worshipf ul Elmer W.
Heald introduced approxima tely thirty Brethren who had traveled from
El Centro to be present at this installatio n.
Escorted to the East was Brother Herman H . Peterson . Master in
191 l of El Centro Lodge No. 384. He made remarks concernin g the
history and growth of the Imperial Valley and the respect with which
Grand Master Heald is held in that area.
Worshipf ul Jesse J. Campbell. Master of El Centro Lodge No.
384 , read to the members House Resolution No. 79. issued by the
Assembly of the State of California February 12, 1963. commendi ng
Judge Elmer W. Heald for his outstandin g record of profession al
accomplis hment, communit y service. and extending best wishes for
the future.
At 2: 55 p.m., all business being completed . Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

Grand Ma ster
Grand Secretary

FRANCI S V . KEES LING

Grand M aster -

Born
Febr uary 17. 1877
S an Jose. Cali fo rn ia

191 6

Died
Septl'mbcr 25. 1963
Sa n Francisco . C;iliforni a

325

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

326

EULOGY

Grand Lodge was opened in the California Maso nic Memorial
Temple to conduct the fllneral service for Past Grand Master Francis
V. Keesling at I :00 p.m. Friday. Septembe r 27, 1963. The s tations were

FRANCI S VALENT INE KEESLIN G
By Henry C. Clausen

occupied as follows:

Our brother. Fra ncis Valentine Keesling, has walked "to meet the
night that soon shall shape and shadow overflow." No eulogy. be it
ever so beautiful. no tribute. be it ever so tender. no spoken or written
word. be it ever so eloquent. can add one leaf to his laurel wreath. one
star to his crown of glory. one inch to his lofty eminence. For. his was a
life that speaks for itself. rich in fulfillment and pre-emine nt in ma ny

Grand Master. ................. .. ........ --·- ---·· ······.IRA W. COBURN
. .. .. HORA CE W. OREAR. JR.

Deputy Grand Master.

...... L

Senior Grand Warden

HAROLD ANDERSON

..... ALFRED F. BR ES LA u ER
Junior Grand Warden .. ...
Grand Treasurer ............. ......... ....... ARTHUR M. WARREN

Grand Secretary .... .... .....

........ . .. EDw ARD H. SIEMS

•

Grand Lecturer..... .. ... ... ....... ....... EDWARD C. LOHM EY ER
Grand Chaplain.. . . ... ...... .... ...............JOHN A. COLLINS
Grand Orator ....... ........ ................. .... ... HENRY C. CLAUSEN
Assistant Grand Treasurer .. ..... ........ PAUL _A. PFLUEGER
Assistant Grand S ecretary .... ..... .. .. .. VERNE W. HENDRIX
Grand MarshaL .............. ....................... .GEORGE D. GAVIN
Grand Standard Bearer.. .. .... .................. HARRY K. WJDUP
Grand Sword Bearer. ... ... .................. SAMUEL G. CLARK
Grand Bible Bearer ........ ............ ........... E. LLOYD HAN SON
Senior Grand Deacon ....... .. ...... ..... --- ------···--E- Ross BAYLIS
Junior Grand Deacon .............. ·-------- _____ _... JOHN C. BROW N
Senior Grand Steward ...... .. ... .............. EARL A. CALDWEL L
Junior Grand Steward .. .. ··----------.. WILLIAM F. POYNTER
Grand PursuicJant .... . .. . ..... . .. BERTRAM V. VON KoNSKY
Grand Tiler............. ...... ......... ---·-----------.. ·-·- -DAVID WRIGHT
The Eulogy. as given by Henry C. Clausen. is appended to this account.
PALLBEAR ER S

P ast Masters of California Lodge No. I, San Francisco.
The interment was private -

for members of the family only.

327

:.

fields.
It was a life that our Freemason ry seemed destined to touch and to
guide. from birth to passing. So. as we pause this afternoon briefly and
pay our last public tribute. we are reminded that it was Dr. Benjamin
Cory. fourth Master of San Jose Lodge N o. I 0. who ushered our brother
into this world at San Jose on F ebruary 17. 1877.
The historian who comes after us will record the events of this long
and illustrious career and will linger in admiration over the success
story of a strong American. It \Vas a noble example of the rise and
progress of an humble citi:en to grea tness. Blessed with a magnetic
and dynamic personalit y. and with a powerful and luminous mind. his
achieveme nts were outstandin g in the fields of the law, the military. the
civic. the fraternal. and the financial. Few have risen to such towering
heights in even one of these: and yet. as his many friends frequently
remarked, whatever he undertook he carried through to completion and
did well.
He attended. the public schools of San Jose and received his Bachelor
of Arts degree from Stanford University . 1898.
At Stanford he had been First Pres ident of his class; Editor-inChief of the Stanford Quad Campus Year Book. baseball manager in
1898. member of Sigma Nu Fraternity . Phi D elta Phi Legal Fraternity .
S kull and Sna kes Honor Soc iety . and the Press Club. He was Regent
or national head of Sig ma Nu. 1906-08.
On graduation from S ta nford in 1898 he studied law and after being
admitted to the Bar. distinguis hed him self in a civil and corporate
practice. For many years he was associated in the practice of law at
San Francisco with his good friends . George and Thomas Crothers.
and later also with his sons , Frank. Jr .. and William. and with whom
I also was privileged to be associated . following World War II. He
became nationally recognized as ex pert in law apperta ining to life insur ance. He was a member o f the American Bar Associatio n . the State Bar.
and the San Francisco Bar Associatio n; on the Board of Governor s
of the State Bar. 1929-1930: a Governor of the San Francisco Bar Association . 1928-1929 ; President of the Associatio n of Life Ins urance
Counsel. 193 1-1933: and P resident of the Stanford Law Society. 1932-

328

329

PROCEEDJr>;GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1933. H e was twice President of the Stanford Alumni Association. in
1919 and again ten years la ter.
As a civic leader, he worked to make sure the "winds o f freedom "
wo uld continue to blow over San Francisco. California , and the nation.
As early as 191 0. when he was still a young lawyer, a news story spoke
of him:
" F ew men have accomplished as much good for the community in
which they live as Francis V . Keesling . the well-known at torn ey. whose
life . . . has been filled with a multitude of good deeds. Stanford owes
him a debt of gratitude second only to that for the founde rs . ... "
He had organized, soon a fter his graduation. and fought through
virtually single-handed to adoption by the voters. a constitutional
amendm ent exempting such foundation trusts as Stanford from taxation.
This made possible financial stability for building that great university.
His achievements in the military reached epic heights during the
San Francisco earthquake and fire. Having enlisted in 1901 as a private
in the Nationa l Guard . Battery D. First Artillery, by 1906 he was a
major commanding the First Battalion. Trained in joint maneuvers of
the United Sta tes Army and the National Guard at West Point.
Kentucky, the San Francisco crisis tested his efficiency as a military
officer. California a rchives and elsewhere contain official reports praising
his heroic work in protecting lives and property. in feeding a nd housing
the displaced . a nd resc uing victims who had been trapped in the ruins.
As he took the fina l salute of his battalion when they ma rched in review
on completion of thei r mission. his eyes were moist for his men were
disbanding after having earned the commendations of the low and the
mighty. These included those expressed by Governor Pardee to the
extra session of the Legisla ture, June 2, 1906. and that of E . H . H arriman, the r ai lroad magnate of his day. who sa id:
"These men left their private affairs and their homes at a critical
tim e, many laboring under the distress of personal loss, and gave their
service to their Sta te in her hour of need. Praise, a nd only praise, is
due the N a tional Guard of California for its ser vice in this crisis."
He was a lways a s taunch advocate of clea n government. Active
in politics. he aligned himself with the Republican party, becoming
Chairman of the Rep ublican State Central Committee, 1914- 1916. He
was a can dida te for Lieutenant Governor in I 910 a nd for Governor in
1914. In 1942 he w«s na med to the Council of the Na tiona l Municipal
League. His political philosophy was well expressed by himself as
.
follo ws:
" I believe that the desirable political objective is good and efficien t
government and that this can be attained only by the election of reputable officials who possess integrity and ability. I proceed with definite
conviction that this end can be achieved by politica l parties of the right
kind."

One thing of which he was most proud. a nd deservedly so, was the
part tha t his a ssistance, advice and energy played in the building of the
Golden Gate Bridge. He was a Director o f the Golden Gate Bridge and
Highway D istrict from 1929-1937; also Chairman of its Building Committee a nd the confidant of Joseph B. Strauss, the chief engineer. On
more than one occasion Strauss s tated to me, his a ttorney during the
construction litigation, that if it had not been for Brother Keesling's
help. freely a nd frequently given him, the task would have been impossible.
In view of his great contribution, he was given the honor of making
the dedication speech at the dedication of the bridge May 28, 1937.
Another testimonial to his civic-mindedness was his chairmanship
o f the Committee of the Board of Freeholders elected to prepare the
San Francisco Charter of 1931. Said o ne member of the Board:
" The good nature and sincerity of Frank Keesling were of immeasurable help in reconciling differences. The zeal that he felt for his
task and the ambition promptly to complete the draft of the Charter
were rapidly shared by his colleagues purely by the force of example.
If o ne gave an hour of time. Keesling gave two ho urs: and when the
Committee adjo urned. Keesling bent to the task of preparing more
matter for the next meeting. "
From 1936 to 1940. he was also Chairman of the Interim Committee
of twenty-five of the California Conference on Government and Taxation. As such . he presented to the Governor the Committee's report
which. in relation to the State government, was similar to the now
famo us Hoover report in relation to the national government. He was
also a member of the Board of Directors of the Better Bu siness Bureau
of San Francisco, and he served for seven y ears as President of an
orga nization close to his heart for its great humanitarian work for
youth without regard to race, color or creed, the San Francisco
Y .M .C.A.
In financial affairs, he was one of those lawyers who might be said
to ha ve a "business mind." He there fore ha d been called to high positions in the financial circles of o ur nation. His notable executive services
include being President of West Coast Life Ins urance Company, 19381949, and Chairman of its Board of D irectors, 1949- 1953. In 1933-1934.
he was President of the American Life Convention. an association of
U . S. an d Canadian life insurance companies writing over 95 % of the
ins urance written in these two countries. For many years since 1942 he
had been President of the California Ins urance Federation. Also, he
was Cha irman of the Board of Directors. Blair Holdings Corporation.
with offices in New York C ity.
His attention was drawn to Masonry by outstanding men he knew
during his boyhood in San Jose. Through them, he form ed a "favorable
opinion of the Fraternity." Accordingly, when old enough, he presented

PRO CEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN D LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

his Petition to CaliforniC1 Lodge No. I, and was made a Mason of that
Lodge in 1900. H e chose this Lodge in o rder to be with his frien ds
George a nd Thomas Crothers. who already were members.
In Masonry . as in everything else. he qu ickly rose to the top. Starting through the chairs of his Lodge as Junior Steward in 1902. he
served as its Master in 1907. He then became active in the affairs of
Grand Lodge and. in 1913. commencing as Junior Grand Warden he
progressed regularly to his election as Grand Master in 191 6. In 1942.
because of his fin ancia l ability. he was elected Grand Treasurer and
served for years with great distinction in that capacity.
As Deputy Grand Master. he laid the cornerstone of the Masonic
H ome for Children at Covina in 1916. The following year . when he
was Grand Master, he dedicated the H ome. And. though many other
demands were made upon his time, he never ceased to concern himself
with its welfare. He had been credited also with persuading Charles
M . Wollenberg. later Grand Master. to take a place on the Board of
Trustees of Masonic Homes - first in an advisory capacity. then as
Chairman. He championed the "Pennsylvania Plan." a system of individual contributions. modified to suit conditions peculiar to California
Lodges. as a means of meeting the need for increased financing. It was
he ""' ho presented specific legislation for obtaining from the fee of each
petitioner for degrees sums to go toward s upport of the Homes.
Clearly. his services to California Blue Lodge Masonry were enough
to keep him more than busy. Yet he found time to take an active part
in the vario us concordant bodies. He became a membe r of all York and
Scottish Rite Bodies. was Potentate of the San Francisco Shrine. and.
in 1913. received the J3rd Degree in the Scottish Rite and also served
for a time as Deputy in California of the Scottish Rite Supreme
Council.
He belonged to the Pacific Union. University. Union League. Commonwealth. San Fra ncisco Golf and Menlo Country Clubs.
Yes. our brother was a great American . Pro bono publico was his
credo. He was a citizen's citizen. He was a maker of history. He was
a lawyer's lawyer. He was a symbol of clean government. He was truly
a Master Mason. He has left a lasting mark for good upon the men and
the events of his time. Free men of his City. of his native State. and
of his country today give him the benediction of their heartfelt prayers.
Now his dynamic spirit mingles with those who died that this nation
might be born. that our flag might float freely in the sunlight of liberty.
H is wife . Haidee. having preceded him in passing . we express to his
survivors ou r deep sympa thy. They include his four children of whom
he always spoke with such paternal pride. Mrs. Jacqueline K. Sesnon of
Beverly Hills and Mrs. Thomas B. Laird of San Francisco: two sons.
Francis. Jr .. now President of the West Coast Life Insurance Company .
and William H .. prominent attorney of San Francisco; a brot her. Roy

Keesling of H ealdsburg; seven grandch ild ren and two great grandchildren .
Ma y his spirit ever guide them and us. a s he - mentor to ma ny _
did in life. toward a truer and nobler courage to stand as .soldiers s hould
stand in life's battle. and to fight as citizens shou ld figh t for the preservation of those things we hold dear.
In the sublim e words of Vergil. in his Aenid . let us say:

330

··While riuers run into the sea.
While th e mountain's shadows moue o r•er the slopes,
While heauen feeds the stars.
E ver shall thy honor. thy name. and thy praises endure."

33 1

I
SPECIAL APPENDIX

G RAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

333

SPECIAL APPENDI X
CONTENTS
Page
Grand Lodge Audit.. .............................................................................. 334
Audit of Ann ual Returns. 1963......................... ................................... 348
Masonic Homes Audit ................................ ............. ............................. 350
M emoria l Temple Audit........................................................................ 387
S tatistical :
Residen ts at Union City.................................................................. 394
Children at C ovina Home.................................. .............................. 402
Number of Residents. Union City and C ovina .............................. 404
Per Capita C ost. Union City and Covina ......................... ............. 404
C ontributions to Special Reserves ... ....................................... ........ 405

334

GR AND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT
.LYHRA:\ n . Hoss BRO!'i. Cu :\Jo:-;TGm1ERY
C£:RTIF1£0 PUBLI C ACCOUNTANTS
ONE

BUSH

STRCE T

SAN FRAN CISCO 4
YU91.0N I· S3JJ

or1,.c:r• IN .,.., ,
f'lltlNC l .."'L C•TIC•

or'"'

UNt110 STATlt

335

we a ttach the fol lowing :
Exhi b i t A

Statement of assets, l i abilities,
and fund balance
Exh i bit B
Statement of r evenue r eceived and
expenses disbursed
Schedule 1
Investments
Schedule 2 - Contribut i ons received from Lodges
Schedule 3
Administrative and office expense
Schedule 4 - General e xpense
Schedule s
Appropriations
Two pages - Notes to financial statements

-

-

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the
Sta t e of Californi a,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco , Californi a 94108.
we have examined the sta temen t of assets, li~bilitiea ,
and fund balance of The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California as of June 30, 1963 and
1962, and the related statement of revenue received and expenses
disbursed for the years then ende d . Our examination was made in
accordanc e with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and
such other auditing procedures as we considered nec ess ary in the
circumstances.
In our opi nio n, the a ccompanying statements present
fairly the assets, l iabilities , and f ~nd balance of The Most
Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State
of California at June 30, 1963 and 1962, arising primari ly from
cash transactions, and the revenue received and expense disbursed
by it for the years then ended, on a consistent basis.

-;;(~,..._.,_,/ ~ !1..-,, ,..~....,~
Certified Public Accountants
.August 2, 1963

336

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1963 and 1962
A S S E T S:
cash on hand and in banks
Investments (at cost), Schedule 1:
Bonds (market value $151,796 and $66,980)
Preferred stock (market value $28,675 and

.!2il

.!ill.

$294, 121.09 $222,367.88
72,742.26

$125,510)

30,959.46

139,707.01

$361,208)

362, 751.41

310,690.52

550,733.43

523,139.79

50,013.51

47,339.76

Total (market value $661,562
and $553,698)
other · assets:
Furniture and fixtures (at cost) (Note 2)
Insurance premiums advanced for Lodges
(Note 3)
Refundable deposit with airline
sundry receivables
Total assets

46,732.08
24,178.98
425.00
425.00
1,410.00
603.50
95,906.84
75,220.99
$920.075.51 $841,414.51

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE:
Liabilitiest
contribUtion s of initiates, held for the
Endowment Fund of the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial (Note 4)
$ 4,647.00 $ 4,851.00
4,245.00
2,998.00
Advance payments by Lodges on annual returns
328.92
7,289.76
contribution s due pension fund
188.50
1,447.24
Accrued payroll taxes and expense
35,168.22
35,168.22
Reserve for "California Freemason" (Note 5)
44,781.64
51,550.22
Total liabilities
Fund balance:
796,632.87 918,506.31
Balance, beginning of year
Less:
.
.
Transfer to Reserve for "California
15,034.82
Freemason" (Note 5)
cost of funding past service pension
127,898.00
.costs of Retirement Income Plan (Note 6)
Add, net revenue for year, Exhibit B
Balance, end of year
Total liabilities and fund bal~nce

71,892.42
868,525.29

142,932.82
775,573.49 .
21,059.38
796,632.87

$2211,112~.a $§~;L.!;L!.~J

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M, OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

157,022.56

co11111on stock (market value $481,091 and

337

1962-1963

1961-1962·
Revenue:
Contribution s received from . Lodges,
Schedule 2
.
$1,053,120.1 0 $1,047,244.4 3
Less, those received for special purposes:
Masonic Homes of California
416,306.00
421,786.00
California Masonic Memorial Temple
2961717.00
298,215.00
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial
6,204.00
6,473.00

Fees for charters and dispensation s
Rents from Columbia Temple
Rents from Old Masonic Hall, Los Angeles
Revenue from insurance premiums advanced
for Lodges
Revenue from investments:
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bonds
Interest on bank accounts
Reimbursemen t from Masonic Homes of
California for:
Secretarial and other services
Endowment Board expense
Sale of supplies held for resale
Less, purchase of supplies for resale
Subscription s for "California Freemason"
Less, publishing expenditures
(Corresponden ce Committee)
Return by r~tiring Grand Masters of
unused expense appropriatio ns
Total revenue
Expense:
Administrati ve and office expense,
Schedule 3
General expense, Schedule 4
Appropriatio ns, Schedule 5
Net revenue, before gain on
securities sales
Net gain on sales of securities
Net revenue, Exhibit A

719,227.00
333,893.10
520.00
375. OQ
465.00

726,474.00
320,770.43
600.00
250.00

1.181.09

1,484.57

22,045.52
2,116.54
10,141.84
34,303.90

21,061.35
5,222.87
10,227.50
36,511.72

24,000.00
17,070.96
41,070.96
37,894.77
21,287.89
16,606.88
48,840. 77

24,000.00
13,9cJ6.32
37,996.32
22,724.58
29,519.97
(6,795.39)
62,587.10

43,900.18
4,940.59

63,712.43
(1,125.33)

1,340.34

33.79

434, 696.86

389,726.ll

·125,417.80
143,603.97
101,665.75
370.687.52

143,715.17
145,726.72
83,523.87
372,965. 76

64,009.34

16,760.35

7,883.08

4,299.03

71.892,42 $

2 J.d2:i2.~!iJ

The acc0111panying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

338

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OJ!' CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 1

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M, OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

INVES1MENTS
June 30, 1963

BONDS

COMMON STOCK

339

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

Face Value
$50,000

Chicago Burlington & Quincy Equipment Trust,

2,000
2,000

continental Baking Co., 4-3/8", 1983
International Minerals & Chemical Corporation,

3.875"· 1971

$ 49,408.00
2,009.63
1,925.50

3.65"· 1977

20,000
5,000
10,000
40,000
25,000
4,4:00

Louisville & Nashville RR Equipment Trust, 4"
1971, Series EE
&orfolk & Western RR Equipment Trust, 4", 1970,
.
Series J
Norfolk & Western R'l Equipment Trust, 3-7/8",
1972, Series I
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2", 1972-1967
u. s. Treasury Bonds, 3-1/2", 1990
Virginian Railway Company, ff.l', 2008

20,000.00
5,000.00
9,872.30
37,990.63
25,687.50
5,129.00
$157.022.56

Total bonds
PREFERRED S_TOCK

100
200
100
100

tcaiser Aluminum and Chemical, 4-1/8"
Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co.,
owens-Illinois Glass,
Permanente Cement Company,

4"

$ 10,351.80

3,937.28
11,450.60
5 1 219.78

4" 5"

Total preferred stock

$ ~2.2~2.!!i

COMMON STOCK

100
100
100
200
112
134
100
300

lio
198

Allegheny Power System, Inc.
Allied Chemical Corporation
American Cyanamid Company
Atchison Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.
Bankers Trust company of New York
Bendix Corporation
Champion Papers, Inc.
Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company
Forward

$

5,044.00
3,642.46
5,058.01
4,887.87
5,863.40
2,776.50
5, 719.68
8,725.14
3,268.32
10.370.38

$ 55,355.76

100
660
100
215
100
210
544
110
500
200
210
200
733
100
102
100
100
208
224
100
100
100
120
102
371
100
363
100
400
100
100
100
321
200
111
300
620
202
300
100
200
100
300

Forward
CIT Financial Corporation
Columbia Gas system, Inc.
Co11111ercial Credit Company
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.
Consolidated Natural Gas Company
Continent3l Insurance Company
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Duquesne Light Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Fireman's Fund Insurance Company
General Motors Corporation
General Public Utilities Corporation
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company
Gulf Oil Corporation
Ingersoll-Rand Company
Inland Steel Company
Interstate Power Company
Irving Trust Company (New York)
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation
Libbey-<>wens-Ford Glass Company
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company
Marathon Oil Company
Northern Statea Power Co. of Minnesota
Ohio Edison Company
Pacific Gas and Electric Company
J, c. Penney Company
Pe~sylvania Power & Light Company
Phillips Petroleum Company
Public Service of Indiana
Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc.
Southern California Edison Company
Southern Pacific Company
Standard Oil Company (California)
Standard Oil Company (Bew Jersey)
Sunray DX Oil Company
Tennessee Gas Transmission Company
Uhion Electric Company
'Dnited Gas Corporation
Uhited States Steel Corporation
Wells Fargo Bank
Western Bancorporation
Total caamon stock

$ 55,355, 76
4,076.69
13,561.72
3,988.75
13,151.27
6,534.74
9,462.38
6,804.94
5,519.48
9,947.50
5,439.88
5,144.10
9,246.32
13,998.62
4,755.06
3,888.25
8,497.45
4,541.50
5,437.08
6,689.22
3,536.50
5,495.95
9,000.20
2,385.00
4,390.75
4,114.91
4,417.13
4,343.21
4,742.50
14,288.20
5,882.34
3,763.63
4,856.81
3,654.25
5,314.25
5,130.98
15,042.41
16,541.08
4,672.63
8,612.82
3,537.50
14,279.69
7,746.70
10,961.26
$362,751,41

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

341

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

340

SCHEDULE 2

ORNIA
GRAND LODGE, F, & A, M, OF CALIF
ES
CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODG
30, 1963
For the fisc al year ende d June

es for:
Con tribu tions Rece ived from Lodg Geor ge
d
Gran
Cali forn ia Wash ingto n
Maso nic
Lodg e
Mas~nic
Maso nic
Homes
Supp ort
Nati onal
Mem orial .
of
and
Mem orial
Temp le
Acti vitie s Cali forn ia
Base d upon mem bersh ips
Mast er Maso ns at
244,5 63
June 30, 1962
Lese , members
whos e dues were
3, 772
remi tted
Members paid for, per
1962 annu al retu rns 240,7 91
o
1. oo $._ _--'1"'._o__
1.30 $
$
Rate per.m embe r
.00
,791
$313 ,028 .30 $240 ,791 .00 $240
Amount
Ba•e d upon degr ees conferre d in year ende d
June 30, 1963 - 18,8 88
at $1 each

18,8 88.0 0

·Base d upon initi ates , and
affi liate • for Maso nic
Homes, at rate of
Pina l paym ent for year
ende d June 30, 1962 ,
per 1962 annu al
retu rns
Insta llme nt paym ents
on 1963 annu al
retu rns

$

Tota l, befo re adju stme nts
for prev ious year s and
331, 916. 30
refun ds
ious
Adju stme nts for prev
year • and (refu nds) ,
l,976 .80
nette d
Tota i.
Gran d tota l

25.0 0 $._ _.......:9:..:•..:::0~0

$

l.00

$ 44,5 15.0 0 $ 14,0 13.0 0

$1,5 57.0 0

132, 725. 00
177, 240. 00

42,4 17.0 0
56,4 30.0 0

4,71 3.00
6,27 0.00

418, 031. 00

297, 221. 00

6,27 0.00

(1, 725.0 0)

(504 .00)

(66 , 00)

,717 .00

$6,2 94,0 0

$333 .893 .10 $416 .306 ,00 $296
$1,9 53,1 20,1 0

inte gral
The accom pany ing note s are anmen
ts.
part of the fina ncia l state

ORNIA
GRAND LODGE, F, & A. M, OF CALIF
SE
EXPEN
E
OFFIC
AND
E
AI:MINISTRATIV
30, 1963 and 1962
For the fisc al year s ende d June

SCHEDULE 3

Incre ase Decr ease
1961 -1962
1962 -1963
Comp ared With prev ious year :
$13,0 21.27
$ 78,20 0.07 $ 91,2 21,3 4
Sala ries
Gran d Lodg e offic es,
Temple oper ation and
18,0 00.0 0
18,0 00.0 0
main tenan ce expe nse
3,00 0.00
3,00 0.00
Audi t
3,08 0.68 $ 326.4 1
3,40 7.09
Posta ge and expr ess
529.4 9
4,19 5.50
3,66 6.01
Telep hone and teleg raph
and
Soci al secu rity
3,94 9.41 1,44 9.40
5,39 8.81
unem ploym ent taxe s
49.8 0
49.8 0
Payr oll serv ice plan
500.0 0
500.0 0
Inve stme nt coun sel
Retir emen t pens ion plan
1,10 1.81
e
8,50 9.74
7,40 7.93
empl oyee s of Gran d Lodg
plan
ion
pens
t
emen
Retir
1,62
4,63
9,10 1.84
4,47 0.22
empl oyee s of agen cies
Supp leme ntal pens ion l,016 .20
1,77 8.35
762.1 5
Lloy d E. Wils on
Gran d Lodg e empl oyee s
177.4 1
378.3 1
55:i.7 2
medi cal plan
02 $2Q,3Q!2.~2
$iil~,4J.:z.~o $143 1 :z15 1 1:z $2.00 3 1
Unde r
Budg et
Actu al
~
Calllpared with budg ets
$13,1 99.93
$ 78,20 0.07 $ 91,4 00.0 0
Sala ries
Gran d Lodge offic es,and
Temple oper ation
18,0 00.0 0
18,0 00.0 0
main tenan ce expe nse
3,00 0.00
3,00 0.00
Audi t
250.0 0
250.0 0
Gran d Trea sure r ess
1,09 2.91
0.00
7.09
4,50
3,40
expr
and
ge
Posta
9
833.9
4,50 0.00
3,66 6.01
tele~raph
Telep hone and
Soci al secu rity an
1
4,600 .0ci $ 798.8
5,39 8.81
empl oyme nt taxes
49.80
49.80
Payr oll serv ice plan
0
500.0 0
sel
500.0
Inve stme nt coun
Retir emen t pens ion plan 207.9 3
7,20 0.00
7,40 7.93
empl oyee s of Gran d Lodg e
Retir emen t pens ion plan
5,22 9.78
0.00
9,70
0.22
cies
4,47
empl oyee s of agen
Supp leme ntal pens ion 2.85
765.0 0
762.1 5
Lloy d E. Wils on
Gran d Lodge empl oyee s
8
444.2
0.00
2
1,00
5:i5.7
plan
cal
medi
125,4 17.80 145,4 15.00 $1,0 56,5 4 $21,0 53.74
Add ition al auth orize d by
1,17 4.80
Gran d Mast er
80
417
$lil5 1
$J.4!ii,:!!!2.~0
1
inte gral
The accom pany ing note s are anmen
ts.
part of the fina ncia l state

342

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 4

Paga 1

2
GENERAL EXPENSE
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1963 and 196

1962-19 63

1961-19 62

Increas e

343

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

Decreas e

C011pared with previou s years
$ 2,267.3 1
$ 13,108. 38 $ 15,375. 69
Annual commun ication
167.78
3,871.4 8
3,703.7 0
confere nces
Grand Lodge officer s'
9
8,901.9 4 $ 1,854.0
10,756. 03
travel expense
Grand orqanis t and
850.00
850.00
Grand Tiler
Grand Master 's travel,
secreta rial, and
2,000.0 0
10,000. 00
12,000. 00
miscell aneous expense
Investm ent counsel for
6,000.0 0
6,000.0 0
Lodges
Grand Master 's portra it
3,439.8 5
3,439.8 5
expense
1,099.7 5
36,046. 69
37,146. 44
Repres entativ es' mileage
4,541.2 7
23,352. 44
27,893. 71
Printin g
Rituali stic expense :
600°100
600.00
Grand Lecture r
Inspect ors' aprons
1,182.0 5
7
3,131.5
2
1,949~5
and station ery
Ritual conmitt ee and
inspect ors' conference and travel
251.09
13,426. 22
13,175. 13
expense
900.00
900.00
Retirem ent pay
158.10
3,532.0 5
3,690.1 5
veteran buttons
Supplie s and miscal295.73
3,256.4 9
3,552.2 2
laneous
Insuran ce:
Workme n's campen sa3,418.6 0
10,343. 15
6,924.5 5
tion for Lodges
2,086.8 4
2,086.8 4
Fidelit y
741.83
612.31
1,354.1 4
Miscell aneous
.77 $12,81J .52
$10.690
$J.!J.~l2~122 $145,72 6.72

Actual
Compared with budget:
Annual Commun ication
Confere nces
Grand Lodge officer s•
travel expense
Grand Orqanis t and
Grand Tiler
Grand Master 's travel,
secreta rial, and
miscell aneous expense
Investm ent counsel for
Lodges
Repres entativ es'
mileage
Printin g
Rituali stic expense :
Grand Lecture r
Inspect ors' aprons
and station ery
Ritual Commit tee and
inspect ors' conference and travel
expense
Retirem ent pay
Veteran buttons
Supplie s and
miscell aneous
Insuran ce:
Workmen's ccmpen sation fo• L~j9s
Miscell aneous -<Grand Lodge regalia
Additio nal authori zed
by Grand Master

Budget

Over

$ 13,108. 38 $ 16,500. 00
3,703.7 0
5,ooo.o o
10,756. 03

10,000. 00

850.00

850.00

12,000. 00

12,000. 00

Page 2

Under
$ 3,391.6 2
1,296.3 0

$

756.03

6,000.0 0

6,000.0 0

37,146. 44
27,893. 71

37,300. 00
26,000. 00

600.00

600.00

1,949.5 2

3,200.0 0

1,250.4 8

13,175. 13
900.00
3,690.1 5

14,000. 00
900.00
3,700.0 0

824.87

3,552.2 2

3, 7_90.00

147.78

6,924.5 5
1,354.1 4

11,000. 00
500.00
2,100.0 0
153,950 .00

143,603 .97

1,893.7 1

153.56

9.85

854.14

4,075.4 5

2,100.0 0
$3.503. 8§ $13.849 .2,

3,100.0 0
u~~.li12~.2z $J.:i21§~g.gg

The accompa nying notes are an int:eqra l
part of the financi al stateme nts.

SCHEDULE 4

GENERAL EXPENSE
For the ' fiscal year ended June 30, 1963

The accompa nying notes are an integra l
part of the finenci al stateme nts.

314

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 5

Page l

APPROPRIATIONS
For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

1962-19 63

1961-1 962

Increa se

GRAND LODGE, F, & A, M, OF CALIFORNIA
APPROPRIATIONS
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1963

Decrea se

compar ed with previo us year:
$ 565.10
$ 2,927.5 5 $ 3,492.6 5
Activi ties Commi ttee
670.58
l,402.9 8 $
2,073.5 6
Board of Contro l
126.96
305.95
432.91
Charte rs Commi ttee
Columb ia Temple
116.62
1,080.9 0
964.28
commit tee
ance
Observ
tution
consti
5.99
484.58
478.59
comrni ttee
Commi ssion on Masoni c
4,827.2 4
4,827.2 4
Practic es
167.69
234.98
402.67
De Mclay Commi ttee
512.00
11,800 .00
12,312~00
Employ ment Bureau s
4
3,074.6
17,070 .96 13,996 .32
Endowment Board
563.25
592.57
29.32
Histor y Commi ttee .
Conmit tee on Masoni c
269.62
.l, 333.55
1,603.1 7
Educat ion
I.odge Financ ing
536.39
2,602.4 9
3,138.8 8
commi ttee
Memor ial Temple
284.67
l,200.0 0
915.33
campai gn expens e
Commi ttee on Public
358.59
1,047.3 2
688.73
School s
Boards of Relief
Reimbu rsemen t for
463.05
5l3.05
50.00
sojour ners
Commi ttee on
56.99
702.75
645. 76
.comme rcialism
199.00
241.64
42.64
Sojour ners Commi ttee
Univer sity Clubho uses:
800.00
19,100 .00 18,300 .00
Berkel ey
680.00
20,530 .00 19,850 .00
Los Angele s
Grand I.odge legal
1,550.9 4
38.11
1,589.0 5
expens e
86.25
270.72
356.97
Investm ent Coamit tee
Relief Fund - Grand
0
3,200.0
0
1,595.0
4,795.0 0
.
Master
Commi ttee on Masoni c
4,991.6 7
4,991.6 7
cemete ries
Comrni ttee on Masoni c
407.57
991.49
583.92
Inform ation
24.25
942.54
966.79
sion
commis
Library
commi ttee on relatio nship betwee n Temple
504.28
504.28
Associ ations and I.odges
Commi ttee on Old Masoni c Hall,
76
148.
76
148.
-'-'"""
~~.:.:;,""'
Los Angele s
99 $3,525 .11
6 -$21.66
87
523
$83
--·--,
,
$101.6 65,75
al
integr
an
are
notes
anying
accomp
The
part of the financ ial statem ents.

345
SCHEDULE 5

Page 2

Budget
Over
Under
Compar ed with budget :
$ 2,927.5 5 $ 4,ooo.oo
Activi ties Commi ttee
$ 1,072.4 5
Board of Contro l
2,073.5 6
2,000.0 0 $
73.56
Charte rs Commi ttee
432.91
750.00
317.09
Columb ia Temple
Commi ttee
964.28
1,200.0 0
235.72
Consti tution Observ ance
Commi ttee
478.59
750.00
271.41
Commi ssion on Masoni c
Practic es
4,827.2 4
4
4,827.2
De Mclay Conuni ttee
402.67
500.00
97.33
Employ ment Bureau s
12,312 .00
12,312 .00
Endowment Board
17,070 .96
.00
16,000
1,070.9 6
Histor y Commi ttee
29.32
1,200. 00
1,170.6 8
Commi ttee on Masoni c
Educat ion
1,603.1 7
2,000.0 0
396.83
I.odge Financ ing
Commi ttee
8
3,138.8
3,ooo.oo
138.88
Memor ial Temp),e
Campai gn expens e
915.33
2,500.0 0
1,584,6 7
Commi ttee on Public
School s
688.73
1,500.0 0
811.27
Boards of Relief Reimbu rsemen t for
Sojour ners
50.00
50.00
Commi ttee on Commercialism
645.76
750.00
104.24
Sojour ners Commi ttee
42.64
300.00
257.36
Univer sity Clubho uses:
Berkel ey
19,100 .00
19,100 .00
Los Angele s
20,530 .00
20,530 .00
Code Conaaiss"ion
150.00
150.00
e
expens
Grand Lodge legal
1,589.0 5
1,600. 00
10.95
ttee
Commi
ent
Investm
356.97
500.00
143.03
Relief Fund - Grand
Master
4,795.0 0
6,250.0 0
1,455. 00
Cammi ttee on Masoni c
Cemete ries
4,991.6 7
6,460.0 0
1,468.3 3
Commi ttee on Masoni c
Inform ation
583.92
1,000.0 0
416.08
Librpr y Commi ssion
966.79
1,125.0 0
158.21
Commi ttee on Old Masoni c
Bell, I.os Angele s
148.76
1.000.0 0
851.24
7.00 $6.110 .§1 $10,97 1 89
106,52
5,75
101,66
by
ized
Additi onal author
Grand Master
6,450.0 0
$101. 665 75 ..$112 977, oq
The accomp anying notes are an integr al
part of the financ ial statem ents.
C

C

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

346

347

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Contin ued

GRAND LODGE, F.· & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FIN1'NCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1963 and 1962

Reaerv e for "Calif ornia Freema son" (Conti nued):
Approx imately 327 000 · d ' id 1 cc;i~es of fu7ure issues of
"Calif ornia Freem~son"i:e~! 8 ~
scri d and paid for at June 30, 1963
at rates of 15 to 25 cents pe r copy.

s.

1.

Basia of Accoun ting:

basis or
The financ ial statem ents are stated on the caah
not being
lly
genera
ctions
transa
ions,
except
minor
with
accoun ting
t or paymen t of caah.
taken into accoun t prior to the time of the toreceip
the year ended June 30,
Curren t operat ing expens e bills applic able
nomina l amount .
1963 and 1962 and unpaid at those dates were of
2.

Furnit ure and Fixtur es:

ed the
Grand Lodge at the 1957 Coanun ication approv
ings and equipm ent after
capita lizatio n of amount s expend ed for furnishJUne
30, 1963 and 1962
ended
that date. Additi ons during the yearsrespec
tively. Deprec iation of
amount ed to $2,673 .75 and $3,774 .57,
financ ial statem ent•.
this asset is not being taken into accoun t in the
Insuran ce Premiums Advanc ed for Lodges :
sed by Grand
Compre hensive liabil ity insuran ce is purcha
not otherw ise covere d
Lodge on a three-y ear basis to cover the Lodges
d Lodges
covere
the
fran
by such insuran ce. Premiums are collec ted
e of the advanc e at JUne 30,
on an annual premium basis. ~e balanc
ding fiacal
1963 is to be fully billed and collec ted in the succee
year.

3.

9e0rge Washin gton Masoni c Nation al Memor ials
tiona totalin g
During the year ended June 30, 1963,c ontribu
of the George Washin gton
$6,408 .00 were remitte d to the EndowmentinFund
accord ance with the
Masoni c Nation al Memor ial Associ ation, utions
on hand at JUne 30·, 1963
Ordina nces, leaving a balanc e of contrib
Endowment !'Und
of $4,647 .00. This balanc e will be remitte d to the
during the year ended June 30, 1964.

4.

Reserv e for "Calif ornia Freema son":
the establi shmen t of the
~e 1958 Conmu nicatio n author ized
e agains t the time when
Reserv e for "califo rnia Freema son" to provid
of subscr iptions , may
the cash receip ts, due to the prior prepay mentthe
magazi ne. The 1961
not equal the curren t expens es of publish ing
to be transfe rred to the Reserv e
Commu nication approp riated $15,03 4.82which
was the excess of the cash
during the year ended June 30, 1962,
costs for the fiscal year
receip ts from subscr iptions over public ation
8.22 at June 30,196 3.
ended June 30, 1961. The Reserv e amount ed to $35,16

5.

6.

Retirem ent Income Plan:

June 30 1962
During the year ended of
e coats
G d Lod • the ~ast serv~c
ees
for the.pa rticipa ting employamo
ge and its agenci es under
. ran
Plan
the Retirem ent Inc0111e
to $127,89~.00, were paid
pursua nt to the author ization 0 ~~ingd
ran Lodge at its 1961
Coaau nicatio n.

7.

Contin gent Liabil itx:

.
Under date of Octobe r 4:.ii195 5 • th e of ficera
of Califo rnia
Mason ic Memor ial Temple signed
six
with
notes
ssory
Prf
San Franci sco banks for a t t 1
3
00. Under author ization
given at the 1953 Communica~i~n °G $ ,000,0
' rand Lodge became the guaran tor of
~e unpaid b 1
these notes
had been reduce d to
$1,133 ,790 ~t June 30, 196;.a nce on these notes

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

348

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

349

A. ·M. OF CALIFORNIA

EXHillIT A

GRAND LODGE, F.

ANNUA L AUDIT OF RETURN S

&

STATEMENT OF 1963 ANNUAL RETURNS

LYBRAND, Ross BROS. C., MONTGOMERY

Total per
1963 Annual
Returns

Period Wben Received
July 1, 1963
Fiscal
Through
Year Ended
August 29,
30,
June
1963
1963

240,979 $ 1.30 $

313,272.70

$313,272.7 0

17 '799 $ 1.00

17,799.00
331.071.70

17.799.00
331.071. 70

240,979 $ 1.00

240,979.00

240,979.00

175,925.00 $132.725.00
416,904.00 132.725.00

43,200.00
284,179.00

240,979 $ 1.00

240,979.00

240,979.00

6,261 $ 9.00

56,349.00
297,328.00

42,417.00
42.417.00

13,932.00
254,911.00

6,261 $ 1.00

6,261.00

4,713,00

1,548.00

CEATl,.llED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
ONE

BUSH

5TRE:ET

51\N FRANCISCO 4
Y UKON 1•8133

Goonas 6. LYBtilm

0,.,.ICl:S IN THI:

IJllAAU.Ol'TM&-1.D

~AINCIPAL CITll:• OP' THE

OUT'StOll: ffte V-nl:Q •TAHA!

The Mpst Worshipful Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons .of the
State of California ,
California Masonic Memorial .Temple,
. 1111 California street,
San Francisco 8, California
We have made an examinatio n of the ·l963 Annual Returns of
the Constituen t Lodges of GRAND LODGE, F. & .A. M. OF CALIFORNIA,
reporting .on membership and on the payments due Grand Lodge .in
accordance with the provision• of the Constitutio n ·and Ordinances
and the action taken by Grand Lodge at the 1962 annual communicat ion.
our examinatio n was made in ·accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingl y .included such teats of the accounting
records and such .oth·er aucli ting procedures as we considered necessary
in the circumstan ces.
The total payments due Grand Lodge, baaed upon the 1963
annual returns, amount .to $1,051,564 . 70, as shown by the accompanyin g
statement, marked Exhibit A. At the date of this report, this amount
had been collected in full and transferred to the Grand Treasurer,
.with the exception of a balance· of $985.30 arising from adjustment s
and correction s in the returns. Thia balance was in process of
adjustment and collection at the date of this report.

~/!-~Y.~~
Certified Public Accountant s

Grand Lodge support
and activities :
Master Masons
on June 30,
1963
Less, members
of Research
Lodges
Members other
than of
Research
Lodges
Less, members
for whom per
capita waived
(including
dues remitted)
Balance of
members
Degrees conferred in year
ended June 30,
1963
Masonic Homes of
California :
Balance of
members on
June 30, 1963
as above
Contributio ns
of initiates
and affiliates
California Masonic
Memorial Temple:
Balance of
members on
June 30, 1963
as above
Contributio ns
of initiates
George Washington
Masonic National
Memorial:
Contributio ns
of initiates
Total

August 29, 1963

244,798
304

244,494

3,515

7,037 $25.00

$J.. 0 :t. l.~~.zg $J.Z21ll~~.szg $fl2.1.1Z'221Z'2

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
LYBRAND. Ross BRos.c.. MONTOOMERY
CERTl,.IED .P U•LIC ACCOUNTANTS
ONE

BUSH

351

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

350

STREET

SAN F ..... NCl•co 4
YUkON 1-•.H~

Exhibit D

Property FUnd

Exhibit E

Reserves for special purposes

Exhibit F

Endowment and trust funds

Exhibit G

Permanent Endowment FUnd

Exhibit H

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund

2Xhibit I

George F. Brigham and Laura E.
Brigham Scholarship Fund

Exhibit J

George M. and Florence G. Perine
Endowment Fund

Exhibit J(

Harriet c. lfadlei9h Endowment
Annuity Fund

Exhibit L

c. N. Flint Trust Fund

E>l}libit M

Leonard Gross Memorial Fund

Exhibit N

Students' Loan and Scholarship
Fund

Bichibit O

Residents' accounts

Schedule 1

Investments
(consolidate d schedule of
investments, other than
investments of the
Permanent Endowment Fund)

Schedule 2.-

Investments - Permanent Endowment
Fund of .Masonic Homes of
california

, 0,.,.ICltS IN THC

l'llUNClML CITICS or TMC

I• _..,,. OI' TMI WOl'li.O

UNITilO STATl:S

OllNIOll TMC ..,...no •T•ft•

To the Trustees of Masonic
Homes of California,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco, California 94108.
We have examined the statement of asseta, liabilities,
reservea, and fund balancea of MASONIC HOMES OF CALXFORNIA, a
California nonprofit corporation, as of June 30, 1963 and 1962,
and the related statement of General Fund revenue received and
expense disbursed for the years then ended. our examination was
made in accordance with generally ·accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such testa of the accounting recorda and such
other auditing. procedures as we considered necessary in the circuastancea.
In our opinion, the accoapanying atatements present
fairly the assets, liabilities, reserves, and fund balances of
Masonic Homes of California at JUne 30, 1963 and .1962, arising
pri11111rily fraa cash transactions , and the revenue received and
expenae disbursed by it and the changes in . reserves and in .fund
balances during the years then ended, on a consistent baais.
we attach the following:

Schedule 3 -

Reserves for special .purposes

Sc~edule 4 -

Details of expense

Schedule · s -

Details of property additions

'l'Vo Pages

Notes to financial atatements

Exhibit A - ·statement of assets, liabilities,
reserves, and fund balances
Bxhibi t B

Statement of General Fund revenue
received and expense disbursed

Exhibit c

General · Fund

~) ..e._ ll-.'I'-~
Certified Public Accountants

A~at

19, 1963

,

'\"

352

EXHIBIT A

·MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

$

Investments at . book value,
Schedule 1 (Note 2):
Bonds (approximate market value
$861,294 and $625,702)
Preferred stock (approximate value
$75,375 and $451,463)
common stock (approximate market
value $1,961,630 and $1,034,343)
Total (approximate market value
$2,898,299 and $2,111,508)
Notes receivable (Note 3)
Other assets (Note 4)1
Life insurance policies assigned
by residents of Decoto Home
Real estate and other assets
assigned by residents of Decoto
Home, or received by gift or
bequest
Total assets - General Fund
and Reserves
Property Fund - land, buildings, and
equipment, Exhibit D (Note 5)
Endowment and trust funds - principally
cash and securities, Exhibit P
LIABILITIES, RESERVES,
AND FUND BALANCES:
General Fund and Reserves:
Accrued payroll taxes and expense
contributions due pension trust
Reserves for special purposes,
Exhibit E (Note 6)
General Fund balance, Exhibit c
Property Fund balance, Exhibit D
Endowment and trust fund balances,
Exhibit F

1 9 6 2

.1 9 6 3

580,066.19
600,000.00
1,180,066.19

$

648,030.21
600,000.00
1,248,030.21

920,080.94

693,484.67

95,478.46

499,075.37

1,611,552.10

1,021,032.95

2,627,111.50
215,182.43

2,213,592.99
159,376.20

5,536.37

5,250.66

194.16
S,730.53

875.74
6,126.40

4,028,090.65

3,627,125.80

5,497,739.33

5,067,574.89

14,038,009.96
$23,563,839.94

12,931,443.46
$21,626,144.15

$

7,983.80
20,173.00
3,399,315.46
600,618.39
4, 028, 090.65
5,497,739.33

14,038,009.96
$23,563,839.94
The acc0111~nyiqg notes are an integral
part ot th& tinancial statements.

EXHIBIT B

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA
STATEMENT OF GENERAL FUND REVENUE RECEIVED
AND EXPENSE DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, RESERVES, AND FUND BALANCES
June 30, 1963 and . 1962
A S S E T S:
General Fund and Reserves:
cash:
On hand and in .banks
Time certificates of deposit

353

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2,896,852.27
730,273.53
3,627,125.80
5,067,574.89
12,931,443.46
$21,626,144.15

1961-1962

1962-1963
Revenue received from:
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., per annual
returns:
Membership at $1 per capita
Contributions of initiates and
affiliates at $25 each

$

Less, adjustments for previous years
Endowment and trust funds income:
Permanent Endowment Fund, Exhibit G
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund,
Exhibit H
Leonard Gross Mememorial Fund,
Exhibit M
Investment income:
Interest on:
Bank savings account
Time certificate of deposit
Notes receivable
Bonds
Dividends on stocks
Payments through LOages for:
Decoto residents
Covina residents
Other:
Real estate income
Bequest
Miscellaneous
Tota:! revenue
Expense, Schedule 4:
Operation of Masonic Homes:
Decoto Home
Covina Home
Relief outside of Masonic Homes
Total expense of homes and
relief
Administrative and general
Retirement income plan (Note 7)
Total expense
Excess of expense over
revenue, Exhibit c

$

240,791.00

$

239,931.00

177,240.00
418, 031.00
1,725.00
416,306.00

182,950.00
422,881.00
1,100.00
421,781.00

474,059.61

468,302.57

3,010.39

2,866.52

34.72
477,104.72

34.04
471,203.13

17,316.69
24,027.78
13,364.38
23,838.05
69,008.25
147,555.15

14, 026 .as
8,576.16
33,401. 74
65,815.74
121,820.49

24,562 .00
23,454.92
48,0l6.92

26,420.00
22 ,089.83
48,509.83

2,231.40
2,790.23
543.16
5,564.79
1,094,547.58

1,300.00

1,064,814.45

1,022,280.47
254,268.19
17,695.50

907,009.52
229,136.82
18,855.01

1,294,244.16
154,534.46
40,307.33
1,489,085.95

1,155,001.35
138,019.21
33,553.38
1,326,573.94

394,538.37

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

200.00

l,soo.oo

$

261,759.49

354

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE
EXHIBIT

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

C

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

355
EXHIBIT D

PROPERTY FUND
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

GENERAL FUND

For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

Balance, beginning of year
Add, transfers from .reserves
for special purposes:
From Covina Special Reserve for
the: following ·· Covina Home
operating expenses of the
current year:
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
From · Decoto Special Reserve for
Grand Lodge trips to Decato
during 1961 and 1962 annual
conaunicatio ns
From Unappropria ted Reserve
in . an amount equivalent
to the pensions assigned
by·resident s of the Decato
Home in the current year
Net gain or (loss) on sale of
securities

June 30, 1963 and 1962

1962-1963

1961-1962

$730,273.53

$566,654.28

16,534.95
27,982.33

19,132.48
24,412.17

6,209.80

234,033.92

211,332.86

~19,877.77)

995,156.76

170,501.23
992,033.02

Less, excess of expense over
revenue for the year, Exhibit B

394,538.37

261,759.49

Balance, end of year,
Exhibit A

$600,618.39

$730,273.53

l 9 6 3

l 9 6 2

Land, buildings, and equipment
(Note 5):
Decato Home
COvina Home
San Francisco office

$4,510,595.9 5
982,974.62
4,168.76

$4,085,976.2 2
977,429.91
4,168.76

Total assets

$5 , 497,739.33

$5,067,574.8 9

$5,067 ,57t!.89

$5,043,032.8 3

6 , 097 . 20
22,072.54
396,449.99

4,739.93
9, 711.00

A S SE T S1

FUND BALANCE:
Balance, beginning of year
Additions (those for latest year
are detailed in Schedule 5) to:
Decato Home, from:
Reserve for Additions and
Replacement s
Decato Special Reserve
Major Projects Reserve
c. N. Flint Trust Fund
Covina Home , from:
Reserve for. Additions and
Replacement s
Covina Special Reserve
Total additions
Balance, end of year

The accompanyin g notes are an .integral

part of the financial statements.

424,619.73

4,014.16
18,465.09

522.46
5,022.25
5,544.71
430,164.44

1,790.79
4,286.18
6,076.97
24,542.06

$5,497,739.3 3

$5,067,574.8 9

The accampanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
EXHIBIT E

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
June 30, 1963 and 1962
Schedule 3,
Paqe
Reserve for Additions and
Replacemen ts
Covina Special Reserve
Decoto Special .Reserve
Funeral .Reserve
Entertainm ent Reserve
Major Projects Reserve
Unappropri ated Reserve
Total, Exhibit A

1

l 9 6 2

491,585.62

$

768,913.91

2

1,155,589.8 3

895,594.96

3

647,120.02

247,265.27

4

93,000.00

94,000.00

4

5,000.00

5,ooo.oo

5

3,635.01

6

1,003,384.9 8

886,078.13

$3,399,315 .46

$2,896,852 .27

EXHIBIT F

ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
June 30, 1963 and 1962
l 9 6 3

l 9 6 2

Permanent Endowment Fund of the Masonic
$13,487,55 6.09 $12,406,10 1.91
Home.a of California , Exhibit G
77 ,831.96
78,144.56
John.and Lena Luckenbach Fund, Exhibit H
George F. Brigham and Laura E. Brigham
37,296.09
42,395.86
Scholarship Fund, Exhibit I
George M. and Florence G. Perine Endowment
20, 379 .oo
20,379.00
Fund, Exhibit J
Harriet c. Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund,
12,366.67
11,415.12
Exhibit K
317,249.91
323,997.56
c. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhibit L
925.00
925.00
Leonard Gross Memorial Fund, Exhibit M
Students' Loan and Scholarshi p Fund,
13,310.09
17,227.85
Exhibit N
45,982.83
55,968.92
Residents' Accounts, Exhibit O
'!otal, Exhibit·A

EXHIBIT G

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

l 9 6 3

$

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

357

$14,038,00 9.96 $12,931,44 3.46

The principal of this fund is restricted· by ordinances of Grand Lodge
so that no part of the principal shall ever be expended for any purpose,
and the income therefrom shall be used only for the maintenanc e and
general operation of the Masonic Homes.
S'!A'I·EMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1963 and 1962
l 9 6 2
l 9 6 3
A S SE T S:
523,767.19
.24
,839
072
l,
$
$
accounts
bank
savings
cash.in
investment s (at book value), Schedule 2:
Bonds (approxima te market value
3,213,270.3 6
4, 747, 790.61
$4,534,631 and $2,963,949 )
preferred stock (approxima te market
1,974, 339. 08
416,699.47
value $392,450 and $1,864,485 )
common stock (approxima te market
6,679,679.6 2
7,210,283.8 0
value $8,322,498 and $6,382,383 )
Total securities (approxima te
market value $13,249,579
11,867,289 .06
12,374, 773.88
and $11,210,81 7)
15,030.66
39,925.97
Notes receivable (Note 3)
Other assets (Note 4):
.6.00
6.00
Life insurance policies
11.00
11.00
Real estate and oil lease
$13 1 487 1 556.09 $12 ,406,101.91
Total assets
FUND BALANCE:
$12,406,10 1.91 $11, 355, 093 .95
Balance, beginning of year
Increase in fund:
659,278.71
697 ,903.56
contributio ns made through Lodges
Progress payments on pledges 43,337.91
48,441.30
unallocated
63,612.17
124,368.70
Bequests
Net gain on sale of securities and
272 ,198.34
192,946.07
real estate
contributio ns from organizatio ns
2,192.37
4,798.26
and i!ldividual s
10,388.46
12,996.29
Memorials
Balance 1 end of year,
$13,487,55 6.09 $12,406,10 1.91
Exhibit F
STATEMEN'I OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962
1962-1963

The accompanyi ng notes are an integral
Part of the financial statements .

$ 11,501.32
Interest on bank accounts
118,582.81
Interest on bonds
341,661.14
Dividends on stocks
2,266.21
Interest on notes receivable
48.13
Net income from real estate
General
to
transferred
Revenue
$474,059.6 1
Fund income, Exhibit B
'l'he accompanyin~ notes are an integral
part of-the financial statements .

· 1961-1962
$ 20,323.66
140,694.23
305, 521. 09
1,068.42
695.17
$468,302.57

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

358

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT H

MASON!.:' HOMES OF CALIFCRN.IA

359
EXHIBIT I

GEORGE F. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUND

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND

•
b
t of Lena Luckenbach is restricted
The principal o£ th~si~~n~, ~ ~:sintact and the income, used
only for
by the terms of the w
fo rphans or the aged in Masonic Homes of
the benefit cf the care o o
southern California .
S!ATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1963 and 1962

The principal of this fund, a bequest of Laura E. Brigham, is held
in trust as a scholarshi p fund for the benefit of the Covina Home
residents, $25,000 of which may be loaned for that purpose, and the
income is restricted and may be used only for providing scholarshi ps.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1963 and 1962

A S S E T S:

1 9 6 3

1 9 6 2

cash in savings bank accounts

$'1,049.06

$ 2,293.90

Investment s (at book value}, Schedule l:
Bonds (approxima te market value $27,981
and $22,200)
Preferred stock (approxima te market
value $18,500)
canmon stock (approxima te market value
$47,672 and ~26,552}
Total securities (approxima te
market value $75,653 and
$67,252}
Total assets

29,752.88

24,710.89
18,627.46

47,342.62

32,199.71

77 ,095.50

75,538:06

$78,144.56

$77,831.96

$77,831.96

$75,132.41

312.60

2,699.55

$78,144.56

$77,831.96

1961-1962

74.00
962. 70
i.973.69

$ .175.40
1,154.93
1,536.19

$3,010 •.39

$2,866.52

$

The acCQlllPallying notes are an.int119ra l
part of the financial statements .

Balance, beginning of year

$ 1,904.99

22,566.73

1 9 6 2
620~01

$

24,628.04
1,071.39

17 ,924.14

10,976.65

40,490.87

36,676.08

$42,395.86

$37,296 .• 09

$37,296.09

$37,296.09

Net gain on sale of securities

.

1962-1963

l 9 6 3

FUND BALANCE:

Balance, end of year, Exhibit F

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

:Interest on bank account
:Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Revenue transferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit B

Investment s (at book value}, Schedule 1:
Bonds (approxima te market value
$21,686 and $22,358)
Preferred stock (approxima te market
value $2,703)
common stock (approxima te market
value $20,475 and $15,044)
Total securities (approxima te
market value $42,161 and
$40,105)
Total assets

Gain on sale of securities
Balance, end of year, BXhibit F

S SE T S:

cash in savings bank account

FUND BALANCE:

Balance. beqinni~g of year

A

5 1 099. 77
$42,395.86

$37,296.09

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended Jurie 30, 1963 and 1962

Interest on bank account
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Revenue transferre d to students'
Loan and Scholarshi p Fund,
Exhibit H

1962-1963

1961-1962

$

$

65.09
739.13
700.00

$1 1 504.22

Th• acccmipanyi ng notes are an inteqral
part of the financial statements .

24.66
683.53
711.50

$1,419.69

360

EXHIBIT- J

MASONIC . HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT X

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
HARRIET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT
ANNUITY FUND

GEORGE . M, AND FLORENCE G, PERINE
ENDOWMENT FUND

The principal of this fund, a bequest of Florertce G. Perine, . is
eubject to the provision included in the will· of the testator, that
the principal of . the fund shall be kept intact and the income thereof
only shall be used for the benefit of the Decoto Home.

.

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS "AND FUND ,BALANCE

June 30, . 1963 and 1962

Thi• fund, in the original amount of $30,000, is subject to a contract
with the donor providing for the payment of certain·.. life annuities .out
of the principal and income thereof. Under the terms of the contract
only principal of the fund expended in payment of the annuities is to
be later restored out of income to the fund when . the annuities no
longer absorb the entire income. After restoration of the principal
to the original sum of $30,000, the income from .the fund is to be used
for the benefit of the residents. of the Covina Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

A S SE T S:

1 9 6 ·3

1.9 6 ·. 2

June 30, 1963 and 1962

cash in savings bank account

$ l",269 .62

$ :1,269.62

A S SET S:
cash . in savings bank account
Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bonds (approximate market value $4,600
and $4,506)
C011U11on stock (approximate market value
$7,900 and $3,975)
Total securities (approximate
market value $12,500 and $8,481)

Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bond• (approximate market value $9,044 - and
··$8,925)
ec->n stock (-approximate market value
$8·;450 and $6,925)
Total securities (approximate
market value $17,494 and
$15,850)
Total assets

10,000.00

10,000.00

9,109.38

9,109.38

19 ,109.38

19,109.38

$20,379.00

$20,379.00

Total assets ·

$20,379.00

$20,379.00

Balance, beginning of year
Gain on sale of co11UDon stock

::n'ATEMENT · OF REVENUE RECEIVED

For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

Interest on bank ·account
: Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Revenue transferred to Decoto
Special Reserve, . page 3 of
Schedule 3

: 1 9 6·3
(232.01)

1 9 6 2
$ 3,603.54

5,000.00

5,000.00

6,647.13

3,763.13

11,647.13

8 1 763.13

$11,415.12

$12,366.67

$12,366.67

FUND BALANCE:

FUND BALANCE:

· Balance, end of year, Exhibit F
(No change took ·place in . this fund
.balance during. the years ended
.June 30, 1963 and 1962)

$

1962-1963

1961-1962

$ 42.48
350.00
257.50

$ 76.63
350.00
~

Leas, excess of annuities over revenue

12,366.67
951.55

$12,425.37
786.87
13,212.24
845.57

Balan_ce, end of year, Exhibit F

$11,415.12

$12,366.67

STATEMENT OF A.'fNUl'IIES PAID AND REVENUE RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

Annuities paid as .required by the agreemmit
Less, revenue:
Interest on bank accounts
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Excess of annuities over revenue

The accom_panyin9 notes ·are an integral
.part .of-the financial statemente.

1962-1963
$1,350.00

1961-1962
$1,350.00

10.95
125.00
262.50
398.45

145.43
125.00
234.00
504.43

$

951.55

The accompanying notes are an. integral
.part of the financial statements.

$

845.57

362

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXHIBIT L

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1963 and 1962
9 6 3
8,103.70

l

$

$

l 9 6 2
2,309.39

Balance, end of year, Exhibit P

ASSETS

1 9 6 3

50,167.00

21,939.60

186,771.99

98,695.01

78,001.53

315,893.86

314,940.52

$323,997.56

$317,249.91

FUND BALANCE:

Balance, end of year, Exhibit F
(No chanqe took place in this fund
durinq the years ended June 30,
1963 and 1962)

STATEMENT OF REVENUE RECEIVED

For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962
$317,249.91

$321,354.83

6, 74-7 .65

(90. 76)

1962-1963 1961-1962
(4,014.16)
$323,997.56

$317,249.91

Interest on bank account
Revenue transferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit B

STATF.ME.NT OF REVENUE RECEIVED

For the years ended June 30, . 1963 and 1962

Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bank account
Revenue transferred to Decato
Special Reserve, . page 3 of
Schedule 3

l 9 6 2

cash in savinqs bank .account
195,259.25

FUND BALANCE:

Balance, beginninq of year
Net qain or (loss) on sale of
securities
Purchase of equipment and furnitUJ;'e
for Decato Home hospital

The principal of this fund arises from qifts made as a memorial to
Leanard Gross.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1963 and 1962

Total assets

EXHIBIT M

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
LEONARD GROSS MEMORIAL FUNJ?

The principal of this fund consists of qifts from c. N. Flint. The
income from the fund has been desiqnated by the trustees ·for the use
of the Decoto Home.

A S SET S:
Cash in savings bank account
Investments (at book value), Schedule 1:
Bonds (approximate market .value
$190,595 and $45,237)
Preferred stock (a_pproximate market
value $21,000 and $180,512)
common stock (approximate market
value $150,607 and $97,821)
Total securities (approxin!ate
market value $362,202 and
$323,570)

363

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1962-1963
$ 1,980.35
10,883.90
278.63

1961-1962
$ 2,618.ll
11,152.82
117.52

$13,142.88

$1J.888.45

The accompanyinq notes·are an . integral
part of the financial statements.

The accompanyinq notes.are an integral
part of the financial statements.

364

PROCE EDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA
EXHIB IT N

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFO RNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFO RNIA

STUDEN TS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

365
EXHIB IT 0

RESIDE NTS' ACCOUNTS

f this fund arises from qifts. The income
the fun~
The princi pal o the truste es
for use for studen t loan and ofschola
is desiqn ated by
rship
purpo ses.

This fund is compo sed of amoun ts held in trust
for the reside nts of
the Covina and Decoto Homes.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1963 and 1962

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

June 30, 1963 and 1962

A S SE T S:

1 9 6 3

1 9 6 2

cash in savinq s bank accoun t

$ 2,220. 41

$ . 3,466. 90

Inve1? tments (at book value ), Sched ule 1:
conunon stock (appro ximate marke t
value $16,62 8 and $8,937 )

15,007 .44

9,843. 19

$17.22 7.85

$13,31 0.09

$13,31 0.oc)

$10 , 900.22

A S SE T S:

Total assets
FUND BALANCE:

:Balan ce, beginn ing of year
Add, net revenu e
Balanc e, end of year, Exhib it F

3,917. 76

2,409. 87

$17,22 7.85

$13,31 0.09

cash in conune rcial bank accou nts
cash in saving s bank accou nt
Invest ments (at book value ), Sched ule 1:
Bonds (appro ximate marke t value $9,788 )
Prefer red stock (appro ximate marke t
value $18,66 2)
ColNnon stock (appro ximate marke t value
$25,81 4 and $14,62 2)
Total secur ities (appro ximate
marke t value $35,60 2 and
$33,28 4)
Total assets

1 9 6 3

1 9 6 2

$12,115.J.>O

$ 6,184. 38

12,487 .15
24,602 .65

5 1 784.08
11,968 .46

9,874. 80
18,061 .93
21,491 .47

15,952 .44

31,366 .27

34,014 .37

$55,96 8.92

$45,98 2.83

$45,98 2.83
9,986. 09

$43,22 1.59
2, 761.24

$55,96 8.92

$45,98 2.83

FUND BALANCE:
STATEMENT OF NET RE'JENUE

Resid ents' accou nts:
Balanc e, beqinn inq of year
Net additi ons

For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962
1962-1 963

Revenu e receiv ed from invest ments :
Intere st on bank accoun t
Divide nds on stocks
George F. Brigha m and Laura c .. B7iqha m
schola rship Fund incom e, Exhib it I
Gifts frOlll indivi duals and orqan izatio ns
Total revenu e receiv ed
Loans for educa tional purpo ses
Net revenu e

$

94.01
659.00
753.01

1961-1 962
$

100.02
474.00
574.02

1,504. 22
4,345. 53
6,602. 76
2,685. 00

1,419. 69
416.16
2,409. 87

$3,917 . 76

$2,409 .87

The accom panyin g notes are an .integ ral
part of the financ ial statem ents.

Balanp e, end of year, Exhibi ,t. . F

STATEMENl' OF REVENUB RECEIV
For the years ended June 30, 1963· ED
and 1962

Intere st on bank accou nt
Divide nds on stocks
Gain on sale of preferred stock
Purcha sed intere st on bonds
Revenu e transf erred to Decoto
Speci al Reserv e, page 3 of
schedu le 3

1962-1 963

1961-1 962

$ 394 .04
1,843 .60
1,428. 45
(113.7 5)

$ · 163.82
1,680 .20

$3,552 .34

$1,844 .02

The accom panyin g notes are an .integ ral
part of the financ ial statem ents.

GRAND LODGE OP CAL IFOR NIA

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

366

IA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORN

SCHEDULE. J.
.

IA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORN

Page 1

stme nta,o ther than
(Con solid ated sche dule of inve
Endowment Fund )
nent
Pe~a
the·
of
nts
stme
inve
BONDS (Con tinue d)

stme nts, othe r than
Cons olida ted sche dule of inve t Endowment · Fund )
( inve stme nts of the Perm anen
~

$ 25,0 00

75,0 00
25,0 00
2,30 0
15,0 00
20,0 00
50,0 00
5,00 0
5,00 0
12,0 00
27,0 00
5,00 0
5,00 0
30,0 00
20,0 00
11,0 00
10,0 00
10,0 00
30,0 00
30,0 00
10,0 00
50,0 00
15,0 00
15,0 00
10,0 00

Book Valu e

Face Valu e

74,4 40.4 9
24,8 13.4 9-F
2,30 0.69
15,0 35.7 9
20,0 47.7 8-F
45,1 89.2 9
4,82 2.23
4,34 3.75
12,0 82.4 0-B
27,1 91.7 5
5,03 5.75 -L
5,04 7.66 -F
30,1 33.8 0-F
20,0 89.2 0
11,3 75.6 3

Book · Valu e
Forw ard

26,8 05.7 9

$
,· 1979
Cerr o de Pasc o corp orat ion, 5.5"
R. R.
Chic ago, Burl ingto n & Quin cy
Equi pmen t Trus t, 3-7/~, 1970
R. R.
Chic ago, Burl ingto n & Quin cy1970
Equi pmen t Trus t, 3-7/8 %,
%, 1983
Con tinen tal Baki ng co., 4-3/8
1979
Copp erwe ld Stee l comp any, 5%, 1979
5%,
Copp erwe ld Stee l comp any, 197 7
Doug las Airc raft co., 4%,
1966
4:125 %, 1977
Dres ser Indu strie s, ding
co.• 6-1/2 %,
810 Sout h Spri ng Buil
Fede ral Land Banl ts, 4%, 1968
Fede ral Land Bank s, 4%, 1968 1978
Gran d Unio n comp any, 4.125 %,
%, 1~78
Gran d unio n comp any, 4.125
pmen t
Grea t Nort hern Railw ay ca. Equi
Trus t No. 2, 4%, 1968
pmen t
Grea t Nort hern Railw ay Co. Equi
.
Trus t No. 2, 4%, 1968
Inte rnat iona l Mine ral & Che111ical
corp orat ion, 3.65% , 1977
Equi paen t
Lou isvil le and Nash ville R. R.
·Trus t Seri es EE, 4%, 1971
Equi paen t
Lou isvii le and Nash ville R. R.
Trus t Seri es EE, 4%, 1971pmen t Trus t,
Norf olk' and West ern Ry. Equi
Seri es J, 4%, 1970
t Trus t,
Norf olk and West ern Ry. Equi pmen
Seri es I, 3-7/8 %, 1972
t Trus t,
Norf olk llJld Nast ern Ry. Equi pmen
Seri es I, 3-7/8 %, .1972
t Trus t,
pmen
Norf olk·l lJld Wes tern Ry. Equi
seri es J, 4%, 1970
t Trus t,
Seab oard Air Line R. R. Equi pmen
seri es w, 4%, 1971
t Trus t,
Seab oard Air Line R. R. Equi pmen
Seri es w, 4%, 1971
t Trus t
Sout hern Paci fic R. R. Equi pnen
No. 19, 3-7/8 %, 1971

Forw ard

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

iNVESTMENTS
June 30, . 1963

Face Valu e

367

$ 30,0 00

10,0 00
10,5 00
9,00 0
5,00 0
3,00 0
25,0 00
5,50 0
6,50 0
320, 000
6,00 0
191, 000
12,0 00
15,0 00
10,0 00
12,7 00
5,00 0
10,0 00

10,0 00.0 0

$

any Equi pmen t Trus t,
Sout hern Ry. Comp1970
Seri es zz, 4%,
t Trus t,
Sout hern Ry. Company Equi pmen
Seri es ZZ, 4%, 1970
2-1/2 %, 1970 -65
u: s. Trea sury bond s,s, 2-1/2
%, 1970 -65
u. S. Trea sury bonds,
2-1/2 %, 1970 -65
u. s. Trea sury bond s, 2-1/2
%, 1971 -66
u. s. Trea sury bonds, 2-1/2 %,
1972 -67
u. s. Trea sury bond s,
1972 -67
%,
2-1/2
u. s. Trea sury bond s, 2-1/2
%, 1972 -67
U. s. Trea sury bond
1972 -67
U. s. Trea sury bond s, 2-1/2 %,
bond s, 3-1/4 %, 1983 -78
u. s. Trea sury bond
1990
s, 3-1/2 %,
u. s. Trea sury
3-1/2 %, 1990
u. s. Trea sury bond s,
s, 3-1/2 %, 1990
u. s. Trea sury bonds,
u. s. Trea sury bond 3-1/2 %, 1998
2008
Virg inillJ l Railw ay Colllpany, 6%, 1975
Whe eling Stee l corp ., 3-3/4 %, 1975
Whe eling Stee l Corp ., 3-3/4 %,
One bond - nom inal valu e

.10,0 00.0 0-F

Tota l bond s

30,0 00.0 0-F

PREFERRED STOCK

508, 043. 67
30,0 00.0 0
10,0'QO.OO-p
10,4 84.3 3-B
9,01 5.67 -F
5,00 0.00 -w
2,95 4.90
24,5 68.2 7-F
5,42 8.72
6,30 5.11
314, 522. 71
5,93 0.40
194, 849. 58
11,5 36.5 3-F
14,4 20.9 5-L
10, 000. 00-P
14,0 31.3 1
5,14 5.27 -F
10,2 96.1 8-L

i.oo

1,19 2,53 4.60

29,6 24.2 4
9,87 4.80 -R
50,0 00.0 0
14,9 50.7 8
14,9 50.7 8-F
9,88 7.58
$

508, 043. 67

100
100
400
100
441
600
200
700

Flin tkot e CampllJly, 4.5%
4.125 %
Kais er Alum inum and Chem ical,
co., 4%
Okla homa Gas and Elec tric 4%
<>w ens- Illin ois Glas s co.,
any, 5%
Paci fic Gas and Elec tric Camp
Perm anen te Ceme nt . CCmpany, 5%
any, 5%
Perm anen te Ceme nt. Camp5%
Sche ring Corp orati on,
Tota l preferre d stoc k

9,34 8.90
10,3 26.7 8
7,88 7.08
11,4 50.6 0-F
13,0 45.8 8
31,4 42.5 8
10,4 89.0 0-F
23,4 27.2 4
$

117, 418. 06

SCHEDULE l
Page 3·

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

(Co~solidated schedule of investme nts, other than

investme nts of the Permanen t Endowment Fund)

COMMON STOa<

COMMON STOQ{ (Continu ed)
Book Value

shares

231
100
300
300
100
160
200
100
200
400
100
100
148
132
288
102
30
660
115
100
100
100
100
132
11,400
l,225
100
133
300
777
200
100

Alleghen y Power system, Inc.
Allied Chemical Corp.
Aluminum Company of America
Aluminum Company of America
American Cyanamid Company
1'11lerican Natural Gae co.
American Telephon e and Telegrap h
Associa tes Investme nt Company
Atchison , Topeka & Santa Fe Railway
Company
Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.
Bethlehe m Steel corporat ion
central and South West corporat ion
Champion Papers, Inc.
C.I.T. Financia l Corporat ion
Clevelan d Electric Illumina ting Company
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
Columbia Gas System, Inc.
connnerc ial Credit Company
commerc ial credit company
Commerc ial Credit Company
Consolid ated Edison Company of
New York, Inc.
Consolid ated Natural Gas Company
consumer s Power Company
Corona Foothill Lemon Co.
Covina Irrigati ng Co.
crown Zellerba ch corparat ion
Dow Chemical Company
Duquesne Light company
Duquesne Light Company
Duquesne Light Company
Eastman I<odak Company
El Paso Natural Gas Company
Fairview Extensio n Mining Company
Fireman 's Fund Insuranc e company
First National Bank of Hawaii
General Electric Company
General Foods corporat ion
General Motors Corporat ion
General Motors Corporat ion
General Motors Corporat ion
Forward

SOIEDULE 1
Paga 4

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

(Consoli dated schedule of investme nts, other than
investme nts of the Permanen t Endowment Fund)

100
100
400
100
250
163
43
700
400

369

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

368

5,044.00
6,370.33
· 29,812.3 8
7,435.64 -L
12,555.6 8
6,071.75
4,525.75
39,812.5 0

$

9,988.32
11,827.2 5
3,987.48
.11,512.5 0
9,630.64
4,077.29 -B

·s,oso.oo

6,017.76
2,657.13 -R
5,640.87 -F
15,446.4 3
3,989.35 -B
3,~89.75-F

11,574.1 8
7,045.50
10,692.0 0
30,600.0 0
32.50
33,604.8 6
9,105.04
2,884.00 -R
2,884.00 -S
2,884.00 -W
11,333.0 7
·3,568.32
57.00
42,866.5 0
6,082.54 -F
. 8,797.38
.24,300.0 0
38,166.4 6
8, 731.26-R
.4,880.69 -S
$

465,532. 10

~

Book Value
Forward

337
1,500
300
304
102
20

so

100
67
100
400
144
1,041
104
104
200
100
200
100
100
100
100
100
200
1,300
100
130
408
6
300
209
100
189
500
100
200
300
100
100
100

$

General Telephon e and Electron ics Corp.
General Tire and Rubber compiUly
B. F. Goodrich Company
Goodyear Tire and Rubber co.
Goodyear Tire and Rubber co.
Gulf Oil Corporat ion
Hawaiian Telephon e Company
Hercules Powder Company
Honolulu construc tion & Draying co., Ltd.
Ingersol l-Rand co.
Inland Steel Co.
Insuranc e ·Company of North America
Internat ional Paper company
Internat ional Paper company
Intersta te Power Co.
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corp.
Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical corp.
Kenneco tt Copper Corp.
Kenneco tt Copper Corp.
Libbey-O Wens-For d Glass co.
Liggett and Myers Tobacco Co.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco co.
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas Company
Lone Star Gas company
Lone Star Gas Company
Long Island Lighting eo.
Marathon Oil Company
Merck and co., Inc.
Minneap olis-Hon eywell Regulato r
Monsanto Chemical co.
National Lead co.
N~ York State Electric & Gas Corporat ion
Niagara Mohawk Power corporat ion
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporat ion
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Ohio Edison Company
Forward

465,532. 10
7,354.38
28,676.4 6
14,142.0 6
13,938.5 6
4,604.31 -F
692.50
1,131.25
4,265.13
2,261.25
8,747.70
18,520.0 1
10,998.0 0
32,585.6 2
3,610.82 -L
2,884.81
8,932.25
4,441.00 -P
16,873.7 7
8,384.84 -F
5,483.44
11,137.5 9
9,000.20 -L
2,280.25 -S
4,560.25 -L
30,180.3 5
2,280.25 -B
2,851.88
15,933.6 4
383.12
44,611.4 5
11,398.8.8
8,910.56
8,363.25
24,595.6 3
4,881.94 -F
7,577.25 -B
12,944.0 7-F
·3,787.75 -L
4,668.38 -P
3,763.13 -w

.$

878,210. 08

371

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

370

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCliEDULE 1
Page 5

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 1
Page 6

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

. INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

(Conso lidated schedul e of investm ents, other than
. investm ents of the Perman ent Endowm ent:Fund )

(Conso lidated schedul e of investm ents, other than
investm ents of the Perman ent Endowm ent:Fund )

.-COMMON STOCK . .(contin ued)

COMMON STOCK (contin ued)

Book Value

Book:V alue
Forward
owens- Illinois Glass company
Pacific Gas and Electri c Company
Parke, Davis & Co.
J. c. Penney co.
J. c. Penney co.
Pennsy lvania Power and Light . company
Philade lphia Electri c Company
Phillip s Petrole um company
Pittsbu rgh Plate Glass company
104
Pittsbu rgh Plate·G lass Company
105
Procter & Gamble Company
300
Public service company of Indiana
400
Ramona savings and Loan Associ ation
21
River Farms Co. of califor nia
1,629
28-1/2 san Dimas water co.
santa Rosa savings and Loan . Associa tion
1,000
scherin g Corp.
100
sears Roebuck & co.
153
Securit y Fir.st Nationa l Bank
350
Securit y First.N ational Bank
1,703
Shell Oil COmpany
276
smith Kline and French Labs
100
soeony Mobil Oil company , . Inc.
100
souther n Califor nia.Edi son Company
948
souther n .Natura l Gas Comi>any
625
souther n Pacific Company
600
souther n Realty co.
253
standar d Oil company (califo rnia)
624
standar d Oil company (Indian a)
200
standar d Oil company (Califo rnia)
110
standar d Oil company (New Jersey)
1,007
standar d Oil Company (New Jersey)
100
sunray DX Oil Company
104
Sunray DX Oil Company
104
Tenness ee Gas Transm ission Company
905
Tenness ee Gas Transm ission Company
202
Tecaco, . Inc.
79
Texas Utiliti es co.
200
Timken Roller Bearing Company
100
Transam erica Corpor ation
335
200
397
300
129
100
200
800
300

Forward

$

Forward

878,210 .08
18,451. 10
11,134. 50
11,501. 44
6,036.1 9
4,969.8 8-F
7,175.5 1
24,349. 98
17,435. 80
: 7,219.0 8-R
. 7 ,271.33
23,400. 00
13,527. 26
16,800. 00
48,870. 00
2,080.0 0
145,000 .00
5,771.2 3
10,442. 25
4,561.6 6-F
91,862. 93
·10,564 .48
7,096.0 5
4,843.0 0
30,369. 00
·29,220 .47
·15,629 .27
399.00- F
36,898. 82
8,700.0 0
5,040.5 1-F
49,555. 13
4,466.1 3-F
2,680.8 7
2,643.3 7-F
·· 19,644. 36
4,962.5 0-S
3,551.1 9
9,025.0 0
5,619.5 8
15,647. 07
$1, 622. 546.02

100
300
200
500
400
655
138
200
100
530
330
400
200
500

~:

$1,622, 546.02

Union carbide Corp.
Union Electri c Company
Union. Electri c company
Union Pacific Railroa d Campany
union Pacific Railroa d Company
United Gas Corpora tion
united states Gypsum co.
United States Steel corpora tion
United States Steel corpora tion
Wells Fargo Bank
Wells Fargo Bank
Western Bancor poratio n
Wiscon sin Public Service Corp.
F. w. Woolwo rth co.
Four lots of securit ies, relatin g to
Masonic Temples in .certain CBlifor nia
cities, carried at a nominal value

13, 752. 70
6,750.0 0
5,716.2 6-F
16,338. 30-F
13,065. 62-L
24,239. 50
13,822. 35
16,294. 20
. 5,882.3 4-L
23,337. 35
8,031.5 8-F
14,020. 38
8,959.3 8
35,012. 31
1.00

Total common . stoc~

.l,827,7 69.29

Total investm ents

$3,137, 721.95

The foregoi ng schedul e include s all the
securit ies of the Masonic Homes of
califor nia, except those in . the Perl!lilll ent
Endowm ent.Fund which are shown on
Schedul e 2. Securi ties · are coded for
the followi ng . funds:

B - George F. Brigham .and Laura E.
Brigham Scholar ship Fund, . Exhibi t I
F - C. N. Flint Trust Fund, Exhibi t L
L - John and Lena Lucltenb ach Fund, Exhibit H
P - George M. and Florenc e G. Perine
Endowment Fund, Exhibit J
R - Reside nts' Accoun ts, Exhibi t O
s - Studen ts' Loan and Scholar ship Fwtd,
Exhibi t N
W - Harrie t c. Wadleig h .Endowment Annuity ,
Exhibi t K
(Uncode d) - Genera l Fund, Exhibi t A
Total .investm ents (as above)

$

40,490. 87
315,893 .86
.77,095 .50
19,109. 38
31,366. 27
15,007. 44
11,647. 13
2,627,1 11.50

$3, 137, 721.95

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
Page 1

MASONIC HOMES OF CALlFOR..'ttA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

~

Book Value

Pace Value
100,00 0
75,000
50,000
57,000
65,000
45,000
222,00 0
500,00 0
100,00 0
90,00 0
50,000
100,00 0
100,00 0
50,00 0
87,000

Allegh eny Ludlum steel , 4%, 1981 , 1979
eerro de Pasco corpo ration , 5-1/2%
Chica go, Burlin gton & Quinc y R. R.
Equipm ent Trust , 2-5/8% , 1965
Conti nenta l Bakin g compa ny, 4-3/8% , 1983
coppe rweld Steel Co., 5%, 1979
Dress er Indus tries, 4.125% , 1977
.
Feder al Land BaDk, 4%, 1968
Feder al Natio nal Mortg age Assoc iation ,
.
4.125% , 1971
Feder al Natio nal Mortg age Asaoc iaticn ,
5-1/8% , 1972

Grand union Company, 4.125% , 1~78
,
Great North ern Ry., Second Equip ment Trust
2-5/8% , 1968
,
Trust
Great North ern 'Ry., Second Equip ment
4%, 1969

, 1986
Hunt Foods and Indul ltries , 4.375%Trust
,
Illino is Centr al R. R. Equipm ent
Serie s 40, 2-5/8 , 1964
,
Intern ation al Miner als & Chemi cal Corp.
3.65% , 1977

.

Louis ville and Nashv ille R. R. Equipm ent
100,00 0
Trust , Serie s FF, 3-7/8% , 1971
Louis ville and Nashv ille R. R. Equip ment
60,00 0
Trust , - Serie s EB, 4%, 1971
Misso uri Pacif ic R. R. Equipm ent TrUBt ,
100,00 0
Serie s s, 4-1/8% , 1968
Misso uri Pacif ic R. R. Equipm ent Trust ,
100,00 0
Serie s s, 4%, 1970
,
Norfo lk ·and Weste rn Ry. Equipm ent Trust
50,00 0
Serie s :X, 3-7/8% , 1972 ·
,
Norfo lk and Weste rn Ry. Equipm ent Trust
15,00 0
Serie s J, 4%, 1970
, 3%,
25,00 0. North ern Pacif ic Ry. Equip ment Trust
.
1963
Dam,
Tri
Oakda le Irriga tion Distr ict
50,00 0
3.05% , 2004

70,000
100,00 0
50,000

,
Seabo ard Air :Line R. R. Equipm ent Trust
Serie s w, 4%, 1971
1986
Sincl air Oil Corpo ration , 4-3/8% , ict
south San Joaqu in .Irrig ation Distr
Reven ue, 3.05% , 2004
Forwa rd

SCHEDULE 2
Page 2

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

INVESTMENTS
June 30,. 1963

$

373

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PROCE EDING S OF THE

372

$

98,31 0.42
81,37 3.39
49,86 6.96
56,87 7.16
65,42 2.90
43,00 3.84
223,62 3.57
505,2 50.37
99,91 0.60
90,84 7.65

(Cont inued)

Pace Value

Book Value
Forwa rd

$

100,00 0
90,000
60,000

5,000
730,00 0
1,055 ,000
165,00 0
17 ,300
85,00 0

49,60 7.99

$ 2 ,428,2 18 .93

South ern Pacif ic Company, Equip ment
Trust , Serie s oo, 2-5/8% , 1965
south ern Pacif ic R. R. Equipm ent Trust
No. 19, 3-7/8% , 1971
South ern Ry. Company Equipm ent Trust ,
Serie s ZZ, 4%, 1970
7
u. s. Treas ury bonds , 2-1/2%",, 1972/6
1972/6 7
U. s. Treas ury bonds , 2-1/2
U. s. Treas ury bonds , 3-1/2% , 1990
U. S. Treas ury bonds , 3-1/2% , 1998
Virgi nian Railw ay Company, 6%, 2008
Wheel ing Steel Corpo ration , 3-3/4% , 1975

99,58 9.07
88,98 7.95
60,00 0.00
4,949 .82
717,27 5.27
1,084 ,953.2 5
165,7 52.85
19,11 3.25
78,95 0.22

Total bonds

100,2 61.00
106,6 34.58

4,747 ,790.6 1

PREFERRED STOCK

49,91 2.41
89,26 8.32
98,82 8.34
60,00 0.00
100,1 04.00

100
1,100
1,400
300
1,100
500
3,300

15,00 0.00

~

24,99 9.68

2,000
1,306
500
l,650
2,000
1,300
3,400

50 1 109.06

$ 2,428 ,218.9 3

416,6 99.47

CCltMON STOCK

49,37 3.81

69,77 0.23
100,6 35.09

9,348 .90
106,4 29.89
27,63 6.33
34,65 1.91
57,58 9.70
57,95 3.31
·123,0 89.43

Total prefe rred stock ·

99,11 8.50

50,10 9.06

Flintk ote Company, 4-1/2 ", A
Kaise r Aluminum and Chem ical, 4-1/8%
Oklaho ma Gas and Elect ric Co., 4%
<>wen s-Illin ois Glass compa ny, 4%
Perma nente Cement Company, 5%
Reyno lds Metal s co., 4.5%
· Scher ing corp. , 5% ·

Allegh eny Power System , :Xnc.
Allied Chemi cal Corp.
Aluminum Company of Ameri ca
Ameri can eyanam id Company
Anaco nda Co.
Assoc iates :Inves tment eo.
Atchi son, Topek a & Santa Fe Railw ay
Company
Forwa rd

52,53 6.48
68,03 8.41
38,35 1.10
47,76 4.37
84,66 0.30
87 ,106.8 2
83,59 0.42

$

462,0 47.90

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

374

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF A
THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 2
page 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI
PERMANENT ·ENDOWMENT ·FtlND OF A
'l'HE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

COMMON STOCK (Con tinue d)

COMMQN STOCK (con tinue d

Book valu e
Forw ard
2,043
978
1,90 0
933
1,80 0
2,00 0
1,90 0
662
713

4,00 0
1,00 0
2,878
1,30 0
1,26 4
900
1,365
2,187
880
2,914
1,99 2
2,20 0
400
1,70 0
84

3,78 0
400
1,30 0
1,00 0
938
2,583
1,70 0
l,514
1,63 2
l,500
1,40 0

Forw ard

SCHEDULE 2
Page 4

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963

INVES'l'MENTS
JUne 30, . 19 63

Banlt of Ame rica·N .T· & s.A.
Bank ers trus t ·comp any · of. New York
BeIJdix corp orati on
Beth leh- St-1 corp •.
c.I.T · Fina ncia l corp
cent ral Illin ois Li9h.t co.
Champion Pape rs, Inc.
Chas e Manh attan Barut
Chem ical Barut New yorlt · ~rust comp
any
Cinc inna ti Gas & Elect r1c;: co.
Clev eland Elec tric Illui u.na ting
company
colw abia Gas sys t-. Inc.
~rcial cred it co.
of New Yorlt ,
cons olida ted Ediso
n company
. Inc.
cons olida ted .Nat ural .Gas can_pan"'•
cont inen tal .Insu ranc e canp any •z
crock er-A nglo
onal ~
crown zelle rbacNati
h corp orat1 on
crunt and Fors ter
naw Chem ical ccmp any
DUqu esne Li9h t oc-pa ny
Eastm an KOdalt co.
El paso satu ral Gas company
iatio n
Asso c
FJCIU1·tab le savin gs and Loan.-an
Firem an's Fwid Insu ranc e ...--r y
Firs t Nati onal Banlt of Hawa ii
It
Firs t Nati onal City · Banlt of New
Yor
Gene ral Mill s Incorpora~ed
Gene ral Moto l:s corp orat1 on
Gene ral publ ic Util ities corp .
B. F. Good rich .co-p ailY
QoO<lyear ·Tire and Rubb er co.
· Gu~f oil corp orati on
aartf ord .Fire ·Insu ranc e co.
Herc ules powd er comp any

375

$

Book Valu e
Forw ard

. 462,0 47.90
110,5 34.03
23,9 68.4 6
119,4 04.43
39, 701.8 3
76, 761.8 9
90,4 27.5 3
63,35 4.19
23,43 2.45
34,09 2.36
89,20 4.33
32,33 5.37
67,56 4.60
56,30 5.49
84,6 14.2 6
58,85 5.45
58,40 4.77
27,52 8.49
46,1 34.3 0
104,0 50.40
129,5 52.82
45,6 90.1 0
42,91 9.47
46, 704.4 5
840.0 0
107 ,935. 98
24,3 30.1 6
66,1 48.8 4
29,64 3.42
44,3 82.1 4
42,79 8.12
86,6 06.5 7
69,64 0.75
60,1 08.5 4
97 ,682. 03
60,3 56.0 6
$ . 2 ,624. 061 .•98

1,30 0
1,50 0
l,000
233
937
2,274
2,355
2,600
1,20 0
2,300
1,20 0
1,30 0
1,00 0
614
2,075
1,00 0
700
1,20 0
833

1,40 0
2,000
1,500
1,40 0
2,00 0
1,877
1,10 0
800
1,839
2. 700
1,60 0
2,400
2,20 0
1,60 0
833
500
825
900
1,00 0
706
1,40 0
500

Inge rsoll -Ran d co.
Inlan d Stee l co.
Insu ranc e Company of Nort h Jlmer
Inte rnat iona l Busi ness Mach ines ica
corp orati on
Inte rnat iona l Pape r co.
Inte rstat e Powe r co.
Irvin g Trus t COlnpany (New ·York )
Kaise r:Alw ninum .and Chem ical Corp
.
Kenn ecott copp er COrp.
Libb ey-ow ens-F ord Glas s co.
Ligg ett & Myer s Toba pco . co.
Lone Star Gas company
p. Lori llard company
Man ufact urers .Hano ver Trus t co.
Mara thon oil co.
Merc k and Co., Inc.
Mine apoli s-Ho neyw ell Re<JUlator
Minn esota Mini ng & Manu factu
ring Co.
Mons anto Chem ical co.
Rati onal Lead eo.
Nati onal st-1 corp .
Bew York , Chic ago and st. Loui s
Rai~road
Nia9 ara Moh -It Powe r corp orati on
Nort hern Rati onal Gas canp any
Nort hern State s Powe r of Minn esota
Ohio Ediso n company
OWe ns-Il linoi s Glas s Company
Pa~ific Gas and Elec tric
Colllpany
Park e, Davi s & co.
J. c. Penn ey co.
Penn sylva nia Powe r and Ligh t Comp
any
Phila delp hia Elec tric canp any
Phil lips Petro leunt Company
Pitts burg h Plat e Glas s Co.
Pulil lic Serv ice Company of India na
Rohm & Haas co.
Sche ring corp .
Seat tle Firs t .Nati onal Bank
Secu rity Firs t.Na tion al BanJt
Shel l Oil canp any
Shm: win-W illiam s co.
Forw ard

$ 2,62 4,06 1.98

111,7 18.34
69,99 9.47
53,2 05.0 0
33,43 1.21
32,5 53.3 4
61,7 55.6 5
57. 020.5 1
95,99 0.85
102,3 30.78
126,8 99.90
108,9 29.90
29,67 7.55
45,2 84.3 0
13,9 81.0 6
85,6 01.3 3
87,22 1.39
103,7 26.76
76,6 89.2 8
45,74 5.07
127,6 22.96
94,2 16.1 9
56,07 9.59
68,92 2.52
65,68 6.53
22,99 7.59
50,85 8.96
74,0 19.8 8
30,09 1.13
98,4 35.1 8
77,6 02.2 8
85 ,643. 87
67,81 5.79
82,8 79.2 2
57,93 0.05
18,8 75.9 5
102,3 04.62
52,13 2.25
72,0 86.6 5
28,2 91.2 1
36,5 57.6 4
65,06 0.00
$ 5,401 ,933 .73

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

376

SCHEDULE 2
Page 5

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3

· Page 1

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

INVESTMENTS
June 30, 1963
RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
COMMON STOCK (continued)
Book value
Forward
900
1,807
1,635
1,000
4,300
4

2,167.
2,500
1,656
1,729
3,286
1,458
900
3,036
1,545
1,110
900
1,200
2.,100
2,300
900
1,500
2,500
500
1,300
800
1,500

smith Kline and French.Labs
Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc:
southern California Edison Company
Southern Natural Gas Company
southern Pacific Company
southern Realty Company
.
standard Oil company (Cal~fornia)
standard Oil Company (Indiana)
Standard Oil COmpany (New Jersey)
sunray DX oil compan~ .
Tennessee Gas Transmission company
Texaco, Inc.

Timken Roller Bearing co.
Title Insurance & Trust company
Transamerica corporation
Union Bank, Los Angeles
Union carbide corp.
Union Electric Company
Union Pacific Railroad Company
United Gas corporation
united states Gypsum company.
united states steel corporation
warner-Lambert Phart11aceuticals
Wells Fargo Bank
western Bancorporation
Wisconsin Public Service Corp. .
F. w. Woolworth Co.
.
Five lots of stock of undetermined value
received as gifts, ·carried at a nominal
value

This reserve is credited .with.amounts to be used for the
qeneral purposes of the Decoto and Covina Homes.

$ 5,401,933.73
62,050.95
89,597.15
18,965.91
47,224.63
116,943.49
11.00
98,636.14
118,744.23
76,685.98
45,881.93
75,105.52
59,688.61
50,776.38
37,500.00
49,567.42
80,518.08
115,788.07
34,179.11
59,540.11
85,734.04
94,495.25
102,013.34
69,541.80
38,808.59
42,110.71
36,001.07
102,238.56
2.00

Total common stock

. 7 ,210,283 .so

Total investments, Exhibit G

$12,374,773.88

Balance, beginninq of year
Bequests ·allocated to Reserve
by Trustees
Net income from . real estate
received from.bequests
allocated to Reserve by
Trustees
Contributions
Less, charges to Reserve:
Additions to Decoto Home
Additions to Covina Home
Replacements to Decoto Home
Replacements to Covina Home
Special projects - principally
engineering services for
Decoto Home
Transfer to Major Projects
Reserve
Decrease,in Reserve
Balance, end of year,
Exhibit E

1962-1963

1961-1962

$768,913.91

$778,347.70

144,757.83

506.73
65.11
145,329.67

1,321.22
530. 72
27,093.06

6,097.20
522.46
10,850.68
5,187.62

4,739.93
1, 790. 79
12,296.19
15,301.22
2 ,398. 72

400,000.00
422,657.96
277,328.29

36,526.85
9,433.79

$491,585.62

$768,913.91

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

378

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
SalEDULE 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORN IA

page 2

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

DECOTO SPECIAL RESERVE

This reserve is credited .with amounts specified for the
use of the Covina Home.
1961-196 2
1962-196 3
$805,397 .07
$ 895,594.9 6
"Balance, beginnin g of year
Bequests allocated to Reserve
148,288.9 3
320,697.6 6
by Trustees
Net income from .real estate
received by bequests ,
7 ,922.55.
allocated to Reserve by
8,466.53
Trustees
4,209.62
3,439.94
contribu tions for Home
10
160,421.
332,604.1 3

Balance, end of year,
Exhibit E

Page 3

For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

COVINA. SPECIAL RESERVE

Increase in Reserve

SCHEDULE 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
RESERVES FOR. SPECIAL PURPOSES

For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

Leas, charges to Reserve:
Addition s to COVina Home
Replacem ents to COVina Hane
EXpendit ures for special
benefit of resident s
Amount transferr ed to
Entertain ment Reserve
Transfer s authorise d bY'
the Board of Trustees
to reimburs e the General
Fund for the following
oovina operatin9 .expense a:
Hospital and medical expense
Farm and grounds expense

379

5,022.25
11,626.08

4,286.18
13,400.0 2

8,365.43

6,432.17

3,078.22

2,560.19

16,534.95
27,982.33
72,609.2 6
259,994.8 7

19,132.4 8
24,412.17
70,223.21
90,197 .89

$1.155,58 9.83

$895,594 .96

This reserve is credited with amounts apecified for the
use of the Decoto Home.
1961-196 2
1962-1963
Balance, beginnin g of year
Bequests allocated to
Reserve by Trustees
Net income from real estate
received by bequests ,
allocated to Reserve by
Trustees
c. N. Flint Trust Fund
income, Exhibit L
George M. and Florence G.
Perine Endowment FUnd
income, Exhibit J
Resident s' Accounts income,
Exhibit 0
contribu tions for Home
Less, charges to Reserve:
Addition s to Decoto Home
Replacem ents to Decoto Home
E>tpendit ures for special
bedefit of resident s
Amount transferr ed to General
Fund as reimburse ment for
Grand :.odge trips to Decoto
during 1961 and 1962 annual
communi cations
Amount transferr ed to
Entertain ment Reserve
Increase in Reserve
Balance, end of year,
Exhibit E

The accompan ying notes are an . integral
pilrt of the financia l stat-en ta.

$2471265 .27

$217 I 301. 39

416,263.2 3

19,210.32

. 2,487.27

639.81

13,142.88

13,888.45

649 .98

614.13

3,552.34
1,465.42
437 ,561.12

1,844.02
9,411.75
45,608.48

22,072.54
5,187.41

9,711 • .()0
430.05

1,158.40

2,943.36

6,209.80
3,078.22
37,706.37
399,854.7 5

2,560.19
15,644.6 0
29,963.88

$647,120 .02

$247,265 .27

The accompiln ying notes are an .integral
part of the financia l statemen ts.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE J

Page 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE 3

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the year ended June JO, l96J

FUNERAL RESERVE

MAJOR PROJECTS RESERVE

This reserRe is credited with amounts transferred from the
Unappropriated Reserve to provide for funeral expenses for the
residents of the Decato Home.

Balance, beginning of year
Amount transferred from
Unappropriated Reserve
Less, funeral expense
Increase or (decrease) in
Reserve
Balance, end of year,
Exhibit E

1962-196J

1961-1962

$94 1 000.00

$90, 750.00

5,510.68
6,510.68

14,879.49
11,629.49

(l,000.00)

J 1 25o.oo

$93,ooo.oo

$94 1000.00

ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
This reserve is credited with contributions and amounts
transferred from Decato Special Reserve and Covina Special Reserve
to be used fer the entertainment of the residents of the Homes. ·
1962-1963

1961-1962

$ 5 1 000.00
10,271.03

$ 5 1 000.00
9,281.42

J,078.22

2,560.19

J,078.22
21,427.47

21560.19
19,401.80

Less, entertainment expense at
Decato and Covina Homes

16,427.47

14,401.80

Balance, end of year,
Exhibit E

$ 5 1000.00

$ s,000.00

Balance, beginning of year
Contributions
Amount tra..'lsferred from Covina
Special Reserve
Amount transferred from Decoto
Special Reserve

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

Page 5

. Thi~ reserve, created during the year ended June JO, l96J,
is credited with amounts transferred from the Reserve for Additions
and Replacements and with contributions, to be used for major building
projects at the Homes.
credits to this Reserve:
Amount transferred from Reserve
for J\dditions and Replacements
Contributions
Lese, charges to this Reserve:
Construction cost of dormitory
for employees at Decoto
Construction in progress on
Charles Albert .!\dame Hall
at Decato, to June JO, 196J
(Note 5)

$400,000.00
85 . 00
400,085.00

$337,6J9.40

58,810.59

Balance, June JO, 196J,
Exhibit E

'!'he accompanying notes are an inteqral
part of the financial statements.

J961449.99

$

J,6J5.0l

382

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
SalEDULE 3
Paqe 6

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE
This reserve is credited with amounts assigned by res~denta
of the oecoto Home on admission and includes proceeds from pens~ona,
life insurance policies, and saie of real estate. The reserve is used
for the benefit of the residents of the Decato Home.

Lesa, charqes to Reserve:
Transfer to General Fund
of the amount of pensions
assigned by residents of the
Decoto Horne
Monthly grants to residents
AmOunt transferred to Funeral
Reserve
Real estate and insurance
expense
Increase in Reserve
Balance, end of year,
Exhibit E

$

SCHEDULE 4

DETAILS OF EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

Balance, beqinning of year
Assets assiqned by residents of
the Decoto Home on admission,
includinq proceeds from sale
of real estate, and from life
insurance policies
Pensions aasiqned by residents
of the Decoto Home
Accounts of deceased residents
Income from real estate assigned
by residents on admission

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

1962-1963

1961-1962

886,078.13

$665, 161.06

168,637.19

281,048.04

234,033.92
11,873.85

211,332.86
12,111.12

l,083.93
415,628.89

3,204.42
507 ,696.44

234,033.92
53,940.00

211,332.86
53,856.00

5,510.68

14,879.49

4,837.44
298,322.04
117,306.85

6, 711.02
286,779.37
220,917.07

$1 1 003 1 384.98

$886,078.13

oecoto Home operating expense:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
General, plant, buildings,
and transportation
Administrative
Covina Home operating expense:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
General, plant, buildings,
and transportation
Administrative
Relief outside of Masonic Homes
Adnlinistrative and general
expense:
Insurance
Grand Lodge - secretarial
and other services
Office salaries
Field investigations
Pensions for retired
employees
Taxes on payroll
Auditing services
Trustees' expenses
Office supplies and printing
Taxes on Hornes
Investment counsel fee
Securities safekeeping
Telephone
•
Reimbursement of Endowment
FUnd expenses (including
reimbursements to Grand
Lodge of $17,070.96 in
1962-63 and $13,996.32 in
1961-62)
Grand Lodge trip to Decato
Miscellaneous
Retirement income plan (Note 7)
Total, Exhibit B

1961-1962

Increase
(Decrease)

361,951.96
334,219.15
27,804.76

$ 29,409.42
74,444.84
3,326.79

62,162.43
128,961.12
1,022,280.47

69. 560. 74
113,472.91
907 ,009.52

(7,398.31)
15,488.21
115,270.95

114,713.99
16,534.95
27,964.33

92,703.28
19,132.48
24,412.17

22,010.71
(2,597.53)
3,552.16

47,805.98
47,248.94
254,268.!9
17,695.50

47,799.00
45,089.89
229,136.82
18,855.01

6.98
2,159.05
25,!31.37
(1,159.51)

34,782.95

31,656.03

3,126.92

24-,000.00
8,600.00
13,692.93

24,000.00
5,054.50
12,863.57

3,545.50
829.36

2,968.80
25,767.65
4,000.00
2,532.62
3 551. 03
5,748.07
4,500.00
900.00
1,678.47

2,968.80
20, 764.97
3,500.00
3,426.63
3,011.21
5,734.55
4,500.00
1,500.00
693.44

17,838.71
2,682.50
1,290. 73
154,534.46
40,307.33

14,412.23
3,527.30
405.98
138,019.21
33,553.38

3,426.48
(844.80)
884.75
16,515.25
6,753.95

$1,489,085.95

$1,326,573.94

$162,512.01

1962-1963
$

391,361.38
408,663.99
31,131.55

!

$

The accoapanyinq notes are an inteqral
part of the financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an inteqral
part of the financial statements.

383

5, 002.68
500.00
(894.01)
539.82
13.52
(600.00)
985.03

384

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

SOlEDU LE 5

Charge d to Decoto Specia l Reserv e:
Furnis hings for new dormit ory
Roof for new dormit ory
Ciarge d_to Major Projec ts Reserv e:
Dormit ory for employ ees
Constr uction in progre ss Charle s Albert Adams Hall
Additi ons to proper ties of
the Covina Hane:
Charge d to Reserv e for Additi ons
and Replac ements :
Emerge ncy ·lighti ng
Traile r
Fence
Charg~ to Covina Specia l Reserv e:

Traile r (at estima ted value)
Applia nces
Recrea tion equipil ent
Line marker and locker s
Fire alarm syst-

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1963 and 1962

DETAILS OF PROPERTY ADDITIONS
For the year ended June 30, 1963
Additi ons to proper ties of
the Decoto Hoine:
Charge d to Reserv e for Additi ons
and Replac ements :
Bathli fts
Hospit al fence and plaque
Sanbor n Viso-c ardiet te
Chevro let statio n wagon

385

Note l - Basis of Accou nting:
$

basis of
The financ ial statem ents are stated on the cash
ctions genera lly are not
accoun ting. With minor except ions, transa
t or paymen t of
taken into accoun t prior to the time of the receip
able to the years ended
cash. curren t operat ing expens e bills applic
were of nomina l
June JO, 1963 and 1962 and unpaid at those dates
amount .

3,484. 80
415.00
375.00
l,822.4 0
6, 097 .20
20,872 .54
1,200. 00
22,072 .54

Note 2 - Invest ments:

337,63 9.40
58,810 .59
396,44 9.99

$424 I 619 • 73

on the books
Invest ments in securi ties purcha sed are stated
ed by gift or beques t
and in this report at cost. securi ties receivDecato
are stated at
or by assign ment by reside nts of the Home at ties are receiv ed or
estima ted market value at the time the securi
is unknow n. In a
at the nomina l value of $1 if the market value
stocks acquir ed by
few instan ces, the carryi ng value of unlist ed share
value of the undergift or beques t has been restat ed at the per
be less than the
lying assets of the company which is believ ed to
market value.
Note 3 - Notes Receiv able:
estate
Notes receiv able arise from the sale of real
nts of the Home at
reside
by
rnia
Califo
of
Homes
c
Masoni
to
ed
assign
beque sts by the
Decoto and from real estate receiv ed as gifts or
Homes or the Perman ent Endowment Fund.

148.06
215.20
159.20
522.46
2,500. 00
250.00
479.92
336.70
1,455. 63
5,022. 25

Total additi ons, Exhibi t D

Rote 4 - Other Assets :

5,544. 71
$430,1 64.44

polici es
Other aasets consis t of paid-u p life insura nceby reside nts
Califo rnia
and real estate assign ed to Mason ic Homes of
or beques ts by the
of the Home at Decato or receiv ed as giftsnce
polici es and parcel s
Perman ent Endowment FUnd. The life insura
l value of $1 for
nomina
the
at
ed
record
each
of real estate are
loans previo usly
accou ntabil ity. Paymen t by Mason ic Homes of polici
es or on real
obtain ed by the assign ors on life insura nce
estate are added to the nomina l value.

Mot• 5 - Land, Buildi ngs, and Eguipn ent:

The accomp anying notes are an integr al
part of the financ ial statem ents.

the cost
Land, buildi ngs, and equipn ent are record ed at
of buildi ngs and
when origin ally purcha sed and no deprec iation ts. Replac ements of
equipm ent has been provid ed for in the accoun
es for Specia l
origin al items are charge d to one of the Reserv
Purpos es establ ished by the Board of Truste es.

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

387

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT
LYBRAND, Ross BRos.E.. MONTOOMERY
CERTIF"IEO PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
ONE

BUSH

STREET

SAN FRANCISCO 4
YUKON t ~•U.J

C.00PJl:RS

O"'ICl:8 IN THC

NOTES TO FINANCIAL · STATEMENTS, Continued

Note 5 - Land, Buildings, and Equipment (OOntinued)r
th

The Trust':'es of Masonic Homes have signed contracts committing

fet~omeChs to expenditures of approximately $1,200,000 for construction

ar1 es Albe.rt Adams Hall at the Oecoto Home. cost of construc':'
o.
tion in progress to June 30, 1963 on this project amounted to $58,810.59.
Note 6 - Reserves for Special Purposes:
The · Trustees of Masonic Homes have established seven special
reserves (see Schedule 3, pages 1 through 6) to which are credited
gifts and bequests and other amounts which generally are used at the
direction of the Trustees for purposes other than .direct operating
expenses. The assets represented by these reserves are included in
the assets of the General Pund.

e.. LYBRAND

PlllNCl""L CITJta 01" THC
UNITED eTATSS

To the Trustees of
California Masonic Memorial Temple,
1111 California Street,
San Francisco, California 94108.
We have examined the statement of assets, liabilities, and
fund balance of CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE, a California
nonprofit corporation, as of June 30, 1963 and 1962 and the related
statement of income received and expenses disbursed for the years
then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of
the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we

lllote 7 - Retirement InCC*e Plan:

'considered necessary in the circumstances.

The total past service costs as determined by the actuary
'
under the co~trihl;ltory retiraaent incaae plan adopted by Masonic
Homes of ?lifornia as of January 1, 1955, have been paid. The current service costs to June 30,.1963 have been paid or otherwise
provided for in the foregoing financial statements.

In our opinion, the accompanying statements present fairly
the assets, liabilities, and fund balance of California Masonic
Memorial Temple, at June 30, 1963 and 1962, arising primarily from
cash transactions, and the income received and expenses disbursed
by it for the years then ended, on a consistent basis.
We attach the following:
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Schedule 1
Schedule 2
Two Pages

Statement of assets, liabilities
and fund balance
Statement of income received and
expenses disbursed
Summary of contributions received
- · Detail of building expense
Notes to financial statements

;;f~v.1 ,e_ /L.-.f Jt,..-J-1--r
G't:ert.ified Public Account.at•

J\lly 25, 1963

\

388

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL 'I'EMPLE
STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIE S, AND FUND BALANCE
June 30, 1963 and 1962

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

1963

Total assets

$

168,760.35

~

$

75,311.97

734,303.90
5,208,897.7 0
210,283.23
6,153,484.8 3

734,303.90
5,198,764.8 6
209,835.51
6,142,904.2 7

$6.322.245 .18

$6,218,216 .24

Fund balance:
Contributio ns (Note 5)1
Received prior to beginning of
year
Received during year, Schedule 1
Total contributio ns to end
of year
Net expense of Temple building:
Net expense to beg'inning of year
Net expense for year, Exhibit B
Net expense to end of year
Fund balance
Total 1iabilitie s and fund
balance

$1,133,790 .00
23,752.00

$1,313, 790.00
47,503.00

11,725.00
1,178.91
504.17

4,750.00
46.98

4,676.00
1,175,626.0 8

3,357.00
1,369,446.9 8

5,297,685.1 5
359,816.90

4,926,698. 47
370,986.68

5,651,502.0 5

5,297,685.1 5

448,915.89
61,967.06
510,882.95
5,146,619.1 0

373,669.96
75,245.93
448,915.89
4,848,769. 26

$~.~~2,2~~.l~

$!j,~;l,8,216,24

The accaupanyi ng notes are an integral
part of the financial statements .

Building income:
Rent of space to public
Rent of control panel
Clean-up charges
Sundry rentals and income
Rent of garage
Rent of Grand Lodge space

LIABILITIE S AND FUND BALANCE
Liabilitie s:
Notes payable to banks (Note 2)
Contract payable to architect (Note 3)
Deposits for rental of space by
public
Contributio ns due pension trust
Accrued payroll taxes and expense
Reserve for renewals and replacements (Note 4)
Total liabilitie s

EXHIBIT B

STATEMENT OF INCOME RECEIVED AND EXPENSES DISBURSED
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

A S S E T S:
cash on hand and in banks
Memorial Temple property (at cost):
Land
Building and building equipment
Furnishing s

389

EXHIBIT A

Building expense, Schedule 2
Net building
operating loss

Increase
(Decrease)

1962-1963

1961-1962

$ 38,262.0C
190.00
9,887.00
1,634.23
49;973.23
60,068.41
18,000.00
128,041.64
135,607.87

$ 36,725.00
276.00
8,245.00
555.31
45,801.31
51,012.19
18,000.00
114,813.50
130,217.86

7,566.23

15,404.36

(7,838.13)

3,522.28

1,370.85

2,151.43

3,097.44
1,927.92
679.79
9,227.43
16,793.66

1,667.79
1,908.00
634.93
5,581.57
20,985.93

1,429.65
19.92
44.86
3, 645.86
(4,192.27)

47,751.60

55, 151. 60

(7,400.00)

1,319.00
49,070.60

1,169.00
56,320.60

150.00
(7,250.00)

3,897.20
45,173.40

2,060.60
54,260.00

1,836.60
(9,086.60)

$ !jl.967.0!j

$ 75.245.93

$(13.278.8 7)

$

1,537.00
(86.00)
1,642.00
1,078.92
4,171.92
9,056.22
13,228.14
5,390.01

General and administra tive
expense:
Legal and auditing
services

Stationery , printing,
and postage
Personal property taxes
Miscellane ous
Net operating loss
Other expense, net:
Interest on notes payable
Addition to reserve for
renewals and replacemen ts,
(Note 4)
Less, interest received on
savings bank deposits
Net expense for year

The accaupanyi ng notes are an integral
part of the financial statements .

390

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA
SCHEDULE l

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

SUMMARY OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

1962-196 3

254,804. 00

254,529. 00

42,417.0 0
297,221. 00

44,136.0 0
298,665. 00

contribu tions from individu als
Total contribu tions received
during year

1962-196 3

1961-196 2

$239,931 .00

Leas, refunds and adjustme nts

14,598.0 0

504.00

450.00

296, 717.00

298,215. 00

63,099,9 0

72, 771.68

$~:i2.11J.§.2a

$~22.:!!Ui.~

Salaries and welfare expense:
Salaries
Payroll taxes
Retireme nt pension plan
Welfare and medical
services :
Janitori al services
Janitor supplies
Gas
Blectric ity
Elevator services
Water
~elephone and telegrap h
scavenge r
Miscella neous
Maintena nce:
Carpentr y
Painting
Plumbing
Masonry and plasteri ng
Blectric al
Miscella neous
Insuranc e:
Fire - annual premium
Public liabil\t y - three-ye ar
premium
Workmen 's canpens ation - annual
premium
Boiler and machiner y - threeyear premium

The accCllllJlanying notes are an integral
part of the financia l stateme nts.

SCHEDULE 2

DETAIL OF BUILDING EXPENSE
For the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962

Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.:
Annual returns - 1962 and 1961,
respecti vely:
Master Masons on June 30, 1962 a~d 1961,
$240, 791.00
respecti vely, at $1.00 per capita
contribu tions of initiate s of fiscal
years ended June 30, 1962 and 1961,
14,013.0 0
respecti vely, at $9.00 each
contribu tions of initiate s of fiscal
years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962,
respecti vely, at $9.00 each

391

~al

property taxes
Total building expense

1961-196 2

Increase
(Decreas e)

$ 30,957.1 9 $ 29,729.8 5 $ 1,227.34
1,556.81
1,368.14
188.67
3,225.23
1,535.07
1,690.16
378.75
335.65
43.10
36,117.9 8
32,968. 71
3,149.27
7,696.16
1,211.09
3,163.64
10,056.3 9
4,620.50
447.57
351.75
295.25
953.83
28,796.1 8

8,174.25
764.63
3,269.97
10,014.0 6
4,338.88
469.89
285.07
218.00
756.81
28, 291. 56

(478.09)
446.46
(106.33)
42.33
281.62
(22.32)
66.68
77.25
197.02

157.52
611.57
9.22
73.02
2,141.67
2,889.62

109.21
287.51
40.30
940.67
1,379.84
2,247.59

48.31
324.06
(31.08)
(867. 65)
761.83
642.03

5 1 882.62

5 1 005.12

877.50

2,336.14

2,423.86

(87.72)

5, 721.41

(5,721.4 1)

450.02

(242.03)

207.99

504.62

251.90

{251.90)

2,544.13

8,§47,19

{6,303.0 6)

62,266.9 6

55,105.2 8

7,161.68

$;1.~~.§22.§7 H~Q,2!2,!Ui $ :i.~:u2.'1J.

The accompan ying notes are an integral
part of the financia l statemen ts.

392

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

393

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, Continu ed

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1963 and 1962

Note 5 - Contrib utions:
Note 1 - Basis of Accounti ngs
of
The financia l statemen ts are stated on the cash basis
y not being
accounti ng, with minor exceptio ns, transact ions generall
payment of
taken into account, prior to the time of the receipt or
to the years ended
cash. Current operatin g expense bills applicab lewere
of nominal
June 30, 1963 and 1962 and unpaid at those dates
amount.
Note 2 - Notes Payable to ~anks:
Notes payable to banks are secured by a first deed of trust
e in minimum
on the Temple real property . The notes are repayabl
until
annual instalme nts aggregat ing $120,000 , continui ng l annually
and interest then
October 4, 1965, on which date all sums of principa
years ended
unpaid shall be due and payable. During each of the
were made on these
June 30, 1963 and 1962, total payments of $180,000
payable
notes. The notes bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum,
semiann ually April 1 and October 1 of each year.
The balances of the notes at June 30, 1963 amounted to
$1,133,7 90, as follows:
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
The Bank of Californ ia, N.A.
Crocker- Anglo National Bank
Wells Fargo Bank

$

188,965
188,965
377. 930
377,930

$1,133,7 90

Note 3 - Contrac t Payable to Architec ts
The balance of the contract payable to Albert F. Roller gfor
amountin
architec tural services in the construc tion of the Temple,
nt.
to $23,752 at June 30, 1963, is payable in one final instalme
instalme nt .
During each of the years ended June 30, 1963 and 1962, an
of $23,751 was paid on this contrac t.
Note 4 - Reserve for Renewals and Replacem ents:
ed
During the year ended June 30, 1960,the Trustees authoriz
ents, and
the establish ment of a reserve for renewals and replacem
the annual
annual addition s thereto of a sum equal to one percent ofended
June 30,
gross income of the Temple. The addition for the years
This
1963 and 1962 amounted to $1,319 and $1,169, respecti vely.
reserve has not been funded.

Contribu~ion pledges unpaid at June 30, 1963 and 1962
ively. Unpaid
aJDOunted to appr~imately,$36,000 and $42,000 , respect
collecte d.
pledges are not included in the financi al stateme nts until

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

Annual Report 1962-1963
Names of Residents-MEN-Average Age: 81.17 Years or Bl yrs. 2 mos.
*Indicates admission during current year.
tlndicates couples.
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Ahlborn, George C. H ...Oct. 10, '61 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ...... 82
Applegarth, Edward M ... June 4, '60 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ................87
Bacon, Herbert W ......... Mar. 23, '61 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ................83
Bacon, Walter B.• ..........Jan. 15, '63 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ..........78
Barnes, William H .......July 2, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 80
Bean, Verd J.• ................ Apr. 5, '63 Redwood City ....168 Redwood City ......74
Bennett, Lester E.•t ...... Oct. 9, '61 Golden State ......358 Los Angeles ..........81
Beer, Leslie ....................Dec. 19, '60 Woodstock ..........491 Alameda ..............62
Biehl, William F.t ........ Sept. 28, '61 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ..............95
Bogan, Cleot....................Aug. 18, '59 San Gorgonio .... 668 Banning ................83
Bremser, Arthur H .........July 9, '60 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ..........82
Brown, Frederick A. ......Oct.17, '57 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............84
Buerman, William J.• ..July 13, '62 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............79
Burt, Byron H .................Dec. 6, '56 Molino ................150 Tehama ................78
Carlson, Carl O.t ............Feb. 17, '61 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......73
Carroll, Gustav M. • ........May 28, '63 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......82
Case, Byron W ................. Mar. 11, '60 Buckeye ..............195 Winters ................73
Casey, Newman H .........Mar. 26, '55 Santa Barbara ..192 Santa Barbara ....86
Chapman, Dorr G ........... Aug. 19, '61 Corona ................ 324 Pasadena .............. 86
Cicero, CarmeL ............. May 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................82
Combs, Jerome•t.......... Sept. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne .......... 82
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo .................. 396 Alameda ..............87
Covell, William A. ........ Nov. 12, '60 Consuelo ............325 Escondido ............ 84
Covington, James G ..... Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........80
Crozier, Alfred B .........June 26, '60 Semper Virens .. 552 Eureka ..................80
Darby, Bruce M ............. Sept. 23, '60 Signal .................. 543 Long Beach ..........85
Deardorff, Charles D .....Dec. 7, '59 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez .............. 81
Decker, George w.•t ....July 3, '62 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino ............78
Diefenbach, Williamt ..Feb. 20, '62 Solano ................229 Vallejo .................. 81
Dixon, James G .............June 11, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 81
Donaldson, Charlest ......Feb. 14, '58 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............86
Driver, John H ............... Nov. 10, '61 Belmont Shore ..716 Long Beach .......... 85
DuBois, Andrew B .........Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton .............. 80
Duebel, Charles ..............Apr. 5, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......84
Dunn, John M.t ..............Feb. 9, '62 Henry S. Orme ..458 Los Angeles ..........70
Dye, Melvin....................Dec. 12, '60 Visalia ................128 Visalia .................. 63
Dzaroogian, Marsob ......May 19, '60 Vallejo ................487 Vallejo ..................66
Eckstein, Joseph G .......Feb. 21, '62 Argonaut ............461 San Francisco ......78
Evans, Alfred R. ............June 6, '61 Howard .............. 37 Yreka ....................78
Fisher, Harry F .............Aug. 28, '61 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ...•..81
Finch, Walter E.t ..........May 23, '62 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ·······-···77
Forgie, Robert•t ............Feb. 25, '63 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................85
Frare, Giacomo ..............Apr. 1, '51 Speranza
ltaliana ............ 219 San Francisco ......82
French, John S ...............Feb. 4, '61 S. F. Victory ......360 San Francisco ......80
Frost, Harold G .............Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ..........73
Gammon, Rodger ........ Sept. 9, '61 VanNuys ............450 VanNuys ..............74
Gerhart, Wm. E .............Feb. 10, '61 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ..........89
GillesI?ie, Earl L .............Apr. 15, '61 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ..............86
Giannini, Egisto ............Apr. 19, '62 Speranza
ltaliana ............219 San Francisco ......73
Godfrey, Henry S .........July 25, '54 Oak Grove.......... 215 Alameda ..............92
Gray, Arthur ................May 12, '60 Las Palmas ..........366 Fresno ···········-·····77
Green, Robert F ............. May 7, '58 Curtis ..................140 Cloverdale ···-··-···83

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

395

Age
Town
No .
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Hagemann, Henry F ..... Feb. 24, '61 Hermann ............ 127 San Francisco ...... 79
Haley, Michael C...........Nov. 4, '61 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........78
Halford, George W.•t .. Apr. 2, '63 Visalia ................128 Visalia ..................81
Hascall, Andrewt ..........Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................362 Campbell ..............82
Hastings, Vernon• ........ May 27, '63 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ............91
Hendricks, George G ... Sept. 26, '59 All States ............593 Long Beach ..........81
Hermans, Howard S .....Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................324 Pasadena .............. 73
Hickey, Frank J ........... May 27, '60 South
San Francisco 212 San Francisco ...... 88
Hockett, Marion L. • ...... Apr. 16, '63 Redondo .............. 328 Redondo Beach .. 77
Hopper, William H .......Dec, 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles .......... 89
Hopping, Charles ..........June 27, '62 Whittier ..............323 Whittier ................86
Howard, Otto• ..............July 6, '62 California .......... 1 San Francisco ...... 79
Hyde, Ross E. •t ............Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ........422 Los Angeles .......... 76
Jack, Charles P.• ..........Jan. 9, '38 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco ......84
Jackson, Elwell R.t ...... June 7, '62 Henry Knox ...... 662 Los Angeles .......... 76
Jeffers, Leonard M . ...... Dec. 9, '60 Curtis .................. 140 Cloverdale ............ 77
Jensen, James Sr......... July 27, '60 Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ......91
Johnson, Gustave E . ....Aug. 28, '56 Balder .................. 393 San Francisco ......85
Jones, Alfred .................. Oct. 27, '61 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ..............75
Keen, Cassius H ............. Dec. 15, '51 University ..........394 Los Angeles .......... 93
Kempf, William A. ...... Dec. 1, '61 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......65
Klossner, John W. • ......Nov. 8, '62 Cahuenga ............513 Hollywood ............89
Lincoln, Milton R. • ......Dec. 28, '62 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 76
London, Morris W......... May 6, '57 Foothill ..............564 Oakland ................95
Luchs, John C................. July 15, '61 Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego •...........90
Luethge, John C........... Sept. 16, '60 Provident ............ 609 Sacramento ..........78
McConnell, Riley• ........ May 14, '63 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ..........72
McCall, William .......... Sept. 4, '56 Oroville .............. 103 Oroville ·······-·······97
McGraw, John H .........June 27, '58 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ..........83
Mann, William J ...........Aug. 4, '60 East Belt ............391 Tuolome ····--····87
Martin, Ernest ................Jan. 11, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ···---·······83
Mason, Fred R. ..............Feb. 22, '62 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ..........79
Martinson, Thomas A. .. Nov. 19, '57 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ......,.....73
Mar, Fred ...................... Aug. 15, '51 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................99
Membress, Harry .......... Aug. 29, '60 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................ 77
Milkop, Martin ..... !........June 24, '61 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 86
Miller, Frank ..................Feb. 8, '62 Santa Rosa .......... 157 Santa Rosa ............81
Moler, Clarence• ........Sept. 29, '62 Buckeye ..............195 Winters ···········-···79
Moody, Bertrand F .......Aug, 12, '60 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................87
Moore, Herbert W. • ......July 30, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ·······-·······86
Moulthrop, Carlton C... Apr. 11, '59 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............78
Murray, James B.t ........Apr. 17, '53 Westwood .......... 501 Westwood ............83
Neal, Frank M ...............Oct, 28, '60 Palo Alto ............ 346 Palo Alto ..............81
Niebling, William F .....Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ......499 Sacramento ..........85
Oakley, Charles W ....... Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus .............. 129 Wheatland •...........86
Off, John w.• ................ Nov. 5, '62 Southern Calif...278 Los Angeles ..........60
Ollson, Lester E ...........Aug. 24, '59 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley .............. 76
Payne, John S ...............Aug. 3, '61 Union .................. 58 Sacramento ..........88
Pattison, William C. • .... May 16, '63 La Cumbre ........ 642 Santa Barbara ....80
Peale, Charles W.•.......Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ....... .451 Montebello •.........80
Porter, William G .........Aug. 8, '46 Utopia .................. 537 Los Angeles ..........89
Powell, William H .•.....Sept. 23, '55 West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ..........88
Rader, Edward* ............Aug. 13, '62 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......79
Randall, Finelle K. ...... May 17, '60 Sojourner .......... 607 Monrovia ..............90
Reinhold, Gabriel ........ Sept. 30, '56 Bay City ............526 San Francisco ...... 83
Resnick, John J.• ........ Sept. 30, '62 Palos Verdes ...... 389 Long Beach ..........78
Richardson, William T ..July 29, '50 Santa Maria ...... 580 Ramona ····-··········70
Ridley, Alvin .................. Feb. 1, '62 East Bay .............. 489 Berkeley .............. 93
Roberts, Owen I.t .......... Dec. 16,'60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................80
Robertson, George H ... Mar. 15, '61 Maricopa ............ 434 Maricopa .............. 92
Roche, George E ...........Feb. 15, '61 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville -··········90

396

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Roche, George W ...........Jan. 18, '57 South Pasadena 367 South Pasadena ..88
Rosenzweig, Sam ..........Jan. 6, '60 Argonaut ........... .461 San Francisco ......67
Rossie, Valentino ..........May 13, '59 Roosevelt ............500 San Francisco ......94
Rumfelt, Clarence P .....Jan. 19, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................87
Schooley, Auburn L.t ..Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ..............489 Berkeley ..............89
Schroder, John G .........Mar. 24, '61 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......86
Scott, John K. • ..............May 9, '63 Culver City ........467 Culver City ..........82
Short, Benjamin A .......Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles ..........79
Sinclair, Sidney C.........Jan. 17, '62 Hammonton ..... .433 Sutter ....................72
Souter, John H .............Aug. 11, '61 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................83
Specht, Frank M ...........May 9, '60 Crocker ..............454 Colma ....................76
Steigelman,
Warren H.t ................Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ............80
Stewart, James 0 .........Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........92
Stewart, Charles ..........Apr. 5, '61 San Juan ............732 Fair Oaks ..............81
Stine, William A.• ........Jan. 24, '63 Libertas ..............466 Bakersfield .......... 82
Strain, William R. ........June 11, '60 The Gardens ...... 621 Los Angeles ..........78
Street, Alvin C.............Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 90
Sutherland, George W. July 13, '53 Clovis ..................417 Clovis .................... 83
Sutherland William M. Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach ....86
Swanson, George N .....Mar. 15, '62 Needles ..............326 Needles ................ 82
Taforo, Charles R.t ......Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ·······-··· 61 Oakland ................ 76
Thompson, Elmer F .....Feb. 4, '56 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............77
Townsend, Albert E .....Aug. 12, '60 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ..........91
Townsend, James T.t ....Feb. 14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................88
Waldeyer, Wilhelm ...... Oct. 10, '61 Pacific .................. 136 San Francisco ......82
Wallis, Abraham G .......Nov. 2, '47 Modway ..............426 Taft ........................79
Wakeman, George ........May 12, '62 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........82
Warden, Robert A. ......June 1, '56 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............84
Waterman, Alfred S .....Feb. 28, '55 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ................85
Weinberg, Harryt ........Apr. 9, '62 Doric ....................216 San Francisco ......77
White, Harry C.............Dec. 4, '54 San Diego .......... 561 San Diego ............82
Whittard, Ernest A. ......Apr. 25, '61 Bear Mountain .. 76 Angels Camp ......91
Wilder, William R. ........Dec. 5, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............80
Wilson, Sidney G ...........Jan. 6, '62 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............76
Wilson, Thomas R. ......Aug. 24, '59 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................79
York, Ward A.• ..............Feb. 28, '63 Gardena ..............372 Gardena ................93

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

397

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA

Annual Report 1962 - 1963
Deaths-MEN-Average Age 84.95 or 84 Years 11.4 Months
Name
Died
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Anderson, Alfred H .....Dec. 27, '62 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco ......90
Beckman, Carl A ......... Nov. 2, '62 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........79
Bolton, George ..............Feb. 8, '63 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............92
Bradley, Arthur B. ......Jan. 15, '63 University ..........394 Los Angeles ..........83
Dresser, Walter P .........Dec. 23, '62 Melrose ..............602 Hollywood ............ 90
Evensen, Arthur M. ......May 15, '63 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ......62
Groom, Francis G ....... Sept. 25, '62 Lakeshore .......... 551 Oakland ................85
Hawkins, Mortimer ......Mar. 10, '63 Yerba Buena ..... .403 Oakland ................79
Jefts, Benjamin J .........June 30, '63 Justice ................ 549 San Francisco ...... 90
Kennard, Joseph W.....Aug. 24, '62 Center ..................465 Fresno .................. 73
Lyons, George W...........May 10, '63 Eureka ................ 16 Auburn ..................95
Leonhardt, Richard M. Oct. 7, '62 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......88
Lowther, Lawrence ....Sept. 28, '62 Guardian ............596 South Gate ..........83
McFarland, James ........May 11, '63 Citrol ···---·····--···-·656 Brea ......................79
Mearns, John C.............Jan. 10, '63 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 88
Mustol, Samuel J .........Sept. 6, '62 Marine ................ 191 San Rafael ..........86
M;vers, Robert ..............June 14, '63 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......84
Nielsen, Andrew T ....... Nov. 16, '62 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco ......91
Parkinson, LeMoyne L. Feb. 6, '63 Laguna Beach ....672 Laguna Beach ....88
Price, William L ...........Oct. 23, '62 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ......76
Randolph, George E ...Sept. 6, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................94
Shannon, Lewis P •........Oct. 28, '62 Arlington ..........414 Los Angeles ..........86
Shields, Samuel A. ........J aIL 13, '63 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............97
Sparks, Warren T •........Oct. 11, '62 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............80
Zuck, James R ...............Nov. 12, '62 Carmel ................680 Carmel ..................86

Withdrawals-MEN-1962 • 1963
Name
Withdrew
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Bruce, Robert E. •............Feb. 8, '63 Hammonton ......433 Sutter ....................93
Carson, Robert E ...........Dec. 4, '62 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........77
Gilliland, Thomas ........Nov. 20, '62 All States ............593 Long Beach ..........84
Kempen, William ..........July 25, '62 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ............83
Little, J. Arthur ............July 7, '62 Silver Trowel....1415 Los Angeles ..........80

398

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A

UNION CITY, CALIFORNI A

Annual Report 1962-1963
Names of Residents-W OMEN-Ave rage Age: 82.14 Years or 82 yrs. H'2 mos.
*Indicates admission during current year.
tindicates couples.
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Abbott, Sarah E ...........Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles .......... 77
Allen, Maude ................Aug. 22, '58 Lexington ..........104 El Monte ..............81
Allred, Rosa ....................Feb. 27, '60 Mt. Davidson ..... .481 San Francisco ...... 82
Ames, Myra D ...............May 8, '54 Delano ................309 Delano .................. 76
Anderson, Hattie M .....May 30, '57 Jewel ..................374 San Francisco ...... 89
Anderson, Mary A. ......Sept 9, '60 San Mateo .......... 226 San Mateo ............84
Andrews, Lela M ......... Sept. 2, '58 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................87
Angwin, Hilda* ............Nov. 14, '62 Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ..............76
Appel, Henrietta H . ....Aug. 12, '60 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles .......... 78
Armstrong, Emma R ...May 3, '62 Golden Rule ..... .479 San Jose ................ 80
Ashbrooke, Minnie M. Apr. 16, '57 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles .......... 86
Baker, Mary A. ............Aug. 27, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................89
Bartrip, Ada E. •t
(Weinberg) ................Feb. 7, '63 Redondo ..............328 Redondo ..............75
Barstow, Eva M .............Jan. 19, '60 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ................81
*Bateman, Emma F .....July 26, '62 Monte Vista ........ 655 Long Beach ..........72
Bavouset, Cora ............Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ......565 Los Angeles .......... 79
Belknap, Annie L .........Oct. 24, '56 Temblor ..............477 Fellows ................87
Bell, Edith L. ..............Mar. 29, '58 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ......81
Bennett, Rose M.t ........Oct. 9, '61 Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ..........81
Bergen, Annat ..............Nov. 28, '60 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ......88
Biehl, Elsie M.t ............Sept. 28, '61 Crocker ............. .454 Daly City ..............91
Bielar, Grace ................Apr. 23, '62 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............77
Biggar, Effie F ...............Apr. 13, '62 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ......72
Black, Evalita M .........July 17, '59 King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo .. 82
Bloy, Edith ....................Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir ..........297 Dunsmuir ............91
Blum, Lena ....................May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............75
Bogan, Selma E.t ........Aug.18, '59 San Gorgonia .... 668 Banning ·······-·······75
Boyer, Maude A ...........Jan. 20, '60 Harbor ................502 Richmond ............87
Boyer, Mildred A. ........Sept. 14, '52 Mount Moriah .... 44 San Francisco ...... 91
Brokaw, Leona C.........Apr.17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................82
Brown, Jean L ...............Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ..........83
*Barnett, Marie W .......Mar. 21, '63 Acorn ..................494 Oakland ................75
Browne, Rachel R. ......June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno .................. 74
Caffrey, Marie* ............Mar. 20, '63 Abell .................... 146 Ukiah ....................85
Carey, Marguerite G ... June 29, '61 Wilmington ........198 Wilmington ..........90
Carlson, Lisat ............... .Feb.17, '61 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......69
Carroll, Francest ..........Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............ 167 Fremont ................ 78
Carswell, Adella B .......Dec. 31, '58 LaFayette ..........126 Sebastopol ............91
Carter, Adelia M .........July 1, '58 Santa Cruz ........ 33 Santa Cruz ............90
Castle, Ollie R. .............. Nov. 26, '61 S. W. Hackett ....574 San Diego ............78
Casterline, Mary A. ......Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............90
Cheney, Hazel E ...........Aug. 15, '51 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento .......... 77
Childers, Cora ..............June 14, '57 Mission ................ 169 San Francisco ...... 86
Clark, Elizabet:Q. H .......Mar. 14, '62 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......90
Clayberger, Alice J ..... Nov. 16, '59 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton .............. 78
Cleghorn, Lulu Belle ..Mar. 15, '61 Caledonia ......... .486 Bakersfield ..........84
Combs, Lena E. •t ........ Sept. 2, '62 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne ..........74
Corbin, Elsa B ...............May 31, '61 Clovis ................. .417 Clovis ....................79
Cormeny, Rose ............Aug. 29, '60 Oak Grove .......... 215 Alameda ..............87
Cortright, Laura ..........Sept. 7, '54 Durant ................268 Berkeley ..............86
Coward, Anna ................ Oct. 21, '60 McKinley .......... ~.346 Richmond ............81
Crilley, Jessie ................July 27, '60 Atascadero ....... .493 Atascadero ..........95
Dale, Gertrude ............Mar. 31, '60 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ................82
II

399

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Darby, Genevieve M . ..Mar. 30, '60 Charter Rock ....410 Berkeley ..............85
Davis, Viola Mae .......... July 10, '62 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles ..........80
Dibble, Catherine 0 ...Sept. 10, '53 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ..........86
Diefenbach, Berthat .... Feb. 10, '62 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................76
Dillman, Edythe ..........Mar. 2, '62 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................ 63
Dixon, Nora E ...............Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ..........88
Donaldson, J. Elainet ..Feb. 14, '58 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ..........82
Douthitt, Edith A. ........ Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ...... 86
Drysdale, Charlotte• ....July 5, '62 S. F.-Victory ......360 San Francisco ......79
Dunn, Eleanor R.t ........Feb. 9, '62 Henry S. Orme ..458 Los Angeles ..........70
Dunn, Mabel I ............... Oct. 3, '57 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose .............. 77
Eastman, Leona J.• ....Mar. 7, '63 Solano ..................229 Vallejo .................. 75
Edwards, Emma L ....... Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic ................218 Livermore ............81
Ed~ards, Lina M ......... May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ......81
Elliott, Maud M ........... June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ......85
Ely, Eva Estelle ............Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ................80
Esser, Margaret J. • ...... Dec. 19, '62 Mt. Davidson ... .481 San Francisco ......84
Evans, Christina ..........Mar. 16, '61 Marin .................. 191 San Rafael ............81
F~g, Jennie H ....... Nov. 4, '57 Oakland .............. 158 Oakland ................83
Feilmg, Idabel C...........Feb. 3, '59 Mountain View 194 Mountain View .. 82
Figg, Minnie W ............. June 20, '62 Franklin .............. 143 Courtland ............96
Finch, Bertha B.t ........May 23, '62 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ..........76
Fleming, Thora J ........... Jan. 3, '58 Mendocino ........ 179 Mendocino ..........81
Forgie, Helene•t ..........Feb. 25, '63 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................80
Foley, Lida E ................. Apr. 18, '55 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ·······-···71
Foster, Mary I.• ............Feb. 15, '63 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................
82
Fox, Bertha B............... Mar. 12, '62 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ...... 78
Freulich, Helene .......... July 11, '59 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ·······-···75
Garnett, Natalie M .......Aug. 7, '61 Mountain Vitw .. 194 Mountain View .. 71
Geibel, Theresa ............Feb. 4, '53 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco ......85
Gerbert, Frances E .......May 2, '59 Three Pillars ...... 612 Sacramento ..........84
G~l~ert, Tillie B ............. Feb. 2,'57 Hillcrest ..............573
·······-·····86
Gilham, Estelle G .........Mar. 20, '46 Hemet .................. 615 Berkeley
Hemet ..................79
Goodwin, Emma ..........June 13, '58 Vermont Square 515 Los Angeles .......... 90
Gundlach, Nancy ........ June 8, '62 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........79
Halford, Lucy W. •t ....Apr. 2, '63 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia .................. 78
Hansen, Grace Z ...........Jan. 11, '60 Riverbank .......... 459
·······-···75
Hanthorn, Bessie R. ....Feb. 19, '62 Point Finnin ...... 558 Riverbank
San Pedro ............86
Hardy, Alice M.............Dec. 27, '54 Rockridge ......... .468 Oakland ................91
Hare, Violet ....................May 12, '60 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ......83
Harper, Laura D ...........Nov. 6, '57 Yolo ...................... 81 Yolo ················-····8
Harrison, Martha ..........Nov. 19, '52 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco .... 1020
Hascall, Mabel M.t ........ Oct. 3, '60 Charity ................362 Campbell ·····-·······75
Hawkes, Lelia E ...........Aug. 11, '61 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ..................79
Hawkin:;,_ Evelyn ..........Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland ................79
Hays, Lilian T ...............May 5, '55 Center ..................465 Fresno .................. 67
Hedburg, Huldah A .....Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................247 Fresno ..................84
Helmore, Ada F ............. Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........87
Hendrickson , Frances ..May 16, '62 Coalinga ..............387 Coalinga ................89
Hepburn, Catherine ....Apr. 7, '52 Palisades ·······-···637 Santa Monica ......71
Hill, Neva A. ..................Dec. 5, '55 Oakland .............. 188
···········-···79
Hinze, Henrietta M ....... Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star .... 68 Oakland
Stockton ..............78
Hitchcock, Stella ........ Sept. 29, '61 Richmond ..........347 Richmond ............84
Hoover, Emma Jane ....Feb. 5, '50 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............83
Hoskins, Elizabeth ........May 3, '55 Lancaster ........... .437 Lancaster ............84
Hyde, Florence M.t ......Feb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ........ 422 Los Angeles ..........79
Hyland, Erle Woods ....Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno .................. 76
Hyman, Loretta
(Murray)t ..................Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......71
Ireland, Lillian B .........Aug. 10, '61 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ...... 67
Jackson, Nell Louiset ..June 7, '62 Henry Knox ...... 662 Los Angeles .......... 77
Jakobs, Inez ....................Feb. 17, '60 Monterey ............217 Monterey ..............78

401

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Age
Town
No.
Lodne
Admitted
Name
93
..............
Lakeport
199
................
Hartley
Jordan, Evaline ............Mar. 27, '56
............87
Kallstrom, Edith L .......Aug. 29, '60 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood
..........79
Kapantais, Edith ..........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ....................520 Los Angeles
Kapp, Carrie
................91
(Vorsanger) ................ July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose
Diego ............81
Keller, Agnes C........... Nov. 19, '59 Silver Gate ........296 San
San Francisco ......79
Kent, Evaline C...........Sept. 6, '55 Golden Gate ...... 30 Courtland
............78
Kirtland, Minnie E .......Jan. 3, '58 Franklin .............. 143 San
Francisco ......88
Krejcik, Rose ................Feb. 16, '58 Fairmount ..........435
Lafitte, Marie Viola ....Dec. 15, '60 La Parfaite
Union .............. 17 San Francisco ......84
Lagomarsino,
Creek ........88
Henrietta .................. Sept. 2, '58 Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter
Santa Rosa ............89
Lane, Edith B ...............Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Los
Angeles ..........75
Larter, Gertrude ..........Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................405 Hollywood
............71
Lee, Zida F .....................Mar 3, '61 Silver Trowel ....415 Concord ................
81
Leslie, Mary Frances• ..Dec. 14, '62 Mount Diablo ....448 Mill Valley .......... 97
Locke, Teresa ................Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valley ........356 Hanford ................92
Logan, Alice M.............May 17, '61 Hanford .............. 279 Honolulu .............. 81
Look, C. Maude ............Mar. 16, '59 Hawaiian ............ 21 San Francisco ......85
Luscombe, Laura C•....June 29, '58 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......80
Lyon, Della M............. Sept. 4, '61 Amity ..................370 Oakland ................ 84
Mackenzie, May W.....June 30, '41 Bay View ............401 Long Beach ..........75
MacKinnon, Dorothy .. July 29, '61 Alta Loma .......... 643 Sacramento .......... 80
McAdam, Emma K. ....Sept. 12, '60 Washington ........ 20 Los Angeles .......... 85
McCann, Elizabeth J ...Aug. 4, '59 Manchester ........585
Rosa .......... 88
McCord, Zidana M.......Oct.18, '46 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa
Atascadero .......... 87
McDaniel, Elizabeth ....Apr. 12, '58 Atascadero ....... .493 Oakland
................87
McDowell, Alice M.....Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ..............244 Wasco ....................
80
McNairn, Verda A. ......July 29, '58 Wasco .................. 583 San Francisco ......74
Marshall, Lucy M .........June 29, '61 Occidental .......... 22 Healdsburg ..........98
Matthews, Annie ..........Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyome .......... 123 Richmond ............ 90
Mayfield, Mary ............ Sept. 22, '35 Alpha ..................431 San Luis Obispo .. 80
Meck, Lulu M ...............Sept. 14, '55 King David's ...... 209 Santa Cruz ............81
Mikkelsen, Louise• ......Feb. 5, '63 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Los Angeles ..........80
Miller, Catherine E .....Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ................352 San Bernardino .. 86
Mitchell, Maude N .......Dec. 20, '54 San Bernardino 348 San Francisco ......91
Mudgett, Emma L . ........ Apr. 12, '62 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ......82
Muller, Carolyn J.• ...... Oct. 12, '52 Golden West ......455 Beverly Hills ......84
Murrell, Catherine ........Jan. 12, '52 John Marshall .... 636 Long Beach ..........78
Nestle, Asenath ............July 7, '59 Long Beach ........ 327
84
Neumann, Frences G . .. July 9, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ..........
Nicolaus, Erma
..............68
(Robinson) ..................Jan. 27, '59 Unity ..................368 Glendale
...... 83
Francisco
San
570
Service
Military
'62
27,
Oct.
..........
Gertrude•
Nipps,
84
................
Oakland
244
..............
Alcatraz
'60
23,
Feb.
..............
Ida
Nussbaum,
76
..........
Sacramento
613
....
Pillars
Three
'63
15,
Apr.
..........
•
W.
Daisy
Ohm,
80
..................
Eureka
79
..........
Humboldt
'52
28,
May
................
Olsen, Minnie
Sacramento ..........77
Olsh, Sophia .................. Apr. 25, '60 Union .................. 59 Santa
Cruz ..........72
38
........
Cruz
Santa
'57
31,
Oct.
Pace, May E. (Taforo)t
..............80
Hercules
353
..................
Pinole
'58
17,
Mar.
Pfeiffer, Nina F .............
Angeles ..........89
Pitner, Eva H .................Jan. 27, '59 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los
............83
Pitts, Adelaide S ...........Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino ..........179 Mendocino
Diego ............ 72
Pruch8:z_ Velma F ...........Feb. 19, '57 Silver Gate •.......296 San
San Francisco ......84
Raby, 1..rertrude L .........Dec.17, '57 Occidental .......... 22 Baldwin
......78
Ray, Ada E .....................Aug. 18, '61 Baldwin Park ....660 San Jose Park
................ 81
Rehdorf, Josephine• .... Apr. 25, '63 San Joe .............. 10
Reasoner, Marie
81
(Jefts) ..........................July 21, '48 Normal Heights 632 San Diego ............
264 Santa Maria ........82
Robertson, Margaret• ..Apr.17, '63 Hesperian ..........699
Long Beach ..........76
Rogers, M. Isabel ......... .May 6, '61 Bixby Knolls ......
Roberts, V. Myrtlet ......Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................79

Age
Town
No.
Admitted
Lodne
Name
Rose, Mary ....................Sept. 6, '56 Mission ................169 San Francisco ...... 89
Rosenberg, Maybell ....May 9, '63 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......85
Ross, Jean ......................Apr.16, '58 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......77
Rounds, Florence B .....June 12, '54 Jonathan ............545 San Francisco ......91
Russell, Sybil A. ..........Sept. 17, '60 utopia ................ 537 Hollywood ............ 82
Ryder, Bertha ................Oct. 17, '58 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ..........79
Salter, Julia A ...............Jan. 5, '54 Crockett ..............139 San Francisco ......93
Sanders, Edith P.........Apr. 5, '58 Inglewood ..........421 Inglewood ............88
Schooley, Mary A.t ....Mar. 2, '59 East Bay ............489 Berkeley ..............86
Scovel, Marie M ...........July 4, '58 Santa Ana ..........241 Santa Ana ............ 67
Seagrave, Edna R. ........May 14, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............78
Seymour, Laura ............ Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ..............85
Shenick, Eleanor ..........Aug. 2, '57 West Los
Angeles ..........373 W. Los Angeles .... 82
Sibley, Mabel L ...........Sept. 23, '59 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................89
Slocumb, Mabel W...... .Apr. 25, '56 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento .......... 85
Smith, Eva M. • ..............Feb. 11, '63 Norwalk ..............315 Norwalk ................ 84
Smith, Grace M........... Sept. 6, '60 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................93
Smith, Hazel L .............Mar. 16, '61 Park Boulevard 568 Oakland ..........•.....77
Smith, Lillian L. ............Oct. 16, '61 El Cajon Valley 576 El Cajon ................85
Smith, Myrtle M ........... Nov.15, '56 Azure .................. 533 Fullerton .............. 83
Snowden, Jean E .........Dec. 29, '58 Ferndale ............ 193 Ferndale .............. 89
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr.13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........90
Spalding, Olive G .........May 6, '60 Surprise Valley 235 Cedarville ............82
Stapff, Mary S ...............Mar. 29, '60 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco ......79
Steigelman, Joant ........Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower ..........523 Bellflower ............77
Stvenson, Julia M.........Aug.17, '57 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ............82
Stevenson, Teresa• ......Feb. 28, '63 Maui ....................472 Hawaii ..................81
Stewart, Edna May ......Dec. 15, '61 East Gate ............290 Los Angeles ..........74
Stolle, Lucy E .................Oct. 29, '59 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......84
Stroud, Laura L ...........June 2, '37 Vacaville •...........134 Vacaville .............. 89
Stromberg, Laura A. ..Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior •...........166 San Francisco ......78
Swain, Sarah C.............Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ................396 Alameda ..............84
Sweeney, Sada S ......... Sept. 12, '59 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles .......... 88
Tier, Sofie ......................Aug. 28, '58 South Park ........ 563 Los Angeles .......... 83
Timmer, Anne M· ........Nov. 30, '59 Presidio ..............354 Sa nFrancisco ......75
Townson, Mary P.t ......Feb.14, '62 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................82
Tunstead, Rosa ............July 5, '57 King Solomon's 260 San Francisco ......86
Tweedy, Mary L ...........Apr. 2, '55 Thousand Oaks ..478 Berkeley .............. 83
Waite, Florence ............Dec. 9, '54 Seal Rock ..........536 San Francisco ...... 84
Walker, Anne G. • ........Aug. 9, '62 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................80
Webster, Emma ............Feb. 28, '55 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........92
Wells, Jennie A. ............Dec. 27, '54 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ..........95
Wheat, Daisy W.............Dec. 29, '59 Meridian ............ 669 Glendale ..............85
White, Harriette C. • .... Nov. 19, '62 Blackmer ............442 San Diego ............92
Whittaker, Ada H ......... Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................89
Wilkie, Eva L ...............Aug. 18, '60 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......85
Williams, Annie F .......Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......83
Williams, Winnie B .....Sept. 22, '61 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................83
Wisewell, Evelyn ..........Feb. 18, '54 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......89
Wood, Uriel P. • ............Feb. 19, '63 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................86
Wynman, Eva G ........... Sept. 2, '59 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............86
Wuster, Yolande V.t
(Decker) ....................Aug. 2, '59 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 72

400

402

PROCEEDING S OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI A

UNION CITY, CALIFORNI A

Annual Report 1962-63
Deaths-WO MEN-Avera ge Age: 81.85 Years or 81 yrs. 10.2 mos.
Town
Lodge
Age
Name
No.
Died
Barr, Mabel W .............June 5, '63 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........82
Burrage, Mary ..............May 9, '63 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................78
Bowman, Ottie ..............Apr. 30, '63 Henry Morse
Stephens ........541 Berkeley ..............82
Bellmer, Eleanor F .......Jan. 21, '63 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................81
Boaz, Georgia ................Oct. 8, '62 Oxnard ................341 Oxnard ..................85
Cicero, Antoinette ........Jan. 9, '63 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................69
Crozier, Mary E ...........Nov. 15, '62 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......79
Harter, Clara B .............May 25, '63 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ................ 84
Hollis, Maybelle J .......Apr. 21, '63 Francis K.
Shattuck ........571 Berkeley ..............79
Frank, Dorothy E ....... Sept. 9, '62 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......64
Hoopes, J essely
(Weinberg) ................Dec. 20, '62 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 70
Hoin, Minnie A. ............Sept. 20, '62 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ...... 89
Jacobsen, Josephine ....Oct. 19, '62 So. California ....278 Los Angeles .......... 90
Lent, Elizabeth D .........Apr. 1, '63 Yerba Buena ..... .403 San Francisco ...... 83
Lawrence, Irma ........... .Aug. 9, '62 Parnassus ..........388 San Francisco ...... 78
Mojonier, Fraida ............Jan. 3, '63 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............78
Mciver, Ella W............. Sept. 2, '62 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .............. 87
Nielsen Este M .............Sept. 3, '62 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................84
Peacock, Katie ..............Apr. 15, '63 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................ 89
Perryman, Stella M.....Jan. 26, '63 Signal ..................543 Long Beach .......... 84
Prentice, Rose ................Jan. 6, '63 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............ 93
Purcell, Susie ..............Nov. 2, '62 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......87
Sauer, Laura ..................Apr. 5, '63 Hermann ............127 San Francisco ......74
Shanks, Ella ..................Nov. 4, '62 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu .............. 91
Schumacher, Cora ....... .May 12, '63 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ..............85
Thompson, Abbie V.....Oct. 23, '62 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......80
Ward, Nina E .................Dec. 30, '62 Vermont Square 515 Inglewood ............85

Withdrawals -WOMEN-1 962-1963
Name
Withdrew
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Edith Blackwell ............June 25, '63 Phoenix .............. 178 San Bernardino .. 73

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

403

CHILDRE N AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1963
Girls-22
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Carroll, Christine ........June 30, '62 Downey ..............220 Downey ................15
Caswell, Renee ........... .April 5, '57 Arcadia .............. 547 Arcadia ................15
Cooper, Debrah ............ Nov. 25, '61 Eden ....................113 San Leandro ........ 11
Cruikshank, Starlana ..Sept. 14, '59 Plumas ................ 60 Quincy .................. 13
Hampton, Carol K.• ...... Nov.18, '62 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles .......... 4
Hampton, Jennie L.• .... Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........ 585 Los Angeles .......... 6
Hampton, Vivian R. • ....Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles .......... 8
Hillhouse, Linda J .........Jan. 27, '62 Palms ..................512 Los Angeles ..........16
Howey, Kathlene ..........Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ....... .467 Los Angeles ..........15
Larimore, Carolyn A.• ..July 7, '62 East San Diego....561 East San Diego ....12
Larimore, Linda S.* ......July 7, '62 East San Diego.... 561 East San Diego ....14
Ritchie, Linda ................Dec. 13, '58 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward .............. 12
Smith, Carolyn D. • ........Feb. 1, '63 Signal .................. 543 Long Beach .......... 11
Torrance, Debra ............Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino ..........10
Torrance, Kathy ............Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino .......... 8
Torrance, Pamela ..........Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino .......... 6
Torrance, Sheryl ..........Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino .......... 5
Weddell, Jeanette• ........Jan. 6, '63 Palatine (Ill.) ....314 Palatine, lllinois .. 12
Weddell, Paulette• ........Jan. 6, '63 Palatine (Ill.) ....314 Palatine, lllinois .. 11
Werner, Beverly .......... Sept. 3, '57 Jas. A. Foshay .. 641 Los Angeles .......... 15
Williams, Shirley ..........May 18, '55 Trona ..................684 Trona ....................17
Yungling, Barbara ........Oct. 10, '53 Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula ···-···17
• Indicates admission during current year.

CHILDRE N AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1963
Boys-33
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Archinal, Steven .......... Nov. 12, '56 Liberal Arts ......677 Los Angeles ..........14
Bloedel, Kurt R. ..........June 16, '62 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles .......... 10
Carroll, Harry L., Jr.....June 30, '62 Downey ..............220 Downey ................10
Clinkscale, Fred ............Jan. 6, '57 Indian Wells ...... 691 Ridgecrest ............16
Cooper, Douglas ............Nov. 25, '61 Eden
3 San Leandro ........ 11
Cooper, Dwight ............Nov. 25, '61 Eden ···-···············11
.................... 113 San Leandro ........ 12
Cooper, William ..........Nov. 25, '61 Eden ....................113 San Leandro ........ 13
Cox. Dennis .................. Sept. 7, '55 Fairfax ................556 Larkspur ..............12
Cox, Wayne ....................Aug. 11, '54 Fairfax ................556 Larkspur ..............14
Cruikshank, Sidney ....Sept.14, '59 Plumas ................ 60 Quincy .................. 10
Drake, Charles* ............Nov. 30, '62 Fellowship ........480 Oakland ................13
Fuller, Don, Jr.............Sept. 12, '59 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................ 15
Howey, Bruce ................Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ........467 Los Angeles ........ 13
Howey, Bud ....................Apr. 29, '62 Culver City ....... .467 Los Angeles ........12
Kinnimont, Dave ........Sept. 6, '61 Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ........15
McCormick, John ........Mar. 1, '59 Damascus .......... 648 San Bernardino .. 10
Mann, George ................Jan. 1, '57 Alta Vista ..........464 Daly City .............. 12
Mann, Thomas ..............Mar. 5, '55 Alta Vista ..........464 Daly City .............. 16
Melcher, Burt• ............Sept. 12, '62 Van Nuys ..........450 VanNuys .............. 13
Moore, Daniel c.• ........Nov. 10, '62 Benton (Ill.) ........ 64 Benton, Illinois .... 6
Moore, David F.• ..........Nov. 10, '62 Benton (Ill.) ........ 64 Benton, Illinois .... 8
Moore, Dean C.• ............ Nov. 10, '62 Benton (Ill.) ........ 64 Benton, Illinois .... 5
Ritchie, Thomas ............Dec. 13, '58 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............11
Smith, Andrew ..............Aug. 4, '61 Cahuenga ............513 Hollywood ............ 16
Smith, Michael ..............Aug. 4, '61 Cahuenga ............ 513 Hollywood ............14

404

Strauss, Mitchell ..........Feb. 11, '62 Los Cerritos ........674 Long Beach ..........14
Cristobal, Canal
Sullivan, Stephen• ......May 20, '63 Sojourners
(Canal Zone)
Zone --·-·-----·-- 12
Van Buskirk, Craig• ..June 12, '63 Jubilee ................ 604 SantaAna.............. 9
Ana ............ 7
604
Santa
................
Van Buskirk, Jeffrey• June 12, '63 Jubilee
Warrick, Bruce ..............Nov. 21, '54 Monta Vista ......655 Long Beach .......... 16
Warrick, Robert ............Nov. 21, '54 Monta Vista ......655 Long Beach ..........14
Yelusich, Andrew ........May 13, '62 Point Finnin ......558 San Pedro ····------·· 9
Yelusich, John .............. May 13, '62 Point Firmin ...... 558 San Pedro ............ 12
•Indicates admission during current year.

Departed During the Year, JuJy 1, 1962 to June 30, 1963
(at ~etime
of departure)
Departed
Admitted
Name
Williams, Sharon ..........May 18, '55 .......................... 7- 1-62 (LOA) ..............16
Williams, Sharont ...... •Sept. 8, '62 .......................... 10- 1-62............................16
Dunning, Lorrainet .... Sept. 9, '62 .......................... 2-12-63.......................____ 14
Cox, Georgia ..................Aug.11, '54.......................... 6-13-63..............-------------18
Achinal, Karen M.........Sept. 29, '56 .......................... 6-14-63............................17
Mann, Mary F .................Mar. 5, '55 .......................... 6-15-63 ............................18
Werner, Diana B ........... Sept. 3, '57 .......................... 6-17-63............................17
• Readmission.
t Admitted and discharged during the current year.

GirJs -

6

Boys - 5

405

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

A~

(at the time
of departure)
Departed
Admitted
Name
Galvery, William L ..... •Mar.11, '62 .......................... 7- 1-62....................... - ...17
Hoard, James I. ............Apr. 8, '55 .......................... 7- 1-62.....- .....................17
Yungling, Douglas ........Oct.10, '53.......................... 7- 1-62............................ 17
Orth, Jerry Charles ........July 23, '54.......................... 9-21-62............................ 17
Warrick, David M.........Mar.13, '55 .......................... 2-21-63............................12
• Readmission.

HOME srATISTICS
Nlllllber ot rea1dents as or June 30, 1963:
Decoto H._

Men

Women

Total

Residents, JuJ.¥ 11 1962

lSl

22S

376

Admitted

23

25

48

Died and Withdrawn

25

27

52

Residents, Jwie JO, 1963

149

223

372

Cavina HOllll
Rallidenta, Jul,y 1, 1962

30

19

49

Admitted

8

10

l.11

Graduated and Withdrawn

5

7

12

33

22

55

Reaidenta, Jane 301 1963
PER CAPITA COST

statement ot Per Capita Coah (Statilrtical) tor the Fbcal Year
ending Jane 30, 1963:
Decoto Hom
Coat or Kainterumce
ATerage nUlllber ot residents
ATerage operating coat per aonth

11,022,280.47

372
$85,190.~

ATllrage coat per dq

2,800. Tl

Average cost per re11:1dent per 79ar

2,748.07

Average coat per resident per month

229.00

.Average coat per resident per dq

7.53

ATerage nlllllber or enrplo79es

214

Cmna Homa
Cost or Maintenance

.Average llWlber ot residents
.Average operating cOllt per llOlrt.h
.Average coat per day

$254,268.19

55
$21,189.0l
696.63

Average coat per child per 79ar

4,623.06

ATerage coat per child per aonth

385.25

.Average coat per child per dq

12.67

Average nWlber ot emplo;reea

36

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

407

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES CONTRIBUTIO NS
DECOTO SPECIAL RESERVE

CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL RESERVES
ESTATF.81

July 1, 1962 - June 30, 1963
(The Lodge designation indicates connection b7
interest but not necessarily by membership)
RESERVES FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENl'S

ESTATES: Chester B. Ashley (Elysian Lodge 1418)
Elliott M. Clesson (Covina Lodge 1334)
Charles Dettman (Palisades Lodge 1637)
Marie Devaul (Educator Lcidge 1554)
Alexander M. Gilbert (Fidelity Lodge #120)
Har17 c. Grq (Crocker Lodge 1454)
Oliver J. Helvey (Santa Ana Lodge 1241)
John A. Ledward (Washington Lodge #20)
Ann G. Luther
Belle McKenzie (Tuolumne Lodge 18)
Thomas G. Packham (Occidental Lodge #22)
Robert A. Peabody (Lincoln Lodge #470)
Victor E. Per17 (San Francisco Lodge #360)
Frank c. Slauter (Citrol Lodge 1656)
Edna Ii. Spencer
Elmer E. Thiebeault (Long Beach Lodge #327)
John & Pauline Tonningsen (Oriental Lodge #144)
llISCr

Belmont Shore Lodge #716
Mark J. Hanna
Edward s. Jankowicz
Mrs. J. L. Mitchell
Heney L. Pohndorf

S

101.01
187.00
975.oo
1,000.00
1,500.00
2,681.40
1,000.00
4,lll.70
64,926.Sl
ll,738.94
3,000.00
250.00
1,000.00
3,308.59
38,491.79
2,500.00
7,380.89

Webster Powell
E. H. Siems
Frank P. Smith
Lewis s. Tudor
Wayfarers Club

COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE
ESTATFSt Robert T. Aird
Wm. Q. Cllllllllins
Ward 11'. Geleer (Oakland Lodge #188)
Anna M. Harter (Sisson Lodge #310)
James R. Henderson (Montebello Lodge #451)
Joseph s. Honch (Fullerton Lodge 1339)
Thomas B. Johnson (Moneta Lodge 1405)
Charles Lloyd (West Los Angeles Lodge 1373)
Alice M. M. Mcintosh (Wilshire Lodge 1445)
Florence D. McTier
Wm. H. Oates (Sunnyside Lodge #577)
Madison T. Owens (Southern Cali!omia Lodge #278)
Beatrice Potter (Mizpah Lodge #378)
Mattie c. Sandelin
Jessie v. Scott (Euclid Lodge 1519)
Edna T. Shaw (Long Beach Lodge #327)
Willard H. S:llllpson
Claude J. Spencer (Oakland Lodge #188)
Vax c. Stern (Bq City Lodge #526)
Adeline Stevens (Alhambra Lodge #322)
llannie M. Warinner
J.!ISCt

Ambrose & Glaeys BQW7er
Foundation
Robert E. C07
Edison Masonic Club
R. D. & Ma17 A. Hune
Endowment Fund
Edward E. L&Bounty

22,874.66
5,ooo.oo
45,133.95
98,997.31
1,000.00
1,486.23
500.00

66o.56

661.61
27.16
100.00
ll,136.29
99.00
150.00
39,999.00
64,468.48
300.00
200.00
2,9S6.68
359.55
24,592.18

Palo Alto Commandeey
#47 K.T.
Resh Chapter, Order or
Golden Slipper
San Gabriel Valley
Shrine Club
Robert v. Schmidt

MISC1

Jilllnie ](. Currie (Chico Lodge #lll)
Angelo M. DaVico (Honolulu Lodge 1409)
Gustaf E. Fagerlund (Balder Lodge 1393)
Emma M. Fishell (Security Lodge #581)
Martin M. Hoffman
Harrison M. J11111eson (ll'Ht Lake Lodge #392)
Thomas B. Johnson (Monet& Lodge 1405)
Benjamin Liederman (Fidelity Lodge 1120)
Charles Lloyd (West Los Angeles Lodge #373)
Jolla F. Lotze
John D. Mayer (Francis IC. Shattuck Lodge #571)
Austin J. Mur.iert (Hillcrest Lodge 1573)
Einar C. Petersen (Amity Lodge #370)
Edna T. Shaw (Long Beach Lodge 1327)
Mabel Spencer (Yorba Linda Lodge #469)
Adeline Stevens (Alhambra Lodge 1322)
Elsie J. Woods (Highland Park Lodge #382)
George H. Thomas Circle 32
Ladies or the G.A.R.

l3,650.S9
l,000.00

506.20

6,138.61
1,000.00
Sli,U6.50

soo.oo

100.00
66o.S6
6,914.69
100.00
253,011.05
948.44
64,468.49
6,211.05
359.55
6,205.00

Albert J. Jacobs
Jewel L. Pitte

STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND
ESTATES:

Lucy A. Downie
Oscar Honssinger

MISC:

H. o. Andrews
California State Craft

3,822.63
230.00
Superior California
Delfolay A1111n.

408

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CHRISTlfAS .um IR'l'lllTAillllDT !IF.SERVI

'!'lie 'l'Nsteea of the llasonic Homes acknowledge 111.th appreciation tba contriblltione received fra11

CBRISTIW! Allil EllTER1'AI!6!ENT RFSERVE (Continued)
Job's Daughters, Rainbow for Girls:
Atascadero A11se111bl,y No. 2S
Garden Grove Bethel No. 290

Inights T1111Plar Camanderiea
Sacraiento llo. 2
lfevada llo. 6
llaeynille Ro. 7
San Jose Ro. 10
Chico lfo. 12
Golden Gate Ro. 16
lfaval llo. 19
Watsonville 110. 22
Colusa Ro. 24
V1198lia Ro. 26
San Im.s Obispo lo. 27
Pasadena llo. 31
MOIUlt Shasta 110. 32

Ukiah llo. 33
Napa lfo. 34
Eureka No. 3S
Southern California Ro. 37
San Francisco Bo. 41
Santa CNS lfoo 44
Palo Alto· No. 47
Alhambra No. 48
1l'h1ttier Ro. Sl
!Jlperial Vall.87 lo. S4
San Pedro Ro. 60
CalVU7 Bo. 62
Centennial Ro. 74

Order of Saetern Star
Ventura Chapter No. 79
Wimondasis Club
Marshall Chapter No. 86
Mercedes Chapter Ro. 126
Lexington Chapter Ro. 172
ll:l.guelito Chapter No. 176
San Rafael Chapter Ro. 21S
Atascadero Chapter lfo. 344

Miscellaneous

~l Arch llason Chapters

Sacramento lfo. 3
Nevada Ro. 6
Grass Val.le7 lfo. 18
Petaluma No. 22
Santa Cruz llo. 38
Viealla lfo. 44
DU:on No. 48
Hwnbol.dt 110. S2
Colusa No. 60
San Im.s No. 62
Riverside lfo. 67
Crown lfo. 72
Hanford No. 74
Pomona No. 76

lfargueri~ I. I. Alder

San Pedro No. 89
ll'hi ttier lfo. 91
Palo Alto Ro. 93
P'idellt7 Bo. 96
San Gabriel Valle7 lo. 100
Redondo Ro. 101
Marin No• 102
111ll Vallq llo. 108
South Pasadena No. ll2
Sebastopol No. 117
Huntington Park Ito. 127
Searchlight Ro. 1.33
Wilmington No. 141
Havasu No. 148

Royal and Select Mastera Councils
Sacramento llo. 1
Sislc4ou Ro. 8
Oaten.7 lfo. 1.3
Pasadena lfo. 16
Santa Cruz No. 17
Pomona Mo. 21

Alhambra llo. 2S
Vallq Ro. 27
!isalia llo. 4.3
Harbor No. 4S
Redwood Empire Mo. 46
Zabud No. 49

Ao &A. S. Ro (Bodies)
Bakersfield
Burlingame
Fresno

Oakland
Saoramento
San Jose

D1atr1ct Officers Associationa
b2oth District
42lst District
S3oth District
S.36th District

S42nd District
605th District
618th District
628th District
629th District

Jlasonlc Clubs
East ll'hittier·Lodge
Compasa Club
Insurance Square Club of
East :sq

Long Beach Masonic Club
Mountain Empire Jlasonic Club
San Francisco Square Club
633 Club of Ventura
Telephone Masonic Club of L.A.

Thousand Oaks Chapter No. 37S
Starlette Club
Siloam Chapter No. 406
George Washington Chapter No. 409
Melita Chapter No. 467
Ea11t B87 Matrons of 1951
"Golden Chain A11sociation
Orange C01U1t7Warder Assoc.
1947 !fort.hem Grand A11soc1ation
in honor of Birdie Bassett

c. H. Blue

Kr. &: Xrs. R. I. Bl,yberg
ll!Qbel B. Broclc

Mae Carden
Cross Line Club
I. J. David
Vida M. Dell
Ba1T7 l'renlich
Jo119ph D. 0entJ'7
B. B. Graves
Xrs. 'l'obJ' Green

Herald Examiner
Hohener Keat Co.
Kaey Hoover
I. I. KacDougal
w. A. Sloan
Kr. &: Mrs. noyd Southem
Xrs. s. L. Stofle
William Vocke
The l1'esterner11
Xr11. Lisa &: Jack Wright
Alvin Zwarneman

Lodge•

California Ro. 1
Western Star 11'0. 2
'l'ehalla Ro. .3
Corinthian Ro. 9
San• Jose lo. 10
YOW!/t Ro. 12
l'evada Ro. 1.3
Eureka llo. 16
La Partaite Union No. 17
San Joaquin Bo, 19
Wa11hington Bo. 20
Hawaiian lfo. 21
Occidental Ro, 22
lfadi11on llo. 23
l l Dorado Ro. 26
'l'r1n1t7 Ro. 27
Golden Gate lfo. 30
Gold Bill No• 32
San .Diego Ro • .3S
Howard Ro. 37
Santa Cruz Ro. 38
Sacraento llo. 40
lfartines Ro. 41
Mount Moriah llo. 44
Cr1111cent llo. 4S
'!'meas llo. 46
Santa Ron Ro. S7
Union llo. SB
Plaa11 lfo. 60
Live oak Bo. 61
Rate.a Ro. 64
lnterprl.H Ro. 70
Ve11p11r Ro. 84
Raval .lo. 87

St. Helena lfo, 93
Yosemite lfo. 99
Cla7 Ro. 101
Lexington No. lOb
Arcata No. 106
Chico Ro. ID
Iden Ro. 11.3
Fide11t7 No, 120
Alamo lfo, 122
Laf8.78tte Ro. 126
Hermann lfo, 127
Visalia No. 128
lficolaus lfo. 129
· Pacific lfo. 1.36
Crockett Ro. 1.39
Franklin No. 143
Oriental No. 144
Eel River No. 147
Molino lfo. lSo
Woodland Ro. 156
Excelsior No, 166
.ll81118da Ro. 16 7
Redwood Cit,. lfo, 168
ll:l.1111ion lfo. l.69
Antioch Ro. 17S
PetallllllL Ro. l8o
Keith Ro. 167
Oakland Ro, 188
Karin lo. 191
Santa Barbara Ro. 192
Mountain Vin Ro. 194
Willllington lfo, 198
Silv.,.ville No. 201

Stanisl.au lo. 206

409

410

PROCEED INGS OF THE
CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE (Continued )
Lodges (Continued )
Rio Vista No. 208
King David's No. 209
Friendship No. 210
San Benito No. 211
South San Francisco No. 212
Oak Grove 11'0. 215
Monterey No. 217
lloeaic No. 218
Speranza Italian& No. 219
Downey No. 220
Roseville No. 222
Bakersfiel d No, 224
Brook!Jrn No. 225
San llateo No. 226
Athens No. 228
Hilla Ferry No. 236
Guadalupe No. 237
Colusa No. 240
Santa Ana No. 241
Laurel No. 245
Fresno No. 247
Landmark No. 253
Reading No. 254
hnriJ1n No. 258
Evergreen No. 259
Tuscan No, 261
Lompoc No. 262
Hesperian No. 264
Orland No. 265
Galt No. 267
·Olive Branch No. 269
Pasadena No. 272
Arrayo No. 274
Hanford No. 279
Madera No. 280
llount Shasta No. 281
South West No. 283
San lliguel No. 285
Paso Robles No. 286
Elsinore No, 289
East Gate No. 290
Orange Grove No. 293
Liberty No. 299
Redlands No. 300
Ontario No. 301
Azusa No. 305
Ashlar No, 3o6
Temeacal No. 314
Norwalk No, 315
Alisal No. 321
Corona No. 324
ll'eedles No. 326
Redondo No. 326
Pacific Grove No. 331
Fruitvale ll'o. 336
Carquinez No. 337
Starr King No. 344
Palo Alto No. 346
llcKinl83' No. 347
San Bernardino No. 348
Sequoia No. 349
Palestine ll'o. 351
Pinole No. 353
llill Valley No. 356
San Francisco No. 360
South Pasadena No. 367
Amity No. 370
Jenl No. 374

Richmond No. 375
Artesia No. 377
Mizpah No. 378
Fillmore No. 379
Highland Park No. 382
El Centro No. 384
Dinuba No. 365
Parnassus No. 388
Balder No. 393
Uninrsity No. 394
Burlingame No. 400
Yerba Buena No. 403
Moneta No. 405
Honolulu No. 409
Perris No. 411
Silver Trowel No. 415
Lindsay No. 416
Midway No. 426
San Dimas No. 428
Pittsburg No. 429
Alpha No. 431
Maricopa No. 434
Faimount No. 435
Standard No. 4h0
Coronado No. 441
Blackmer No. 442
Torrance No, 447
Mount Diablo No. 448
Parle No. 449
Mount Oso No. 46o
Argonaut No. 461
Paul Revere No, 462
Center No. 465
Libertaa No, 466
Culver City No. 467
Rockridge No. 468
Delta No. 471
Temblor No. 477
Thousand Oaks No. 478
Golden Rule No. 479
lit. Davidson No. 481
Bell No. 483
Albert Pike No. 484
Caledonia No. 486
Vallejo No. 487
Patterson No. 488
East Bay No. 489
Woodstock No. 491
Atascadero No. 493
Acom No. 494
capital City Bo. 499
Roosevelt No. 5oo
Harbor No. 502
Point No. 5o3
Seaside Ro. 5o4
n Segundo No. 501
Cupertino No. 510
Sunnyvale No. 511
Cahuenga No. 513
Argonne No. 514
Taft No. 516
Piedmont Ro. 521
George Washington No. 525
Bay City lo. 526
Covenant Ro. 527
Queen Beach Ro. S40
Henry llorse Stephene lo. Sli1
San Gabriel 11<>. 5116

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA
CllRISTlfAS .A.ND ENTERI'AINMENT RESERVE (Continued )
Lodges (Continued )
Seaport No. 55o
Lakeshore No. 551
S11111per Virens No. 552
Point Firmill Ro. 558
East San Diego No. 561
s. w. Hackett No. 574
El Cajon Vallq No. 576
Progressiv e No. 576

Santa llaria No. 580

Security No. 5Bl ·
El Sereno Ro. 588
Kauai No. 569
CompaH No. 590
'l'ujunga No. 592
.
Service No. 594
Alexander Graham Bell No. 595
Guardian No. 596
Dimond Ro. 6o3
Provident Ro. 609
Neptune No. 619
Point Loma No._ 620
The Gardens Ro. 621
Riverside No. 635
Palisades No. 637
Indian Rock Ro. 638
Alta Lama No, 643
A. F. E. Irwin No, 645
Damascus No. 648
La Brea Ro. 650
Baldwin Parle No. 660
llalta Ro. 6ll

11'.aweah Ro. 665

Ban Oorgonio No. 668

John P. Janaari No. 669
Far West No. 673
Loa Cerritos No. 674
Modesto No. 675
WillOW' Glen No. 676 "
Carmel No. 680
Dos Palos No. 681
Albany Ho. 686
Oildale Ho. 688
San Carlos No. 690
Indian Wells Vall8J' Ho. 691
San Lorenzo Valley !io. 718
Estero Ho. 719
Mineral King No. 720
Saint John's Ro. 725
Ban Juan No. 732
Peninsula Ro. 745
llerced Ho. 749
Golden Bowl No. 755
Cla;yton Valley Ro. 756
West CoVin& Ro. 758
Lakeside Ro. 760
Josiah w. Roller Ho. 761
Coastside No. 762
Tejon No. 773
Waikiki No. 774
Jlplling Hills No. 781
American River No. 795
lit. BaJ.q, u.n.

411

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

41 la

GENERAL APPENDIX

CONTENTS

Standing Committees ............................................................................ 412
Special Committees .............................................................................. 415
Constitutional Boards .......................................................................... 41 7
Masonic Homes .................................................................................... 418
California Masonic Temple ................................................................ 419
Directors Masonic Clubouses .............................................................. 419
Registration and Mileage Payments .................................................... 420
List of Con•stituent Lodges .................................................................. 466
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ........................................ 483
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization ............................ 488
List of Inspectors .................................................................................. 495
Foreign Grand Lodges ........................................................................ 498
Alpabetical List of Lodges ···········································-····················· 503
Correspondence Report Announcement ............................................ 510
Index .................................................................................................... 511

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

1963- 1964
STAND ING COMM ITTEE S
JURISPR UDENCE
John R. Moore (667)-- -----·-- --··-·--' f53 S. Spring St., Los Angelea 13
Oscar Lawler (290) ...............- ............................... 800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ...........................................................500 Sunset Ave., Oak View
Leo E. Anderson (355)--·····-····································.700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17
Henry C. Clausen (630)·-···················-····-·············2.34 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Joe L. Shell (35) .................................................................- ...2858
Kalmia Pl., San Diego4
Wakefield Taylor (41) ·········································-····················.1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Roy J. Henville (685) ...........................- .................................3046 Stoneley Dr., Pasadena
Ewart L. Merica ( I) ....................................................3535 Fillmore St., San Francisco 23

POUCY AND GENERA L PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609)·-····· · · - - - - · - · · - - - - - 1808 "'Q" St., Sacramento 14
Ellsworth Meyer (677)-····-·· ·-····-··--·· ·····--·····- 1415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena
Arthur Paulsen (27) ........................·-·-····-·-· ··-··--·-··· ····.Box 486, Weaverville
Guy B. Mize (368) .............................................................- ... 1238 Idlewood Rd .. Glendale
Ira W. Coburn (216).................................................. 2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 10
Elbert W. Davis (511) ........................·-······················-·····-···2908 Russell St., Berkeley 5
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ..........................................................Courthouse, Oakland 7
Don K. Baldwin (103) .......................- .....................................2920 Stormes Ave., Oroville
Arthur Alexander (733) ......................................................2103 Tevis Rd .. Sacramento 25

FINANC E
Frank Har ell, Jr. (528)- ---·
._623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul F. Bai-:k (144)---············································-···1844- 28th Ave., San Francls<:o 22
Alfred H. Nicoll (481 ) ---·-····-..-·-·····....23370 Camino Hermoso, Los Altos Hills
Atwill Morgan (636) ·········-········-·-·····························8874 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 46
Fred M. Clark (368) .................- ................................... 1662 San Gabriel Ave., Glendale
Kern H. Copeland. Jr, (535) .................................................. 1521 Lindauer Dr., La Habra8
Mark E. Broome (70) ....................................................... - ...941 Carolina Ave., Yuba City

GRIEVA NCES
Albert F. Ross (254)---··························-······························-······-·-··-···Box 759, Redding
Albert C. Wollen:berg (.344) --·-··- ---__ p· 0. Box 707, San Francisco 1
William B. Neeley (743)·-··-·- -·-·-···-······ ···················-1429 Virginia Ave.. Glendale
Byron C. Marton (259)____ ___
_____p, 0. Bolt 507, Riverside
Folger Emerson (61) ····-·..·························-·····················2001 Magellan Dr., Oekland 11
Richard E. Patton (240) ...................·-······································-··-.521 Market St., Colusa
A. J. McCourtney (437) ........................................................321 Lago Lindo Dr., Palmdale

·CREDENTIAI.S
Thos. F. Mason (198)-···· ··-····--·- -·--···220 No. Glendale Ave.. Glendale 6
Don E. Berry (568)_.... _..............-······························-··--··········-···p· 0. Box 208, Lodi
Emil W. Trefts (38) .................................................................. 126 Dake Ave .. Santa Cruz
Harry F. Lutticken (166) ···················-··························.1611
Ave., San Francisco 22
Charles H. Knights (384) .........................................................-- 7th
..P. 0. Box 248, El Centro
Tames B. Smith (111)---·-·· ··········---- ··········--- --··-·-··--- 901 Alpine St., Chico
l.vle C. Hall (758) .....·-·····-······ ·-·-·---··-- ·······---12 59 Leaf Ave., West
Covina

413

PAY OF MEMBERS
Keith W. Schlaegel (372) .................................................... 1320 West 163rd St., Gardena
John V. Badgalupl (191)- -----··· -···--·-- -108 Belle Ave., San Rafael
Matthew M. C.Odon (42 )-·····-··- ·-·-·-·--- -530 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
Willlam D. Knight (437)----· -··-·-·····-- ·---44037 No. Heaton Ave., Lancaster
Archer R. Richardson ( 185) ···························································-············Stewart's Po Int
F. Chow Chan (587) .............................................- ....400 Gingling Way, Los Angeles 12
William J. Caven (111) .................................................................... P. 0. Box 190, Durham

CHART ERS
Herbert A. Huebner (445)
--·--·······-·· 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles H
Robert A. Smith (426) ....·-················-··········································-··-···429 Center St., Tah
Philip B. Stone (727) ···-··-·- --·--·-·- ··--···-··-1 007 Bethany Rd .. Burbank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728)---···· ···-··········- -····-··1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 4
Wayne E. Burk (316)--- --···-··-·· --·-··-·-·· ·--...248 S. McCall Rd., Sanger
Charles Warren (57) ·················-·········································-···933 Crest Dr., Santa Rosa
Robert O. West (26) .....................................·-·········-······ ··-··-P.O. Box 752, Placerville
Martin Ortlieb (35)·-····························--·····························-····2889 Palm St.. San Diego
Frank B. Peebles (556) ........................................................31 Maywood Way,
San Rafael
Stanley L. Cosart (424) .........·--·······-············-················-·········125 Portola Ave .. Exeter
John L. Shaw (805) .............- ........................................_.. .1~845 E. Callita St., San Gabriel

BY-LAWS
Henry D. Ollphant (360).·--···-·-········································-···2915 Florida St., Oakland 2
Alden J. Fulkerson (35) ..-·--·······-··· ·············-·· ········---··3 205 Poe St.. San Diego
Virl Bennehoff ( 1) ·-········································-·······3701 Divlsadero St., San Francisco 23
R. Wayne Flllpot (407) ...............................- .............................4784 Jackson Dr.. La Mesa
Charles Becker (.344) ·············································--···········Courthouse, So. San Francisco
Edgar E. Choate, Jr. (420) ................................................3876 East Shields Ave., Fresno
Gordon A. Armstrong (25) .-.........................................9353 Greenback Lane, Orangevale

.

CORRES PONDEN CE
Newcomb Candee (614).-Sup erior Court, Dept. 64, 111 No. Hill St., Los Angeles 12
George W. Burch, Jr. (650)__ ___
..417 S. Hlll St., Los Angeles 13
John Wullschleger (550)--- ·--··--·-- ·-·-··45 Cleveland St., San Francisco 3
Maurice B. Ross (35)--- -------- -··-·----· _lOfO Udal St., San Diego 6
Ralph T. Merriam (272)- ---··--- -----11 20 E. Woodbury. Pasadena
Clement L. Carter (698) ....... ___ ·-·······-·-· ··-.............412 West 6th St.. Los Angeles H
S. L. Channon (259) ....·-··········-························-···················2361 Daventry Rd., Riverside

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVI TIES
William Van Omum (374)-···- ····-··-···-· ····748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 7
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462) _ _ _ _ _ _ _
__3939 Ortega St., San Frandsoo 22
Bernie J. Katz ( 120)
-·--·--- --..1864 - 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Phil Bovero (374) ...·--·-·--·-·-··· ········-·-····· ··-··-··-·····2 222 - 39th Ave., San Francisco
Perry Lawson (462) ............................................................ 1978-46th
Ave., San Francisco
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) ..............................................337 Douglas St., San Francisco H
Emmett Bundy (554) ·-··················································· 1762 - 40th Ave., San Francisco 22
Charles R. Shour (706) ..........................................
........2218-20th Ave., San Francisco 16
Edward W. Quon (673) ..- .............................................. 750 Grant Ave., San Francisco 8
George C. Murray (169)---· -···-········ ·------302 3 Turk St., San Francisco 18
Carl H. Kiefer (673) ....................................................1121 Kirkham St., San Francisco 22

414

PROCEEDING S OP THE

LODGE FINANCI NG
Mark A. Green (320>.-- --··--··-·· --318-B S. Reno St., Los Angeles 57
George W. Sturm (2St) ··---··--····-·· ········-···--- 2316 California St., Redding
Building, San Francisco 4
Ivan Crase (435) ....·-··---·-·--··· -··-·-···-·-··· 1000 Mills
____..761 - 34th Ave.. San Francisco 21
Arthur S. Becker (3H)
La Mirada
Richard L. Riemer (778) .•..·-·····-······················-······14252 San Feliciano Dr.,
Benjamin Susman (529) •........................- ..............................3403 Cumpston St., Van Nuys
Hale Meader (208) .....- ...........................................................24 North Front St., Rio Vista
Charles C. Cadman (290) ..............................................5313 Vta Corona, Los Angeles 22
Melvin H. Merritt (S88) ............................................229 San Pucual St., Los Angeles 42

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

415

SPECIA L COMMI TTEES
MASONIC EDUCAT ION
Henning_J. Lueders (20)_··-·····························670 Woodlake Dr. North Sacramento 15
San Diego 1
Leonel C. PaDOlh (574) ................·-···················-·-··········-····.350 Cedar St.,
Prank Relnach (677)_.................................................... 1322 No. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
David C. Lee (i92) ......·-·············································--9965 Woodruff Ave., Temple City
Milton E. Ammann (600) .................................................. 2709 E. 220th St., Long Beach
Joseph A. Pivernetz (571) ...................................................... 10 Ardmore Rd., Kensington
EdWard L. Kellas (247) ............................................................834 E. Alamos Ave., Fresno
Clyde B. Tyitt (791) .................................................... 126 West Avenue F-12, Lancaster
Louis L. Cunningham (802) ......................... ................ ] 401 Ela ta Ave., Yucca Valley

NECROLO GY
Adam B. Morten (346) ..................................................20130 Mendelsohn Lane, Saratoga
Raymond J. Fisher (292) ......................................................314 Saratoga Ave., Los Gatos
William E. Rife (736) ........................................................2040 Dayton Dr., Lemon Grove
Merlin J. Taber, Jr. (253)-·························-············-·········-··Star Route, Box H, Capay
Edgar M. Anderson (139) ...·-··············-···········-·····-·731 Duboce Ave., San Francisco 17

RITUAL
Donald G. Campbell (608) ·····-·············································2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino
1, Box 682, Gridley
Clare B. Campbell (230) ···-········-····-················-··············-·······Route
Harold N. Richards (20) ......................................................... .5260 "K" St., Sacramento 19
Arthur J. Kahn (462) ......................................................2044 Bryant St., San Francisco 10
--·······-·Box 887, Bakersfield
Raymond G. Taylor (466) ....·-···-·-······················-···········
Robert A. Crigler (636) ........................................... .5251 El Miradore Dr., Los Angeles 8
Union Bank Bldg., Orange
400,
Suite
W. Ben Sorrells (672) ..............................................

MASONIC HISTORY
A. Lewis Koue (541 l--··························-·--········-·-·····-··-901 Paramount Rd., Oakland
Francisco 21
Leon 0. Whitsell (293)-----·········· ················-·············740 • 37th Ave., SanRd.,
Glendale 2
Kenneth H. Dowll! (646) ...................................................... 1528 ldlewood
Long Beach 11
Kenneth B. Conklin (616)--·-···-···················-·- ····--4858 Pearce Ave., Ave.,
Lynwood
Ralph A. Herbold (600) ......................... ......................... .. 10972 Sampson
Leo J. Todd (23) .......................................................................... 123 Bank St., Grass Valley
Michael L. Manahan (528) .................................- ............. 6009 Kings Rd., Los Angeles 56

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
John F. Porter (677).·-·············-··-················-···--.f639 Tremont Lane, Corona de! Mar
George Hiatt (247) .......................................................................... 1364 Echo Ave., Fresno
Chester W. Kimball (784).·-···-··········-··················· ···-·····--2165 Maraposa Ave., Chico
Edmund T. Manwell (9) ...·-······················-····-·····-·······--....2122 Greely Dr., Marysville
Earl Van Vorst (286) ..........................................·-··········-··-P • 0. Box 233, Paso Robles
Allan Curry_ (628) ................................................ 3000 Stockbridge Ave., Los Angeles 32
LaMar L. Hill (104) ................................................ 1846 E. Greenville Dr., West Covina
William Dewgaw (407) .............................................. 3221 Bancroft,_ No. 9, Spring Valley
Hallet E. Mel!icke ~470)--···-··-········-·······-·-·········-······289 Gambier St., San Prandsco
Flower St., Costa Mesa
Joseph V. Antista ( 08 )---- ·-························-····························389
Philip E. Watson (467) .................................................. .. 3461 Grandview, Los Angeles 66
Charles C. Klppen, Jr. (371).--···································.3947 Monterey Place, Honolulu 16
Richard C. Rogers (499) ········-······································ -···..5807 - 13th Ave., Sacramento
Ave., Oakland 2
Burton 0. Younsi (336) ·········--········---········-············--······4011 Rhoda
Sam Roska (673) ................................................................ 1170 Bryant Rd., Long Beech 15

CONSTIT UTION OBSERVA NCE
Thoma.s W. Thurman (505), Chairman. ............................. 1226 So. Ross St., Santa Ana
Earl Patterson, Jr. (494), Vice Chainnan...................... 20420 Almeda St., Castro Valley
Edward W. Wrede, Jr. (561) ................................................2335~32nd St., San Diego 4
Charles L. Hapal (409) ........................ ............................... .5634 Haleola St., Honolulu 16
Oran W. Palmer (581) ................................................................ P. 0. Box 218, Kem City
Willlam A. Fishback (677) ............................................ 11625 Casimir Ave., Inglewood 4
Carl E. Mumper (341) ........................ ................................... _..JOO Marla Lane, Camarillo
James R. Young (652) ........................ ........................................936 Craig Ave., La Canada
Samuel C. Shenk ( 1) ..........................................................425 Russ Bldg., San Francisco 4
Edward E. Seagle (731) ......................................................6024 Tahoe Way, Sacramento
John H. Masteller (50) ..............................................................................................Woodleaf
Clarence N. Johnson (465) ..................................................750 E. Hedges, Apt. 1. Fresno
Arthur M. Powell (334) ................................................. - .............276 E. Center St., Covina
Claude E. Cole (421).. ........................ ................................... .1221 So. La Brea, Inglewood
Jimes V. Latham (750) .............................................. 1800 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 57
arry R. Sones (384) ........................ ......................... ...............620 Sandalwood. El Centro
Kenneth E. Morrison (241) .................................................. 524 Linwood Ave.. Santa Ana
Charles N. Clarkson (757) .............................................. 1602 W. Walnut St., Stockton 3

DE MOLAY
Homtt E. Rat!hbun (368) ............. _.....................................743 Fairmont Ave., Glendale 3
Loter G. Bruno (499) ......................... .....................2530 Jay St. No. 102, Sacramento 16
Roy H. Gerard (366) ..................................................................4533 E. Gettysburg, Fresno
Harold S. Medo (676) ............................................................... - ...889 Regent St., San Jose
Wendell M. Anderson (315) .......................... 1483K Golden Rain Rd., L.W., Seal Beach

··y;~ ~:
J.a~':=g~~352)::::::::::::::::::::::·.:::::::::·is866··y;~~~·-rx;;d;·si~d::
W:.e
.................................................... 708 E. Church St. Sama Maria
Donald E. Thomas
~264)

Robert Lintner ( 169 ......................................................2087 - 33rd Ave., San Francisco 16
Frank H. _Whalen 439) .....·--·-··············· ····-··---··-···-·· 5484 Hewlett Dr., San Diego
Angeles 39
Darrell Dixon (384 ···············-···········p• 0. Box 39667, Griffith Station, Los
Ray S. Kimbell (22) ..........................................................................622 "H" St., Marysville
Arthur J. Pancook (801) ........................................................ ..728 Kanaha, Kailua, Hawaii

COLUMB IA TEMPLE
(S2SJ-···--···-····························--330 Via La Cumbre, San Rafael

Ohester M. Smith
A. Jurgens (49 )----·············· ····-·-···-········· ·················-942 Park St., Alameda
Georti
Bert enge (487). ............................................................................. 1404 Nebraska, Vallejo

Place, Tracy
A. T. Kiersch (236)----····················································--.143 West Beverly
Donald M. Stewart, Jr. (8) ................................................................................Chinese Camp
Horace W. Orear, Jr. (l)_......................................131 Havenside Dr., San Francisco 27

416

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

DISTING UISHED GUESTS
M. Jay Jensen (454)---- ··---······· ·-··-·---C /o Olivet Memorial Park, Colma 25
Roy Wieland (454) ···---------·······-·--------------··········--·······40 Lagunitas Dr., San Francisco 27
George P. Silli1:11an (494) ··----------·-····-······---········------ ------.4630 Edgewood Ave., Oakland
Joseph F. Garriott (630).---·········---···············-·········--..3844 - 19th Ave., San Francisco 272
George L. Jacobs (216)---········---·····--····-·······-·-···--···-450 Sutter St., San Francisco 8
Arthur D. Eng (470) ........·-·-·······························-········-···1126 Clay St., San Francisco 9

TAXAT ION
Alexander L. Croce (354)-·····-· ······-·······-· ··--··---162 8- 18th Ave., San Francisco 22
James E. Hammond (568)---·-·· -·-···----···- ···-·····-···-- -154
Dr., San Mateo
Robert R. York (349) ....................... _......................................... P.Gramercy
0. Box 817, Oakland 4

COMME RCIAUS M
Vincent P. McMurdo (454) ......................................299 Maywood Dr., San Francisco 27
Willard A. Braasch (296) ·····--······-·········--·········-········---······---····-965 E. Madison, El Cajon
Jack L. Blaine (461) .........--------····-·-----------·-----..775 Post St., Rm. 604, San Francisco
9
Harvey Harkness (506).---··-·----------··--·················--···-····-210 W. 7th St., Los Angeles H
Albert R. Bennison (382)----····-···············-·-----··-·-··408 So. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

RETIRE MENT PLAN
Arthur M. Warren (481) ..................................................3060 - 16th St., San Francisco 3
L. Harold Anderson ( 346) ..............................................245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Alfred F. Breslauer (3Hl---··························-·-···--·······111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Tames Leo Halley (375)----- ·········--···· ··--·····--70 3 Flood Bldg., San Francisco 2
Reginald M. Mills (61 >--···································--······-····1059 Market St., San Francisco 3

SOJOUR NERS
David H. Blakelock (671 ) ·······----·-··-·····-·····························255
Paloma, San Clemente
William A. Cohendet (370) ..................................................1557La
Balboa Ave., Burlingame
Ben T. Salmon (632) •.·-··········-············-····-············-···4110 Palisades Rd .. San Diego 16
John Richmond (541) .....................·-·········-··- ······--····--- -1738 Grove St., Berkeley 9
Wallace F. Powers ( 530) ····-·························-·······- --······-·-··-2 822 E. Andrews, Fresno
Howard
(399) .... ----------------····-----·-···----···············-·---·-··695 South 16th St., San Jose
Joseph P.Campen
Dennehy
(801) ___________________________________ 190 Makawao St., Kailua, Hawaii
Jay A. Robinson (674) ................------··············----------------------------P· 0. Box 1270, San Pedro
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) ................................................1624 McClaren Dr., Carmichael
James C. White (647) ................---------·-···········-·········-13!H2 So. Casimir Ave., Gardena
Ernest Read (731) ____________________
____________________________________ .........9241 Rivera Rd., Pico Rivera
Alvin A. Horwege (491 l--·------------------------···-··-----------······------·······-909 Broadway, Alameda
James E. Seay (750) ---------------------····-------------------------·····--······----1255 Fulton, Anaheim
G. B. Gordon, Jr. (404) .....................----------------------------···---.1980 Blue Bird
Hill, Glendora
James Durnford (57) ................ ---·------------------------------·-··-···657 Karen Way, Santa Rosa
Edwin H. Mossinger (380) ··-----··----··-··---------··--····-······--·····-···9909 Maple St., BellBower

MUSIC
Harold Mueller ( 1) ··-·····-······ ··-··-----·-··
••955 Portola Dr.. San
27
Austin Mosher ( l)-·-· - · - - - - · · · - - · - - - -1175 Johnson St., Francisco
Menlo Park
Charles J. Payne {540) ..·-····-···--- ----------- 1221 E. Roosevelt Rd., Long Beach
7

INSURA NCE
T. James Carlile (215) ..•........-------- ------1 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4
Allerton B. Ebert (489) ····-····--··- ·--·····
401 California St., San Francisco 4

CEMETE RIES
Basil R. Glllett ( 124) ····-···-·· ·····--·-·- --·--···-· ·--P.O. Box 1076, Paradise
Harold C. Schroder (3) ···········- -··------- ----1149 - 28th Ave., Sacramento 22
Frederick H. Cha~n (622)----····················-··-···4210 Edenhurst Ave., Los Angeles 39
Wilton J. Smith (204) .....·--··-····-··- ·-·······-·-·
116 No. 3rd St.,
Adrian Taylor ( 174) .....---··········- ·--···-···-··· ··-·········-- -P. 0. Box l, SutterSalinas
Creek

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

417

OLD MASON IC HALL IN LOS ANGELES

Matthew M. Codon (42)--···-················-··············530 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles
Prank Harwell, Jr. (528)---··· -·-······-··-· ··-···-··-···623 So. Hope St., Los Angeles 175
Leo E. Anderson (355) .....·-········-······-····-·········700 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 17

BOARD OF LIBRAR Y COMMI SSIONE RS

David R. Lane (638).-..•..•....................................................... 1155 Oxford St., Berkeley 7
Alexander Horne (216) ------·------·--------·······-------·-----····--2135 - 29th Ave., San Francisco 16
Robert H. Burrows (697)---- ···-·-····· ·-···----- --211 Palm Dr., Piedmont
Wllllam H. Scott (435) .••........- .........................335 Buckingham Way,
San Francisco 27
Thomas W. S. Wu (462) ....................---·-·····-··-·······----- llll Stockton St., San Francisco
Russell G. Worth (624)-------------------------------- --------------------- --.5278 Manila Ave., Oakland 18
Merlin W. Drucquer (573) ·······································-··--·-1036 Park Hills Road, Berkeley

MASON IC INFORM ATION

Gerald Levin (136).----·-························-······-·····--·.1080 Chestnut St., San Francisco
Charles A. Thomasset (329) ..·--·-······-·········--········-···215 W. 5th St., Los Angeles 139
Roger Emery Butler (247) .·-·········-·········-··················-1544 E. Fountain Way, Fresno 4
Copeland Davis (589 >------···· ··-·······----- ················ -····-···Lthu e, Kauai, Hawaii
Glendall W. McDermott (57) ·-···········-·-············-·········-··-····1046 Vall~o St., Santa Rosa
James K. Wilson (789l--····-·····--··································---960 Castec Dr., Sacramento 25

SPECIAL COMMI SSION ON MASON IC PRACTI CES

Robert B. Watts (518) ...... -·--·-·······························--·········-··7949 Princess St., La Jolla
A. Bartlett Moss (281) ..................- ............................ ___ ............1880 Hayes St., Anderson
Norman L. Langnes.s (732) ..·-······-··················-·-······················7510 Amy Ave., Fair Oaks
Virl Bennehoff (l >----·------·-·····-····-······-··----····-·--3701 Oivisadero St., San Francisco 23
Delbert E. Luck (439) ......•.·-·····-···············-·-··············-·····-·-·····
P St., Firebaugh
Robert L. Karnes (451) _______............... ·-······-········--·-···621 No.···-1414
Kennan St., Montebello
Simon F. Bolger (35) ······-··································-···········--4453 Wilson Ave., San Diego 16

SPECIAL COMMI TTEE ON COMMI TTEE STRUCT URE

Theodore Meriam ( 111 ) --····-··-··········-·······················-······-·--713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Guy B. Mize (368 l----·-·····--·· -····-··-·-····· ·-··-··-··---·· --1238 ldlewood Rd., Glendale
Elbert W. Davis (571) .....--·············-·····--·-············-····-·············2908 Russell
Berkeley
Ralph H. Head (352) ....·-··········------..P.O. Box 2822, Terminal Annex, LosSt.,
Angeles 54
Wakefield Taylor (~ 1l--·-····-·····-········---········-············-····--1·270 Escobar St., Martinez

CONS TITUT IONAL BOARD S
ENDOW MENT BOARD

kohn M. Gordon (202) ........-···-············--·······-····-···3446 Amesbury Rd.. Hollywood 27

ermlt A. Jacobson (599) ----·--··-··--· ··············-·· ········417 Ninlta Parkway, Pasadena
Charles H. Grace (635)...•·-------····-· -··-·-··-·-··-· ··--·---4210 Highland Pl., Riverside
William H. Schooler (254)----- ---····-·-···- ·-······-······· ···-·····--104 5 East. Redding
Fred F. Elliott (483) ······-···············-·-·········-------------------------··-------------.4671 Bell Ave., Bell
J. Glen Gladson (542)----- --··-·-·-··· -······-·······6201 Satsuma, North Hollywood
Kent Seymour (356) ----·······---···············-··-·-···--------·-·········52 5 Summit Ave., Mill Valley
Charles F. Minetti (57) .·-··-································--··············1536 Raegan Ave., Santa Rosa
Arthur A. Anderson (385) ..------···-····-··--········--·········-·········.578 Vermont Ave .. Dinuba
Charles Ratkovich (268) ·········-········-··········-·-····················-----2954 Shasta Road, Berkeley
Sy Dennis, Jr. (3) ............................................................. .1031 Appollo Way, Sacramento
Frank R. Porath (442) ............... -----------·----------------------·----------- 1536 Dale St., San Dieg_o 2
Herschel E. Griflin (505) ...........--------------------------------------··---613 E. Camile St., Santa Ana
George C. Poloynls ( 773 l----········-···--- -----------------------------------------685 Magnolia, Bakersfield
Ralph C. Hine (242)------ --·-······--· ··-····-221 1 Las Rosas Lane, Santa Barbara
Myron E. Roudebush (543) .........·-··········································-220 Atlantic, Long Beach
Norman W. Shaw, Jr. (19) ..............................................5449 E. Marada Lane, Stockton
Everett Todd (527) ----------··-·········-·--·-···--····-···926 Glenhaven Dr., Pacific Palisades
Carroll A. Trefts (403) ...•...•......•...... _ .................................. 1956 Webster St., Oakland 12
Hal~. Soghomoolan (169l---·-·- -·--·········-· ·····1925-1 7th Ave., San Francisco 16
W.
• Reyburn (586) .......-···-···················-······-···········2212 W. Lori Lane, Santa Ana

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

Paul A. PJlueger (370) ............................................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Arthur M. Warren (481) .................................................. 3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
Frank Harwell, Jr. (528) ..................................................623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Edgar V. Stewart, Tr. (529) ....................................3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5
John M. Gordon (202) ................................................. .3446 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27

BOARD OF CONTROL
Arthur Dvorln (639) .•.·-··-·········-·····-·······--·· ·-.1030 S. Ux:hran Ave., Les Angeles 19
Irving Magnes (225)--··-····-····-·· -·---·····---...256 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 10
John Swan (667} ..........·--··-····-·········-·······-··-········-···2430 Orange Ave., La Crescenta
Norman E. Hale (574}--··--········-····-·· ····-············-6012 Lemond Dr.. San Diego 20
Lester S. McElwain (403) ...............................--···················1419 Broadway, Oakland 12

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Phil N. Myers (430) ...•·-··-···-·-······-········-·······-··.3000 Wel'I: Sixth St.. Los Angeles 5
Alfred F. Breslauer (344>-····---·-··-····················-········111 Sutter St., San Franciaco 4
William Rhodes Hervey, Jr. (202) ..·-··········-····--····458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13

CODE COMMISSION
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) ···········-········--·····-·······80 Woodland Way, Piedmont 11
Edward T. Koford (57) •........................-.Empire Bldg., 217 Exchange Ave., Santa Rosa
David P. Russell (396) ............................................................ 2230 San Jose Ave., Alameda
Everett Houser (504) .......................................................... 260 Atlantic Ave., Long Beach
Leonard S. Lurie (216)-·-·····-·--····-- ··-·······49S-32nd Ave., San Francisco 21

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Edgar V. Stewart, President (529) ............3600 Wilshire Blvd.. Rm. 860, Los Angeles S
L. Harold Anderson, Vice President (346) .................... 245 Market St., San Francisco 6
Phil N. Myers (430) .................................................... 3000 West Sixth St., Los Angeles S
Alfred F. Breslauer (3H)-·-············-···-························-1 11 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Theodore Meriam (111) ............................................................... .713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Myron E. Smith (394) ......................................... .461 South Boylston St., Los An8eles 17
Laurence E. Dayton (61) ·····················································-···1832 Magellan Dr., akland
James Leo Halley (375) ....................................................703 Flood Bldg., San Frapdsco 2
Edward J. Bllckfeldt (535) ......................................................590 Hargrave St., Inglewood

MASONIC l-:IOME FOR THE AGED
Union Qty, California
Telepbone 471-3434
Gail H. David, Superillltendent

MASONIC HOME FOR CffiLDREN
20336 East Badillo St.
Covina. California
Telephone 331-0541
Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

419

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Arthur M. Warren, Pres. (481) ......................................3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
Ralph H. Head, Vice Pres. (352) ........ P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Paul A. PJlueger (370) .........·-·····--··········-························Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Theodore Meriam (111) ....................... -························-····-····.713 Arbutus Ave., Chico
Myron E. Smith (394) ............................................461 South Boylston St., Los Angeles 17
Laurence E. Dayton (61 ) ........................................................ 1832 Magellan Dr., Oakland
Semuel I. Jacobs (216)---···············-···········-···-·······-··-··946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
T. Galt Atwood (454).·-············--···-·-· ---········-··-··--450 Sutter St., San Francisco 8
Chester R. MacPhee (455) •••·--·---··---69 Grand View Ave., San Francisco 14
George D. Gavin, Manager
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8

DIRECTOR S

MASONIC

CLUBHOUS ES

Berkeley
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Pres. (541).--··--·-······--······ ·1834 Trestle Glen Rd., Piedmont 11
J. Walter Proctor, Vice Pres. (349) ..........................·--·······243 Athol Ave., Oakland 6
C. M. Davis, Secty. (540---······················-········--900 San Benito Rd., Berkeley 7
Paul S. Boren, Treas. (551)-·····································--··-···· 1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland 2
John L. Wixon, Asst. Secty. (705) ................................... -.........6519 Knott St., El Cerrito
Wallace E. York (403) ......... - ......................................... ....5109 Proctor Ave., Oakland 18
Gordon F. Black (635) ............................................... .715 Darien Way, San Francisco 27
Russell C. Horstmann (336) ..........................................................560- 57th St., Oakland 9
Gene C. Otwell (705) ................................................................. .759 Creston Rd .. Bttkeley
Frank Spires (686).--·-·--··································-···············-·--823 Ramona Ave., Albany
W. H. Nutting, Jr. (188)._.......................... -··········-······946 Wawona Ave., Oakland 10
E. A. Rienke (541 ) ···-···································· ·································780 San Luis, Berkeley 7
Elton L. Turner (337) ................................................................ 243 Pomona Ave., Crockett
Alfred E. Hopkins (349) ................................................ 1002 Ashmount Ave., Oakland 10
Edward H. Redford (181 ) ......................................................... .5714 Grove St., Oakland 9

Berkeley Clubhouse
c.. -.

2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Janalce Kohl. Resident Hostess
Mrs. Mary Kierulff, Social Hostess

Los Angeles
Paul R. Nichols, Pres. (662) ..................................................743 Glenwod Rd., Glendale 2
S. Roy Howell, Vice Pres. (662>.. .....•.......- .................326 N. Croft Ave .. Los Angeles 48
C. Earl Crane, Secty.-Treas. (528) ....................................440 N. Palm Dr., Beverly Hills
Frank H. Reinsch (677) ...·-···················-······················.1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
Clyde C. Shoemaker (566) ...........................- ................... 117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles H
A. Curtis Smith (618) ............................................................211 N. Elm Dr., Beverly Hills
Elvin C. Drake (677) .................................................. 1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ................................................ 4155 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 8
Marlon A. Duncan (327) ................................................ 1505 Armando Dr., Long Beach 7
George E. Hall (528) ................................·-·······--···416 N. Bedford Dr., Beverly Hills
Frank Jenkins ( 528) .............................................................. 242 S. Peck Dr., Beverly Hills
George Kussman (506) ........................................608!1 N. Beachwood Dr., Los Angeles 4
Bates Mason (373) ............................................3227 Castle Heights Ave., Los Angeles 34
Thomas Carroll (373) ..................................................3630 S. Barry Ave., Los Angeles 66
Herbert H. Cooper (614) ...-···-·-··-·······-·-······-····-.1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25

Los Angeles Clubhouse
10886 Le Conte Ave., Los Angeles 24
Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon. Director of Activities

420

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

REGIST RATION AND MILEAG E PAYME NTS
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativeo

Name of Lodge

Mileage AUo....,d

California ............................No. 1....Horace W. Orear, Jr., Master
$
Ewart L. Merica, Junior Warden
Samuel C . Shenk, Grand Marshal
Harold Mueller, Grand Qrganist
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P.M. and Inspector
Virl Bennehoff, Past Master
Bruce Q. Engle, Past Master
Tames Hurst, Past Master
D. Ewing Marsh, Past Master
James F. McKay. Jr .. Past Master
l-Ioward M. McKinely, Jr., Past Master
Austin Mosher, Past Master
David Thomson, Past Master
Charles C. Trowbridge, Jr.. Past Master
Western Star ···········-········-No. 2.... Albert L. Derby, Senior Warden. ................. 31.22
Tehama ................................ No. 3.... Floyd 0. Cook, Master.................................... 12.04
Robert D. Stribling, Senior Warden
Leroy L. Ervin, Junioc Warden
Horace R. LaFortune, P.M. and Inspector.... 12.04
Benicia ................................No. 5.... 0rval F. Carpenter, Master.......................... 5.04
Wilbur F. Anderson, Senior Warden
James M. Neel, Junior Warden
Tuolumne ···················-·······No. 8.... Ray M. Wagner, Master._............................ 18.34
Corinthian ···--···················No. 9.... Thurman Lee Brady, Master......................... . 16.80
John D. Borgstrom, Senior Warden
Raymond L. Rusk, Past Master
San Jose ............................No. 10.... C. R. Winterhalder, Master............................ 7.00
Leo B. Mark, Senior Warden
Robert L. Wing, Junior Warden
Yount ................................No. 12.... Ji~!a~W~Cl~~S~n~"Wa;<l~~-················· 6.58
J. Carl Schneider, Junior Warden
Rolland F. Atwood, Past Master
Cornelius Kernan, Past Master
Harold B. McCormick, Past Master
William D. Nelson, Past Master
Nevada ..............................No.

13.... ~rco:aE!g~=: ~~S:-w;;d~;-·············-··
Temple ..............................No. 14.... Charles E. Maib, Senior Warden..................
Johnnie L. Biggs, Junior Warden
l-Iarvey 0. Downey, Past Master
Eureka .............................. No. 16.... Ray Batt, Master..............·-··················
···········
Ray C. Jackson, Senior Warden
William Edward Marshall, P.M. and
Inspector ···-····-·········-·-···-·-·········-····--··
La Parfaite Union............No. 17.... Bedros Pasdermadjian, Master
Felix Lassalle, Senior Warden
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Rene Canonica, Past Master
James F. Smith, Past Master
Mountain Shade .............. No. 18.... David S. Snyder, Master
......·-········-·············
San Joaquin ...................... No. 19.... Claude Asher, Master--- ------·-···
···-·
C. Clifford Geddes, Senior Warden
Ralph L. Snyder, Junior Warden
Norman W. Shaw, Tr., Past Master
George E. Woodruff, Past Master

20.72
6.30
16.80
16.80

27.16
10.92

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativeo

421
Mileage Allowed

Washington ...................... No. 20.... William L. Bristow, Master............................ 12.04
John J. Bastian, Senior Warden
Roy V. Anderson, Junior Warden
Harold N. Richards, Assistant Grand
Lecturer ·············-··························
Daniel M. Cameron, Past Master ··············· 12.01
Henning J. Lueders, Past Master
Dwight J. Morrow, Past Master
Jack D. Shrader, Past Master
Robert L. Zehrbach, Past Master
Hawaiian ···············-·········No. 21....Limin Kung, Master........................................ 338.19
Darrell H. Puckett, Junior Grand Steward.... 338.19
Frederick Bolte, P.M. and Inspector.............. 338.19
Occidental ·-·····················No. 22 .... Carl Marvin Jensen, Master
Donald Lewis Batten, Senior Warden
Eric Hay Shekury, Junior Warden
William E. Bouton, Past Master
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master
Theodore Eley Rackerby, Past Master
Robert Arthur Wertsch, Past Master
Madison ·····-··-······-········No. 23.... Fre<lerick B. Sahl, Master........ ........................ 20.02
Leo J. Todd, Senior Warden
Arlie 0. Hansen, Junior Warden
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector.............. 20.02
Walter J. Wieger, Past Master
Mariposa ..........................No. 24.... Alva R. Porter, Senior Warden...................... 23.10
Andy R. Weare, Junior Warden
Daniel Kleiman, P.M. and Inspector.............. 23.10
Geocgetown -··················-No. 25 .... Laveme L. L. Laux, Master............................ 19.32
John Edgar Walker, Past Master
El Dorado -···-······--····-··No. 26.... Edwin T. Aycock, Master.............................. 18.48
Wallace M. Ripley, Jr., Junior Warden
Robert 0. West, Past Master.. ·-···-·······----··· 18.48
Trinity ......................•.......No. 27.... Anderson G. Smith, Master............................ 36.96
Golden Gate ......................No. 30.... Lee L. Aslanian, Master
Fred E. Clauhsen, Senior Warden
John W. McClay, Junior Warden
'Harry K. Widup, P.M. and Inspector
Raymond H. Bradley, Past Master
Albert W. Crumpton, Past Master
Gold Hill .......................... No. 32.... Herbert B. Fowler, Master.......·--····---···-----····· 15.96
Ophir ··-·-·-·--······ ·····---No. 33.... Albert E. Rule, Elected Representative.......... 20.58
San Diego ........................ No. 35.... Preston E. Primm, Master........-..................... 73.08
Glenn K. Smith, Senior Warden
Roy A. Williams, Junior Warden
Joe L. Shell, Past Grand Master....·----------··---·· 73.08
Simon F. Bolger, P.M. and Inspector............ 73.08
Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master.................... 73.08
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master... _....................... 73.08
Fred J. H. Rickson, Past Master
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master......... _............. 73.08
Howard ·····-··········-··········No. 37 .... Donald Her.Bodah), Senior Warden......... _.... 44.38
George S. Ward, P.M. and Inspector....-..... 44.38
Santa Cruz ...- ..................No. 38.... Kenneth D. Ferguson, Master._...................... 10.08
Richard W. McHugh, Senior Warden
William R. Vernon, Junior Warden
Albert J. Thorp, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master._........................ 10.08

422
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allo.....S

Sacramento --------------········No. 40...• Marion W. Comstock, Master........................ 12.()f
Parise Voudouris, Senior Warden
A. Boyd Collier, P.M. and Inspector.............. 12.()f
Harry M. Baker, Past Master
Martinez ····-·-·-·····-······-······No. 41.... Robert F. Fountain, Master____________________________ 4.76
Donald R. Oltman, Junior Warden
Howard D. Lyford, Past Master
Wakefield Taylor, Past Master........... ---·-·-···- 4.76
Ernest C. Webb, Past Master
Los Angeles ...................... No. 42 .... Phil!p L. Goldstein, Masttt............................ 56.42
Benjamin M. Weiss, Senior Warden
Morris C. Guss, Junior Warden
Matthew M. Cod<>n. Past Master.................. 56.42
August Flam, Past Master
Edward A. Promsky, Past Master
Joseph D. Weiitlttg, Past Master
Hiram ................................ No. 43.... Daryl L. Prouty, Master..... _......................... 18.20
Jack F. Mainzer, Junior WBTden
Mount Moriah ..................No. H .... Harry S. Swlerstra, Master
Stanley 0. Morth, Senior Warden
Jadin O. Hoffmann, Junior Warden
Clarence H. Wikse, Past Master
Crescent ............................ No. 45.... C. A. Thunen, Elected Representative.......... 51.66
Gustave W. Klotz, Grand Standard Beacer.. 51.66
Texas ................................No. 46.... Axel F. Carlsen, Senior Warden.................... 12.60
Porbestown ...................... No. 50.... 0rvin W. Dauemhe!m, Senior Warden........ 23.80
lllinoistown ...................... No. 51.. .. Patrick H. Buchanan, Senior Warden.......... 19.()f
Thomas Steel. Past Master
Suisun ................................ No. 55.... Louis M. Frawley, Junior Warden................ 6.72
Volcano ............................No. 56.... Charles L. Cook. Elected Representative...... 20.02
Santa Rosa ........................ No. 57.... Raymond C. Fay, Master...............- .............. 7.56
Condo! E. Hoke, Senior Warden
Julian W. Riehl, Junior Warden
0. Doyle Blair, Past Master
Glendall W. McDennott, Past Master
Robert A. Miller, Past Master
Charles P. Minetti, Past Ma3ter
Charles Warren, Past Master........................ 7.56
Union ................................No. 58.... \\r'illi!:iomA'~~~~tg;;tl;;·w~~-·············· 12.04
Donald D. Legitt, Junior Warden
Leighton D. Armstrong, Past Maater
J.P. Bascom, Past Master
Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Orville H. Wulf, Past Master
Gravel Range ···-············-·No. 59.... Kenneth M. Reusser. Senior Warden ........... . 24.22
Plumas --······--·····--·--·····No. 60.-.Raymond J. Ba"kline, Elected
Hepresentative ........ _ ... _.............................. 31.36
Orval A. Myers. Past Master
Live Oak ..........................No. 61....Charles J. Wright, Master
Leabert C. Hawkinson, Senior Warden
Rupert Ir! Jones, Sr., Junior Warden
Laurence E. Dayton, Past Master
Folger Emerson, Past Master
Henry W. Gutte, Jr., Past Master
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Clarence A Severin, Past Master

Nam• of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repr... ntativu

423
Mileage Allowed

Natoma ..............................No. 64.... Roger L. Doenner, Master.............................. 15.40
Charles D. Pearce, Senior Warden
Iverson Dowd. Junior Warden
R. A. Blechschmidt, Past Master
Amador .............................. No. 65.... Rudolph E. Johnson, Junior Warden. .. _....... 18.34
Alfred A. Penrose, P.M. and Inspector.......... 18.34
Morning Star ....................No. 68.... Elias S. Weher, Master................................ _ 10.92
Kenneth B. Olson, Junior Warden
Alvin V. Abbott. Past Master
Alfred H. Knak, Past Master
Enterprise ..........................No. 70.... Edward D. Steele, Master.............................. 16.52
Mark E. Broome, Junior Warden
Bear Mountain ... _............. No. 76.... John A. Kirby. Elected Representative.......... 19.60
Calaveras ......................- ..No. 78.... Charles F. Schwoerer, Elected
Representative .............................................. 17.50
Humboldt ......................•... No. 79.... Millard H. Gardner, Senior Warden............ 39.76
Aaron Sloma. Past Master
lone ..........................- ....•...No. 80.... Everett E. Oain, Master..............................- 17.08
J. Wesley Sibole, Past Master
Yolo ..................................No. 81.... Roy E. Jones, Master...................................... 11.76
Louis L:cdlayette, Senior Warden
Vesper ................................No. 84.... Jame-s E. Cox, Junior Warden......-................ 26.04
Naval ................................ No. 87.... Leonard G. Dickinson, Master........................ 4.34
John Olson, Senior Warden
Aaron L. Parfet, Junior Warden
Edward L. Baehr, Past Master
Melvin C. Baker, Past Master
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
Leo B. Chambers, Past Master
John K. Cothran, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Orrin R. Hewitt, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Melvin C. Nelson, Past Master
John G. Nichol, Past Master
David L. Potter, Past Master
Alfred E. Ryder, Past Master
Everett D. Smith, Past Master
Henry F. Tyrrell, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
Bertrand Wichels, Past Master
Rose's Bar ·--·····-··············No. 89....John C. Petersen, Master·--·-····-···· ··········· 19.46
Gilbert W. Bell, Senior Warden
Thos. K. Scogland, Past Master
North Star ........................ No. 91....Harold Ben Tozier, Senior Warden.............. 46.48
St. Helena ············--··--No . 93.... Homer R. Denton, Master.............................. 9.24
Harold J. Ruthettord, Senior Warden
Ralph B. Duer, Junior Warden
Rudolph M. Rossi, Past Master
Henry Clay ...........- ..-.No. 95.... Not Represented
Hornitos ............................No. 98.... Cloyed Noble Taylor, Master........................ 28.42
Wilson E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspector........ 17.92
Yosemite ·--············--·········No. 99...•Everett E. Davis, Master................................ 17.92
Donald C. Hedlund, Senior Warden
Clyde James Loring, Jr.. Junior Warden
Clay ···················-··--- NO. 101._Edward L. Waggoner, Master..·-··················· 20.86
Thomas J. Edwards, Past Master
Oroville ..........................No. 103.... Don K. Baldwin, Senior Warden.................. 20.72
L. Howard Casagrande, P.M. and
Inspector ·········································--········· 20.72

424
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativea

Mileage Allowed

Lexington ........................No. 1<>4•• _Walter W. Frank, Master..............................
Lawrence E. West, Senior Warden
Jack L. Craven, Junior Warden
la.mar L. Hill, Past Master
Arcata .............................. No. 106.... Kenneth L. Haywood, Senior Warden..........
Sidney A. Webster, P.M. and Inspector......
Tom Tobe Morgan, Past Master
James E . Morton, Jr., Past Master
Pajaro ·····················-·······No. 110.... Thomas P. Crowley, Master..........................
Howard G. Hodgson, Senior Warden
Harold F. Trafton, P.M. and Inspector........
Chico ···-·························No. 111....William F. Jewett, Master.....---····················
James B. Smith, Senior Warden....................
William J. Caven, Junior Warden
Theodore Meriam, Senior Grand Warden....
T . W. Moore, P.M. and Inspector..................
William C. Brouillard, Past Master
William M. Conner, Past Master
Farnum S. Howard, Past Master
Eric A. T onningsen, Past Master
Summit ............................No. 112.... James A. Davis, Senior Warden....................
Eden ·····················-·········No. 113.... Myron E. Temple, Senior Warden
Milton F. Skoglund, Junior Warden
Elmer E. Ross, P .M. and Inspector
Concord ..........................No. 117.... Alexander S. Waugh, Master........................
Hugh Millar, Sr., Senior Warden
Paul C. Miller, Junior Warden
Sam I. Bonn, P.M. and Inspector....................
Martin C. Davis, Past Master
Fidelity ............................ No. 120.... Herbert W. Cahn, Ma<ster
Maurice A. Harband. Senior Warden
Allen I. Stoll, Junior Warden
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Isadore Betz, Past Master
Louis Blwnenthal, Past Master
Albert Farber, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Robert A. Klinger, Past Master
Mark H. Nusbawn, Past Master
Leo J. Simon. Past Master
Cyril Louis Weeks, Past Master
Alamo .......•......................No. 122.... Anthony J. Purcell, Master..............................
Daniel P. Halstead, Jr., Senior Warden
Paul Floyd. Junior Warden
Ralph M. Hinds, P.M. and Inspector............
John H. Demartini, Past Master
Sotoyome ·················-···.No. 123.... Herbert F . Turner, Master..·-··············-·········
Robert C. Jensen, Senior Warden
Douglais V. Badger, Junior Warden
Table Mountain ..............No. 124.... Harry E. Dunham, Senior Wacden..........·-···
Basil R. Gillett, Past Master
La Fayette ......................No. 126.... Wallace W. Winkler, Senior Warden...-.....
James Wong, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Hilton, Past Master
Clarence J. MacKenzie, Past Master
Hermann ..........................No. 127.... Rudolph G. Brauch, Master
Friedrich Guerr, Senior Warden
John Behrens, P.M. and Inspector
Oscar P. Bachmann, Past Master
William Haag, Past Master

58.24

40.88
40.8&
12.60
12.6()
22.68
22.68
22.68

22.6~

H.911

12.04
12.04

3.50
3.50
9.80
23.10
7.70

Name of Lodge

No. of Loda:e

Representatives

425
Mileage Allowed

Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
Albert G. Matthes, Past Master
Michael Schredl, Past Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Past Master
Visalia ............................No. 128.... Herbert R. Welch, Master....·-······················· 31.36
Howard C. Davis, Senior Warden
Erwin S. King. Junior Warden
James B. Lawson, P.M. and Inspector............ 31.36
George R. Coats, Past Master
Duke S. Lipscomb, Past Master
Nicolaus .......................... No. 129.... W. Wesley Jopson, Senior Warden........... . 17.22
Woodbridge ....................No. 131.... Harold L. Ringler, Master.............................. 13.30
David E. Keller, Sr., Past Master
Sincerity ..........................No. 132....Charles L. Lyon, Senior Warden. ................ . 31.64
Edward L. Spellmeyer, P.M. and Inspector.. 31.64
Harry_c;:. Petzwal, Past Maister
Lyal Wells, Past Master
Vacaville ........................No. 134.... Not Represented
Valley .............................. No. 135....Chester J. Margason, Senior Warden............ 13.02
Pacific .............................. No. 136.... Eamest F. Fisher, Master
Louis H. Sable. Senior Warden
Herman W. Ross, Junior Warden
Bernard S. Colan, Past Master
Gerald S. Levin, Past Master
Samuel C. Levin, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Jerome L. Schiller, Past Master
William Webster, Past Master
Crockett .......................... No. 139.... Henry C. Albert, Jr., Master
Walter J. Harlow, Jr.• Senior Warden
Edgar M. Anderson, Junior Warden
William A. Fleischer, Past Master
Ballard White, Jr., Past Master
Curtis ......................., ..... No. 140.. _Not Represented
GTafton ............................No. 141....Not Represented
Franklin ..........................No. 143.... Frank L. Cowsert, Master..........·-··················· 12.46
Ray Earl Burdg, P.M. and Inspector............ 12.04
Oriental .......................... No. lH .... Jalmar J. Perttula, Master
Paul F. Balck, Past Master
Frederick R. Bowes, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Charles Todd Hecker, Past Master
Harold H. Hutchison, Past Master
Ian A. Russell, Past Master
Vitruvius ........................ No. 145 ....Carl Christian, Master---····························· 7.28
Charles Kawa, Junior Warden
Reynolds Francke, Past Master
Abell ·······-·······················No. 146.... William J. Nagel, Master............................... . 16.38
Austin D. Hall, Senior Warden
Albert E. Thirkill, P.M. and Inspector.......... 16.38
Elmer M. Hopper, Past Master
Walter Sandelin, Past Master
Eel River ........................No. 147.... Alfred A. Pollard, Master............................. . 37.24
Orville A. Smith, Senior Warden
Lassen .............................. No. 149.... Marion M. Jenkins, Senior Warden.............. 37.80
Elmer G. Van Tassell, P.M. and Inspector.. 37.80
MQlino ............................No. 150....James M. Wade, Elected Representative..... . 24.08
Lloyd A. Countryman, P.M. and Inspector.. 24.78

426
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentallves

Milea11e Allo!Ued

Woodland •.....................No. 156.... Walter Pflanz, Master....................................
Myron Heineman, Senior Warden
Clyde E. Sinda.lr, P .M. and Inspector..........
DOn Plank, Past Master
Keystone --······-··········--No. 161....John F. Helms, Elected Representative........
Harmony ····-··················No. 164.... Arthur I. Copeland, Senior Warden..............
James R. Lamb, Past Master
Excelsior .................•......No. 166.... Loyd William Thomas Gray, Master
Delmar Dean Wise, Senior Warden
Raymondloseph Rodriquez, Junior Warden
Harry F. utticken, Past Master
Ralph E. Flathmann, Past Master
Joseph C. Kohlbecher, Past Master
George E. Schneider, Past Master
Alam00a ..........................No. 167.... Westen Johnson. Master.·--··-·····················John McClellan, Senior Warden
Ernest Veach, Junior Warden
Re<iwood City ................No. 168.... Archie R. Sherman, Master..............................
Archie N. Sharp, Senior Warden
John D. Lomax. Junior Warden
David Adam, Past Master
William J. Hodgson, Past Master
Mission ............................No. 169.... Francis C. Shuman, Masttt
George C. Murray, Senior Warden
Richard A. Hebert, Junior Warden
Robert Lintner, Past Master
Jack E. Hursh, Past Master
Raymond P. Seyden, Past Master
Elk Grove ........................ No. 173.... Robert E. Daley, Senior Warden..................
Wayne Clark, junior Warden
Reginald Rolfe, Past Master
Drytown ·········-···············No. 174.... Lewis A. Deppner, Senior Warden..............
Adrian Taylor, Past Master
Antioch ............................ No. 175.... 0rland C. Begley, Master..............................
Leo J. Hernandez, Senior Warden
William R. Banks, Junior Warden
Phoenix ···············-·········No. 178.... Lorin T. Stipe, Master....................................
Gilbert T. Treswell, Senior Warden
Duncan J. Mclarty, Junior Warden
Talmadge E. Benson, Past Master
Mendocino ·········-···········No. 179.... Floyd L. Strelow, Senior Warden................
John D. Dearing, Sr., P.M. and Inspector....
Petaluma •.........................No. 180.... ~n!l~~W~1 ~:.s~;~~-W~ci~·············

8

427

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11.Ji
11.Ji
16.10
28.84

4.62
3.64

14.00
17.78

6.44
63.56

21.84
20.16
5,32

Wolfiang Eberwein, Junior Warden
John eller, Jr., P.M. aod Inspector.............. 5.32
John Carl Werner, Past Master
Russian River ..................No. 181....Lon T. DuBose, Master-··-··························· 8.82
Joseph W. Wright, P.M. and Inspector........ 7.56
Carroll C. Doane, Past Master
George K. Porter, Past Master
Arbuckle ···········-········-··No• 182.... Not Represented
Clear Lake ......................No. 183.... Everett M. Penland, Senior Warden............ 14.98
Sierra Valley ···············--No. 184.... Gilford D. Webber, Past Master
Claiborne ···············-·······No. 185.... David Otis Ramsay, Senior Warden............ 18.06
Archer R. Richardson, Past Master................ 14.00
Evening Star ············-····No. 186....T. H. Howell, Elected Representative............ 48.16
Keith ···-·····--········-··-No. 187.... R. Harlan Husk, Master.................................. 11.20
John E. Pate, Senior Warden
Gu.stav H. Steele, Junior Warden

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

Representativea

Mllea11e A!l.,,,_j

Oakland ········-················No. 188.... Victor D. Arnold, Master
William Geha, Senior Warden
Andrew G. Graham, Junior Warden
M. L. Graves, Past Master
Northern Light -·-········No. 190.... Carl E. Andersen, Junior Warden.....·-···-Marin -·-···--··---No. 191.... Lawrence P. McNear, Jr.. Master
Eugene Peeples, Senior Warden
Wesley W. Honeyman, Junior Warden
Georgi; T. Rowse, P.M. and Inspector
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Arthur E. Hessel. Past Master
Lester H. Hicks, Past Master
Walter Lindman, Past Master
William M. Vanderbilt, Past Master
Santa Barbara ................ No. 192.... Robert G. Morrow, Senior Warden..............
Carl E. Melander, Junior Warden
Ray H. Paine, P.M. and lnspecl'Or......•.........
Alfred W. Klnca.td, Past Master
Ferndale ····--·····-·····No. 193.... Gerald R. Becker, Senior Warden................
Mountain View --·--·No. 194.... Charles W. Smith, Master--···-·········-·
Kendall C. Cole, Senior Warden
Robert M. Haefeli, Junior Warden
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Wendell Grubb, Past Master
John S. Hawks, Past Master
Buckeye -····-··-···-·····--No. 195.... Chris R. Molina, Senior Warden..................
San Simeon -·--·-·-No. 196_Not Represented
Wilmington ···-··--No. 198._ Wilford G. Lundqubt. Master........... _.........
Swain E. Lowe, Senior Warden
Robert R. Tyler, Junior Warden
Thos. F. Mason, Past Master........................
Garfield E. Tyler, Past Master
Hartley ···--·-···············-·No• 199.. _Clyde E. Dugger, Elected Representative....
Guido de Ghetald.i, P.M. and Inspector---··
Truckee --···-··..__ __No. 200.... Herman C. Tiedemann. Master....................
Zeph D. Rose, Senior Warden
Wayne E. Philippi, P.M. and lnapector..·-···
John D. Anderson, Past Master
James Mciver, Jr., Past Master
Silveyville ..•...•..•............No. 201....~~g~t· if.h~~.~8:w~··················
Herbert E. Pearson. Paa Master
Pentalpha ···-··-··············.No. 202.... Lawrence L. Morrison, Master......................
Howard J. Henschel, Senior Warden
John M. Gordon, Past Master .
William R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master
Clarence W. Hull, Past Master
Julius L. Nelson, Past Master
Confidence ______No. 203.. _James M. Nave, Senior Warden.....·-·········-·
Fong Q . Jing, Past Master
Louis Martin, Past Master
Salinas -·-····-···---··--No. 204_Charles W. Lewis, Master............................
Archie G. Betts, Senior Warden
Erik J. Hobar, Junior Warden
Wilton J. Smith, Sr., P.M. and Inspector......
Olivet -··---·---·--No. 205.... John F. Winslow, Master................·-···········
Charles S. Blackbum, Senior Warden
John Edward Argo, Junior Warden
Stanislaus ···-················-.No. 206.... Oscar S. Correa. Senior Warden.......·-···-···
William L. Hurd, · P.M. and lnapector....·-···

32.20

47.60
47.60
38.36
5.18

9.38
59.50
56.00
17.22
18.48
26.74
26.74
9.10
56.42

14.70
15.12
15.12
23.52
12.74
14.56

428
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

429

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allowed

Anaheim ..........................No. 207.... Robert E. Smith, Master.................................. 60.34
Norman B. Smith, Senior Warden
A. Bird Cross, P.M. and Inspector................ 60.34
Harvey E. Kirk, Past Master
Rio Vista ........................No. 208.... Hale Meader, Master...................................... 9.52
R. Elwood Ande1'SOn, Past Master
C. Earl Stewart, Past Master
King David's ..................No. 209.... C. Herald Gregory, Master............................ 32.48
Howard S. Franklin, Senior Warden
Casper J. Weir, Jr., Past Master
Friendship ......................No. 210.... Clyde D. Goudie, Master................................ 7.00
E. Bruce Folendorf. Senior Warden
Lewis H. Stotesberry, Junior Warden
Carl H. Nelson, Past Master
Robert L. Norton, Past Master
Percy Thompson, Past Master
FONest F. Von Dorsten, Past Master
San Benito ........•.............No. 21 L .. Herman A. Hermansen, Elected
Representative .............................................. 13.30
South San Pranclsco...... No. 212.... John M. Donaldson, Master
Albert H. Hufnagel, Senior Warden
Roger Fernandez, Past Master
San Buenaventura .......... No. 214.... Luther Hachtmann, Senior Warden.............. 51.24
Oak Grove ......................No. 215 .... Philip A. C. Harris. Master
Arthur L. Murray, Senior Warden
Oswald G. Ingold, Past Master
William Nankervis, Jr., Past Master
Doric ................................ No. 216 .... Stephen H. Brownlee, Master
Mortimer Gusset, Senior Warden
Ira W. Coburn, Grand Master
James D. Brownlee, Past Master
Alexander Horne, Past Master
Samuel I. Jacobs, Past Master
Robert L. Levin, Past Master
Tames S. Rose, Past Master
Benjamin Silberstein, Past Master
Monterey ........................ No. 217 .... Harry V. Coss, Senior Warden.................... 16.38
Edmund M. Dreyer, Junior Warden
C. Haskell WaNen, Past Master
Mosaic ............................No. 218.... Jack Stewart, Master........................................ 5.60
Arthur J. Kennicott, Senior Warden
Seymour L. Evans, Junior Warden
Niles B. Bentley, Past Master
Speranza Italiana .........,No. 219.... Raymond J. Baldi, Master
John Falabella, Junior Warden
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
John D'Ambrosio, Past Master
Nello Michelini, Past Master
Roberto Morando, Past Master
Angelo Norza, Past Master
Frank Pagone, Past Master
Downey ··-·······--····-···No. 220.... Walter B. Meyers, Master............................ 58.52
Elmer Wilkerson, Senior Warden
S. Jean Brewer, Junior Warden
Claudis T. Shirley, P.M. and Inspector........ 58.52
Inyo .•......... ~ .........•.........No. 221...Jrwin T. Viers, Senior Warden.................... 60.20
Roseville ·····-····-··-········No. 222.... Hemy E. Harper, Junior Warden..................

14.56

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

Mileage Allowed

Bakersfield ...................... No. 224 .... William M. Pelmear, Master..........................
J. Clifton Carpenter, P.M. and Inspector......
Ernest R. Geoble, Past Master
Garfield G. Laiblin, Past Master
Lloyd E. Myers, Past Master
Gordon W. Parker, Past Master
Brooklyn ..........................No. 225.... Edward M. Thornton. Master
Murile W. Stevenson, Senior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, P.M. and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
Don D. Holm, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo ...................... No. 226.... John T. McHugh, Master
Paul F. Seidel, Senior Warden
Lynn W. Perry, Jr., Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith, P.M. and Inspector
Athens ..............................No. 228 .... Robert M. Finlay, Master..............................
Edward L. Parker, Senior Warden
Stanley W. Smith, Junior Warden
Robert R. Haussler, Past Master
Vance A. Turner, Past Master
Solano ..............................No. 229.... Dan C. Robison, Master..................................
Antonio G. Espinosa, Senior Warden
Fred M. Fralick, Junior Warden
Clarence E. Shoaf, P.M. and Inspector........
Paul J. Billings, Past Master
Robert 0. Gloeckner, Past Master
Russell C. Jones, Past Master
William D. Peden, Past Master
Edwin N. Sanders, Past Master
North Butte ....................No. 230.... Andrew H. Wilson, Junior Warden............
Clare B. Campbell, Assistant
Grand Lecturer ............................................
Covelo ............................No. 231....Arthur J. Weddle, Senior Warden................
oseph L. Millet, Past Master
ohn D. Rohrbough, Past Master
Walter W. Wintel$, Past Master
Janesville ........................No. 232.... James E. T.rauntvein. Master..........................
Warren J. Young, Senior Warden
Eugene M. Freitas, Junior Warden
Joseph S. Roberts. Past Master
Calistoga ........................No. 233.... Charles C. Case, Master................................
Arvid J. Friedlund, Senior Warden
Hope ................................No. 234.... R. A. Scolari, Elected Representative............
Surprise Valley ..............No. 235 .... Robert R. Reeves, Mastel'..............................
Hills Ferry ...................... No. 236.... Chester N. Matsen, Master............................
Chester P. Matsen, Senior Warden
W.R. Underhill, Junior Warden
William S. Thompson, P.M. and Inspector..
A. T. Kiersch, Past Master
Guadalupe ...................... No. 237...• Frank W. Steller, Senior Warden..................
Thomas G. Cocking, Past Master
Henry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Colusa ..............................No. 240...• Arthur W. Berry, Junior Warden................
Warren G. Davison, Past Master
Lawrence R. Proctor, Past Master
Santa Ana ............•..••....•No. 241..•. Thomas G. Homrighausen, Master................
Ralph T. Schwanz, Senior Warden
John L. Taylor, P.M. and Inspector..............

40.46
40.46

10.08

4.34
4.34

18.76
18.76
25.48

J

39.06

10.36
35.70
53.48
14.42
14.42
33.04

17.36
60.90
60.90

430
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentative1

431

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage All~

Magnolia •...............•.......No. 242.... Paul T. MacQuiddy, MWastrdeer.............._ ....... 47.60
Gordon B. Reid, Senior a n
Clinton B. France, Junior Warden
Eucalyptus ··--·-··--N o. 243.... Julius E. Vanerweg_en, Master........................ 3.78
George D. Hayes, Senior Warden
Lawrence E. Boyles, Junior Warden
Arlie R. Fleming, Past Master
Walter F. Flierl, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
He~y J. Keim, Past Master
W. Teubert Smith, Past Master
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Nelson, MaSster Warde
Alcatraz ··········-·············No. 244 .... Charles L.
n
Wilber Misner, enior
Harry E. Olsen, Junior Warden
Lowell K. Bain, Past Master
A. A. Campbell, Past Master
Tohn G. Sjoberg, Past Master
Norman Soutar, Past Master
Beverley C. Sutliff, Past Master
P. Dunlap, Senior Warden................ 20.44
Laure1 •···•·····•·················•·No. 245.... Robert
Leroy A. Brown, Junior Warden
R. Overholt, Master.......................... 61.04
Eugene
. · ona ............................No· 246.... Earl
POllD
C. I.Owe, Senior Warden
Clifford A. Wamel. Juniot Warden
Phillips E. Whitaker, Past Master
L. Anderson, Master.......................- 25.62
F re sno ................. _........... No· 247.... Donald
Robert 0. T rrell, Senior Warden
Kenneth F. l!rson, Junior Warden
George Hiatt, Past Master
Edward L. Kellas, Past Master
John L. Stewart, Jr., Past Master
Alturas ............................No. 248.... Not Represented
Adin --··-···-···-·- --··-·.No. 250.... Not Represented
10.92
....·-·········-·-··
Master
Don Watten,
Landm -~pk ........................No• 253..··Merlin
Warden ·-···--····
Jr., Senior
J. Taber,
Master .-------- ·-·· 30.38
Reading ········-··- -No. 254.... Roy A. Avey.
Edward M. Clendinen, Senior Warden
Albert A. Bryceson, P.M. and Inspector........ 30.38
Daniel C. McRae, Past Master
Albert F. Ross, Past Master............................ 30.38
William H. Schooler, Past Master
George W. Sturm. Past Master...................... 30.38
Welcome ····--··--····-·-··No• 255.... James A. Wiles, Senior Warden.................... 29.82
M. Ehrhardt, Master.......·-······-···- ·· 13.16
Lodi ·······--·····-· -······-···No. 256.... EZ'l'a
Lewis P. Singer, Jr., Senior Warden
Master---···--···----· 15.96
Peni-hyn -"-····-·----··--·..No. 258_Harve y H. Carlisle, Jr.,
R. Albert Schweigert, Senior Warden
Evergreen __________ No. 259_Harla n Sandusky, Senior Warden................ 64.40
Stanley L. Channon, Junior Warden
William H. Price, P.M. and Inspector.......... 64.40
Byron C. Morton, Past Master...................... 64.40
King Solomon's ..............No. 260.... Alfred S. Cohen, Master W arden
Lester F. Anderson, Senior
Eugene S. Hopp, Junior Warden
Ulysses G. Patropulos, P.M. and Inspector
Henry E. Bennett, Past Master
Charles F. Burrows, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, Jr .. Past Master
Albert 0. Rier, Past Mastec
John E. Werry, Past Master

Name of Lodse

No. of Lodge

Repre1entativea

Mileage Allowed

Tuscan .....................,•..•..No. 261....Charles R. Waldbieser, Senior Warden........ 15.96
Lompoc ............................No. 262.... Finnie E. Fritts, Senior Warden.................... 40.18
William M. White, Junior Warden
Hesperlan .... _ .................No. 264 .... Philip C. Reiner, Master................................ 33.04
Vernon R. Edwards, Senior Warden
Chester A. Davis, Junior Warden
Henry Drashner, P.M. and Inspector....•-.... 33.04
Donald E. Thomas, Past Master
Orland -·---···-·······-······No. 265....Theodore W. Pleisc:h, Senior Warden.......... 21.70
Galt ..................................No. 267.... Frank E. Pearson. Master................................ 12.32
Floyd R. Staley, Senior Warden
Durant .....................- .... No. 268 .... Leonard A. Komor, Master
David T. McKibben, Senior Warden
Frank T. Smeider, Junior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P.M. and Inspector
Oliver J. Brown, Past Master
Roger 0 . Gilmore, Past Master
Chaa-les Ratkovich, Past Master
Olive Branch ..................No. 269_David L. Zack, Master.•..·----·---···-· ----···· 31.78
W. D. Luton, Senior Warden
William H. Jeter, Junior Warden
Snow Mountain .............. No. 271.... Paul A. Loris, Elected Representative........... 21.70
Pasadena ........................No. 272.... Joe A. Dines, Master........................................ 57 54
Richard B. Joslyn, Senior Warden
Alfred C. Alig, Junior Warden
Ralph T. Merriam. Past Master...................... 57.54
William R. Van Houten, Past Master
Anchor ............................No. 273.... Donithan A. Wilson, Master.......................... 58.38
Kile L. Weeks, Senior Warden
Ross H. Henderson, Junior Warden
George Q. Evans, P.M. and Inspector.......... 58.38
Richard L. Williams. Past Master
Arroyo ............................No. 274....UJ~· ifTi~J~~e~~~----·--··-- 34.72
LoRay C. Bair, Past &'iaster
'
Oakdale .......................... No. 275.... Marvin V. Bryant. Senior Warden.-.......:_
Claiborn Sc:honhoff, P.M. and Inspector......
Selma ----····-- --No. 277_.Harry E. Hiraoka, Master_..........................
Melvin L. Bethel, Senior Warden
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
Southern California ...... No. 278.... Lawrence Eliason, Master__ _______
Joseph T. Blake, Senior Warden
Walter G. Dreeke, Junior Warden
William J. Cook, Past Master
Harold E. Mc:Comas, Past Ma11ter
Harold V. Spender, Past Master
Hanford ..........................No. 279-J. K. Sweeney, Senior Warden....................
C. B. Smith, Juni<r Warden
Madera ............................No. 280.... Thomas A. Fhy, Senior Warden................ _
Ray Whitaker, Junior Warden
James B. Haney, Past Master
Mount Shasta ................No. 281.... Norman L. Miller, Junior Wan:len................
A. Bartlett Moss, Past Master
Callayomi ........................No. 282 .... James A. Minor, Master..........·--···-·····-- ···
South West ....................No. 283.... Clarence E. Guffey, Senior Warden............
Calvin P. Edwards, Junior Warden
Robert H. Bettlestone, Paat Master
Edward C. Wright. Sr., Past Master
San Miguel --·····••h···-----No. 285.... Thaddeus G. Males, Elected Representative

13.30
13.30
27.72
56.42

29.96
22.54
28.84
12.74
73.64

27.16

432
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repruentatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allol>lecf

Paso Robles ....................No. 286.... R. F. Skidmore, Senior Warden.................... 28.12
Paul L. Turner, P.M. and Inspector.............. 28.12
Winnedumah .................. No. 287.... George L. Hall, Senior Warden...................... 53.90
Wilfred W. Partridge, P.M. and lru1pector.. 53.90
Maxwell ....•..................... No. 288.... Louis G. Suttoo, Elected Representative...... 17.22
Elsinore .......................... No. 289.... Rlchard L. Staley, Senior Warden................ 66.08
Howard G. Habenicht, Past Master
East Gate ···············-······· No. 290.... BernMd W. Warkentine, Master.................. 56.42
Charles C. Cadman, Senior Warden.............. 56.42
John Allen Crosby, Past Master
Curtis C. Orrell, Past Master
Santa Paula .................... No. 291.. .. Francis W. Hertel, Jr., Master...................... 53.18
H. Edward Le Schofs, Senior Warden
Ernest M. Shively, Junior Warden
Los Gatos ........................ No. 292.... William 0. Broadstone, Master.................... 7.42
Mario D. Rossi, Senior Warden
Orange Grove ................No. 293 .... George F. Gorham, Master............................ 60.62
Floyd D. Higgins, Senior Warden
Traver ............................No. 294.... Carrol P. Hansen, Master.............................. 28.12
J. Franklin Warholm, Senior Warden
Robert N. Rouch, Past Master
Mt. Jackson .................... No. 295.... Leslie C. Chenoweth, Senior Warden............ 9.66
Silver Gate ......................No. 296.... Theodore F. McWilliams, Master................ 73.08
Shelton W. Cass, Senior Warden
John Bain, Jr., Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, P.M. and Inspector................ 73.08
Clareoce J. Shepard, Past Master
Raymond W. Tombaugh, Past Master
Dunsmuir ........................No. 297.... James F. Lockart, Senior Warden.......... ...... 37.94
Lawrence E. Newton, Junior Warden
Liberty ............................ No. 299.... Robert G. Davis, Master................................ 6.30
. Alan Hulme, Senior Warden
ohn T. Thompson, Junior Warden
ohn W. Baker, Jr., P .M. and Inspector........ 6.86
J
Chester 1. Grant, Past Master
Carl A. Linderoth, Past Master
Redlands •.........................No. 300.... Howard E. Repp, Senior Warden................ 64.40
Lee S. Simmonds, Junior Warden
Kenneth Dowell, P.M. and Inspector............ 65.52
Clement F. Patton, Past Master
Ontario ............................No. 301....James A. Curry, Senior Warden.................... 60.76
Santa Lucia .................... No. 302.... Llewellyn E. Tully, Junior Warden.............. 21.H
Bmil Feldt, Past Master
Ree C. Grim, Past Master
Fred Y. Mar, Past Master
Porterville ......................No. 303.... Harold F. Wilcox, Master.............................. 34.86
Melvin C. Santry, Jr., Senior Warden
Fred T. Belton, Grand Bible Bearer.............. 34.86
Reedley ......................... ...No. 304.... Donald U. Hall. Senior Warden.................... 28.56
Azusa ..............................No. 305.. _Albert L. Wise, Master.................................... 59.50
John L. Ogborn, Senior Warden
Ashlar •............................. No. 306.... Arthur R. Knutson, Senior Warden.............. 64.68
Robert W. Nicol, P.M. and Inspector.......... 64.68
Santa Monica ................ No. 307.... Paul C. Bruce, Master.................................... 56.11
George W. Pike, Senior Warden
T. Raymond Halldorson, Junior Warden
E. Earl Sawyer, Past Master
Harry H. Williams, Past Master
Monrovia ........................ No. 308.... Clyde C. Ferguson, Master............................ 58.52
Michael Gildon, Senior Warden
Walfirid M. Setterlund, Past Master

Naine of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

433
Mileage Allowed

Delano ............................ No. 309.... l\rS:d~d,~rP.!s~ast~arden .............. 36.26
Sisson .............................. No. 310....lrvlng Astmann, Master................................ 39.20
Los Banos ........................ No. 312.... William H. Sloan, Jr.. Senior Warden........ 17.64
Tehachapi ......................No. 313.... Wesley C. Hedberg, Master.......................... 16.34
Arthur S. Wallace, Senior Warden
William R. Porter, Junior Warden
Roy L. Bagley, Past Master
Arthur R. Keeley, Past Master
Temescal ........................ No. 314.... Paavo J. Nylander, Junior Warden.............. 63.00
Norwalk ..........................No. 315 .... J. B. Parker, Master........................................ 58.52
Chas. P. Lagutaris, Senior Warden
Gerald E. Aegerter, Tunior Warden
Sanger ···-·--·················No. 316.... J. Sidney Kovacevich, Senior Warden........ 27.72
Wayne E. Burk, Past Master........................ 27.72
Fallbrook ........................ No. 317.... James W. Belford, Senior Warden................ 70.70
Btnmanuel ················-····No. 318.... Gilbert H. Clark, Senior Warden........... ........ 19.32
Hollenbeck ...................... No. 319 .... Robert B. Burton, Master.............................. 56.42
Fred R. McCoy, Senior Warden
Harold W. Noble, Junior Warden
Roy T. Kiele, P.M. and Inspector.................. 56.42
Conrad Follendore, Past Master
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
Ugo Rostagno, Past Master
South Gate ...................... No. 320.... Frank Hasper, Master.................................... 56.42
Kenneth L. Andrews, Senior Warden
Mark A. Green, Past Master.......................... 56.42
David H. Tel'l"y, Past Master
Alisa! .............................. No. 321....James A. Thompson, Master............. ............. 5.46
Gerald E. Dailey, Senior Warden
Joseph W. Watt, Jr., Junior Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra ........................ No. 322.... William G. Yerger, Master............................ 57.40
Roscoe B. Easton. Senior Warden
Robert E. Gerber, Junior Warden
Francis M. F.reebom, Past Master
Whittier .......................... No. 323.... Robert B. Shelton, Masttt.............................. 57.82
Charlie T. Moorman, Senior Warden
Roscoe W. Farris, Past Master
Clarence W. Peck, Past Mastet"
Corona ............................ No. 324.... Ralph G. Skillen, Masttt................................ 57.5i
Robert G. Godfrey, Senior Warden
Robert L. Van Wye, Junior Warden
Roy J. Rasmussen, Past Mastec
Consuelo .......................... No. 325.... Walter R. Johnson, Senior Warden.............. 71.12
Ogle Kellerman, Junior Warden
Thomas W. Eckford, Past Master
Needles ............................No. 326....Revis Hall, Master............................................ 79.66
Stuart G. Thompson, Senior Warden
Clarence R. Hancock, Jr., Past Master
Long Beach .................... No. 327.... Franklin 0. Estes, Master.............................. 60.06
George C. Gordon, Senior Warden
John H. Ferguson, P.M. and Inspector......... . 60.06
George P. Calderwood, Past Master
H. G. Van Dyke, Past Master
Redondo .......................... No. 328....Robert L. Tucker, Master............. ................... 57.96
Ellis J. Mills, Senior Warden
Wallace R. Lott, Junior Warden
Donald J. Shoemaker, Grand Pursuivant...... 57.26
George S. Faimrothef', Past Master
Leon G. Kelly, Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master

434
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Milea11e Allo-d

Vallee De France............No. 329.... Pierre DuBarry, Senior Warden.................... 56.12
Charles A. Thomasset, P.M. and lnapector.. 56.12
Andre Caen, Past Master
Jules Des Forges. Past Master
Michel L. Gaul, Past Master
Edgar H. Jacot, Past Master
Kilauea ···-······-··-·-·····No. 330.... Tyrus Lee Chang, Senior Warden....·-········· 381.19
C. C. Tong, Past Master
William McKinnon Whitman, Past Master
Pacific Grove ...............-.No. 331 .... Ellsworth H. Burson, Master................·--····· 17.08
Frank W. Hellman, Senior Warden
Arch Bakhin, P.M. and Inspector..............-.. 17.08
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
San Pedro ......................No. 332.... ~!:'L.Lse~c~~~;·s!!~!tew;d;~···········-······· 60.20
Henry Llewellyn, Junior Warden
Alta ·---·······-·····-·-····No. 333 .... Not Represented
Covina ······-·-···-····-·····No. 331.... Robert F. Van Leuven, Senior Warden.......•
John E. Whitlock, Junior Warden
Wayne C. Bates. P.M. and Inspector......._...
Robert M. Henry, Past Master
West Gate ....•............•....No. 335.... Sam L. Franklin, Master...............·-··············
Louis S. Nordlinger, Jr., Senior Warden
Raymond P. Arenson. Junior Warden
Fruitvale -········--····-No. 336.. _William H. Baker, Master
Burton 0 . Young, Senior Warden
Dana 'A' Turpin, Junior Warden
Paul A. Brom, Past Master
Russell C. Hortsmann, Past Master
Rudolph Jenny, Past Master
Carqufnez -···-·········---·No. 337.... Robert H. Clarke, Master...·-·-·······-···········
Donald R. Marlow, Senior Warden
San Jacinto -·-······-·-···No. 338.... Carl W. Reid, Master......................................
Fullerton ----·----...--···--No. 339 .... ~~~filn~· ~S:w~

........-.........-····-·

59.61
59.08
56.12

3.92
68.60
60.20

W. T. Rodger, Put Master
Oxnard ·····-·····················No. 311 .... 0rvene S. Carpenter, Master_........................ 52.61
William J. Watts, Senior Warden
Alva B. Collins, Junior Warden
Ronald E. Jones. P.M. and Inspector............ 52.61
Louis H. Lipscomb, Past Master
Rolland C. Steele, Past Master
San Fernando ········-······No. 313.... Glenn A. Long, Master........·-························· 52.92
Robert G. Wieser, Senior Warden
C. Frank Vozza, Junior Warden
T. L. Biddison, Past Master
Louis H. Boone, Past Master
William H. Harris, Past Master
J. Kenneth Savage, Past Master
Charles J. Thompson, Past Master
Starr King ····-----No. 311..-Rooald J. Miguel, Master
Myron K. Rosenberg, Senior Warden
Benjamin Wein.stein, Junior Warden
Charles Becker, Grand Orator
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Grand Master
Al H. Barkoff, Past Master
Arthur S. Becker, Past Master
Charles 0. Clausen, Past Master
Hal Curtis, Past Master
Lester T. Goldmeyer, Past Master
Michael V. lgnotz, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

435
Mi1eage Allowed

Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Masttt
Arthur Salomon, Past Master
Manuel Stem, Past Master
Halman L. Wayne, Past Master
Albert C. Wollenberg, Past Master
Brentwood ..- ..................No. 315.... James C. Watson, Senior Warden..-.............
Palo Alto ····················-··No. 316.... Eugene T. Whitten, Master..........................
Carl T. Newman, Senior Warden
J. William Carl, Junior Warden
L. Harold Ander80Jl, Past Grand Master
Lloyd M. Harms, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Master......................
McKinley ....................._.No. 317.... Tamie! S. Silberman, Master
Hillard M. Reeves, Senior Warden
Arthur C. Rogers, Junior Warden
Fred R. De Barrows, Past Master
Peter Slavazza, Past Master
Horace H. Warnock, Past Master
San Bemardino ..............No. 318.... Hollis G. Hartley, Masttt................................
Alvin N . Schmitz, Senior Warden
Sequoia ............................No. 319 .... James B. Margetts, Master
William B. Jensen, Senior Warden
Donald W. Besoain, Junior Warden
Merrill D. Coy, P.M. and Inspector
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Alfred E. Hopkins, Past Master
Lawrence E. Muntz, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Henry S. Savage, Past Master
Palestine ...................... - ..No. 351.... George D. Bloomfield, Junior Warden.........•
Benjamin R. Jordan, Past Master
Sunset ...................._ .......No. 352 .... Melvin E. Austin, Master....... _____ ...............
L. D. Foster Belote, Senior Warden
John Chackerian, Junior Warden
William Kludjian, Past Master
John H. Hardy, Past Master
Pinole •..- .........- ..........__ No. 353.... Everett W. Coleman, Master...-......- .............
James C. Ervin, Senior Warden
Richard H. Maroon, Junior Warden
Presidio ................- ...•..... No. 351.... Clyde L. Wood, Master
Alexander Y aroma, Senior Warden
Joseph H. Ruggiero, P.M. and Inspector
Eric R. Johnson. Bast Master
David R. Noah, Past Master
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Edward H. Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood .....- ...............No. 355.... Corydon J. Glazier, Master.................- .........
Don H. Schwimley, Junior Warden
Leo E. Anderson, Past Grand Master............
Erwin H. Gebhardt, P.M. and Inspector.... ..
Wallace H. Beaudry, Past Master
James F. Davidson, Past Master
Fred E. Green. Past Master
Ward J. Henry, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master
Mill Valley ........·-·····-··No. 356.... Harold R. Henry, Master
Richard A. Dangers, Senior Warden
Richard K. Mills, Junior Warden
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master

7.81
1.18

7.12

63.56

56.12
56.12

3.78

55.-H
56.12
56.12

436
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreeentativeo

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allo.i.ed

Francis G. Burt, Past Master
George J. Burt, Past Master
Frederick A. Penn, Past Master
Howard A. Ronnin_g, Past Master
Wesley V. Smith, Past Master
Buena Park •...................No. 357.... Luke H. Sheek, Master............................ ·-·····
Frazer G. Riddlesperger, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems. P.M. and Inspector............__
Golden State ..................No. 358.... J. Harry Smith, Master....................................
James 0. Moore, Senior Warden
Burton Meyer, Jr., P.M. and Inspector....... _.
Winfield R. Cram, Past Master
Loyalton •.........................No. 359 .... Roy White, Elected Representative..............
Louis Olson, Past Master
San Francisco. Victory .. No. 360.... William H . Hook, Master
Raymond W. Haun, Junior Warden
William C. Bird, Past Master
Henry L. Bush, Past Master
Albert F. Enderlin, Past Master
Kenneth W. Hinkle, Past Master
William F. Jebe, Past Master
Charles D. Johnson, Past Master
Edwin C . Mathisen, Past Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
Lester M. Petterson, Past Master
Milton T. Slinmons, Past Master
Otto Von Raven, Past Master
Fort Bragg ......................No. 361.. .. Emest Thorstrom, Senior Warden................
Charity ............................ No. 362 .... ~~~~ ~. t;:i,~t~e~~~r 'Wa~d~·;;······················
Paul H. Nelson, Junior Warden
Rudy L. Nelson, Past Master
William H. Scott, Past Master
Berkeley .......................... No. 363.... John R. Ingram, Master
Floyd K. Smith, Senior Warden
James D. Leach, Junior Warden
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Willits .........,....................No. 365.... Bruce B. Steadman, Senior Warden..............
W. D. Ford, Past Master
Las Palmas ......................No. 366.... Allard Derby Dadmun, Master..................... .
Martin Edward Allred. Senior Warden
Jack LaRue Tufts, Junior Warden
W. Price Robinson, Past Master
South Pasadena .............. No. 367.... Wendell F. Hockersmith, Master................. .
Daniel J. Schmid, Senior Warden
Unity .................. ········-···No. 368.... Axthur M. Johnson, Master ........................... .
Hubbard B. Peters, Senior Warden
Guy B. Mize, Past Grand Master..................
Fred M. Clark. Past Master.......- ...................
Homer E. Rathbun, Past Master
Ocean Park .................... No. 369.... Howard 0. Guilford, Master......................... .
Karl D. Duge, Senior Warden
Theodore B. Fach, P;M. and Inspector......... .
Warner T. Betts, Past Master
M. Lee Medaris, Past Master
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
Amity-Seal Rock ............ No. 370.... Robert E. Pinomaki, Master
Noel H. Neel, Senior Warden
William E. Ross, Junior Warden
Paul A. PHueger, Assistant
Grand Treasurer

59.22

60.34
56.42
56.42
32.20

23.24
6.86

19.60
25.62

57.82
56.00
56.00
56.00
56.14
56.14

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreeentativu

437
Mileag• Allowed

Aibe Balukian, Past Master
Edwin W. Bode, Sr., Past Master
William A. Cohendet, Past Master
Henry 0. Hammerich, Past Master
V. V. Kolombatovic, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins. Past MastM
Russell H. Sievers, Past Master
John K. Wright, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanie.. No. 371....Domonick Provenzano, Senior Warden........ 338.19
Charles H. McAllister, P.M. and Inspector.. 338.19
Alan H. Strike, Past Master
Gardena .......................... No. 372 .... Arthur J. Setzer, Senior Warden.................... 58.38
John D. Sparks, Junior Warden
Robert E. Crist, P.M. and Inspector.............. 58.38
George Cunningham, Past Master
Keith W. Schlaegel, Past Master.................. 58.38
West Los Angeles.......... No. 373.... Robert E. Clark, Master.................................. 56.42
John E. Tison. Senior Warden
Harold E. Kultalahti, Junior Warden
Harold Hasbrouck, Past Master
Egbert 0. Matthews, Past Master
Jewel ................................No. 374.... Rexford Elder. Master
Ralph H. Johnston, Senior Warden
B. Frederic Fisher, Junior Warden
John H. Adams, Past Master
Phil Bovero, Past Master
Elmer James. Past Master
William Van Omum, Past Master
Willard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master
Lou H. Silberman, Past Master
Philip C. Tudor. Past Master
Richmond ........................No. 375 .... Clarke R. Trethewey, Master
Matthew McCubbin, Senior Warden
George R. Summerfield, Junior Warden
John B. Bieg, Past Master
Myrton W. Erickson, Past Master
Tames Leo Halley, Past Master
Ross L. Perkins. Past Master
Fred E. Wisherop, Past Master
Francis Drake ................No. 376 .... Kenneth H. Dowd, Master
Harlan B. Merritt, Senior Warden
George W. Brown, Junior Warden
Clinton E. Kenney, Past Master
Artesia ............................No. 377.... Bdwin H. Hutton, Senior Warden................ 58.94
Carl W. Derr, Junior Warden
Harold R. Whitney, Past Master
Mizpah ·····-·········-··········No. 378.... Harry Labrow, Senior Warden...................... 56.42
Ralph K. Shrode, Junior Warden
George W. Perkins, P.M. and Inspector...... 54.32
W. Lewis Thompson, Past Master
Fillmore ··············-·-·······No. 379 .... William L. Dorman, Jr., Master................... ... 54.88
Donald D. Martin, Senior Warden
William I. Haynes, Past Master
W. Howard Price, Past Master
Huntington Beach ..........No. 380.... Edwin H. Mossinger, Master.......................... 62.H
Albert L. Latimer, Junior Warden
Berrell R. Ries, P.M. and Inspector................ 62.H
Oceanside ........................ No. 381....Homer B. Davis, Senior Warden.................. 68.32
Clarence A. Thompson, Junior Warden
·
Kenneth C. Stanley, P.M. and Inspector...... 68.32

438
Name of Lodae

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

Mileage Allowed

Frank M. Chase, Past Master
Douglas M. Craig, Past Master
Highland Park ······-····-No. 382...• Thomas J. B. Gleason, Master..........--········· 56.42
Geor~e W. Porter, Jr., Senior Warden
John R. Duke, Junior Warden
Albert R. Bennison. Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Oros! ----··-····--········No. 383.... Stanley B. Murray, Senior Warden............•. 29.26
Jack Peloian, Past Master
El Centro ····-·····-···········No. 384.... Jesse J. Campbell, Master............................. . 86.24
Howard C. Fish, Senior Warden
George R. Kirk, Junior Warden
Elmer W. Heald, Deputy Grand Master...... 86.24
Norbert P. Tester, P.M. and Inspector......... . 86.24
John E. Bowman, Past Master
Edwin N. D. Hatch, Past Master
Frank G. Kamp~ Past Master
Pren Leonard Moore, Past Master
Herman H. Peterson, Past Master
Charles E. Sones, Past Master
Harry R. Sones, Past Master
Alfred R. Tagg, Past Master
Dinuba ···········--·········No. 385.... Cedric J. Riano, Senior Warden.................. 29.54
Oarence L. Fraser, P.M. and Inspector........ 29.54
Coalinga -·-·················-·No. 387.... Leo R. Ping, Senior Warden............·-········· 29.12
Norman W. Bristowe, Juolor Warden
Frank W. Spear, Past Master
Parnassus ..........•............. No. 388.... Tohn F. Palmer, Master
Kenneth E. Hopper, Senior Warden
Lloyd R. Lawrence, Junior Warden
James E. Finley, P.M. and Inspector
Edwin S. Buckley, Past Master
Philip R. Chapin, Past Master
George K. Crandall. Past Master
Wallace A. Fager, Past Master
Karl F. Koenig, Past Master
Robert E. Petersen. Past Master
Homer D. Robertson, Past Master
Palos Verdes ··········-······No. 389 .... Paul L. Williamson, Master.......................... 60.06
Robert H. Bell, Senior Warden
Imperial -···········-····---·No. 390.... Forrest Wayne Flanagan, Senior Warden.. 84.84
East Belt -························No. 391.._Gearge Gray Hard, Master............................ 19.46
Wallace H. Fiske, P.M. and lmpector.......... 19.46
West Lake ...................... No. 392.... Howard C. Alphson, Master......·-················ 56.42
Clayton Chidester, Senior Warden
Lloyd V. Smith, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.42
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Vernon E. Mitchell, Past Master
Balder ······-·······-·············No. 393.... Stanley E. Gustavson, Master
Heinrich Beuster, Senior Warden
K. Edwin Person, Junior Warden
Hazelton French, P.M. and Inspector
LeRoy W. Johnson, Past Master
Clarence J. Moquin, Past Master
Ole A. Swansen, Past Master
University -··--'-·-·····No. 394.... Kenneth E. De Haven, Master.... ·-················· 56.42
Fred E. Cutler, Senior Warden
Myron E. Smith, Junior Grand Warden........ 56.42
Ralph R. Atkinson, Past Master
William T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentatlvea

439
Mileage Allowed

Turlock --····--·····-·····No. 395.... Ben)amtn H. Pettus, Master...·-·-'···········- 14.56
Carl A. Hamlow, Senior Warden
Ernest R. Gaster, Past Master
Apollo ··--·--·-···-······No. 396.... Harry B. Conway, Jr.
William S. PMker, Senior Warden
Bilbo J. Hillman, Junior Warden
Alfred Johnson, P.M. and Inspector
David P. Russell, Past Master
Carl E. Thau, Past Master
Rising Light ....................No. 397.... Alfred A. Dowers, Master.....·-······················ 57.12
Norman J. Allsberry, Junior Warden
Charles G. Barnett, Past Master
Pntemity ........................No. 399 .... William T. Leever, Master-·····-··············-··· 7.00
Victor J. Lewin, Senior Warden
Alvar E. Born, Junior Warden
Howard Campen. Past Master
Howard E. Van Arsdale, Past Master
Burlingame ······-······ ........ No. 400.... William J. Moir, Senior Warden
H. Dale Rowe, Junior Warden
Bay View ·····-·················No. 401....Miltoo C. Buckley, Master
Elwin C. Lamp, Past Master
John E. Nixon, Past Master
Arthur H. Triggs. Past Master
Brawley ..........................No. 402.... ~~lf. J ~fS~i~~·--·············---· 83.44

0

Percy E. Palmer, Past Muter
Y etba Buena .................. No. 403.... William M. Gibson, Master
Vance R. Haswell, Senior Warden
James J. Dalton, Junior Warden
Hugh L. Burnett, Past Master
John A. Kitchen, Past Master
Lester S. McElwain, Past Master
Wallace E. York, Past Master
Glendora ..........................No. 404 .... James Randolph, Master.................................. 59.78
•
Thurman Merritt. Senior Warden
Moneta -·····--···············No. 405.... E. Jack Bodenhamer, Muter---··-··-············· 56.42
Bill T. Jordan, Senior Warden
George E. Towner, Sr., Junior Warden
Burbank ··---··················No. 406.... Douglass H. Selby, Master............................ 55.44
Thomas J. Russell, Senior Warden
Luther C. Vankirk, Junior Warden
W. D. Hopkins, Past Master
La Mesa ·········-···············No. 407.... Henry A. Lambert, Master.............................. 74.48
Ward A. Blackman, Senior Warden
Arnold H. Rodieck, Junior Warden
Lorenza H. Shaw, P.M. and lmpector.......... 74.62
R. Wayne Fillpot, Past Master...................... 74.48
Sierra Madre ..................No. 408.... Dominlc J. Boggio, Master............................ 58.38
Samuel L. Graham, Past Master
Honolulu ···········-········-···No. 409.._Abraham Aiona, Master.................................. 338.19
George N. Kahapea, Senior Warden
Robert Edgar, Past Master
Charter Rock .................•No. 4JO_Donald E. Hagerman, Master
Walter T. Kuhn, Senior Warden
Spiro A. Barakos, Junior Warden
Sanborn H. Smith, Past Master
.
Ralph A. Sta'!tey, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Perris ..............................No. 411.... William Crocker, Senior Warden......·-······· 66.36
Calexico ·-··--··--No. 412.... Lanning F. fu>ieth, Senior Warden.....••......... 86.94
Thomas M. Remington, Past Master

440
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representative•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Arlington •....................... No. 414.... Ross W. Seton, Jr .. Master............................ 56.42
James M. Walker, Senior Warden
Melvin V . Palmer, Past Master
Silver Trowel .................. No. 415.... Wayne Songer, Senior Warden.................... 55.44
Mwiray JackSon, Junior Warden
Irvin Shulkin, P.M. and Inspector................ 54.60
Van A. Gatewood, Past Master
Hugh C. Smith, Past Master
Lindsay ............................No. 416.... Delmer A. Murdock, Master........................ 33.46
Harvey J. Hartig, Senior Warden
Alva A. Daniells, P.M. and Inspector............ 33.46
Clovis .........................•.... No. 417.... Glen Mosier, Senior Warden........................ 26.18
Elysian ............................ No. 418.... Audrey L. Smith, Masttt................................ 56.42
Henry A. Taylor, Senior Warden
Guy Woolley, Past Master
Upland ............................No. 419 .... Michael J. Hanna, Senior Warden................ 61.46
Richard Baldwin, Junior Warden
Kerman ............................No. 420.... Charles Emory Lee, Master............................ 24.78
Edgar E. Choate, Jr., Senior Warden.......... 25.62
Reginald H. Sherwood, Past Master
Inglewood ......................No. 421....John C. Gebhart, Master................................ 58.10
Charles M. Gawthrop, Senior Warden
Larry D. Matson, Junior Warden
Marion B. Burke, Past Master
Claude E. Cole, Past Master.......................... 58.10
J. Loran Robertson, Past Master
Eagle Rock ......................No. 422.... Elton F. Blum, Senior Warden...................... 56.42
Allen L. Garren, Junior Warden
James E. Calhoun, Past Master
York ................................No. 423 .... Edward W. DeLuca. Master.......................... 57.26
Harold P. Foley, Senior Warden
Exeter ..............................No. 424.... Stanley L. Cosart, Senior Warden................ 32.90
Holtville ..........................No. 425.... Samuel Reiman, Senior Warden.................. 86.66
Midway ..........................No. 426.... Walter E. Wahl. Master................................ 41.58
Woodrow J. Krigbaum, Senior Warden
Robert A. Green. Junlor Warden
Robert A. Smith, Past Master........................ 41.58
Chino Valley ..................No. 427.... Charles R. Holbrook, Senior Warden............ 61.04
John C. Behringer, Junior Warden
Robert W. C. Storms, Past Master
San Dimas ......................No. 428 .... Waldo Martin, Master.................................... 60.34
James Milne, Past Master
Mort C. Morrison, Past Master
Pittsburg ........................ No. 429 .... Earl A. Robinson, Master.............................. 5.60
Rlalph Lopez, Senior Warden
John C. Brown, Junior Grand Deacon............ 5.60
W. Ralph Anderson, P.M. and Inspector.... 5.60
William G. Buxton, Past Master
McCloud ........................ No. 430.... J. Ptacek, Senior Warden................................ 40.32
Phil N. Myers. Past Grand Master.............. 56.42
Percy W. Lindt, P.M. and Inspector............ 37.94
Alpha ..............................No. 431....Kenneth B. Henson, Master
Walter A. Horne, Senior Warden
John L. Van Winkle, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
A. S. Remell. Past Master
Hammonton .................... No. 433 .... Merl S. Kennedy, Master.............................. 16.94
Jack D. Myers. Senior Warden
Wayne A. Dahling, P.M. and Inspector........ 16.52
Maricopa ........................ No. 434 .... M. George Mott, Senior Warden.................. 42.56
Carl E. Moore, P.M. and Inspector.............. 42.56
Matthew Devine, Past Master

Naine of Lodge

No, of Lodge

Repreoentativea

Falrmount ........................No. 435 .... John Q. Mayberry, Master

441
d
All
M'I
~
·~

Alexander P. Labemadie, Senior Warden
William W. Kiesow, Junior Warden
I van Crase, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Rudolph llling, Past Master
Edward R. Pootel, Past Master
William K. Raines, Past Master
William H. Scott, Past Master
Joseph A. Teresi, Past Master
Walter E. Waite, Past Master
Cl
aremont ........................ No. 436....James R. Smith, Senior Warden
Roger E. Garrison, unior Ward~···· ···· ······ ···
N A37 GOeorge D. Lober, J.M. and Inspector..........
Lancast
er ........................ o. -. .... tis C. Saylor, Master...................
A. J. Warkentine, Senior Warden ................ .
James E. Bacon, P.M. and Inspector............
"ght, Past Master....................
WiHlliamRedDf. KdruP
C. .
or , ast Master
John C. Sinn, Past Master
L.A. Walker, Past Master
V. D. Ward, Past Master
T
yrian .............................. No. 439 ~~e~iff;i'.n~=:~-w~;d-;~---····--·--·----·· ..·····-S tandard ..........................No. 440.... Maurice Cherry, Master
Arthur M. Tom, Senior Warden
Coronado ........................ No. 441.... Edgar B. Beck, Senior Warden
Curtis W. Allen, Junior Warden ................... .

61 A£

·=

61.46
52.50
5250
52.50

J0.50

76.72

~~~-WHoSlbeubbrt, Past Master........................ 73.08
s, Past Master
. t
Blac kmer ..........................No. 442.... Jesse L. Karr, Jr., Senior W--'-73
·08
~obert Ballinger, Junior w~.................
George A. Gray, Past Master
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
338 19
Scholleld .......................... No. 443.... Solomon P. Q. Chung Senior W de
ar n........ ....8·86
Carpinteria ..........f ...........No. 444.... Frank Zanier, Senior Warden
R. Samuel Pearson, Junior Wa~d~~- ..... .......... -. ·
56.A2
Wilshire .......................... No. 445.... John B. Rogers, Jr. Master
-.
Alfred T. Gruening,' Senior w;;d~~--.............
56.42
Frederic E. Clark, P.M. and Inspector
.......... 56 "2
Herbert A. Huebner, Past MaatN
.-.
..................
Gerald W. Page, Past Master
Lap
59.22
uente ........................ No. 446.... Jack C. Rector, Senior Warden.
Eugene Harp, Junior Warden .....................
T
59.22
orrance .......................... No. 447.... Wayne S. Larson, Senior Ward
Ernest G. Maloy, Junior Wardenen............... .
Leonard D. Babcock, Past Master and
N 448 T Inspector .................................................... 59.22
Mount D' bl
.... Ja~~L. ~~i~~~·s~:i:w~·;d~~---····--···--····:: 4.34
ia o ················ o.
Hugh B. Herring, Junior Warden
Verne W. Hendrix, Assistant
Grand Secretary
Royle E. Ki.tig. Past Master
Park ................................ No. 449.... William G. Menary, Jr., Senior Warden
R. M. Montgomery, P.M. and Inspector
Reginald Dllden, Past Master
John F~_!'guson, Past Master
Glenn W. Maynard, Past Master
Orville D. Parker, Past Master
Sidney L. Solomon, Past Master

442
Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

443

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileage Allowed

Van Nuys ................••......No. 450.... Ray D. Martin, Master..·-···---············-············
William H. Pettes. Senlol' Warden
·
Robert W. Hart, Junior Warden
William W. Dickson, Jr., Past Master
Montebello ············--······No. 451.... Arthur E. Earnshaw, Master..........................
Leonard E. Tones, Senior Warden
LeRoy F. Muller, Junior Warden
Frank L. Sutliff, P. M. and Inspector..... - .....
Robert R. Beard, Past Master
M. L. Lamb, Past Master
San Pasqual --··-···--No. 452.... Robert N. Grossman, Master.----·····-------···-···-·
George T. Wainscott, Senior Warden
Edward Kaminski, Jr., Tunior Warden
Ross H. Ritt.si_tts, Past Master
Donald G. White, Past Master
Crocker ·····················-····No. 454.... Robert J. Keith, Master
Harold E. Heisch, Senior Warden
Arthur J. Huelse, Junior Warden
T. Galt Atwood. Past Master
Russell M. Bass, Past Master
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Charles A. Davis, Past Master
Leslie 0. Giruiberg, Past Master
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Arthur H. Peterson, Past Master
Leonard Wester, Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West ·--··--·-··No. 455.... William M. Lustenberger, Master
James T. Farr, Senior Warden
John H. Crafts, Junior Warden
Adolph P. Bilay, Past Master
Earle B. Brehaut, Past Master
Herbert H. Eling, Past Master
Chester R. MacPhee, Past Master
Norman E. E. Reed, Past Master
Thomas W. Rollinson, Sr., Past Master
Ramoaa ________No. 457 ....William A. Willson. Master..........................
Arvid H. Christian. Senior Warden
Oliver R. Riggs. Junior Warden
Arnold G. Robertson, P.M. and Inspector....
Norman C. McMahan, Muter-·--·-- ··
...•
458
No.
Henry S. Orme................
Nicholas Peters, Senior Warden
Alfred J. Navin, P.M. and Inspector............
Earl E. Dixon, Past Master
William B. Mott, Past Master
Paul Nardella. Past Master
Riverbank ··-···········-····-No. 459.... Hiram T. French, Elected Representative....
Mount Oso ·················-··No. 460.... James Clapp, Senior Warden................·-·····
Argooaut ···-·····--·-No. 46L.Hoadley Johnson. Jr., Master
· Winfred C. Holden, Senior Warden
Donald Y. Beaver, Junior Warden
Earl A. Caldwell, P.M. and Inspector
Hoadley Johnson, Sr., Past Master
William 0 . Kuchlenz, Past Master
J. Harry Netherton, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Arthur H. Schroeder, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master

54.32

57.40
56.42

57.54

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativea

Mileage Allowed

Paul Revere ·····-····-·-··No. 462.... Gustave L. Zeidler, Master
Peter Garabedian, Senior Warden
George A. Gayner, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Lowell H. Beckendorf, Past Master
Howard D. King, Past Master
Perry Lawson, Past Master
Morton J. Meyer, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Jacob W. Warshaw, Past Master
Morgan Hill ·····--···--No. 463.... Hartley G. Weichert, Jr., Master............... _. 9.66
Alta Vista -·············-·-···No. 464.... Lewis H. Bolton, Master
Fred E. Faber, Senior Warden
George M. Carroll, Junior Warden
Samuel G. Clark, P.M. and Inspector
William Butcher, Past Master
Dwight N. Deane, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
Arthur E. Hewit, Past Master
William E. Kidd, Past Master
Center -···-········-····--·····No. 465.... Eugene D. Lung, Senior Warden.................. 25.62
GeOrge F. Root. Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. and Inspector........ 25.62
Lawrence B. Anderson, Past Master
Llbertas -·······-·····-·-····No . 466.... Ray M. Foust, Master.................................... 40.46
William F. Bartenstein. Senior Warden
Frederick R. Brown. Junior Warden

Rac~:d ~~~~~-~-~~~~----········-·····-··

57.54
57.54
56.42
56.42

12.74
8.68

40.i6
Reed D. Mercer, Past Master
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes. Past Master
Culver City ···--··--·····No. 467.... Raymond P. Stone, Master........................... _. 56.42
Philip E . Watson, Senior Warden
Bernard D. Sorenson, Junior Warden
E. Dale Peck, Past Master
•
Rockridge _______No. 468 .... Robert G. Colgett, Master
Charles R. Goff, Senior Warden
James W. Kerins, Junior Warden
Yorba Linda ________No. 469.... Jack M. Falkins, Senior Warden....·-·········· 60.62
Lincoln --·····--·-···No . 470.... Vergil Knight, Master
Louis B. Bacig·alupi, Senior Warden
Arthur D. Eng, Junior Warden
Carlton H. Rothblum, P.M. and Inspector
Melville P. Prine~. Past Master
Delta --····-·--···-·····-· No. 47L..Chester C. Cudney, Master......·-·······--·-······ 10.92
Kenneth B. Harman, Senior Warden
Charles W. Heck, Junior Warden
Taubner G. Hamma, P.M. and Inspector...... 10.92
Denzil D. Kitchens, P.M. and Inspector........ 10.08
George W. Craffis, Past Master
......... 372.19
Maul --···--------N o. 472..-Waynne C. Day, Sr., Senior Warden._______
372.19
William E. Foster, P.M. and lmpector
Blythe - -·-·-··-·-·No . 473....William H. Milam, Senior Warden................ 88.06
A. E. Beechey, Junior Warden
Edward M. Downs, Past Master
John Mcintyre, Past Master
America ·······-····-··--·No . 475.... Bill W. Lillich, Master......._........................... 56.42
John B. Ferree, Senior Warden
Paul R. Dillon, Junior Warden
Lucius R. Gallaway, Past Master

PROCEED INGS OF THE
Name of Loda:e

No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA
Mileaa:e Allowed

Coachella ........................No. 476.... ~~~~b.Kri!:H~se!i!s\V~d~~····················

74.90

Rodney D. Pillow. Junior Warden
Rewell E. Carlton. P.M. and Inspector........ 75.32
Friend F. Wilson, Past Master
Temblor ·········~···············No. 477.... Rayrnond L. Haynes, Senior Warden............
40.88
C. Earl Gwin, Past Master
Thousan d Oaks ..............No. 478.... Earl M. Rapken, Mester
John C. Pelkey, Senior Warden
Kenneth R. Evans. Past Master
Vernon R. LaGroue, Sr., Past Master
Harry C. Peterson, Past Master
Jerome F. Prager, Past Master
Robert H. Stitt, Past Master
F. A. von Schlafke, Past Master
Golden Rule .................... No. 479.... Stanley C. Drysdale , Master...................
....... 7.00
Rowan W. Scott, Senior Warden
Lloyd G. Benjamin, Junia' Warden
Jack Le Vake, Past Master
Leonard W. Scott, Past Master
Oscar M. Swensen, Past Master
Fellowship ..................•...No. 480.... Walter T. Pinska, Senior Warden
Leverett J. Bishop. Junlor Warden
Mt. Davidson .................. No. 481.. .. Thomas G. Allan. Master
Paul V. Grace, Senior Warden
James D. Nelson, Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master
Thomas J. Bass, Past Master
Walter H. Daily, Past Master
Carl P. McCarth y, Past Master
Gustave W. Rodeen. Past Master
Clarence F. Smlth ............No. 482 .... Robert A. Henken, Master..............................
56.42
Maurice E. LeBlanc, Senior Warden
Willia.ro J. Mason. Past Master
Bell .................................. No. 483.... Everette B. Crosby, Master....................
........ 58.10
Joseph A. Hochwar ter, Senior Warden
Richard E. Perry, Junior Warden
James D. Kelso. P.M. & lnsjlector................ 58.10
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Fred F. Elliott, Past Master
Albert Pike ......................No. 484.... Carl E. Miller, Master....................................
56.42
Robert F. Braendlin, Senior Warden
Gus S. Russel, Junior Warden
Robert F. Donlan, Past Master
Robert A. Manning, Past Master
Chowchilla ......................No. 485 .... Morris V. DeBusk, Senior Warden..............
20.H
Joseph E. Willis, Junior Warden
Caledonia ........................ No. 486 .... Verlan R. Wyatt, Master................................
40.46
William C. Corse, Senior Warden
William D. Adams, Junior Warden
William W. Shugart, P.M. and Inspector.... 40.46
ValleJo ............................No. 487.. --~:J·ki1f!~s:~i~~~;d;~·····················
4.34
Hershell L. Richardson, Junior Warden
Ernest G. Branstetter, Past Master
Frederic B. Hall, Past Master
Bert Menge, Past Master
George E. Rosen, Past Master
Alexande r Valentine, Past Master
Patterson ........................ No. 488 .... Kenneth W. Ryan, Elected Representative..
12.74
William M. White, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

445
Mileage Allowed

East Bay ..........................No. 489.... C. Robert MacKay, Master
Harry Betts, Senior Warden
Claude R. MacKay, Junior Warden
Earl Daymude, Past Master
Allerton B. Ebert, Past Master
John A. Sobey, Past Master
Co
Caci M. Thomsen, Past Master
rcoran ..........................No. 490.... Burnard E . Neam Senior W uden
32.76
Woodsto ck ...................... No. 491.. .. Veme R. Van Nat;a, Master
··············
George S. Sleeman, Senior Warden
Caa-1 R. Ra.rosey, P.M. and Inspector
Alvin A. Horwege, Past Master
Chester L. Jack, Past Master
Leslie W. Jack, Past Master
George A. l urgens, Past Master
Robert E. O'Brien, Past Master
M. Allen Powers, Past Maste-r
Charles J. Rundstrom, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvanza ........................ No. 492 .... Harry M. Koerner Master
Fredrick C. Wilso~ Junior W~;d~............... 56.42
Harold M. Hand, Past Master
George E. Harrison, Past Master
At
d
David C. Lee, Past Master
asca ero ••........•..........•No. 493.... Louis S. Borjes, Senior Warden
29.96
Fred C . Hess. Past Master
····················
Acom .............................. No. 494 .... Edgar A. Frederick, Master
Alvin W. Pressler, Senior Warden
Marion H, Berrie, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson, P .M. and Inspector
Ralph Adams, Past Master
Earl Patterson, Jr., Past Master
Richard L. Stephenson, Past Master
Nick Weisgerb er, Past Master
Leobanon .......................... No. 495 .... Harry A. Rief, Master
•
Louis Rubin, Senior Warden
Alden E. Adolph, Junior Warden
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Fremont .......................... No. 497 .... Leon V. Rose. Master
Robert E . Crawford , Senior Warden
David R. Rodger, Junior Warden
St k
Thomas M. Livingstone, Past Master
oc ton .......................... No. 498 .... Ezra J. Willett. Senior Ward n
C It 1 C"
Edwin A. Arnold, Past Mastere ···················· 10.92
ap a 1ty .................... No. 499.... LewiRavmond r-~·-Y.~~g, Master......................... 12.04
.
s 0 . '-"""""11UW , Senior Warden
Ra~ond A. Ebbage, Senior Grand
Roosevelt ........................ No. 500.... Ed:aardM;;tj;~iii;·M;;;i;······························· 13.02
Alfred J. Musetti, Senior Warden
W
ood
Harold M. Ballengee, Past Milllter
Ha~=
No. 501....Ral E. Warwick , Senior W den
34.86
............................ No. 502 .... FredphH.
Mathews, Master
8l'
..............
Mahon Payne, Senior Warden
Rua! Murray, Junior Warden
Lawrence H. Brewster, Past Master
Charles E. McCray. Past Master
John Thurbon, Past Master
Point -······························No. 503 .... 0ren W. Bigham, Master
William F. Abraham. Senior Warden
Ervin L. Woodruf f, Junior Warden
Victor Prenk, P.M. and Inspector

...........

H6
Name of Lodge

No. of Lod11e

Repreeentative•

Mileage Allowed

John L. Caron, Past Master
bavid G. Collins, Past Master
Robert V. Waylett, Past MMter
Seaside ·····-···········-···-No. 504.... Rodney H. Davis, Master..............................
Robert E. Center, Senioc Warden
Ben). F. Grogger, Junior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P.M. and Inspector....
Wm. T. Corbusler, Past Master
Everett Houser, Past Master..........................
Silver Cord ··········--------·No. 505...• Arthur H. Reed, Master·---------------·····-------Arthur B. Rockhold, Senior Warden
Austin 0. Hicks, Juni<ll' Warden
Thanas W. Thurman. Past Maater---·--·Mount Olive ..................No. 506.... Harold L. Palmer, Master.....·-··················Arthur A. Neuser, Senior Warden
Martin Paul Beme, Junior Warden
El Segundo ···-·················No. 507.... 0scar G. Allen, MMter---·····-·-········-·····-·
James E. Lloyd, Senior Warden
James E. Dobbs, Junkx' Warden
Robert J. Lehman, Put Master
Joppa --················-·····No. 508.... Marvin R. Davis, Master.--------------···········
'Benjamin Franklin ..........No. 509 .... Robert A. Cross, Senior Warden..................
Melvin H. Marquardt. Junior Warden
J. Frank Moore, Past Master
Robert B. Owen, Past Master
Robert Wilkins, Past Master
Cupertino -·······-············No. 510_Arthur Garbini, Master-------···-····-·········
George Graham. Seni<ll' Warden
Sunnyvale ·········-···--·No. 51 L .. Richard Elias, Master..................................... .
Max D. Croswhite, Senior Warden
Edison Noland, Junior Warden
Kenneth R. Eggers, Past Master
Hermann L. Horn, Past Master
Walter W. Schmitz, Past Master
Palms ····-·····-····- ··-······No. 512 .... J~~~
iii~~~h~s!~~~~-w~;:d;~·-················

f

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

60.06
60.06
60.06
60.90
60.90
56.42
57.26

29.40
56.42

6.30
6.30

56.42

Cahuenga ·······-···--·····No. 513.... C. Ray Hunt, Master.... ·-································· 55.H
William L. Farrow, Junior Warden
John W. Baker, Past Master
George K. Calvin. Past Master
Albert S. Davidson, Past Master
Don H. La Grange, Past Master
lohn B. Nickerson. Past Master
Voyle H. Sipes, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney, Past Master
Argonne --··-··--·-·No. 51·4-. ..C. Jefferson Sly. Master
T. . McCann, Senior Warden
Herbert Loo, Junior Warden
Edwin A. Gumblnger, Past Master
Clyde Lightbody, Past Master
David Mann Taylor, Past Master
Cyril L. Thornton, Past Master
Vermont Square ............No. 515 .... John C. Cook, Master.----··-···-·-········-· 58.10
Clyde F. White, Senior Warden
Taft ------········----No. 516.... John C. Mulford. Master................................ 41.58
Freel L. Dillard, Senior Warden
Mount Vernon ·······--··No. 517.... Mathew G. Tomasello, Senior Warden
Howard X. Dickson. Junior Warden
Harley T. Moxley, Past Master
George E. Payne. Past Master
Emil G. Reichstetter, Past Master
Emest D. Wade, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreeentatlvea

Mileage Allowed

La Jolla ............................No. 518....Robert B. Watts, MMter................................
Willard V. Markey, Senior Warden
Euclid .............................. No. 519.... Lynn W. Gardener, Master............................
William G. Pickrel, Senior Warden
H. Lon Henry, Junior Warden
John D. Andrews. Past MMter
Percy M. Bezanson, Past Master
Roy 0. Bowditch, Past Master
Reed L. Pack, Past Master
Ionic ................................ No. 520.... Alan Ratner. Master................................::......
Harold H. Strauu, Senior Warden
Herbert Sapper, Put Master
Piedmont ........................ No. 521.... H. C-orwin Johnson, Master
John W. Nelson, Senior Warden
David M. Day, Junior Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain. Past Master
Gail H. David, Past Master
Sunrise ............................No. 522 .... E. Mack Foster, Master..................................
Albert A. Muske, Seni<ll' Warden
Samuel A. Lesnett, Jr.. Junior Warden
Ray 0. Weymouth, Past Master
Bellflower ........................No. 523.... DanJel I. Stutsman, Master..............................
Arthur W. Powell, Jr., Junior Warden
Catalina Island .............. No. 524.... Edward T. Rinehart, Master..........................
George Washington ...... No. 525 .... Robert E. Oyloe. Master
Walter E. Sainsbury, Junior Warden
Carl W. Willer, Senior Warden
Che3ter M. Smith, Past Master
Bay City ..........................No. 526.... Bemard I. Reinherz, Senior Warden
Thomas A. Dethlefsen, Past Master
George Goldman. Past Master
Covenant ........................No. 527....~~~:1,Ijt,p:~=--···························
Beverly Hills ..................No. 528 .... Philip S. Raiguel, Master................................
Theodore R. Hohl, Seni<ll' Warden
Michael L. Manahan, Junior Warden
Frank Harwell, Jr., Past Grand Master..........
C. Earl Crane, Past Master
Frederick A. Fox, Past Master
A. G. Scull, Past Master
Loyalty ............................ No. 529 .... Edward Blake, Master....................................
Morton Tooredman. Senior Warden
Edgar V. Stewart. Jr., Past Grand Master..
Arthur Linsk, Past Master and Inspector......
Lloyd P. Bass, Past Master
Benjamin Susman, Past Master......................
Joseph A. Visger, Past Master
Sun Garden .................... No. 530.... John Spencer Thomas, Jr., Senior Warden....
Herbert R. Hargrave, P.M. and Inspector....
Leonard H. Moller, Past Master
L. R. Stubblefield, Past Master
Alexandria ......................No. 531.. .. Robert A. Neil. Master
Phillip Warda, Senior Warden
Arthur J. Martin, Junior Warden
Aaron A. Arbogast, Past Master
Smyrna ·-·························No. 532 .... William J. Moorad, Senior Warden..............
Azure .............................. No. 533.... Harold Wm. Wensel. Junior Warden..........
Layton S. Conover, Past Master
Forest Hill ...................... No. 534.... Albert J. Koshaba, Master
Julian H. L. Wolfsohn, Senior Warden
John T. Baxter, Junior Warden

72.38
56.42

56.42

57.54

58.80
64.68

56.42
56.4-2
56.42

56.42
56.42
56.42
54.32
25.62
25.62

13.16
60.20

448
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
Milea1e Allowed

Alexander Hamilton ...... No. 535.... Howard F. Bucklin, Master............................
Kem H. Copeland, Jr., Senior Warden........
Paul E . Quoss, Junior Warden
Wendell L. Goodwin, P.M. and Inspector....
Edward J. Blickfeldt, Past Master
William T . Saunders. Past Master
Roland W. Snow, Past Master
William F. Lohr, Past Master
Utopia .............................. No. 537 .... Jack H. Karr, Senior Warden........................
Glen A. Slaten, Junior Warden
Ascot ................................ No. 538.... William E. Croslin, Junior Warden..............
Jack L. Allen, Past Master
Belvedere ........................No. 539.... Richard G. Stevens, Master............................
Queen Beach .................. No. 540.... Tames W. Duncan, Master..............................
Kay C. Crill, Senior Warden
Marvel Fairchild, Past Master
Henry Morse Stephens.. No. 541....Robert H. Taylor, Senior Warden
A. Lewis Koue, Past Master
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Past Master
E . A. Renke, Past Master
John Richmond, Past Master
Edwin R. Rowe, Past Master
North Hollywood ..........No. 542.... Franklin E. Archer, Master............................
Donald W. Maltby, Senior Warden
Charles Henry Smith, Junior Warden
Reginald Bunce, P.M. and Inspector............
J. Glen Gladson, Past Master
W . James Mann, Past Master
Clarence A. Ross. Past Master
Signal .............................. No. 543 .... Uriel E. Gray, Master......................................
Myron L. Macy, Senior Warden
Myron E. Roudebush. Past Master
Glendale .......................... No. 5H....

56.42
59.36
58.52

56.42
58.38
57.54
60.06

54.60
54.04

60.06

lr!~iJ.aL~~a~!.MM~~~:r................................ 56.00

John D. Johnson. Senior Warden
Hovey Cox, Jr .. Junior Warden
Jonathan ..........................No. 545.... Sam Brown, Past Master and Secretary
San Gabriel ....................No. 546 .... Wilber E . Smith, Senior Warden.................. 57.54
E. Earl Wheeler, Junior Warden
Arcadia ............................No. 547.... William N . Bowie, Jr., Master...................... 58.38
William A. Elliott, Senior Warden
Victor H . Gunderson. Past Master
Edward C. Murfett, Past Master
Raymond H. Rishworth, Past Master
Triangle .....................••...No. 548.... Calvin H. Leonard, Master............................ 56.84
Murray E. Cooke, Senior Warden
Herbert W. Seitz, Junior Warden
Charles T. Murdock, Past Master
Justice ·····················-······No. 549.... Glenn C. Coulson, Master
Rex L. Wimer, Senior Warden
Stanford Fonii. Junior Warden
William W. Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton F. Conklin, Past Master
Earl Connor, Past Master
William R. Cruickshank, Past Master
George D. Hom, Past Master
Geor11e J. Hucks, Past Master
Arthur G. Nilsen. Past Master
John R. Peebles, Past Master
Karl D. Smith, Past Master
Jordan Zolli, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lod11e

Repreeentativea

449
Mileage Allowed

Seaport ............................No. 550...•Edwin A. Nylund, Master
Maynard A. Tasem, Senior Warden
Floyd B. Scullin, Junior Warden
Bertram C. Von Konsky, P.M. and Inspector
Lester F. Bulloch. Past Master
Joseph M. Freeland, Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
A. C. von Konsky, Past Master
John Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore ........................No. 551.. .. Robert H . Clewett, Master
Nicholas E. Druley. Jr., Senior Warden
John R. McKalip, Jr., Junior Warden
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Lee B. Ferguson, Past Master
Edward L. Land, Past Master
Anthony R. Manov, Past Master
Semper Virens ................ No. 552 .... John Fraser Hart, Senior Warden................ 39.76
Lamone Call, Junior Warden
Alemnder Duncan, P.M. and Inspector...... 39.76
James C. Tario, Past Master
Educator .......................... No. 554.... Ted K. Brouwer, Master
Omer L. Cotterell, Senior Warden
Francis D. DeLong, Past Master
Emmett Bundy, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
White Pine .................... No. 555.... James Richter, Senior Warden........................ 40.46
Fairfax ............................ No. 556.... Alvin Artellan, Master
Curt F. Waldhaus, Senior Warden
Frank Larsen, Junior Warden
Frank B. Peebles, Past Master
Hermosa ..........................No. 557 .... 0lan Floyd Lowe, Master.............................. 57.82
Arpad J. Sutch, Senior Warden
Paul Thompson, Past Master
Point Firmin .................... No. 558.... John D. Holland, Master................................ 60.20
Hubert L. Kaltenbach, Senior Warden
Craftsmen ......................... No. 559.... John S. Dean, Master...................................... 56.42
Geo. W. Humpreys, Senior Warden
Frank L. Richards, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.42
W. T. Beckeraw, Past M'aster
Plymouth ........................ No. 560.... Gus Bogel, Master
Raymond James, Senior Warden
Maurice Bolin, Junior Warden
Edw.vd H. Siems, Past Grand Master
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego.............. No. 561 .... Richard Carr, Senior Warden........................ 73.08
H. L. Gudmundson, Junior Warden
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Pyramid ..........................No. 562.... Willison H. Lingafelter, Master
Chester H. Newell, Past Master
South Park ...................... No. 563.... Kenneth W . Williams, Master...................... 56.42
Troy B. Gaddy, Senior Warden
William Bottorff, P.M. and Inspector.......... 58.38
Esau T. Agajanian, Past Master
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
Joel M. Foster, Past Master
Carl H. Lindegren, Past Master
Max F. Vail, Past Master
Foothill ............................No. 564 .... Herbert E. Ferguson. Master
John C. Steme, Senior W arclen
Robert D. Olsen, Junior Warden
Lawrence T. Camozzi, Past Master
Lionel C. Raymond, Past Master

450
Name of Lod1e

No. of Lodge

Repr... ntativu

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Milea1e Allowed

West Adams ············-····No. 565.. _Don E. Worsham, Masttt..............................
Benjamin F. Chaplin. Senior Wuden
Eugene V. Moran, Junior Warden
David Johnson. Past Master
James A. Garfleld............No. 566.... H. Austin Mahr, Master................................. .
Francis H. Lore, Senior Warden
Howard P. Stassforth, Jr., Junior Warden
lvol Ira Curtis. Grand Chaplain ....................
Field Thompson, P.M. and Inspector............
Robert B. Kirk, Past Master
Oay Robbins, Past Master

56.42

56.42
56.42
57.82

60.06

Searchlight ......................No. 567.... ~=b~~S:w~··························
James R. Martin. Past Ma&ttt
Park Boulevard ·········-···No. 568.... Melvin C. Moran, Master
Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
Don E. Berry, Past Master........................... . 13.16
James E . Hammond, Past Master
Harry D. Hosac, Past Master
Chateau Thierry ............No. 569 .... Ralph A. Williams, Master
Jo.seph L. Culp, Senior Warden
Walter Ryan, Junior Warden
Howard S. Kaulbach, Past Master
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service ............No. 570.... Nathan Kurtz, Master
Herman G. Liebenthal. Jr .. Senior Warden
Albert B. Stettler, Junior Warden
Alvin C. Gundred. Past Master
John Kinces, Past Master
Chang Wah Lee. Past Master
Louis H. Strohecker, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck........No. 571.... Leo F. Chesser, Master
Barno Hordos III, Junior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Past Grand Lecturer
Herbert H. Hobson. P.M. and Inspector
Ed. W. Batman, Past Master
Joseph A. Pivemetz, Past Master
Lorfu A. White, Past Master
James Madison ·········-···No. 572.... Martln S. Corr, Master................................... . 56.42
William F. Zimmerman, Senior Warden
58.38

~~:f~~.P:st~:·····-···············

Hillcrest ····-····--··-····-No. 573.... Howard J. Wall, Master
Ewing W. Lawrence, Junior Warden
Donald McFetridge, Past Master
S. W. Hackett................No. 574.... 0liver S. Robertson, Master..........................
Merle G. Krebs, Senior Warden
Tohn W. Fields, Junior Warden
Norman E. Hale, Past Master
Leonel C . Panosh. Past Maste!"
Fort Crook ...................... No. 575.... Earl N. Denny, Junior Warden._...................
Re1!hrald Reynofds, P.M. and Inspector........
El Ca)on Valley..............No. 576.... Leroy Chambers, Master......·-·-·-·············
James Allen Davis. Senior Warden
James Ivan Dunn. Junior Warden

73.08

40.18
40.18
74.48

56.42

Sunnyside ·············--···No. 577.... ~if!tw.1~~~-w~···············
Louis H. Mahler, P.M. and lnspedor..... _. __ 56.42
John A. Low, Past Master

Name of Lodae

No. of Lod1e

Repr...ntatlve.o

Mileage Allo""'d

Progi-esslve --··--······No. 578.... Louie V. Farlow, Master................................
Paul S. Bartholomew, Senior Warden
Louis C . Thomson, Jr., Junior Warden
J. Howard Edwards, Past Master
Ralph A. Larson, Past Master
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Warren G. Hardlng........ No. 579.... Richard W. Rylander, Master........................
Louis Chapo, Senior Warden
Frank W. Beardsley, Junior Warden
Conrad E. Herrmann, Past Master
Leslie Smith, Past Master
Santa Maria ··-····-·········No. 580.... Robert L. Gibbs. Senior Warden..........·-·······
Barney H. Mitchell, Junior Warden
Zenas Y. Coleman, Past Master
Security ·············-·······-·No. 581.. .. Ray Wayne Shearer, Senior Warden............
Jim McCowan, Junior Warden
Samuel R. Bauman, Past Master
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master
Oran W. Palme!", Past Master
Kenneth P. Sward, Past Master
Rialto ·····················-·······No. 582....t1:hefo~8~;f:: ~1:~~n..................

56.42

12.46

73.78

40.46

63.28

Wasco ·····-············-·····No. 583.... Hoyett L. Smothers, Master............................ 38.64
Donald C. Zachary, Senior Warden
James W. Johnston, Jr., Junior Warden
Fred C. Pritschke, P.M. and Inspector.......... 38.64
Harding ···-···--··-····-No. 584.... Theo. W. Bin:, Senior Warden......·-·······-·· 56.42
Warren S. Pibnan, Jr.. Junior Warden
Manchester -······-·····-···No. 585 .... Gus Searcy, Master...................-..................... 56.42
Lloyd M. Coulter, Senior Warden
John N. Ogden, Junior Warden
Gilbert J. Anderson, Past MastaR. A. Jack DiMiceli, Past Master
Ralph C. Ferguson, Past Master
Floyd E. Fowler, Past Master
A. J. Urban, Past Master
Garden Grove ·······-··-·-No. 586.... James E. Cruthirds, Masta-......·-··················· 60.90
Curt N. Bosworth, Senior Warden
•
William R. LanJJdon, Junior Warden
Woodrow W. Reyburn, Past Master
Ronald Tadman, Past Master
Valley Forge ·········--····No. 587.... Fung Chow Chan, Master.............................. 56.42
Robert G. Hochenedel. Senior Warden
Leslie S. Wayman. P.M. and Inspector........ 56.42
Walter R. Colvin, Past Master
Ernest Gardner, Past Master
Harold L. German, Past Master
James M. Maddock, Past Master
El Sereno ·················-·····No. 588..••Willlam R. Smith, Master·-····························· 56.42
Maurice M. McKenzie, Senior Warden
Lloyd D. Hanselman, P.M. and Inspector.... 56.14
Kauai .....•................•..-.No. 589....Charles Kazuo Oyagl, Maater..........·-··········· 372.19
Compass ·······-·-······-······No. 590...• Jt:~~ re!!!tt~~!::·w;;;:d;;;················· 61.0i

'Ii.

Paul H. Van Dalsem, Junior Warden
Philip S. Hunt, P.M. and Inspector.............. 61.04
Escalon ····-····-·--·-No. 591.._Carroll S. Prouty, Maner.............................. 11.90
Tu)unga ···············--··No. 592 .._Arthur Weri>e, Senior Warden...................... 54.46
Robert C. Martinez, Junior Warden

452
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allo-d

All States ------------------------No. 593.... George B. Willou~hby, Master...................... 60.06
Gene C. Gregory, Senior Warden
H. Donald Connor, Junior Warden
Lawrence J. McEldowney, Past Master
Edward M. Rudd, Past Master
Kirby C. Serles, Past Master
Service ............................No. 594.... J. Wesley Geibb, Mastel'................................ 60.06
James B. Graham, Senior Warden
Ralph B. Saffle, Junior Warden
Charles J. Wentz, P.M. and Inspector.......... 60.06
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell..No. 595.... Lyle C. Ferrier, Master·-···············--·············· 56.42
Russel W. Stine, Senior Warden
Dean Soles, Past Master
Guardian ........................No. 596.... Ray 0. Smith, Master.................................... 57.40
Bartram D. Kent, Senior Warden
Dan B. Erwin, Past Master
Thomas H. Mowery, Past Master
Pearl Harbor ..................No. 598.... Frank Chuberko, Senior Warden................ 338.19
Louie Charles Ondo. Past Master
Carmelita ........................No. 599.... 0rrin C. Widman, Master.............................. 57.54
Alfred T. Heine, Senior Warden
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
William G. Mohn, Past Master
Lynwood ........................No. 6()().... Royal D. Barnes, Master................................ 57.40
George L. Coover, Senior Warden
Charles M. Jacobi, Sr., Junior Warden
Milton E. Ammann, Past Master
Gilbert F. Garbutt, Past Master
Ralph A. Herbold, Past Master
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly ............................No. 601....Victor B. Dods, Jr., Master............................ 35.00
Melrose ............................ No. 602.... AUred Scherz, Senior Ward.en...................... 55.
Thomas J. McK.imson. P.M. and Inspector.. 56 -. 2
Edwin C. T. Church, Past Master
G. Earle Outram, Past Master
Dimond ............................No. 603.... V. Wayne Wiswell, Jr., Master
George W. Anderson. Senior Warden
Lloyd M. Cowan, Junior Warden
Larry C. Basker, P.M. and Inspector
Warren J. Blomseth, Past Master
Herbert H. DuBois, Past Master
Willard W. Wooden. Past Master
Jubilee .............................. No. 604....~S:m~~G~igie~~~J~W~;;·--·········· 60.90

14

Glassell Park ..................No. 605.... LeRol E. Crandall, Senior Warden..............
Eugene T. R. ten Brink, Junior Warden
Sojourner ........................No. 607.... Harold G. O'Hara, Master............................
Jack L. Margison, Junior Warden
Granada ..........................No. 608.... M. Donald Caliva, Master............................
Frank C. Tucker, Senior Warden
Emil J. Lind, Junior Warden
Donald G. Campbell, Grand Lecturer............
Howard L. Ferguson, Past Master
James E. Wellet, Past Master
Provident ........................No. 609.... William L. Maxwell, Master..........................
George H. Eastman, Senior Warden
Everett J. G. Chapman.Junior Wairden
Leslie E. Wood, Past rand Master............

56.42
58.94
57.40
57.82
12.0i
12.0i

Name of Lodge

No. of Loda:e

Repreaentatives

453
Mileage Allowed

Elmhurt ............................ No. 610.... Martin J. Ericson, Master
Walter W. Taylor, Senior Warden
ames A. Davis, Junior Warden
ohn T. Young, Past Master
Canoga ............................ No. 611....Gilbert N. Harris, Master................................ 55.02
John P. Kearbey, Senior Warden
Ronald W. Thompson, Junior Warden
Carroll J. Davis, Past Master
Charles 0. Fling, Past Master
William P. Forbes, Jr., Past Master
Temple City .................... No. 612 .... Dean D. Richards, Master.............................. 58.38
Charles W. Doty, Senior Warden
Charles E. Alexander, Junior Warden
Mark E. Schrock, P.M. and Inspector.......... 58.38
Rupert C. Curtis, Past Master
David B. Mason, Sr., Past Master
Three Pillars .................. No. 613.... Paul A. Downing, Master.............................. 12.04
Herbert S. Garfield, Senior Warden
Lisbon R. Leech, Jr., Junior Warden
Frank P. Lemen, P.M. and Inspector............ 12.04
Melvin A. Buth, Past Master
Larchmont ...................... No. 614.... Clarence F. Cooper, Master.......................... 56.42
Robert J. Miller, Senior Warden
Carl G. Grimes, Jr., Junior Warden
Frederick A. Chworowsky, Past Master
Newcomb Condee, Past Master...................... 56.42
Herbert H. Cooper, Past Master
Hemet .............................. No. 615.... Richard K. Miller, Master................................ 68.60
Fred E. Wagner, Senior Warden
Carl L. Gregory, Junior Warden
Hubert J. Raymond, P.M. and Inspector...... 68.60
James S. Whitener, Past Master
R. E. Dolley.................... No. 616.... James F. Stucker, Master·-·····---··················· 60.34
Marshall G. LaRue, Senior Warden
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Master
Big Bear .......................... No. 617.... Walter A. Raasch, Senior Warden.............. 68.60
Earl Moore Vigus, P.M. and Inspector........ 68.60
Southland ........................ No. 618.. _Klaus W. Greger, Master.............................. 56.42
Gaylord C. Doran, Senior Warden
Harold V. Bowyer, Junior Warden
Neptune ..........................No. 619...• Harold E. Sievers, Master.............................. 60.06
William A. Slagle, Senior Warden
Robert G. Fraser, Past Master
Point Loma ....................No. 620.... Lloyd E. Von Tungeln, Master.................... 73.08
Philip G. Marsh, Senior Warden
Kenneth D. Taylor, Junior Warden
Howard S. Fisher, Past Master
Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
The Gardens .................. No. 621....Edward F. Skinner, Jr., Master...................... 56.42
Ronald B. Munro, Senior Warden
Edward N. Caudle, Junior Warden
Floyd S. Vandegrift, Past Master
Kenneth F. Watts, Past Master
Atwater .......................... No. 622...• Fred E. Nollenberger, Masttt........................ 56.42
Chester A. Demby, Senior Warden
Charles F. Chapman, P.M. and Inspector.... 56.42
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
Jesse M. Few, Past Master............................ 56.42
Emil R. Johnson, Past Master

J

454
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod11e

Repreeentativu

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Menorah .......................... No. 623.... Ben Regal, Master_........................................• 56.42
Alan B. Bodley, Senior Warden
Jack 0. Davis. Junior Warden
J. Leonard Penner, Past Master
Fortitude ···················-·····No. 624.... George W. Blackshere, Master
Leo!liard R. Bern. Senior Warden
Donald M. Marshall, Junior Warden
Ralph M. Webb, P.M. and Inspector
Olaf E. Anderson, Past Master
Russell G. Worth, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................No. 625.... Stanley L. &ickson, Master·-······················· 56.42
William A. Sadler, Senior Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Harold 0. Larsen. Past Master
Chula Vista .................... No. 626..•. Lester E. Miller, Senior Warden.........·-····· 73.92
Denny_ W. Hobbs. Junior Warden
John H. Greife, Past Master
Oiarles E. Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Park ................No. 627.... Lyall R. Barnes. Maater·-··--······················· 57.54
Clefford F. Snodgrass. Senior Warden
Truth ..............................No. 628.... Chris B. Jacobs. Master-................................ 54.60
Jack E. Kelly, Jr., Senior Warden
Fairview ·····················-···No. 629.... Richard E. Butts, Master-··········-················· 56.42
Mitchell H. W elsman, Senior Warden
William A. Stokes, Junior Warden
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Ingleside -·······-···············No. 630...• George W. Young, Master
Herbert W. Jack, Senior Warden
Myrle M. Robertson, Junior Warden
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Robert M. Gane, Past Master
Joseph F. Garriott, Past Master
Edison K. Quick, Past Master
Benevolence ....................No. 631.... Maurice W. Chapman, Senior Warden........ 56.42
Robert W. Lee, Junior Warden
Ralph A. Anderson, Past Master
Buford E. Rhodes, Past Master
Mon.ta W. Shirley, Past Master
Normal Heights .............. No. 632.... Coral Leroy Owens, Senior Warden............ 73.08
Larrie Davis Ayers, Junior Warden
Winfield S. Mclees, P.M. and Inspector...... 73.08
John E. Kinne!, Past Master
Ben T. Salmon, Past Master
Poinsettia ··················-·-·No. 633.... James Woods, Master.................................... 51.24
Charles R. Eskridge, Senior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Grand Master........ 5054
Ellwood D. Cooper, Past Master
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
Victorville ......................No. 634.... Charles A. Adams, Master.............................. 59.08
Francis M. Watkins. Seoior Warden
Russell F. Bragg, P.M. and Inspect.or...-..... 59.08
Rivel"Side -··-·-····-No. 635 ...• Richard F. Baker, Senior Warden......·-···-- 64.40
Raymond G. Mette, Junior Warden
Gordon F. Black. Past Master
Oiarles H. Grace, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativu

455
Mileage Allowed

John Marshall ................ No. 636.... Chester A. Nelson, Senior Warden...... _....... 56.42
Robert A. Crigler, Assistant Grand
Lecturer ........................................................ 56.42
Edward A. Underwood. Past Master
Palisades ··--····--·····No. 637.... Anton J. Lyg_um, Master--·-··-···-·-···--· 56.14
Frank E. McGee, Senior Warden
Robert E. Yoder, Junior Warden
John A. Jackson, Past Master
Indian Rock ··-················No. 638.... Lowell Perl Keith, Master
John Stanley Hall, Senior Warden
Ernest Estel Metz, Junior Warden
Frederick T. Herrick, Past Master
Edward L. Kearney, Past Master
David R. Lane, Past Master
Composite -····················No. 639.... Byron A. Smith, Master.................................. 56.42
Bdward H. Silverman, Senior Warden
Jules Carlin, Junior Warden
J\rthur Oritz, Past Master
Veritas ·····----···········No. 640.... James M. Coates, Senior Warden
Theodore L. Knudson, Junior Warden
William F. Poynter, P.M. and Inspector
David D. Jewell, Past Master
Washington I. Kohnke, Past Master
Oscar W. Norman, Past Master
James A. Foshay ............No. 641....William J. Rogister, Jr., Master.................... 56.42
Robert E. Lee, Senior Warden
·.
Tigran Khatchikian, Junior Warden
La Cumbre ···-···········-···No. 642.... Howard C. Menzel. Senior Warden.............. 47.60
Carl W. Chormicle, Junior Warden

643....~~ia~hc~
~~!t~~J;~~~~~--·······················-····· 60.06
William C. Royer, Senior Warden
0

Alta Loma ·········--··-····No.

Lomita ·······-···-·····-·······No. 644.... Charles Brenneman, Senior Warden............_
Fred Bergon. Junior Warden
.
A. F. E. lrwin..·-·····-···-·No. 645_ William J. Gallareto, Senior Warden...... ._ ....
Melvin L. Furman, Junior Warden
•
Earl J. Walker, P.M. and Inspector.·-·········
Warren W. Garrison, Jr., Past Master
Metropolitan ...........•......No. 646.... ~~~fip ~-. ~~l~rr1s~ni~W~~<l~~------······-·-·····
Robert V. Fulkerson, Junior Past Master
Hawthorne ··········-··········No. 647.._Harvey W. Wright, Senior Warden............
Paul L. Boling, Junior Warden
John A. Owen, P.M. and Inspector.--··-·········
Damascus ·······-··············No. 648.... Dennis C. Lawson, Master............................
Elmer 0. Pester, Senior Warden
Joseph L. Ousley, P.M. and Inspector.....·-···
Neil M. Ousley, Past Master
Herbert W. Robbins, Past Master
Florence --------··-No. 649 ____ Arthur E. Clawitter, Master....·--·················
Norval C. Barrett, Senior Warden
Edward A. Weirick, Junior Warden
La Brea ···-·-······-·-···-··No. 650.... Melvin E. Bicknell, Master_·-··········-··-·-·····-···-·
John F. Henry, Jr., Senior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr., Past Master.... ·-····-····
Russell Lee, Past Master
William G. Lee, Past Master
Menlo Park ····-·--···-··No. 65L..Edward A. Grindle, Master... ·-····-··················
Stanley E. Enoch, Junior Warden
David Wright, Grand Tiler
Robert Christiansen, Past Master
Royal Hodge, Past Master

59.78
60.20

60.20
56.42
57.96
57.96
63.56
63.56
57.26
56.42
56.42
4.48

456
Nam• of Lod11e

PROCEED INGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreuntativ eo

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA
Mileage Ano~d

Crescenta Valley ............ No. 652.... Roy Hutchinson, Master...................... ............
Ross Thorn. Senior Warden
Henry Allcock, Junior Warden
William Chenowith, Past Master
Fontana .......................... No. 653.... Daniel A. Beaton, Senior Warden ............... .
George_T. France, Junior Warden
Ross W. Gesler, Past Master
Jordan ..............................No. 654.... Harry G. Nichols, Master..............................
Thomas F. Van Deweghe, Senior Warden
William S. Van Deweghe, Junior Warden
Monte Vista .................... No. 655 .... Elmo B. iaques, Master................................. .

k':~iJv. ~:rn~iae~ 1Ma~e~en

56.28

64.54
57.26

60.06

Citro! ................................No. 656.... Philip D. Carden, Junior Warden. .................
59.78
Heri:>m E. Barlow, Past Master
Phil Campbell, Past Master
John D. Spreckels............ No. 657 .... ~hitpDC~t~~~d~~s~:;;j;.·\v~<l·~;················· 73.08
Frederick J. Leipper, Junior Warden
Clifford A. Hansen, Past Master
Livingston ......................No. 658.... Herbert 0. Dunbar, Senior Warden............ 15.96
Nonnan G. Gross, Past Master
La Habra ........................No. 659.... Haward Dale Grable, Senior Warden. ........ . 59.36
Julius E. Mimoso, Junior Warden
Riley L. Blurton, P.M. and Inspector............ 59.36
Baldwin Park .................. No. 660.... Kenneth Eddings, Senior Warden .................. 58.66
Allen A. McGee, Junior Warden
Malta ························-····No. 661....Hudson H. Bright, Seni<>I' Warden ............. . 56.42
Eric A. Moline, Junior Warden
Henry Knox ....................No. 662.... Wilbur J. Hank, Master.................................. 56.42
Wayne G. Geer, Senior Warden
John V. Ketchoyian, Junior Warden
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
Ojai ..................................No. 663.... Floyd P. Ayers, Master.................................. 52.08
Frank E. Stevens, P.M. and Inspector.......... 52.08
Kaweah ............................No. 665 .... Clarence C. King, Senior Warden................ 32.62
Reseda ............................ No. 666.... {.v~li~ Y'.c1Je:i:. ~:r'\v;;d;~·-················· 54.32
Frank S. Barnard, Past Master
Adolph W. Dryden, Past Master
Frank J. Homer, Past Master
Meridian .......................... No. 667.... Keith Kinnaird, Master................. .................. . 56.00
Frank F. Schrage, Senior Warden
Robert A. Dotterer, Junior Warden
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master............... . 56.42
Ray L. Peterson, P.M. and lnspectOI'........... . 55.02
Frank W . Raddatz, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.00
John W. Catt, Past Master
John Swan, Past Master
San Gorgonlo ..................No. 668.... Irvin C. Mills. Master..................................... . 68.18
Leonard McCulloh, Senior Warden
Fred H. Carlin. Junior Warden
John P. Jarman .............. No. 669.... W. Theodore Williams, Master.................... 7.00
Hoy L. Little, Junior Warden
Herbm Pritchard, Past Master

Name of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Representatives

457
Milea11• Allowed

Greenleaf ........................No. 670.... Lee A. Strong, Master.....-.............................
Lemuel S. Benbury, Senior Warden
Kenneth E. Turner, Past Master
San Clemente .................. No. 671....Thomas A. Broadbent, Master......................
Omar L. Brenna, Senior Warden
David H. Blakelock, Senior Grand Steward..
Laguna Beach ................ No. 672.... W. Rex Hoover, Master................................
W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer..
Charles Logan, Past Master
Far West ........................No. 673.... Edward W. Quon, Master
John S. Cruipenter, Senior Warden
Carl H. Kiefer, Junior Warden
Charles L. Foster, P.M. and Inspector
Albert A. Baker, Jr .. Past Master
Walter E. Barrus, Past Master
William C. Kunz, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Earl B. Myers, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior. Past Master
Albert S. Sandell, Past Master
Robert Van Heekeren, Past Master
Los Cerritos ....................No. 674.... lrvin Rose, Senior Warden.......•....................
Sam Roska, Junior Warden
Jay A. Robinson, Past Master
Arthur J. Sissons, Past Master
Modesto ..........................No. 675.... Clair M. Peterson, Master............................
T. Wilmar Jensen, Senior Warden
Frank C. Shaw, Past Master
Willow Glen .................. No. 676.... William W. Eilers, Master ............................
Sylvester J. Gorman, Senior Warden
Frank N. Long, P.M. and Inspector..........- ..
Harold S. Medo, Past Master
Thornton D. Webster, Past Master
Liberal Arts .................... No. 677.... Louis W . Allen, Master................................
Thomas H. Wright, Senior Warden
Thomas I. Baker, Junior Warden
John F. Port~. Past Master
Frank Reinsch, Past Master
Alta den a .......................... No. 678.... William R. Juergens, Master" ......................... .
Lee Roy Carlson, Senior Warden
Jack M Crawford, Junior Warden
S. C. Pullen, Pa.st Master
Canby Cross ..................No. 679.... Not Represented
Carmel ............................ No. 680.... ~~;~;Q~lt>!!i.s~~~-w;;d;;;·················
Norman F. Fontes, Past Master
Dos Palos ........................No. 681.... If!:n,9~ ~ew~:1~~\v~;;··---·· ..........

57 .82
64.82
64.82
63.70
60.62

60.06

12.7+
7.00
7.00
56.42

57.40

17.36
19.88

Barstow .......................... No. 682.... Lawrence E. Keyte, Senior Warden.............. 58.10
Leon P. Whitney, Junior Warden
Redwood Empire ............ No. 683.... Kenneth S. Brown, Master............................ 29.54
Ernest A. Reynolds. SeniOI' Warden
Trona .............................. No, 684.... Hardin I. Lineback, Elected Representative.. 59.22
Lynn A. Blackmun, P.M. and Inspector........ 58.66

458
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreoentativea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA
Mlteaae AllOWed

San Marino ···········-·······No. 685.... Russell C. Eilcenbl!TJ'}'. Maste
r----·· -- 57.82
Roy J. Henville, Senior Warden..·-·-·-··· -- 57.Si
Peter M. Swanson, Junior Warden
George R. Friederich, Past Master
W. Glen E. Irwin, Past Master
Attilio G. Parisi, Past Master
Albany ·················-·········No. 686.. _Not Represented
Vista -···-·- ----··· ·No. 687.... Gerald V. Johnson, Junior Ward
en___ 6958
Lewis H. Field, P.M. and Inspecto r'-----·-· ·· 69.58
Andrew H. Chung, Past Master
Oildale ··········· -·-·--···N o. 688 ....Gorrell F. Norman, Muter- ····-··-·
-····-· 40.i6
Clem E. Churchwell, Senior Warden
Bruce M. Chism, Junior Warden
Robert B. Briles. Past Mas.ter
Robert L. Lane, Past Master
Pohona •...........................No. 689.... Robert D. Lake, Master-···-········
··-··········-- 29.26
Harold K. Schmidt, Junior Warden
San Carlos -·-···--·· ·······No . 690_Fr ank Driffill, Master
T. G. W. Henry, Senior Warden
Harry E. lmbody, Junior Warden
E. Ross Bayliss, P.lVI. and Inspector
Indian Wells Valley....•. No. 69L..Le wis D. Radcliff, Master ·----·····-··-- 56.42
lames M. Auman. Senior Warden
Robert J. Francis. Junior Warden
Travele rs ···········-·····--··No. 692-~:i. ~.r!~~ s~S:w;d-;;··
·-·-·-·- 12.M

Harry D. Brainard, Past Master
Palm Springs ·············-··No. 693.... Robert S. Bertrand, Master.......·-················· 71.68
Walter Jackson Stuart, Tr., Senior Warden
Julius Edelstein, Junior Warden
Hiram 0. Gordon, P.M. and Inspector...----· 72.10
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
San Antonio ·····-····· ···-No. 694...• Eugene D. Preult, Master
58.10
Joe A. Gamache, Senior Warden
Wayne H. Gaulden. Junior Warden
Meudell -········· ·········- No. 695-Ke nneth C. Cummings, Master·-············-·- 40.16
George H. Hauslein, Senior Warden
Dennis K. Ingram, Junior Warden
Crossro ads ········-······-····No. 696.... Robert S. Wilkinson, Senior Warden
....·-····· 73.08
Von R. Brown, Junior Warden
Earle F. Sheffield, Past Master
Frank H. Stewart. Past Master
Manley A. Torbert, Past Master
Saint Elmo ···········-·······-No. 697...• William R. Meyer, Master
Peter D. Neilson, Senior Waiden
Edmond 0. Burger, Past Master
Robert H. Burrows, Past Master
William McCosh, Past Master
James S. Pursley, Past Master
William D. Stephens......No. 698.... Frank E. Pickett, Master· ---········
···········- 56.42
Clement L. Carter, Senior Watde n.__
.. __ 56.42
Bixby Knolls ····-···········.No. 699__ Gordon K. Jackson, Mute r----·-- 60.06
Charles T. Jones. Senior Warden
Eric R. Eley, Past Master

Na111e of Lodae

No. of Lodge

Repreoentativea

459
Mileage Allowed

Pooderosa ........................No. 700....Allen J. Lockwood, Senior Walden.
............. 25.62
Winford A. Tarver, Junior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley.......... No. 701....George M. Boverson, Senior Warden
............ 42.00
Rosemead ........................No. 702.... Robert L. Van Housen, Senior
Warden...... 57.68
Harold H. Burris, Junior Warden
Westche ster .................... No. 703....Bror A Appelberg, Master..............
............. . 56.56
David V. Rouse, Senior Warden
Wayne R. Cox, Junior Warden
James L. Miles, P.M. and I~spector ............... . 56.42
Walter H. Anderson, Past Master
L. Melvin Hall, Past Master
Orinda ............................No. 7M.... George E. Chase, Master
H. Holt Parsons. Senior Warden
Clifford F. Campbell, Junior Warden
El Cerrito ........................ No. 705.... Charles A. Bailey, Master
Ralph P. Partridge, P.M. and Inspector
Hunters Point Naval... ... No. 706.... Harold D. Seeskin, Master
George E. Gammon, Senior Warden
George B. Lozar, Junior Warden
Charles R. Show-, Past Master
Lake Tahoe .................... No. 707.... William M. Capron, Master..............
............. . 26.88
Roger L. Scott, Junior Wacden
Seafaring ........................No. 708.... ~'&~P'~dc, ~:·w;;d;~·········
··········· 64.12
Herman W. Toedter, P.M. and Inspector.... 64.12
Emerson Hill. Past Master
Lorenzo ..........................No. 70'.L.Burnell C. Kahn, Master
George J. Williams. Junior Warden
Edward C. Will, P.M. and Inspector
Anacap a ..........................No. 710....Wallace Roberson, Master................
.............. 52.64
Irvin K. Meadows, Senior W ardea
Bobbie L. Worford , Junior Warden
Rim of the World............ No. 71 L..Loya l Klopfenstein, Master...........
-............... 65.66
lohn D. Williams, Senior Warden
Arthur Alquist, Junior Warden
Burch 0. Brown, Past Master
Arthur M. Hartwell, Past Master
Rienne A Shilbs, Past Master
Los Altos ........................ No. 712....Raymond F. Foote, Maater_··········-··
············ 4.48
Vern R. Ireton, Senior Warden
Paul L. Sterner, Junior Warden
Castro Valley ................ No. 713.... Clement B. Cole, Master................
................ 3.50
ohn C. Stansfield, Senior Warden
oseph E. Elleard, Junior Warden
Charles W. Christensen, Past Master
Carl F. La Vo, Past Master
Blue Lakes ......................No. 714 .... James E. Weston . Master
John W. McLain, Senior Warden
C. H. Schellenger, Junior Wacden
Peter C. Col!iander, Past Master
Gordon E. Robinson, Past Masttt
Magnolia Park ................ No. 715.... Ralph E. Swann, Master....·-···········
················ 55.H
Carl C. Voelker, Senior Warden
Francia M. Hershberger, TUDtor Warden
Wilclte nL.Byr am,Pas tMaster

J

460
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA
Mileage Allowed

Belmont Shore ................No. 716.... Charles I. Van Doren, Master...................
-... 60.06
Ralph W . Coulter, Senior Warden
Theodore H. Nelson, Junior Warden
Omer D. Akin, Past Master
Wayfare r ........................ No. 717.... Robert H. Briggs, Master.............................
. 57.82
Vern A. Thomas, Senior Warden
Calvin J. Barkley, Junior Wacden
San Lorenzo Valley........ No. 718 .... Leonard W. Bechtold, Master.......................
. 10.08
William E. Frick, Senior Warden
William K. Makela, Past Master
Estero .............................. No. 719.... Warren Englebeck, Senior Warden. ............
. 33.18
George Kouremetis, Sr., Junior Warden
Chad Horton, P.M. and lnspector................. . 32.34
Mineral King ..................No. 720.... Jack C. Christy, Junior Warden................
.... 31.36
ohn R. Hoehn, Past Master
Home .............................. No. 721. ... Sidney L. Herman, Master...........................
. 54.60
Frank Gelfound, Senior Warden
Julius N. Ludwin, Junior Warden
George E. Tutt................ No. 722 .... James E. Curtis, Master..................................
7.42
Lawrence J. Weister, Senior Warden
Henry R. Ames, Junior Warden
George D. Stroope, P.M. and Inspector........ 7.00
Lawrence E. Hendricks, Past Master
Acalanes .......................... No. 723.... Not Represented
San Ramon Valley.......... No. 724.... Charles B. Booth, Master................................
4.62
Donald W. Morrison, Senior Warden
St. John's ........................No. 725.... Earl F. Beard, Master....·-······-····················
· 3.50
HatTY M. Cameron, Senior Warden
Robert Kerr, Junior Warden
Martin Quinn, Past Masttt
Yucaipa ·····-················-·No. 726.... Roy B. Lawrence, Elected Representative....
65.52
Verdugo Hills ................ No. 727.... Loren J. Kling, Master...................................
. 56.00
William E. Bergdahl, Senior Warden
Philip B. Stone, Past Master.......................... 55.44
Lakewood ........................No. 728.... Peiry S. Rand, Master..................................
60.06
Paul Preston Graue, Senior Warden
Floyd 0. Mason, P.M. aind Inspector............ 60.06
Kenneth L. Hemphill, Past Master................ 60.06
Centennial ·····-···············No. 729 .... James H. Smith, Master..................................
58.38
Arthur H. Hilse, Senior Warden
Polaris ............................No. 730.... Clarence J. Brownell, Master....................
.... 12.46
Walter F. Rutherford, Senior Warden
A. Richard Tanner, Junior Warden
Edward E . Seagle, Sr., Past Master
Two Rivers ....................No. 731.... Lee Anson Owens, Senior Warden................
58.10
James L. Baker, Junior Warden
Ernest Read, Past Master
San Juan ....................•..... No. 732.... George C. Finis. Master................................
12.46
Robert J. Morey, Junior Warden
NOl"Illan L. Langness, Past Master
Golden Empire ..............No. 733.... Donald R. Wisewell, Senior Warden............
12.04
Arthur Alexander, Junior Warden
Robert K. Titus, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

461
Mileage Allowed

Kit Carson ...•.................. No. 734.... Charles L. Mundy, Master..............................
12.04
Alfred T. Guetling, Senior Warden
Joseph E. Roderick, Jr., Junior Warden
Oasis of Mara.................. No. 735 .... William Monroe, Junior Warden.................
Lemon Grove ..................No. 736.... Marland A. Long, Senior Warden. ......•.... . 71.96
_ 74.62
Archie Hutchings, Junior Warden
Chester T. Hobbs, Past Master
Thomas E. Parsons , Past Master
Hillsborough .................. No. 737.... Hobart E . Laughlin, Master
John Louis Hart, Senior Warden
William R. Morrison, Junior Warden
John Burszan, Jr., Past Master
Arvin ..............................No. 738.... Lester L. Frick, Masttt..................................
43.68
Alva 0. Brooks, Senior Warden
Harold J. Krauter, Past Master
La Canada ...................... No. 739.... Clyde R. Tucker, Junior Warden. ...............
.. 56.28
Opportun ity ·········-·········No. 740.... Roy A. Hunter, Senior Warden................
.... 57.96
Robert K Tassie, Junior Warden
Tyre ................................ No. 741. ... Jan Scheffer, Master..................................
...... 58.52
Robert S. Shean. Senior Warden
C. Robert Barrett. Junior Warden
Stanley H. Millers. Past Master
Robert A. Millhouse, Jr., Past Master
Morningside Park ..........No. 742 ... .Joseph A. Shomph, Master.......................
-... 58.10
Richard C. Getten, Senior Warden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
Oakwood ........................No. 743.... Edward S. Hunt, Master................................
56.28
Ralph J. Cunningham, Senior Warden
Lewis P. Arnold, Past Master
Oarence E. Glaze, Past Master
San Leandro .................... No. 7H.... Richard H. West, Senior Warden
John W. Parker, Past Master
Peninsula ···-···············-··No. 745.-Edw in James Bicldell, Master
George Willier Nance, Senioc Warden
•
Harry Earl Carver, Junior' Warden
Joseph E. Young, Past Master
Soquel ..............................No. 746.... Charles N. Cooper, Master............................
10.64
Claire V. Beaupre, Senior Warden
Denver M. Hudson, Junior Warden
William Blankenbiller, Past Master
Alvin W. Wendt, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison ...... No. 747.... Dan B. Adams, Senior Warden.................
..... 73.92
Highland ····················-····No. 748.... Hennan L. Carter, Master..............................
62.72
Harold L. Johnston. Senior Warden
Guy W. Whelchel, Past Master
Merced ............................ No. 749.... William A. Jensen, Elected Representative..
Mother Colony ..............No. 750.... Jarnes E. Seay, Master................................... 17.92
. 60.34
Everett Waymire , Senior Warden
Victor Ruzich, Junior Wacden
D. H. Van Meter, Past Master
Hamilton ..•....................... No. 751....Glenn D. Graham, Master............................
3.92
Ben Leonelli, Senior Warden
Harris C. Jackson, Jr., Junior Warden
Robert W. Bussman, Past Master
Hu110 E. Clever, Past Master
William T. Miazga, Past Master
P. D. Sprag_ue, Past Master
Luther Burbank ..............No. 752.... Eugene B. Personett, Senior Warden............
7.56
Lawndale ........................No. 753.... William Charles Harris, Master...................
. 57.96
Wilbur R. Hunter, Senior Warden
George R. Hartman, Junior Warden

462
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Representatives

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA
Mileage Allowed

San Pablo ......................;.No. 754 .... Clyde W . Mann, Master
Paul Harrison, Senior Warden
Orel T. VanDagriff, Jr., Junior Warden
Fred A. Barringer, Past Master
Golden Bowl .................. No. 755 .... Vergil A. Sperline, Senior Warden
·-···········
Raymond P. Warden , Junior Warden
Clayton Valley ..............No. 756.... Glenn F. Gregg, Master.....•........
..................
John C. Jacobson. Senior Warden
Hubert C. Roe, Junior Warden
E. G. Walter Dubbs, Past Master
Channel ............................No. 757 .... James Hiroyuk a Tanaka , Master
.................•
Arthur Louis Godi, Junior Warden
Wendel l Howard Nicol, P.M. and
Inspector ..................................................... .
West Covina .................. No. 758.... John W. Parker, Master·-········-····
···············
Anderson P. Phipps, Senior Warden
Lyle C. Hall, Junior Warden
El Rancho ........................No. 759.... Perry A. Morris, Junior Warden
..................
Lakeside ·····················-···No. 760.... Lyle E. Foote, Master......·-···········
Odes C. Hodge, Senior Warden ················
John E. Mikol, Junior Warden
Josiah W. Roller.............. No. 761....Stanley V . Davis, Master..............
..................
Harvey Nixon, Senior Warden
John J. Williams, P.M. and Inspector........... .
Joseph W. Doucette, Past Master
Oswe T. Lund, Past Master
Thomas J. Mc William, Past Master
Herbert E. Simons, Past Master
Coastside ........................ No. 762 ....James P. Williams, Master
Daniel R. Davis, Senior Warden
Alan L. Kirby, Junior Warden
Clarence W. Howell, Past Master
E.dwin C. Kinney, Past Master
Glen E. Staley, Past Master
Arabic .............................. No. 763.... Edward E. Deeb, Master..............
..................
Michael B. Maloof, Jr., Senior Warden
Norman A. Barakat, Past Master
Heritage ···············-·········No. 764....Milton W. Bradley, Master..............
..............
Everett Lehman, Senior Warden
Dana R. Weller..............No. 765.... Lawrence Astorino, Senior Warden
..............
Horold C. Md.endoo, Past Master
James H. Kew .................. No. 766 .... Glenn F. Brannum, Master..............
..............
Charles J. Stewart , Senior Warden
Chester G. Renier, Junior Warden
William Robusch, P.M. and Inspecto
Wm. Rhodes Hervey...... No. 767.... Leslie J. Chandler, Senior Warden r......... .
................
Gene R. Nicks, Junior Warden
George W. Feasell, Past Master
Earle A. Gray, Past Master
Zenith .............................. No. 768.... George F. Bacigalupi, Muter..............
..........
Daniel R. Grimes, Senior Warden
Reginald Fudge, Past Master
Palmdale ..........................No. 769.... George R. Wilson, Master..............
................
Gerald L. Myers. Senior Warden
Ernest G. Buttery, Junior Warden
Lake Chabot ..................No. 770.... Kenneth M. Huffstutter, Senior
Warden......
.
Geor9e T. Loher, Jr., Junior Warden
Paul Janvier, Past Master
Mission Bay ··········-········No. 771....Bobby G. Hooten, Master..............
................
Joe B. Matlock, Senior Warden
George Bakich, Junior Warden

57.40

4.34

10.92
10.92
58.66
58.10
74.48

H8
H8

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Representatives

463
Mileage Allowed

Avenal ························-··No. 772....Jack Callowa y Savage, Senior Warden
........ 31.64
Tejon .............................. No. 773.... Louis B. Smith, Master.. ..............
.................. 40.46
Peter W . Todd. Senior Warden
Bill R. Strickland, Junior Warden
Herman S. Little, Past Master
George C. Poloynis, Past Master
H. Guy Walford , Past Master
Waikiki ·········-···········-··No. 774 ....George F. Souza, Maste!'..............
.................. 338.19
Ahoon H. Wong, Past Master
San Dlegulto .................. No. 775.... John M. Hollingsworth, Master..
.................. 70.H
Alexander H. Parker, Past Master
East Whittle r .................. No. 776.... John A. Thomas, Master...............
................. 57.82
Lee Hicks, Senior Warden
Floyd L. Flores, Junior Warden
Richard M. Lustig, P.M. and Inspector........ 57.82
Elmer Bentley, Past Master
Pinnacle ············-············No. 777.... lohn R. Johnson, Senior Warden
.................. 18.48
William M. Head, Past Master
La Mirada ...................... No. 778.... ~ ~i.J:n~se!!~W;'d~~-·-······
············· 59.22
}gchard L. Riemer, Past Master.................... 58.52
Five Points ...................... No. 779.... Donald C. O'Neil, Senior Warden
................ 60.06
Clayton R. Heinz, Junior Warden
Riviera ............................ No. 780.... Robert E . Strasser, Master·-·············
············ 56.28
William H. Crooks, Sr., Senior Warden
F. Mike Hopwood, Past Master
Rolling Hills .................... No. 781....Robert J. Rudge, Senior Warden
.................. 59.78
Silverado ........................ No. 782....James W. Kennedy, Master· -···········
········Chester A. Schell, Senior Warden
Richard C. Hennesey, Junior Warden
Romay:ne H. Bantz, P.M. and Inspector........ 6.58
Mojave ..................:.........No. 783.... Fred D. Harrison, Master..............
...............• 49.00
Jerald D. Ferren, Senior Wacden
Richard L. Ledwidge, Junior Warden
Geor11e W . Bennett, Past Master
Ray E. Moore, Past Master
Leland Stanford .............. No. 784.... Leon D. Sine, Master.................
..................... 22.68
Leroy W. Richards. Senior Warden
Garey B. Weibel, Junior W ru-den
Paramount ...................... No. 785.... Marion A. Jenkins. Master.................
........... 57.54
Martin Muker, Senior Warden
Frank F. Karaslnski, Junior Warden
Rio Linda ........................ No. 786.... Robert C. Simmons, Senior Warden.
............. H.00
Francis M Thompson, Junior Warden
Carl E. Yeargain, Past Master
Westmi nster .................... No. 787.... John R. Hampton, Jr., Senior Warden
.......... 60.20
Thomas H. Baker, Junior Warden
Sierra .............................. No. 788.... Guilford J. Whitehe ad, Senior Warden
........ 29.40
Albert F. Topham, Junior Warden
Walter R. Anderson. Past Master
Oak Plains ...................... No. 789.... ~~·f.Q1r:;r~i!~r~8:J!····
··············· 12.04

-rn

56.42
54.60
58.38
58.10
58.10

56.42

54.32
54.18

3.50
73.08

Granada Hills ................No. 790.... Marill E. Balser, Master.................
............. 52.92
Robert L. Lawson. Senior Warden
LeRoy W. Schlaegel, P.M. and Inspector.... 51.94

464
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repr...ntativea

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileaga Allm..ed

Gen. Henry H. Amold.. No. 791....Edward L. Lane, Master................................ 52.08
George Poulos, Junior Warden
Clyde B. Tyler, Past Master
Millbrae .......................... No. 792.... Powell Cassidy, Master
Carlyle W. Corson, Senior Warden
Ora A. Phillips, Junior Warden
Maya ····················-·····-·No. 793.... Louis C. Nathan, Senior Wacden................ 56:42
Mt. Wilson ....................No. 794.... Willard J. Stone, Master·-····························· 57:40
John R. Hicks, Senior Warden
T. Wm. Heidner, P.M. and Inspector............ 57.54
Lawrence C. Lamb, P.M. and Inspector........ 57.54
C. Cecil Davis, Past Master
American River .............. No. 795....Toseph H. Wilson, Master.-........................... 15.40
Hudson D. Hanawalt, Senior Warden
Milo W. Perry, Junior Warden
Golden Valley ................No. 796.... Ralph L. Cross, Master...·-············-·············· 63.56
Solimondi Coricelli, Senior Warden
Tila Pass ........................ No. 797.... Nicolas Buenaventura, Master...................... 56.42
Ashland .......................... No. 798.... Edward H. Clark, Master
William A. Brennan, Senior Warden
Leo C. Paulos, Junior Warden
Bay Claire Vista ............ No. 799.... W. Irvin Lane, Master.................................... 73.08
Tames A. Falls, Senior Warden
Thomas F. McAleer, Jr .. Past Master
Rio Hondo ......................No. 800.... Howard M. Magill, Master...................-..... 58.24
Leslie E. Frampton, Senior Warden
Joseph E. Siwicki, Junior Warden
Koolau ............................ No. 801....~h ~- t>:n°cli~.~::eM~~---···--·········· 341.69
Yucca Valley ..................No. 802.... Charles S. Watkins, Master..........................
Glen F. Steely, Senior Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, Past Master
The Gabilan ···-······---···No. 803.... Herman Yossem, Master......·-···---··-·······--··
Adolph L. Rianda, Junior Warden
Moreno Valley .............. No. 804.... Wayne L. Schooler, Senior Warden............
Camellia .......................... No. 805.... Marion D. Burke, Master·-·--·····---···············
Griffith G. Williams. Senior Warden
John L. Shaw, Junior Warden
Simi Valley .................... No. 806.... Donald F. Patterson, Master..........................
Royal H. O'Brien, Senior Warden
Conejo Valley ................ No. 807.... Franklin Adreon, Senior Warden..................
Walter A. King, Junior Warden
Scepter ---------·······-·········No. 808....Enea A. Bettati, Master......·---······-···············
Richard V. Stall, Senior Warden
Los Alamitos ..................No. 809....John H. Hardy, Master.....-...........................
Stanley W. Dilatush, Senior Wanien
Victoria Palms ................No. 810.... Maurice Hawkins, Master..............................
Willis G. Moxon, Sr.. Senior Warden
Walter R. Napier, Junior Warden
Woodland Hills ........... _.No. 811....Iohn M. Server, Jr .. Master............................
ohn S. Lucas, Senior Warden
ohn S. Andrews, Junior Waroen
Triad _ ...................................UD•.-Carol D. Kaylor, Senior Warden..................
Allan T. TerBush, Junior Warden
John E. Schlener, Past Master

68.18
15.12
65.10
58.38
53.90
53.90
11.48
60.34
64.40
55.02
57:40

Old West .............................. U.D..... Alexander H. Campbell, Master....................
Charles E. Taylor, Senior Warden
George L. Mentzer, Junior Wacden
Mount Baldy ····-··················U.D..... Edgar W. Ogden, Elected Representative....
Plaza de Los Angeles............ U.D..... Arthur Dvorin, Master....................................
Herbert Hargrave, Jr.. Senior Warden
Manhattan ............................U.D..... Not Represented
William B. Ogden................ U.D..... Samuel Steelman, Master................................

465
50.12
60.76
56.42
55.H

Total ····················-·······----·-··----···--·······----$37,548.66

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

...i:..

With Membership, Charter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments, Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" includes $2.30 for Grand Lodge plus $LOO for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributions" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of $LOO and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A. L. 5963.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges page 503.
Loda;e

No.

1 California .......................... 1
2 Western Star .................... 2
3 Tehama .............................. 3
4 Benicia ................................ 5
5 Tuolumne .......................... 8
6 Corinthian .......................... 9
7 San Jose ............................ 10
8 Yount ···········-··················· 12
9 Nevada .............................. 13
10 Temple .............................. 14
11 Eureka ................................ 16
12 La Parfaite Union ............ ,. 17
13 Mountain Shade .............. 18
14 Sa:J;oaquin ...................... 19
15 W
ington ...................... 20
16 Hawaiian .......................... 21
17 Occidental .......................... 22
18 Madison···········-················· 23
19 Mariposa ............................ 24
20 Georgetown ...................... 25
21 El Dorado .......................... 26
22 Trinity ................................ 27
23 Golden Gate ...................... 30
24 Gold Hill ............................ 32
25 Ophir .................................• 33
26 San Diego .......................... 35
27 Howard .............................. 37
28 Santa Cruz ........................ 38
29 Sacramento ........................ 40
30 Martinez ............................ 41
31 Los Angeles ...................... 42
32 Hiram .................................. 43
33 M0W1t Moriah .................. H
3i Ci-eac:cnt ••...........................• iS

Members

Charter
lasued

Degree
Feea

Affil.
Fees

435
222
847
237
290
451
528
547
173
249
382
104
59
798
900
402
601
319
191
70
292
173
529
118
95
1003
270
550
821
423
1041
122
318
221

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854

100
100
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
50
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50
50
100
50
100
100
75
125
75
100
125

20.00
20.00
10.00

-2.00
5.00
5.00
6.00

-2.00
--

15.00
5.00

--

10.00
10.00
25.00

---

5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
LOO
4.00

--

LOO
LOO
10.00

--

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Dues

18
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
16
15
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
15
16
15
12
15
12
15
20
12
16
15
15
15
12
15
15

!nit.

Passed

Raised

5

6
6
14
6
3
9
10
13
2
3
9

6
10
4
6
10
9
12
2
4
9

10
12
10
1
8
14
14
2
3
9

-

-

13
14
11

-

f

4~ r!~aak--··-··-···················

t

f;

1?

15
12
5
10
10
3
1
12
3
2

-

1
9
6

12
4
2
1
1
12
3

5
2

21
4
6
22
6
30
2

-

1
13
4
3
27
8
49
1
4
3

5
24
7
50
2

5

5

4

3

:JS Texas~-···-························ 46
~ Forbestown ........................ 50
Illinoistown ........................ 51
38 Suisun ·····--······················· 55
39 Volcano ·····-········-·········-·· 56
40 Santa Rosa ·-····················· 57
41 Union ··-······························ 58
Gravel Range ···-········-····· 59
60
·············-··-········· 61
45 Natoma ·······-········-··········· 64
~~ Amad_or ~--···················-····· 65
48 rtorrung Star ·················-· 68
nterprise ··-·········-········-· 70
4
5z ti:v~~~tain ·················· 76
51 H ·
•························· 78
umboldt ................•........• 79
52
Ione ···-··························-··· 80
~43 ~olo --····----···-············· 81
55 N esper -····-········-············· 84
56 aval ................. :................ 87
~ose's Bar -······················· 89
57 orth Star •..............•.......... 91
58 St. Helena ·····-··················· 93
5
95
6z ~~~r c1ay ·····-··············· 98
61
niliQI ······················-····
62 ose1111te ························-·· 99
63 lay --·······-······················-101
0 _viile •............................. 103
64
65 Ar~~~~ton .............•............ 10f
66
·····-···-················--·106
67 taj.aro ·······-····-············---110
68 S=it-··----················ 111
·-·-······-······-·-·--1 12
~9 Eden - -·-·-·········-·····-····.1 13
Concord ·-·-·-·········-······-11 7
Fidelity .............................. 120
72
73 Alamo ·········-···-····-·········-·-122
74 ~toyome ······-···--···-····-···----123
Laable Mountain ................ 124
75
Fayette ........................ 126
7
1~ Ufsi;Ji~ ···--···········-··-··· 128
121
78 Nicolaus········-···················
79
·-·--··················-129
Woodbridge ·-···-···-·······--131

-

11
17
6
9
10
1

5
11

-

5

~

~

52
139
81
302
111
661
731
102
184
890
366
91
659
382
78
124
524
99
117
242
1152
60
83
132
79
109
502
106
393
642
356
427
609
64
447
383
562
450
240
354
232
171
567
137
194

1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855

1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859

50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
75
75
100
50
100
50
50
85

75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50
60

55
90
50
65
150
75
75
90
50
105
75
100
75
75
80
75
100
75
50

50

LOO
5.00

--10.00
5.00
10.00

-2.50
LOO
5.00
5.00

-5.00
3.00
10.00

---

--10.00
5.00
5.00
LOO

-10.00

--5.00
LOO
LOO

--

-5.00

--

10.00
15.00

-5.00
LOO

--5.00

20.00
5.00

12
15
12
12
15
18
15
15
16
12
15
12
15
15
15
12
18
12
16
12
12
12
12
16
16
12
15
12
15
16
20
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
21
20
18
15
12
15

-

1
6
2
6
1
9
12
1

10
2
13
9

-

5

9
16
1
13
12
4
3
9
2
3
6
19
4
7
2

5
9
15
1
9
11

3
5
16
1
4
3
19
2

5

-

4
12

-

10
11
11
9
14

-

6
7
10
10
3
10
2

3

10
15
7

-

2
1
4
8

14
7
10

5
10

-

5

9
10

5
2
12
4
3
6
12

5

Members
Contrib.

1405.30
864.80
296L20
922.30
950.50
1472.40
1790.60
1899.60
605.30
860.10
129L50
336.60
194.70
2674.40
3023.50
1364.40
2088.60
1182.10
652.70
264.70
1013.80
723.90
1830.00
462.40
302.30
360L60
882.20
1769.60
2895.90
1387.10
382L40
439.30
1075.30
697.70

175.00
375.00
470.00
350.00
85.00
280.00
490.00
540.00
70.00
105.00
365.00

9
13
2
4
6
12
1
9
11
1
4
12
1
4
2
16
4
4
3
2
4

5

-15
14
11
4
12

-

6
6
6
4
4
18

5
1
6
9

3

--

760.00
165.00
235.00
770.00
260.00
1375.00
70.00
175.00
140.00

-

~

6
7
-

455.00
540.00
175.00
410.00
385.00
25.00
35.00
315.00
210.00
175.00
70.00

...............

~

-

I
6

G.L.
Per Capita

0\
°'

208.60
463.50
269.30
1059.90
367.90
2412.40
2383.60
339.60
617.90
3023.00
1355.80
338.30
2332.50
1360.00
290.50
42L20
1829.60
394.10
467.10
943.00
3905.20
348.00
350.00
426.10
263.70
368.40
180L80
349.80
1322.70
2232.50
124L80
1518.90
1944.10
207.90
1548.90
1390.90
1850.90
1640.80
85Ll0
1663.40
80L70
634.70
2045.00
484.80
893.60

35.00
210.00

--

400.00
95.00
480.00
365.00

--

175.00
390.00
560.00
35.00
455.00
420.00
140.00
105.00
315.00
70.00
105.00
210.00
665.00
140.00
245.00
70.00

-

140.00
420.00

-

350.00
435.00
385.00
340.00
515.00
25.00
235.00
245.00
375.00
385.00
130.00
475.00
120.00
105.00
350.00
525.00
245.00

~

0\
'I

Lodge

No.

80 Sincer ity -·-- ·-·-- 132
81 Vacav ille -·-··-· ·····-·· -···13 4
82 Valley ·-··-- ·····-- -·--.1 35
83 Pacific ·····-·- ·-·····- --·····1 36
84 Crock ett ······- ·-·-·- -139
85 Curtis -···-············-········-···140
86 Grafto n ·····-··· ·······-- ···-·-·1 41
87 Frankl in ·-··············-····-····· H3
88 Orient al ·······- ··-··-· ··--·1 44
89 Vitruv lus -··--··- ·····-·· ······H S
90 Abell ···········--·············-···146
91 Eel River ·······················-·-147
92 Lassen ..............................
.. 149
93 Molin o ·················-·······--···150
94 Wood land .......................... 156
95 Keysto ne ........................... .161
96 Harm ony ............................ 164
97 Excels ior ········--·-·--·-·6
98 Alame da ......................·--···16
...... 167
99 Redwo od City .................. 168
100 Missio n ······----·-···--·-···--·--169
101 Elk Grove ·······-·······--·····173
102 Dryto wn ·····-··· ···--··· ·-···17 4
103 Antioc h ·····-················-····175
104 Phoen ix ···-···-·····················178
105 Mendo cino ···············--······179
106 Petalu ma ···················-·······180
107 Russia n River ·····-·--·-··-~--181
108 Arbuc kle --···········-····-·······182
109 Clear Lake ···········-····-··-·183
110 Sierra Valley ....................184
111 Claibo rne -----------················ 185
112 Eveni ng Star ·····-·············186
113 Keith ··········----·····------------··.187
1 H Oakla nd --------------------·-·---··188
115 North ern Light ···········-··---19
116 Marin ..................................1910
117 Santa Barba ra ·····-----------·-192
118 Fernd ale ·------····--·----------·--19
119 Moun tain View ................1943
120 Bucke ye -·----- ·······-· ·--···1 95
121 San Simeo n ------·-··---····---196

122 Wilmington -----~

123 Hartle y --··························· J99
124 Truck ee .....................
.........200
125 Silvey ville --········------------201
126 Pental pha --------------------------202
127 Confidence -·--·-······-----··-----203
128 Salina s --·-·······-----·-····---·-----204
129 Olivet ··········--·-····-·----------205
130 Stanis laus ----------- ---------------206
131 Anahe im --·--------··------·-·--·--207
132 Rio Vista ---·········-------····--208
133 King David 's ....................209
134 Friend ship ······--·····-·····-·--·210
135 San Benito ----·------·--·------211
136 South San Franci sco ......•.212
137 San Buena ventur a ............214
138 Oak Grove ···--····-----···---215
139 Doric -·-----------······--·····--216
140 Monte rey ·······-··----·-··-·----217
141 Mosai c ··------········-·····-·-··---218
142 Speran za Italian a ----·-------219
143 Down ey ·-·----····-·---···-·····220
1H Inyo -----------------------------------221
145 Roseville ---···--------··------·-----222
146 Bakersfield ·····-··--········-·-224
147 Brook lyn ···--·-··-···-··-·-······225
148 San Mateo ··-·-··- ··-··--· --226
149 Athen s ·····-··· ····-·-·· ···-··-·· 228
150 Solano ···--·-···-··-···············--229
151 North Butte ........................230
152 Covel o -··-··· --···-- ····23 1
153 Janesville ···-·····-·······-··-·····-232
154 Calist oga ··-·--········-········-··-233
155 Hope ·-·--·····-······-·-··-··-·-···-234
156 Surpri se Valley ........•.......235
157 Hills Perry -·-·······-··---236
158 Guada lupe ···---·-·-········-----237
159 Colusa ·--······-·-···-············240
160 Santa Ana ·····-···················241
161 Magno lia -·--··· ·-··--- ···-24 2
162 Eucaly ptus --·-··· -··---- -243
163 Alcatr az ..--~·-······-··-·--244
164 Laurel --····-· ·-······ ·-·-···2 45
165 Pomon a ---~---······--···--246
166 Fresno -···-·- --·--· ·-····2 47
167 Altura s -·-··· ·-·-·- -.24 8

Membera

99
292
95
531
455
94
109
151
308
134
358
268
241
165
319
42
32
403
289
671
583
lH
70
413
759
114
334
120
83
149
31
86

75

198
753
118
532
364
83
400
151
96
667
237
145
157
440
104
623
141
669
494
184
410
745
185
218

HO

541
407
323
275
225
979

159

489
754
467
630
197

550
245
73
163
121
110
124
164
232
153
591
492
549
532
252
439
716

188

Charter
Iasued

1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866

1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878
1878

Degree

Pua
100
75
50
100

75

75
50

75

100
50
50
50
100
50
50
50
50
100
102
100
100
50
50
75
75
100
80
75
50
50
50
50
50
50
75

65

100
75
50
100
75
75
125
65

90

90
100

75

Alfi!.
Pees

95
100
100
100

75
75

100
125
50

75

100
75
100
90

75

75
50
75
50
50
50
75

75

50
75
100
99
75
50
115
80

65

Puaed

Raioed

18
15

3
10

1
12

3
10

7

3

3
1

3

15

12.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00

1.00

250
5.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
50.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
1.00
10.00
5.00
2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

16
15

15
15
18

9
8
8
2

15
20
15
15

1.00
10.00

24
18
15
15
18
15

12
15
15
18
18
18
20
18

12

5.00
10.00

10.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
5.00
3.00
1.00

15
18
15
18
18
18

12
16
15
12

12
12

12

12

12

12
18
18
15
18
15
12
18
18

6

4
7

18

2

1

9

6
5
4
5

4

3
H
9
10

7
2
5
5

14
13

9

1

2

2

6
4
H

7
15
1

16

2
8
2

2

5

2

1

1

6

6

2
6

4

1

4
4

5

5
9

3
4

9

5

6
4
8
8
1

6

6
8
1
11

11
1

11

1

17

13

1
18

3

4
9
2
3

4
8
3
4

1

9

1
6
12
8
3

12
30
4
7
12
4

2
9
5

5
8
2
31
3

12

10
4
11
4
7
6
1
3
3
3
1
3
12

5
20
15
16
4
7

3

3

6

1
3

8

6

8
6
5
3

8

15

5

1

15

12
15
16

2

1

3
3
3

15

12

1.00
1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

6
4
1
1

16
15
15
12
25
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
16
12
15
12
18
12
12
15
12
16
15
12
15
12
18
12
12
12
12
15

15

5.00
5.00

75

65

In it.

5.00

105
50
105
100
100
115

Dues

11

4

3
12
23
3
7
15
2
4
5
6

12
7
2
10
18
4
7
13
2
3
9
6

4

6
7
1

6

1

33
5
17
9

2

10
4

9
4

3

1
1
2

4
13
4
16
16
14
5

9

6

13

1

38

4

22

8
4
6
4
11
3
1
3

2

1
1
4
10
5
15

12
15
5
6
14
10

1

G.L.
Per Capita

Mem'bera
Contrib.

403.70
1084.10
313.50
1694.40
1551.80
299.00
363.70
512.30
1017.80
478.90
1451.80
974.40
899.80
637.30
1260.90
135.30
138.30
1297.00
1102.70
2134.50
2155.30
530.40
272.40
1306.30
2599.30
Hl.30
1180.6 0
454.80
274.60
538.10
102.30
316.60
291.50
735.10
2472.60
531.90
1842.90
1227.20
277.90
1533.10
525.40
312.20
2324.40

105.00
400.00

789.80
623.30
504.30
1461.70
479.90
2093.40
568.40

105.00
340.00
60.00
235.00
445.00
280.00
105.00
495.00
1050.00
140.00
270.00
445.00
H0.00
70.00
340.00
175.00

2396.90

1789.70
758.20
1389.20
2545.40
653.50
652.50
1528.50
1711.20
1310.10
1126.20
982.00
758.40
3391.50
571.70
1689.80
2535.60
1654.80
2078.30
705.70
2077.60
916.50
236.30
537.00
430.40
403.00
438.30
672.30
867.30
515.60
2200.00
1885.10
1906.90
1697.00
840.40
1571.80
2504.50
643.90

~

°'

00

210.00
140.00
35.00
35.00
105.00
130.00
105.00
525.00
305.00
210.00
165.00
245.00
35.00
105.00
610.00
550.00
245.00
70.00
175.00
200.00
585.00
70.00
355.00
70.00
35.00
210.00
H0.00
35.00
175.00
315.00
315.00
305.00
280.00
70.00
435.00
35.00
35.00
595.00

250.00
305.00
70.00
1210.00
105.00
470.00
375.00
140.00
410.00
140.00
295.00
235.00
35.00
105.00
105.00
105.00
35.00
130.00
420.00
175.00
850.00
600.00
660.00
165.00
320.00
280.00
525.00
105.00

...co..

$

;:..-- ~
Lodge

~- --:-~-· ··.

· · ·· •·

No.

168 Adin .................................... 250
169 Landmark .......................... 253
170 Reading ..............................254
171 Wekome .......................... 255
172 Lodi ....................................256
173 Penrhyn ..............................258
174 Evergreen ..........................259
175 King Solomon's ................ 260
176 Tuscan ..............................261
177 Lompoc ..............................262
178 Hesperian ···········-·············264
179 Orland ................................265
180 Galt ·································--267
181 Durant ................................ 268
182 Olive Branch ......................269
183 Snow Mountain ................ 271
184 Pasadena ............................272
185 Anchor ..............................273
186 Arroyo ................................274
187 Oakdale ..............................275
188 Selma ..................................277
189 Southern California ..........278
190 Hanford ..............................279
191 Madera ..............................280
192 Mount Shasta ·············-·····281
193 Calayomi ............................ 282
194 South West ........................283
195 San Miguel ........................285
196 Paso Robles ...................... 286
197 Winnedumah ·····-·--········--287
198 Maxwell ............................ 288
199 Elsinore ·-··-······················-289
200 East Gate ..........................290
201 Santa Paula ......................291
202 Los Gatos ···················-·····292
203 Orange Grove .................. 293
204 Traver ................................294
205 Mt. Jackson ·····-·················295
206 Silver Gate ........................ 296
207 Dunsmuir ............................ 297
208 Liberty ................................299
209 Redlands ............................300
210 Ontario --······--·-····-····-301

211 "Santa Wela -·· - · · ···-··.302
212 Porterville .......... ....... .......303
213 Reedley ·············-···············304
214 Azusa ····--··························-305
215 Ashlar ................................306
216 Santa Monica ·····-············-307
217 Monrovia -···-···················-.308
218 Delano ············-··················309
219 Sisson ···········-···················310
220 Los Banos --······---·-········312
221 Tehachapi -·····-················.313
222 Temescal ·-·························3H
223 Norwalk ·--------···············315
224 Sanger ·····-············--········---316
225 F allbrook -·-··-·-·············317
226 Emanuel ····------·-·········-318
227 Hollenbeck ........................ 319
228 South Gate --·········-···········320
229 Alisa! ·················-··············-321
230 Alhambra ..........................322
231 Whittier ······--·············323
232 Corona ·········--·-················324
233 Consuelo ............................325
234 Needles ..............................326
235 Long Beach ·····-···············327
236 Redondo ........................... .328
237 Vallee de France ..............329
238 Kilauea ............................. .330
239 Pacific Grove ....................331
240 San Pedro ···········-·············332
241 Alta .................................... 333
242 Covina ................................334
243 West Gate ·····-·················335
244 Fruitvale ............................336
245 Carquinez .......................... 337
246 San Jacinto ........................ 338
247 Fullerton ............................ 339
248 Oxnard ·····-····-····-···········341
249 San Fernando ....................343
250 Starr King ..........................344
251 Brentwood --·-···-······..345
252 Palo Alto ----·--··---346
253 McKinley -··--·-------.3't7
254 San Bernardino ................3't8
255 Sequoia -------·····················349

-· -.....

G. L.

Members
Contrib.

Charter
I..ued

Degree
Peea

AfFil.

Pees

Dues

Init.

Passed

Raised

Per Capita

50
50
90
90
50
50

2.00
1.00
5.00

12
16
12
18
15
12
18
18
18
12
12
15
12
20
15
12
15
20
15
12
18
12
18
15
15
12
12
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
18
15
15
21
15
15
12
15
12

1
2
9
8
9
3
13
1
1
19
8
2
2

-

-4

362.70
410.30
1097.60
828.90
1268.10
464.10
2432.50
1270.90
285.50
1141.60
1529.60
562.10
359.10
1278.80
1060.10
153.80
1719.80
2157.50
661.90
714.40
756.40
1409.90
782.60
956.90
517.50
221.10
2014.40
310.00
1019.60
898.10
409.00
534.10
2087.10
1471.30
1552.90
1443.50
484.80
415.50
4142.20
880.30
1329.80
1731.10

35.00
70.00
340.00
280.00
315.00
105.00
480.00
35.00
35.00
665.00
380.00
70.00
70.00

535

1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1'883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890

12

1874.70

420.00
140.00
210.00
175.00
165.00
210.00
175.00
270.00
750.00
615.00
35.00
35.00
370.00
210.00
390.00
355.00
460.00

166
508
152
349
341
368
344
254
111
145
188
286
461
338
174
92
730
490
191
635
806
438
373
349
617
768
122
193
312
523
142
527
1205
763
182
117
392
447
750
511
152
782
492
970
946

1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902

6

592.50
1776.40
56HO
1207.60
1150.30
1207.90
1346.20
898.90
374.30
736.20
608.50
1057.60
1699.30
1162.40
678.20
300.00
2511.30
1594.40
702.80
2218.10
2658.20
1495.20
1338.30
1145.70
2152.00
2762.70
516.70
642.60
1144.00
1939.70
538.00
2190.00
4058.20
2693.60
596.40
394.10
1533.60
1515.70
2744.00
1779.50
504.70
2747.80
1666.40
3571.90
3075.40

105.00
280.00
70.00
305.00
340.00
240.00
420.00
420.00
70.00
245.00
95.00
235.00
910.00
140.00
205.00
35.00
375.00
175.00
370.00
565.00
355.00
435.00
380.00
340.00
375.00
1090.00
350.00
155.00
380.00
855.00
70.00
1165.00
800.00
490.00
105.00
70.00
420.00
315.00
1150.00
575.00
200.00
565.00
305.00
1150.00
120.00

Members

100
112
291
214
397
146
714
395
93
253
422
162
87
398
308
46
520
633
186
212
229
426
227
283
155
67

575

82
294
240
70
137
638
412
411
356
149
118
1247
253
390

507

75

115
50

75
75

50
50
80

75
75

115
125
65

75

80
75
100
50
90

75

105

50

75
100
75

75
75

50

75
75

80
50
100
50
125
75

75

75
50
75
115
55
125
100
100
50

75

75

75

115
75

75

50
100
100

75

100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100
125
75
125
53
115
165
100
75
50
125
100
125
100
65
100
75
75
100

--3.00
---1.00
--

2.00
5.00
5.00

-1.00
---

6.00
1.00
12.00

--3.00
--

5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

---

--

10.00

--

-1.00
1.00
5.00

---

-------

--

15.00

--2.00
-1.00
2.00

--

-5.00

5.00

-25.00
-----

-1.00

25.00

----

12.00
25.00
5.00

-25.00
5.00

---10.00
--

10.00

-5.00
-10.00
1.00

15
15
15
16
15
15
18
18
18
18
18
15
12
12
15
12
15
18
12
18
16
15
15
16
16
16
15
15
15
24
12
15
18
18
12
15
21
25
20
15
15
12
15
15
18

-

4

-

6
8
7

--

4
6
5
3

12
4
6
5
4
6
5
7
20
13
1
1

7

6
9
8

3
8
6
7
3
14
3
1
24
8
3

-

1
4
1
6
7
9
2
2
4
6
11
2

-

10
3
8
3
4
3
7
4

13

-

7
1

13
4
11

5

11

11

3
8
2
8
9
4
12
12
2
7
2
6
25
4
3
1
10
5
7
14
8
11
8
9
10
29
10
3
8

4
9
2
5
7
4
12
9
2
6
2
8
23
4
3
1
8
5
6
14
11
8
10
8
13
27
4
3
10
15
2
26
14
12
4

23
2
29
20
14
3
2
11
9
30
15
5
14
8
29
2

3

11

10
23
13
4
14
7
32
3

10

7

8
4
9
3
3
22
9
4

-

4
4
1
5
10

7
1
2
4
3

7

-

1

13
4
7
3
5
3
6
9
15
5
1

-

17
5
9

8

13
2
6
9
2
10
6
4
3
2
8
25
4
3
1

7

5
6
16
17
7
16
10
11
29
5
3
8
20
2
19
18
II
2
3
8
13
24
II
4
19
6
28
8

...&>.

~

0

---

140.00

260.00
280.00
245.00
25.00

--

140.00
210.00
175.00
130.00

--

.,..

~

Memben

Charter
lasued

Degree
l'eeo

Alfii.
l'eea

256 Palestine ............................351
257 Sunset ·················-·······-···352
258 Pinole ................................. .353
259 Presidio .............................. 354
260 Hollywood ........................355
261 Mill Valley ..................... .356
262 Buena Park ........................ 357
263 Golden State ......................358
261 Loyalton ............................359
265 San Francisco-Victory ....360
266 Fort Bragg ·················-··-..361
267 Charity .............................. 362
268 Berkeley ........................... .363
269 Willits ·····-·························365
270 Las Palmas ·················-·····366
271 South Pasadena ·····-·········367
272 Unity ··················-····-········368
273 Ocean Park ........................ 369
271 Amity-Seal Rock ............. .370
275 le Progres de l'Oceanie.... 371
276 Gardena ·····················-····.372
277 West Los Angeles .....- .....373
278 Jewel .................................. 374
279 Richmond ..........................375
280 Francis Drake ..................376
281 Artesia ·····-·························377
282 Mi~pah ·················--·········378
283 Fillmore ·················-···········379
284 Huntington Beach ............380
285 Oceanside .....................•....381
286 Highland Park ···········-·····382
287 Orosi ..................................383
288 El Centro ···········-·······-····384
289 Dinuba ............................. -.385
290 Coalinga ............................387
291 Parnassus ···········-············.388
292 Palos Verdes ·····-·············389
293 Imperial ..............................390
294 East Belt ............................391
295 West Lake ........................392
296 Balder ···········-··············-··.393
297 University ..........................394
298 Turlock ············-··-·····----395

463
297
177
417
1235
H6
388
603
81
461
162
182
576
157
1073
570
580
502
552
693
528
487
196
429
449
247
361
235
319
524
573
H9
481
286
373
676
688
131
122
705
472
491
421

1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1901
1901
1901
1901
1901
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908

100
100

10.00

100
125
100
100
125
50
100

20.00
15.00

100

--

299 Apollo ···················-····-····.396
300 Rising Light ........... - .........397
301 Fraternity ·····-···············--399
302 Burli\9ame -···--···············400
303 Bay iew ·······-···-·······-···401
304 Brawley -······-····-··········-···402
305 Yerba Buena ·············-·······403
306 Glendora ............................404
307 Moneta ···········----····-··-·405
308 Burbank ········--···············-···406
309 La Mesa ···········--··-·········407
310 Sierra Madre ·····--·-··-·····408
311 Honolulu ·······-··-···-·········409
312 Charter Rock ·····-·············410
313 Perris ·····-····-····-··········-···411
314 Calexico ·······--······-········412
315 Arlington ·-·---·-······.4H
316 Silver Trowel ······-·······-···415
317 Lindsay ·-··-····-··········-·····416
318 Clovis ·····-······-··--···-···417
319 Elysian ·····-········-············418
320 Upland -···············-··········.419
321 Kerman ·····················-·······420
322 Inglewood ···········-··-········.421
323 Eagle Rock ···········-····-····.422
324 York ·················--·············423
325 Exeter ·····-···················-···.424
326 Holtville ·····--········-····----425
327 Midway ·····-···--··-······-----.426
328 Chino alley ···········-·····--427
329 San Dimas ·····-·-·············.428
330 Pittsburg ·--·--·-·-···-·-····429
331 McCloud ·····-······----·-·····430
332 Alpha ·············-··········-····---431
333 Hammonton ····-·-··--·······-·433
331 Maricopa ·····-··········-·······--434
335 Fairmount -~·-··-··--···-······435
336 Claremont ·····--········-··---.436
337 Lancaster ·····-··-·········-······437
338 Tyrian ······-·-·-··············-···439
339 Standard ·--·-·········-····--·440
340 Coronado -············-······-441
31 I Blackmer ···········-···············442
342 Schofield -········--···-····--·-443
343 Carpinteria ············-·····-···444

138
953
423
658
655
239
869
281
558
853
651
201
409
255
146
140
267
423
208
575
405
278
H9
750
502
312
233
152
454
243
179
354
102
506
106
198
409
200
574
232
342
392
1159
311
H8

1908

Lodge

No.

1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
19H
19H
19H
19H
19H

75

75

75
75

80
115
100
115
100
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100

75
75

100
65
125

75

100
100
125
125
50
100
100
100

75

75

100
100
100

75
75

100
110
105
125
125

75

175

75

50
50
100
125
50
80
150

75
75

125
100
100
50

75

50
65
65

75

50

75

50
50
100

75

115

75
75

100
150
HO
50

--

--

-----

10.00
5.00

5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

--

--

1.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

-5.00

-25.00
1.00

--

--

--

----

--

10.00

---

5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00

--

1.00

-5.00

-5.00
-25.00
--5.00
3.00

--

25.00
5.00
3.00
5.00

----

10.00
50.00
3.00

--

25.00

--

-----

--1.00

-----

-------

-5.00
--

Duee

!nit.

Paeaed

Raiaed

18
20
15
18
18
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
18
15
16
15
15
18
15
16
17
12
12
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15
15
18
18
15

H
6
4
3
25
9
22
1
2
4

9
5
4
3
25
8
25
2
2
6
8

6
9
4
4
21
11
28
3
1

16
15
15
18
H
18
18
18
12
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
15
24
15
20
15
12
15
18
15
15
12
18
16
18
16
15
15
16
15
18
15
15
12
20
15
15
15
18

5

5

5

9
10
4
8
26
3
6
10
3
9
21
9
4
4
13
6
2
7
6
6
4

2
3
6

2
6
2
H
H
1
3
4
6

6

5

10
14

6
12

6
12

6
6

7
5
4
8
5
3
28
18
4
6

6
9
3
10
8
3
26
16

7
3
4
23
4
4
6

5

9
23
8
3
4
6
3
3
3
9
13
4
6
6

5

1
9
H
1
2
3
11
6
5

5

5
9
10
3
34
16
4
10
-

1
3
1
6
1
8

5

8
3
13
10
6
6
2

5

17
10
12
1
10
3
2

5

10
17
8
6
7
12
8
8

8

3
4
25
2
3

6

3
9
19
11
4
3
9

5

3
6
9
7

4
3
3
2
13
H

-

5

5

-

2
3
1
7

11
4
7
3
9
4

5

-

4

3
15
8
12
1
10
1
1
5
9
28
10
6
9
11
13
10

5

5

5

5

-

8

2
2
1
11

-

17
8
7
3

5
5
5

4
2
4
12
6
10
1
9

-

2
7
7
25
9

5

11
13
12
7

G. L.
Per Capita

Memben
Contrib.

1565.50
1015.30
556.50
1356.iO
4236.20
1618.30
1547.60
1997.90
348.90
1500.00
556.60
682.iO
1854.70
530.80
3863.90
1905.20
1980.50
1677.30
1876.20
2301.00
1870.80
1628.50
727.80
1173.60
1505.10
819.20
1186.10
791.50
1229.20
1900.40
1919.10
535.10
1776.60
969.70
1222.70
2290.50
2319.40
42HO
431.40
2382.00
1697.50
1608.60
1374.30

490.00
210.00
H0.00
130.00
1075.00
390.00
905.00
35.00
70.00
H0.00
175.00
270.00
165.00
H0.00
810.00
H0.00
190.00
210.00
175.00
340.00
880.00
280.00
130.00
H0.00
260.00
105.00
105.00
H0.00
310.00
480.00
H0.00
235.00
210.00
175.00
35.00
310.00
515.00
35.00
70.00
130.00
385.00
210.00
175.00

1191.20
3256.90
1477.60
2117.80
2225.00
777.60
2884.80
1055.30
1887.30
3323.40
2278.30
841.30
H83.90
815.10
521.80
568.40
857.70
1395.50
715.80
1874.10
1383.80
989.50
627.40
2682.30
1741.00
1159.80
811.30
562.40
1522.10
947.60
678.10
1220.70
371.30
1790.60
378.90
680.20
1381.90
697.80
2139.20
846.10
1167.40
1310.70
3846.10
1227.70
500.20

375.00
525.00
235.00
235.00
235.00
175.00
415.00
385.00
155.00
1265.00
585.00
165.00
400.00

......

...;a
N

--

60.00
105.00
35.00
210.00
35.00
330.00
225.00
305.00
130.00
480.00
350.00
210.00
210.00
70.00
175.00
620.00
350.00
420.00
35.00
350.00
105.00
70.00
175.00
400.00
655.00
280.00
210.00
295.00
495.00
280.00
305.00

......

...;a

w

No.

Lodge

3-H Wilshire ............................+f5
345 La Puente ·················-·······+t6
346 Torrance ··-···-········-···--··+f7
347 Mount Diablo ....................+f8
348 Park ....................................449
349 Van Nuys ..........................450
350 Montebello ........................ 451
351 San Pasqual ......................452
352 Crocker ............................. .454
353 Golden West ....................455
354 Ramona ..............................457
355 Henry S. Orme..................458
356 Riverbank ..........................459
357 Mount Oso ....................... .460
358 Argonaut ............................461
359 Paul Revere ......................462
360 Morgan Hill ......................463
361 Alta Vista ···················-····464
362 Center ................................465
363 Libertas .............................. 466
364 Culver City ·····-·················467
365 Rockridge .......................... 468
366 Yorba Linda ......................469
367 Lincoln ..............................470
368 Delta ..................................471
369 Maui ..................................472
370 Blythe ................................473
371 America ·······················-····.475
372 Coachella ..........................476
373 Temblor ·-··························.477
374 Thousand Oaks ···········-···478
375 Golden Rule ·················-···479
376 Fellowship ·-·····················480
377 Mt. Davidson ·-········-·······481
378 Clarence F . Smith ........... .482
379 Bell ..................................... .483
380 Albert Pike ........................484
381 Chowchilla ........................485
382 Caledonia ·······-················.486
383 Vallejo ............................. .487
384 Patterson ..........................488
385 East Bay ............................489
386 Con:otan •..........•..........•...•.490

Membera

Charter
baued

Degree
Peea

474
259
608
468
402
1158
733
571
599
528
536
580
151
349
356
588
161
239
540
710
431
417
181
344
506
195
179
425
257
139
495
702
285
358
322
818
229
168
556
388
177
310
142

1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

125
100
110
75
100
125
100
115
75
75
100
125
75
80
115
100
75
75
80
100
100
115
100
100
100
50
75
115
75
50
75
75
75
100
115
100
100
75
100
75
75
75
75

422
315
150
645
421
529
191
651
207
259
572
333
546
596
921
507
100
314
245
462
506
544
333
449
311
199
334
368
1189
246
285
664
136
418
421
256
563
683
535
188
213
394
198
300
633

1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

75
75
75
80
100
100
80
100
100
85
75
75
125
75
125
100
50
100
75
115
125
100
100
100
50
80
115
100
215
80
100
175
100
100
100
100
125
150
80
75
70
125
100
100
100

AJl'il.
Peu

-

1.00

-

-

10.00
10.00
10.00

-

10.00
10.00
18.00

-

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
-

5.00

-

1.00
10.00

-

16.00

-

10.00
5.00
10.00

-

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raiaed

Per Capita

G.L.

Member•
Contrib.

15
18
15
16
15
15
16
15
12
12
18
15
15
18
18
12
15
18
15
15
20
18
15
18
15
16
15
18
15
15
18
12
15
21
20
15
18
12
18
16
18
15
15

7
16
29
16
10
33
18
10
9
5
9
11
2
7
2
7

8
12
19
15
7
27
12
8
10
4
4
8
2
7

2
4
4

6
17
29
16
11
33
12
11
8
5
8
9
2
6
1
6
1
1
7
14
15
4
3
9
5
1
6
4
10
1
6
17
4
7
5
18
8
2
15
8
4
4
6

1577.30
949.70
2228.70
1800.00
1398.20
3978.50
2574.60
2068.50
1966.10
1914.90
1890.10
1965.80
529.40
1238.40
1171.20
1953.70
526.40
828.70
2006.10
2434.90
1559.10
1385.80
656.10
1319.00
1673.30
717.50
724.80
1466.40
971.90
509.60
1688.80
2510.30
1022.50
1296.50
1237.10
2727.00
808.40
589.80
2000.30
1392.80
587.20
1157.50
588.60

270.00
610.00
1040.00
610.00
350.00
1215.00
655.00
375.00
315.00
175.00
340.00
385.00
70.00
245.00
70.00
295.00
60.00
105.00
315.00
575.00
575.00
130.00
305.00
410.00
210.00
70.00
365.00
245.00
540.00
105.00
175.00
970.00
140.00
280.00
175.00
470.00
210.00
165.00
525.00
340.00
70.00
140.00
140.00

16
15
16
15
18
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
18
18
16
15
15
18
15
18
18
1·8
15
15
16
18
15
18
20
18
18
18
20
18
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
21
18
20
16

5
7
5
7
9
10
4
15

8
7
7
6
8
10
3
18

9
5
5
5
7
11
4
19
2

1409.90
1048.60
492.20
2231.60
1533.40
1868.50
631.40
2250.50
685.10
960.40
1998.10
1200.00
1862.70
2108.80
3217.80
1827.90
408.00
1093.70
835.20
1775.80
1648.30
1797.00
1239.30
1466.00
1168.80
682.10
1140.30
1330.20
4203.70
906.60
919.40
2241.70
594.50
1456.10
1298.70
842.60
1855.50
2611.80
1875.70
359.40
786.60
1637.70
731.40
994.20
2097.70

225.00
270.00
175.00
330.00
340.00
350.00
140.00
525.00

1
3
9
15
15
3
8
11
6
2
9
7
14
3
5
27
4
8
5
12
6
4
15

9

-

5
3
1
8
16
15
4
1
12
9
1
9
6
8

-

4
13
4
5
6
22
7
1
12
7
7
3
5

~

~

387 Woodstock ·······---····.491
388 Garvanza ·················--···- -192
389 Atascadero ·····----·······,..493
390 Acorn ·············-··············-···494
391 Lebanoo ·········-··············-495
392 Fremont ···········-·················497
393 Stockton ·····-··············-·····498
394 Capital City ·······-·············499
395 Roosevelt ............................ 500
396 Westwood ···················-···501
397 Harbor ···········-···················502
398 Point ..................................503
399 Seaside ..............................504
400 Silver Cord ........................505
401 Mount Olive ......................506
402 El Segundo ··············-·······507
403 hoppa ..................................508
404 enjamln Franklin ·····-····.509
405 Cupertino ......................... .510
406 Stmnyvale ·····-···················511
407 Palms ····-···-····················--512
408 Cahuenga ..........................513
409 Argonne ............................514
410 Vermont Square ..............515
411 Taft ·················-·················516
412 Mount Vernon ..................517
413 La Jolla ..............................518
414 Euclid ··············-···············.519
415 Ionic ·····················-·········---520
416 Piedmont ···················-·······521
417 Sunrise •.......................... _.522
418 BellBower ···········-············.523
419 Catalina Island ..................524
420 George Washington ....... .525
421 Bay City ........................... .526
422 Covenant ·······-···················527
423 Beverly Hills ·-················.528
424 Loyalty ···························--529
425 Sun Garden .........•..............530
426 Alexandria ·················-····531
427 Smyrna --·-·····················532
428 Azure ···················-----·······533
429 Fotest Hill ........................534
430 Alexander Hamilton .........535
431 Utopia ................................537

1.00

-

10.00

-

10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00

-

1.00

-

-

5.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

-

-

25.00
5.00

-

-

-

10.00

-

10.00

-

5.00
5.00

-

-

10.00
5.00

-

-

3
8
16
8
13
16
12
2
2
12
29
9
6
4
3
6
1
4

10
20
5
1
19
4
5
7
5
5
27
11
7
6
24
4
6
5

-

1
7
15
9
11
14
8
2
1
9
30
8
4
1
6
5
3
5
8
33
5
1
27
3
3
7
3
9
21
7
5
5
19
2
8
7

-

7
10
7
13
18
8
4
1
9
22
11
3
2
5
8
3
4
6
35
3

-

21
2
2
7
3
10
28
7
7
6
16
2
IO
8

-

105.00
280.00
560.00
380.00
505.00
635.00
470.00
70.00
70.00
H5.00
1090.00
315.00
235.00
140.00
155.00
210.00
60.00
265.00
350.00
775.00
225.00
35.00
665.00
140.00
200.00
245.00
175.00
225.00
1120.00
385.00
245.00
210.00
940.00
140.00
210.00
175.00

~
......

Ul

Charter
Issued

Degree

Members

432 Ascot ..................................538
433 Belvedere ............................539
434 Queen Beach .....................540
435 Henry Mo!'Se Stephens..... .541
436 North Hollywo od ............. .542
437 Signal ·······················-······.543
438 Glendale ........................... .544
439 Jonathan ........................... .545
440 San Gabriel ..................... .546
441 Arcadia ·················-··········.547
442 Triangle ·················-········.548
443 Justice ................................549
444 Seaport ·-··························.550
445 Lakeshore ..........................551
446 Semper Virens ................. .552
447 Educator ............................554
448 White Pine ···················-··.555
449 Fairfax ..............................556
450 Hermosa ........................... 557
451 Point Firmin ..................... 558
452 Craftsmen ......................... .559
453 Plymouth ............................560
454 East San Diego..................561
455 Pyramid ·····-······················.562
456 South Park ....................... .563
457 Foothill ·······················-····.564
458 West Adams ......................565
459 James A. Garfield ............. .566
460 Searchlight ·····-····-··········.567
461 Park Boulevard ................568
462 Chateau Thierry ..............569
463 Military Service ............... .570
464 Francis K. Shattuck ........571
465 J1mes Madison ................. .572
466 illcrest ............................573
467 S. W. Hackett ................. .574
468 Fort Crook ·-··-················.575
469 El Cajon Valley ..............576
470 Sunnyside ......................... .577
471 Progressive ........................578
472 Warr~ G. Harding ........579
473 Santa Maria ·················-··.580
474 Security ······--- ---..5& 1

336
200
188
308
1053
547
806
178
591
624
337
382
219
264
345
388
99
485
434
342
365
399
883
324
403
1008
345
238
440
418
360
316
225
349
78
589
204
560
407
492
655
124
398

1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924

100
100
100
75
125
100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
125
100
90
75
100
100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100

475 Rialto ............................... ...582
476 Wasco ................................583
477 Harding ............................. .584
478 Manchester ....................... .585
479 Garden Grove ................. .586
480 Valley Forge ......................587
481 El Sereno ···················-··-.588
482 Kauai .................................589
483 Compass ............................590
484 Escalon ············-···-·········-.591
485 Tujunga ..............................592
486 All States ..........................593
487 Service ···········--···--·····--594
488 Alexander Graham BelL.595
489 Guardian ............................596
490 Pearl Harbor ....................598
491 Carmelita ·····-············-··--.599
492 Lynwood ·················-········-600
493 Grizzly ·····················-······-601
494 Melrose ..............................602
495 Dimond ········--·· ········-6 03
496 Jubilee ................................604
497 Glassell Park ....................605
498 Sojourner ..........................607
499 Granada ............................608
500 Provident ..........................6()1}
501 Elmhurst ·····-·····················610
502 Canoga ..............................611
503 Temple City ......................612
504 Three Pillars ···········-·····--613
505 Larchmont ........................614
506 Hemet ................................615
507 R. E. Dolley ......................616
508 Big Bear ............................617
509 Southland ..........................618
510 Neptune ·····-······················-619
511 Point Loma ........................620
512 The Gardens ·················-···621
513 Atwater ····-·····-·················622
SH Menorah ·····-····-·············--623
515 Fortitude ·····-···················--62.f
516 Angeles Mesa ....................625
517 Chula Vista ......................626
518 Lamanda Park ·····-·········--627
519 Truth ·······················-·········628

322
349
315
334
436
417
430
125
346
169
371
533
922
273
1000
624
367
568
122
258
273
438
408
305
797
509
282
468
553
460
396
260
255
162
369
323
719
531
379
1169
214
722
680
312
228

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1926

115
80
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50
125
100
100
75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135
100
100
100
90
100
75
100
100
90
100
75
175
75
125
125
75
115

Lodge

No.

Fees

Alfi!.
Fees

---5.00
5.00

--

--

5.00
25.00

--

--

10.00
10.00
5.00

-5.00
2.00

----5.00
-12.00
-5.00
-75.00
--

--

10.00
10.00
5.00

---5.00

10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00

--

-5.00

--

5.00
20.00
1.00

--

-10.00
--5.00
--5.00

-15.00
--

--

10.00

-5.00
1.00

----

10.00
10.00
15.00

--

10.00
5.00

- ·-

--5.00
-10.00
---

25.00
5.00

-1.00
--

10.00

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

15
20
15
16
20
18
15
18
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
15
12
18
16
12
16
15
12
20
18
16
20
18
16
15
16
18
15
18
20
15
15
20
15
15
12
15
18

3
7
3
2
26
9
15
1
17
25
5
7
4
8
7
7
2
13
10
8
3
9
28
6
6
12
5
5
7
2
7
10
2
10
1
6
6
25
5
18
11
4
5

2
5
3
1
21
10
11

2
6
2
1
19
11
8

15
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
18
15
18
18
16
18
15
15
20
18
15
20
18
20
15
20
18
18
18
16
15
15
15
18
12
20
18
16
15
18
15
16
18
18
15
16
18

H
12
11
4
24
12
12
1
17
3
9
11
22
5
20
16
4
14
4
4
3
14
8
9
10
9
6
20
6
8
5
5
6
3
12
10
11
9
2
42
6
8
17
8
12

14
8
10
2
19
8
14
5
16
1
lO
13
20
5
17
13
1
14
4
4
3
14
7
8
8
8
7
30
4
9
1
5
5
6
14
8
12
9
3
34
7
8
18
11
10

-

14
19
3
7
4
6
5
9
l
10

6
7
2
8
33
6
4
11
5
4
8
4
9
8
2
9
1
6
4
18
2
9
11
5
7

-

16
22
4
5
3
6
4
9

-

6
6
6
3
8
24
8
5
13
4
7
8
8
9
5
2
10
1
3
4
19
2
6
15
4
7

12
9
10
3
20
10
9
5
13
2
9
13
18
3
24
13

-

18
3
3
2
12
7
9
11
10
5
27
5
9
1
7
6
5
11
7
14
10
5
42
4
13
15
7
10

G. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

1140.90
843.00
637.00
1003.90
3606.30
1926.90
2765.60
585.10
2184.20
2523.60
1194.10
1298.10
765.40
922.90
1151.20
1352.30
414.80
1801.20
1564.50
1206.40
1252.70
1373.40
3305.80
1082.60
1360.10
3501.00
1157.70
864.80
1601.80
1367.00
1311.40
1084.30
748.50
1282.40
260.40
1977.20
753.90
2186.70
1437.30
1885.10
2335.20
+15.60
1331.10

105.00
295.00
180.00
70.00
935.00
315.00
700.00
35.00
620.00
1025.00
175.00
245.00
190.00
280.00
270.00
270.00
95.00
455.00
350.00
280.00
155.00
315.00
1180.00
210.00
210.00
495.00
225.00
200.00
245.00
95.00
245.00
350.00
70.00
350.00
85.00
310.00
260.00
1025.00
175.00
630.00
385.00
165.00
175.00

1096.30
1310.70
1165.50
1177.90
1555.30
1481.40
1500.90
423.50
1244.50
598.70
1372.50
1867.90
3063.00
904.00
3498.40
2228.00
1244.50
1964.00
390.50
839.30
882.50
1668.90
1450.20
1089.30
2692.70
1693.50
983.60
1636.50
1963.30
1629.10
1475.50
938.40
908.70
580.30
1289.70
1144.30
2468.40
1769.10
1285.80
4267.60
710.00
2365.40
2319.10
1134.00
767.90

410.00
445.00
410.00
140.00
890.00
420.00
420.00
35.00
620.00
105.00
450.00
410.00
820.00
175.00
725.00
585.00
140.00
550.00
140.00
190.00
130.00
550.00
305.00
315.00
375.00
315.00
220.00
785.00
235.00
305.00
200.00
225.00
260.00
105.00
470.00
375.00
495.00
315.00
70.00
1620.00
225.00
305.00
695.00
380.00
420.00

......

-...:i

°'

......

-...:i
-...:i

Lodge

No.

520 Fairview ·······················----629
521 Ingleside ............................630
522 Benevolence ......................631
523 Normal Heights ................632
524 Poinsettia ················-········633
525 Victorville ·················-·······634
526 Riverside ··········-················635
527 John Marshal ....................636
528 Palisades ···············-···········637
529 Indian Rocle ......................638
530 Compooite ..........................639
531 Veritas ................................640
532 times A . Foshay................641
533 a C umbre ........................642
534 Alta Loma ..........................643
535 Lomita ···························-···644
536 A . F. E . lrwin....................645
537 Metropolitan ......................646
538 Hawthorne ···········-···········647
539 Damascus ·········-···············648
540 Florence ............................649
541 La Brea ..............................650
542 Menlo Park ····················---651
543 C rescenta Valley ·········-··-652
544 Fontana ·········-···················653
545 Jordan ................................654
546 Monte Vista ···············-·····655
547 Citro! ·····················-··········-656
548 Lohn D . Spreckels..............657
549 ivingstOQ ·········-··············658
550 La H abra ···-······-···············659
551 Baldwin Park ···-··············-660
552 Malta ···-····-·······················661
553 Henry Knox ......................662
554 Ojai ···············-···················663
555 Kaweah ··········-·················-665
556 Reseda -----···················-666
557 Meridian ···--·············-·····667
558 San Gorgonio ....................668
559 John P. Jarman ....................669
560 Greenleaf ............................670
561 San Clemente ··-·············--.671
562 Laguna Beach _
612

Members

Charter
laaued

Degree
Fees

AJlil.
Fees

Dues

!nit.

Paosed

Raised

306
220
259
822
756
277
645
292
452
209
707
155
212
361
401
378
265
185
581
733
423
261
358
626
410
428
863
268
687
220
278
344
262
416
184
135
812
511
267
303
886
154
193

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929

100
90
100
105
100

3.00

18
20
18
15
18
18
18
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
18
15
18
15
18
15
18
20
18
16
15
15
15
15
20
18
15
12
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
15
15
16
18

4
4
9
19
8
16
23
9
3
1
28
3

2
3
10
21
9
13
H
6
4
1
26
5
5
10
5
11
8
2
18
21
7
7
11
21
7
7
17
8
8
9
17
26
7
5
8
2
55
9
6
9
27
5
3

3
3
6
22
10
7
18
7
5
I
29
6
5
9
7
9
8
4
18
25
8
7
13
19
7
10
16
10
11
10
H
20
5
4

7i
75
100
100
75
175
100
100
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
125
100
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
115
75
125
75
50
120
100
75
75
100
100
75

-

5.00
-

5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

-

-

5.00

-

5.00
5.00

-

10.00

-

-

25.00

-

-

-

1.00
5.00
25.00

-

1.00

-

4
6
13
7
3
16
24
9
6
11
31
11
6
H
10
10
10
16
29
6
8
6
2
61
11
7
11
33
5
4

-

-

-563 Far West ..........................673
564 Los Cerritos ......................674
565 Modesto ............................675
566 Willow Glen ....................676
567 Liberal Arts ......................677
568 Altadena ............................678
569 Canby Cross ......................679
570 Carmel ···-···························680
571 Dos Palos ..........................681
572 Barstow ..............................682
573 Redwood Empire ..............683
574 Trona ..................................684
575 San Marino ........................685
576 Albany ..............................686
577 Vista ..................................687
578 Oildale ................................688
579 Pohona ..............................689
580 San Carlos ........................690
581 Indian Wells Valley........691
582 Travelers ............................692
583 Palm Springs ....................693
584 San Antonio ......................694
585 Meudell ..............................695
586 Cros.sroads ···-···················696
587 Saint Ehno ........................697
588 Wm. D. Stephens..............698
589 Bixby Knolls ......................699
590 Ponderosa ..........................700
591 Santa Ynez Valley............701
592 Rosemead ..........................702
593 Westchester ......................703
594 Orinda ................................ 704
595 El Cerrito .......................... 705
596 Hunters Point Naval........706
597 Lake Tahoe ........................707
598 Seafaring --·····················-708
599 Lorenzo ...:...-··········-··-···---1<»
600 An~ --····-·············--710
601 Rim o the Wakl.......____.711
602 Los Altos ···-·······················712
603 Castro Valley ....................713
604 Blue Lakes ........................7H
605 Magnolia Park ..................715
606 Belmaot Shore ..................716
607 Wayfarer ..........................717

349
536
531
418
435
540
145
256
166
434
130
161
472
227
336
284
85
459
443
206
238
269
215
347
262
190
372

368
142
246

464
243
213
247
93
480
381
254
166
222
309
220
284
357
200

1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952

75
175
75
115
125
115
65
75
100
65
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
100
100
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80
75
75
125
100
75
100
75
100
100
100
75
100
100
100
125
125
100

10.00

-

-

10.00
10.00

-

1.00
3.00

-

10.00
1.00

-

25.00
10.00

-

5.00
10.00
5.00

-

10.00
25.00
10.00

-

-

1.00

5.00

-

-

1.00
10.00
1.00

-

-

5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

-

-

-

15
18
15
18
20
15
16
15
18
12
18
18
18
12
15
15
12
18
17
15
20
16
18
18
15
20
16
18
15
16
18
18
15
18
18
16
18
18
15
15
18
18
18
16
15

8
14
6
6
12
7

.3

3
4
21
2
2
9
5
10
7
3
15
25
2
12
14
10
8
13
12
13
18
6
14
27
10
H
4
3
36

H

6
8
8
16
6
21
11
2

6
2
55
10
5
8
32
4
2

G. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

1088.80
767.70
978.10
2909.80
2492.1 0
1121.80
2447.00
997.40
1528.70
727.70
278 1.1 0
553.90
703.00
1241.20
1375.00
1362.30
915.90
647.90
2129.80
257 1.40
1431.80
909.70
13 11.40
2292.10
1701.50
li79.00
295 1.70
955.90
2448.00
8 18.40
1549.40
1378.60
904.40
155 1.60
623.90
486.50
3107.40
1871.50
955.90
1269.60
3394.20
518.90
705.90

165.00
H0.00
315.00
790.00
280.00
585.00
855.00
340.00
155.00
35.00
1090.00
105.00
315.00
2 10.00
455.00
270.00
105.00
585.00
940.00
315.00
235.00
460.00
1335.00
410.00
210.00
515.00
50.00
400.00
385.00
585.00
1015.00
210.00
315.00
210.00
70.00
2395.00
385.00
280.00
410.00
1205.00
225.00
190.00

~

"'.J

00

~
~

5
12
6
7
17
5

-

3
2
18
1
1
6
2
8
6
3
12
25
1
12
12
11
5
16
10
10
16
8
6
24
9
9
6
1
29
17
11
8
6
16
7
18

11

2

3
13
8
6
20
7
1
4
4
14
3
1
11
1

.

9
2
8
24

-

11
10
12
7
12
11
8
12
9
8
17
12
9
5
1
27
20
11
7
8
16
9
18

1i
7

1n1.so
1902.90
1780.90
1398.iO
1506.30
1892.80
587.50
873.20
627.80
1516.90
435.00
535.30
1770.40
862.10
1134.20
1019.30
285.20
1753.10
1729.30
682.80
1003.80
952.10
1089.20
1333.50
1074.00
701.70
1357.00
1365.40
576.70
1071.50
1689.20
1029.60
769.90
830.10
406.90
2139.40
1378.30
911.20
690.80
859.60
1099.40
818.00
1064.20
1235.90
729.10

280.00
565.00
260.00
210.00
445.00
330.00
105.00
H5.00
H0.00
785.00
70.00
70.00
390.00
175.00
425.00
245.00
105.00
560.00
900.00
70.00
520.00
515.00
350.00
330.00
480.00
420.00
455.00
630.00
285.00
540.00
945.00
425.00
515.00
165.00
130.00
1385.00
540.00
235.00
330.00
330.00
560.00
235.00
870.00
470.00
70.00

~

"'.J

\0

M embera

Charter
1..ucd

D~grec

608 S;:in Lorenzo Valley.......... 718
609 Estcro ............................... .719
610 Mineral King .................... 720
611 Home ................................. .72 1
612 George E . Tutt.. ................722
6 I 3 A ca lanes .. ...................... .723
614 San Ramon Valley............ 724
615 Saint John's . ................... 725
616 Yucaipa ...... .................. .... 726
6 17 Verdugo Hlils .................. .727
618 Lakewood ......................... 728
619 Centennial .......................... 729
620 Pol;:iris ................................ 730
621 TwoRivers ...................... .731
622 San Juan ...... .................... 732
623 Golden Empire ..................733
624 Kit Carson ....................... .734
625 Oasis of Mara....................735
626 Lemon Grove .................... 736
627 Hillsborough ..................... .737
628 Arvin ............................... ...738
629 La C ;:inada ....................... .739
630 Op portunity ......................740
631 T y re ............................... .741
632 Morningside Park ........... .742
633 Oa kwood ......................... .743
634 San Lea ndro ..................... .744
635 Penins·ila ............................ 745
636 Soquel ................................716
637 Claude H. Mo rrison.......... 747
638 Highland ............ ............. .748
639 Merced .................... ....... 749
640 Mother Colony .................. 750
641 H amilton ............................ 751
642 Luther Burbank ................ 752
613 Lawndale ............................ 753
644 San Pablo ..........................751
645 Golden Bowl ......................755
6-46 Clayton Valley ................756
647 Channel ............................. .757
618 West Covina .................... 758
6i9 El Rancho ..........................759
650 Lake.Ide ............................ 760

97
155
111
503
174
185
162
235
193
10 5
249
163
164
192
218
149
189
120
426
178
123
158
216
232
193
103
186
150
156
132
215
153
167
152
192
206
123
188
259
118
198
211
114

1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956

100
75
75
165
75
75
75
75
75
100
125
125
100
100
100
100
90
115
100
100
125
115
125
115
150
100
100
80
115
75
90
105
100
75
100
75
100
75
80
115
100
JOO

651 ,_.... W'. RoDer---····761

188

1956

100

Lodge

No.

652 Coastside ............................762
653 Arabic ·········-··········------..... 763
654 Heritage ........................... .764
655 Dana R . Weller .................. 765
656 James H . Kew................... .766
657 Wm. Rhodes Hervey........767
658 Zenith ............ .................. .768
659 Palmdale ............................ 769
660 Lake C habot ......................770
661 Mission Bay ......................771
662 Avenal ............................... .772
663 Tejo n ................................. .773
664 Waikiki .............................. 771
665 San Oicguito ...................... 775
666 East \V'hittier .................... 776
667 Pinnacle ............................. .777
668 La Mirada..........................778
669 Five Points ........................ 779
670 Riviera . ............................. 780
671 Rolling Hills .................... ..78 1
672 Si lverado ............................ 71\2
673 Mo jave ............................. .783
671 Leland Stanford ................784
675 P aramo unt ....................... .785
676 Rio Linda ..........................786
677 We stminster .............. ...... 787
678 Si erra ... ..................... ... .... ... 788
679 Oak Plains ...................... 789
680 Granada H ills ....................790
681 G en. Henry H . Arnold . ... 791
682 Millbra!' ............................. .792
683 Maya ........................ ......... .793
684 Mt. Wi lson ........................794
685 American River ............... .795
686 Gold!'n Valley ..................796
687 Tila P ass ............................ 797
688 Ashland ..............................798
689 Bay Claire Vista .... ... .799
690 Rio Hondo ........................ 800
691 Kool<iu ................................ 801
692 Yucca Valley .................... 802
693 The Gabilan ......................803
694 M oreno V a lley ................ 804
695 Came llia ............................ 805

120
167
152
138
155
150
242
218
133
181
57
180
135
204
177
55
160

96

140
116
129
79
130
98
105
112
80
147
136
104
70
81
148
135
141
87

Bi
64
92
78
106
57
50
103

1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957 .
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
196 1
1961
1961

Fee.

90

100
liO
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115
100
100
175
90
100
75
100
125
125
125
125
75
100
125
100
100
75
100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
11 5
100
80
125
175
90
105
65
100

Aff il.
Fees

D urs

l njt.

Paued

Raised

1.00

16
15
20
16
18
20
18
18
15
20
18
18
15
16
15
15
12
15
20
18
20
24
15
16
15
18
20
18
15
18
16
15
15
20
15
15
15
15
18
15

G. L.
Per Capira

6
7
4
28
9
5
3
II
5
6
14
II
19
7
16
10
8
5
24
10
5
9
15
15
3
2
12
10
8
8
7
9
14
13
5
14
12
13
18

M embers
C'.onirib.

6
8
3
27
6
4
3
11
6
4
12
8
17
8
II
6
8
5
27
9
6
10
21
17
3
2
10
7
7
10
12
13
12

6
8
4
40
9
3
3
9
6
2
14
11
13
7
14
7
8
8
35
6
7
12
20
16
l
5
10
6
6
II
13
16
13
13
9
15
11
14
15
10
JJ
11

369.80
569. 50
377.30
20 14.90
794.90
657.50
575.30
946.50
672.40
358.50
963.40
681.30
660.20
750.60
887.10
654.70
682.70
449.00
1681.80
669.1 0
388.90
787.10
908.80
9 12.00
710.60
318.90
820.80
588.00
570.80
499.60
776.50
577.90
765.10
611.60
686.60
793.80
578.90
1140.40
936.70
480.iO
895.40
813.30

210.00
245.00
175.00
I 180.00
365.00
200.00
130.00
41 0.00
250.00
260.00
490.00
460.00
690.00
270.00
585.00
375.00
280.00
17500
1050.00
400.00
175 .00
375.00
525.00
585.00
130.00
70.00
420.00
350.00
380.00
280.00
305.00
315.00
315.00
455.00
175.00
600.00
420.00
480.00
630.00
175.00
690.00
490.00

--10.00
--

15.00

------

-10.00

--

I0.00
10.00
10.00

--

10.00

--

--

--

--

-10.00
50.00
10.00

- --

-1.00

---

-5.00

5.00

--

---- -

18

10.00
12.00

16
J8

5.00

12

10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

--

10.00

--

10.00
10.00

--

3.00
10.00
5 .00

--10.00
-10.00

-6.00

--

- -10.00
l.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

-5.00
7.00

--

10.00
10.00

--

----

15.00
30.00

---

--

15
15
18
16
15
15
15
15
18
15
12
18
15
15
15
15
18
20
15
15
18
15
18
18
15
16
18
15
20
12
18
18
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
20
18
16
15

5

14

1
15
10
13

14

H
6

6
12
16
6

•
M

'°117

19

9

9

16
4
9
25

IO
19
16
3
33
18
7
15
4
16
8
10
8
9
6
12
8
7

4
2
23
13
22
5
13
11
18
14
23
12
7
21
6
6

5

3
16

8
12
3
4
23
14
14
13
3
21
16
4
11
3
14
9
10
8

11

7
II

8
9
i
3
21
12
13
1
8

IO
16
12
18
8
7
12
8
4
7
4
15

fl

477.20

•

7\.7.~

13
H
15
10
4
1
20
13
15
13
3
20
M
7
10
2
14
II
8
6
14
8
10
9
11

5

4
18
14
11
4
8
11
18

H

20
10
8
IS
14
4
1
4
17

'\9\.70

780.10
578.60
633.40
557.50
977.00
1771.60
791.10
6 58 .60
989.30
197.10
983.00
690.20
687.90
935.10
190.50
712.00
104.80
525.00
509.80
48 1.40
491.70
567.00
383.40
443.50
382.60
298.IO
737.10
522.80
529.20
304.00
H8.00
590.40
74 2.50
680.30
548.10
408.90
268.20
551.60
335.40
433.80
274.1 0
281.00
584.60

260.00

'

'Ml)Jll)

365.00

590.00
340.00
585.00
140.00
465.00
1020.00
400.00
715.00
560.00
105.00
11 55.00
680.00
395.00
4 25.00 .
165.00
635.00
355.00
475.00
305.00
365.00
210.00
445.00
280.00
245.00
165.00
70.00
880.00
530.00
820.00
200.00
530.00
385.00
630.00
565.00
830.00
620.00
270 .00
860.00
285.00
285.00
175.00
105.00
c
645.00

.
~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

483

EXTIN CT LODGES, INCLU DING CONSO LIDAT IONS

1111
"'O

=

·~ '° !::: !: '° !: 00 '° I I I I I

"'
.,,

J "°!:::~'°"'~°'"° I I I I I

0--------N -- ~ 0000\.f"lloOO ':JlJ"'i\.Ol.f"I ONNlr'\0

~~ --NNNNr"')f'f")r")~r-')000

j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

u- - - - - - - - - - - - - - .
~

.

"

~

_K 0\0\0....,,..._ 0\<t"\OOO\ O-...,_O ~
S \OOOOOll"l<t "\Oll"lll"l<t"O OO'<t'...,_
v

~

-

~

~

2 Western Star. Shasta, 1850. Consolidat ed with Clinton No. 11 9, as Western Star
No . 2, Oct. 15. 1936.
4 Berryma n, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed toJenning s No. 4.
Jennings, Sacrament o. 1850. Charter surrendere . May 6. 1853.
6 Sutter. Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered. M ay 6 , 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco. 1850. Name changed to San Francisco No. 7.
Aug. 18. 1852.
San Francisco. San Francisco. Charter revoked. May 13. 1859.
8 Tuolumne. Sonora. 1850. Consolida ted with Mount Jefferson No. 107. as Tuolumne No. 8. December 1876.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolida ted with Columbia No. 28. as Sonora No. 8, Dec.
12. 1891.
T uolumne, Sonora . Consolida ted with George \Vashingto n No. 62, as Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15. 1919.
9 Marysville, Marysvi lle , 1850. Consolidated wtih Corinthian N o. 69. as Corinthian No. 9. Dec. 1874.
Corinthian. Marysville. Consolidat ed with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.
11 Williamette, Portland, Ore .. 1850. Transferre d to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 185 1.
Na shville. Nashville. Dispensati on 185 1. Charier never issued.
13 Nevada. Nevada City, 1851. Consolida ted with Quitman No. 88. and Manzanita
No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13. 19 10.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore.. 1851. Transferre d to Jurisdictio n of Oregon,
November 1851.
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. C onsolidate d with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka No.
16,
Sept. 2. 1919.
Pacilk. Valparaiso , Chili, Dispensation 1853, C harter ne ver issued.
25 Georgetow n, Georgetow n, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as Georgetown No. 25, December 1898.
26 E l Dorado, Placerville. 1853. Consolidat ed with Palmyra No. 15 1, as Palmyra
No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolida ted with Mt. Zion No. 114, as Palmyra No. 26.
Oct. 11. 1911.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidat ed with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra No. 26, Mar.
29. 1916.
Palmyra, Placervillt'. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26. Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia. Columbia. 1853. Consolida ted with T uolumne No. 8, as Tuolwnnc No.
8, Dec. 12, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs. 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
31 Mokelum ne, M okelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidat ed wit h Ca laveras No. 78,
as
Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara , Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15. 11187.
36 Butte, Bidwell. 1854. Cha rter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John's, Yreka, 185-4. Consolida ted with Siskiyou No. 105, ;is St. John's No.
37, Oct. 11. 1876.
St. John's, Y reka. Consolida ted with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
39 Yuba. Marysville. 1851. Consolida ted with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No.
9. June 16. 19 16.
17 Michigan City. Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendere d Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley. 1851. Charter surrendere d May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29. l 857.
50 Forbestow n, Porbcstow n, 1854. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Po roestown No. 50. July 19. 1926.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Cha rter surrendere d November 1864.
53 F ranklin, Sacrament o, 1854. Charte r surrendere d May 10. 1856.
Si Saint James. Jamestown . 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
59 Gravel Ranpe. Camptonv ille. 1855. Consolidi'ltcd with Forest No. 66, as G ravel
Range No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.

484

PROC:EE DINGS OP THE

EXTIN CT LODG ES, INCLU DING CONS OLIDA TIONS
62
63
64
66
67
69

71
72
73
74
75
77
78

80
82
83
85
86
88

90
91
92
93

94
96
97

98
99
10~

102

-Conti nued
Gc-orge Washin gto n. Chinese C amp, 1856. Consoli dated with Tuolum
ne No. 8,
as Tuolumne No. b, Sept. 15. 19 19.
Iowa H ill, Iowa H ill, 1 ~55. Charter surrende red Oct. 29, 1857.
'aioma, Folsom, 1855. Consolidated with Latrobe No. 189, as Natoma
No. 64,
Dc-cember !884.
Forest. A llegheny . !855. Consolid at ed with Gravel Range No.
59, as Gravel
Range No. 59, Sept. 27, !955.
Minnesota. Minneso ta . 1855. Charter surrendered M ay 11, 1859.
I ndependent Royal Arch, Marysv ille, 1855. N ame changed to Corinth
ian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
C orinthia n. Marysville. Consolid ated with Marysvi lle No. 9, as Corinthi
an No. 9,
Decembe r 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. C onsolida ted with lone No. 80,
as Ione No. 80,
Oct. 15, 1887.
E. K. Ka ne, Nevada C ity. 1855. C harter surrende red Dec. 1, 1858.
'fyro. Drytow n, 1855 . C harter surrende red Dec. 27, 1859.
Wisconsin Hill, Wiscon sin Hill. 1855. Charter surrende red Aug.
29, 185 7.
Mountai n Forest, Mo untain Forest, 1855. Charter surrende red May
1870.
Petaluma , Petalum a. 1855. Consolidated with Arctura s No. 180,
as Petalum a No.
180. December 1898.
Calaveras. San Andreas. 1855. Consolid ated with Mokelumne No.
31. as Calaveras No. 78. Oct. 13, 1883.
C alaveras. Sa n Andreas. Consolidated with Campo Seco No. 100,
a s C alaveras
N o. 78, October 1898.
Calaver as. San Andreas . Consoli dated with Mokelumne Hill No.
298, as Calaveras No. 78. Dec. 25, 19 19.
Io ne, Ione, 1856. Consolidated with Nebrask a No. 71. a.s Ione
No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
Mounta in , Don P edro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrende red May 18.
Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolid ated with Eureka No. 16, 1861.
as Eureka No.
16. Sept. 2, 1919.
Indian Diggings, Indian Digging s, 1856. Consoli dated with St.
Mark's N o. 115,
as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17. 1871.
St. Mark's, Fiddletown. Chilrter revoked June 26, 1894.
Saint Louis, Howl.,n d's Flat, 1856. Consolid ated with Gibsonv
iUe No. 158, as
Gibsonville No. 158, November 1882.
Unity, Orleans F lat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman No. 88, May
8, 1856.
Quitman , North Bloomfield. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
as Nevada N o.
13, Oct. 13. 1910.
P olar Star, Poorman 's Creek, 1856. Charter surrende red May 8, 1858.
No rth Star. Fort Jones, 1856. Consolid ated with Owen No. 108,
as North Star
N o. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolid ated with Palmyra No. 26, as
Palmyra No. 26,
Mar. 29, 191 6.
Caymus , Yountvi lle. 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name chan11ed
to St. Helena
No. 93, Oct. 10, 1867.
Mount H ermon, Elizabet htown, 1856. Charter surrende red Dec:. 24.
1859.
Ho~-ard. Yreka, 1856. Consolid ated with St. John's No. 37,
a.s Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolid ated with Gibsonv ille No.
158, as Jefferson
'No. 97, O ct. 15. 1908.
Jefferson, La Porte. C onsolidated with Forbesto wn No. 50, as Forbesto
wn No. 50,
July 19, 1926.
Quartzb urg, Ouartzb urg, 1856. Moved to Hornito s and name changed
to Hornlto s
No. 98, May 1860.
La G range, Merced, 1856. Consolid ated with Yosemite No. 133, ·
as Yosemite No.
99, O ct. 16, 1913.
C ampo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaver as
No. 78, as Calawras N o. 78, October 1898.
Manzan ita, North Sa n Juan, 1856. Consoli dated with N evada No.
13, a s Nevada
No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFO RN IA

EXTIN CT LODG ES, INCLU DING CONS OLIDA TIONS

485

-Conti nued
S iskiyou, H enley, 1856. Consolidated w ith S t. John's No. 37. as St.
John's No. 37.
O ct. 11. 1876.
Franklin, Meadow V alley. Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispens ation 11157. Charter never issued.
107 Mount Jefferson , Garrotte , 185 7. Consolidated with Tuolum
ne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.
108 Owen. Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North S tar No. 91.
as North S tar
N o. 91, O ct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27 , 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly F lat, 1857. C onsolida ted with P almyra
No. 26, as P almyra
No. 26, Oct. 11. 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddlctown, 1857. C onsolida ted with I ndian
Digging s No 85 as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
·
'
116 Windso r, Windso r, 1857. Charter surrendered M ay 18, 1861.
118 Vallecito, Vallccit o, 1858. C harter surrende red Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolida ted with W estern Star N o. 2,
as W estern Star No.
2, O ct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa H ill, 1858. Cha rter surrende red Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress , San Francisco. 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 11, 1870.
Napa City, Napa, Dispensation 1859, Charter never issued.
130 Unity, San Bernar~ in o , 1859. C harter revoked May 13,
1863.
131 Carpenter, Woods Ferry, Dispensation 1858, was chartered in 1859 as
Woodbndge l'!o. 131. the name of the location of the Lod ge having
been changed to
Woodbr idge.
132 Sincerity, Greenville. 1859. Consolidated with G reenville
No. 249, as Sincerit y
No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
133 \ osemite, Coulterville. 1859. C onsolida ted with La G range
No. 99, as Yosemite
No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 O ro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrende red June 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrende red Oct. 16.
142 Col u. sa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with E qualitv N o. 1879.
240, as Colusa No. 2AO
April l. 1882.
'
., '
Doric, North Fork, Dispens ation 186 1. Charter never issued.
118 San Luis Obispo, San Lu is O bispo, 186 1. C harter surrendered Dec.
2, 1865.
151 Palmyra , Placerville, 1862. Consolid ated with El Dorado No.
26, as Palmyra
No. 26, O ct. 16, 1902.
152 Josephu s, Brush Creek. 1862. Charter surrende red O ct. 11, 1861 .
153 Rising Sun, Brand y City, 1862. C harter surrende red Oct. 13,
154 Carson, C arson C ity, Ne vada T erritory, 1862. T ransferr 1864.
ed to Jurisdiction of
Nevada . Jan. 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel, Red Dog. 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
156 W oodland, Woodla nd, 1863. C onsolida ted with T yrian No. 284, as
Woodla nd
No. 156, Oct. 11. 191 I.
157 Washoe , Washoe City, Nevada Territor y, 1863. Transferred to
Jurisdiction of
N evada, Jan. 16, 1865.
158 Gibsonville. Gibsonville, 1863. Consolid ated with Jefferson
N o. 97, as Je fferson
No. 97. Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. C harter surrende red Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill. 1863. Consolid ated with Georget own No. 25, as
Georget own
No. 25, December 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, N evada Territor y, 1863. Transfe
rred to Jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Territor y, 1863. Transfe rred to
Jurisdiction of
Nevada. Jan. 16. 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville, Dispens ation 1864, Charter never issued.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill , Nevada Territo ry, 1864. Tran sferred to Jurisdic
tion of
Nevada , Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, A urora, N evada Territor y, 1861. Transfe rred
to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
171 Escurial , Virginia City , N evada Territor y, 1861. Transfe rred to
Jurisdiction of
Nevada , Jan. 16, 1865.
105

486

PRO C:E EDJNGS OF THE

EXTIN CT LODGES, INCLU DING CONS OLIDA TIONS -Conti

172

GRAND LODG E OF CA LIFORN IA

nued

Lander, Austin. Nevadi'l Territor y, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdict
ion of Nevada ,
Jan. 16, 11\65.
175 C lc1 ibornc. Ant ioch. 11\65. Name changed to Antioch No. 175.
Oct. 12. 1865.
176 Merced. Snelling . 11\65. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan. Prescott, Arizona TNritor y, 1866. Transfe rred
to Jurisdiction of Arizona,
Mar. 25. I 82.
180 Arctura s, Petalum.1, 1866. Consolid ated with Petaluma No.
77, as Petalum a No.
180. December 1898.
182 Meridian . Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle No.
185 Arenas. Punta Arenas. 1867. Name changed to Claiborne, O182, Oct. 16, 1919.
189 Latrobe. L<1trobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 6i, ct. JO, 1867.
as Natoma No. 64,
Oct. 17, 1884.
197 Paradise. Haywar d. 1869. Charter surrende red July 20, 1872.
Rocklin. Rocklin. Dispensation 1870. Charter never
205 Newville, Newvill e, 1870. Consolidated with Olivetissued.
No. 36i, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. I. 1917.
213 Bodega, Bcxlcga. 1871. Charter revoked O ct. 12 , 1889.
218 Pleasanton. Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic No.
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Consolidctred with Waucob a No. 218. Oct. 18, 1881.
113. as Inyo No. 221.
Jan . 10, 1945.
.
222 Granite. Rocklin, 1872. Consolid ated with Roseville No. 432,
as Roseville No.
222. May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, WaHuku. Hawaii. 1873 . Charter surrendered
17, 1877.
226 Haywar d, Half Moon Bay. 1873. Moved to San Nov.
Mateo and name changed to
San M ateo No. 226. Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrende red Oct. 15,
235 Surprise Valley. Cedarville, 1874. Consolid ated with North1897.
East No. 266, as
Surprise Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.
238 T yre, Gold Run. 1875. Charter surrendered O ct. 16, 1884.
239 Pescadcro, Pescadero. 1875. Charter surrendered Sept.
1890.
210 Equality , Colusa, 1875. Consolid ated with Colusa No.26,142.
as Colusa No. 210,
April I. 1882.
249 Greenville. Greenville. 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity
No. 132, as Sincerity
No. 132. Oct. 16. 1896.
251 Brotherh ood, Duncctn ' s Mills. 1878. Chartt'r surrende red April
19, 1888.
252 Bodie, Bcxlie, 1878. Consolidi!ted with Winned umah No.
287, as Winned umah
No. 287, Dec. 20, 19 18.
254 Reading . Redding. 1879. Consolidctted with Kennett No. 156.
as Reading No. 251.
Dec. 19, 1925.
255 Welcome. Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Ri verdale N o.
496, as Welcom e No.
255. May 18, 1943.
257 Ariz-0na, Phoenix, Arizona Territor y, 1879. Transfe rred to
Juri~lotion of Ari·
zona, March 25. 1882.
Solomon. Tombsto ne. Arizona Territor y. Dispensation 1881. Transfe
rred to Jurisdiction of Arizona , Ma rch 25, 1882.
263 Tucson, Tuc so n, Arizona Territor y. 1881. Transfe rred to Jurisdict
ion of Arizona ,
March 25, 1882.
264 Hesperian. Santa Maria, 1882. Consolid ated w ith Santa Maria
No. 310, as H esperian No. 264. Oct. 13. 1910.
266 North East. Fort Bidwell. 1882. Consolida ted with Surprise
Valley No. 235, as
Surprise Valley No. 235. July I. 1962.
270 Fall River. Burgettville. 1883. Charter revoked Oct. JO, 1895.
276 Westpo rt, W estport, 1884. Charter surrende red May 26,
277 Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated with Fowler No. 398, 1888.
as Selma No. 277, Oct.
Ii. 19 15.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodla nd No.
156, as Woodla nd
No. 156. Oct. 11. 19 11.
287 Winnedu mah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No.
252, as Winned umah
No. 287. Dec. 20, 1918.
290 Sunset, Los Angeles. 1888. Name changed to E ast Gate No.
298 Mokclumne H ill, Mokelumn<' Hill, 1890. Consolidated with 290, Oct. 12, 1899.
Calaver as No. 78, as
Calaver as No. 78, Dec. 25. 1919.
311 Huenem e, Hueneme, 1892. Consolid ated with Oxnard No.
31 I. as Oxnard No.
341. Oct. 16, 1902.

EXTIN CT LODG ES, INCLU DING CONS OLIDA TIONS -Conti
339
3-tl

487
nued

Esperanza. F ullrrton. 1900. Nctme changed to Fullerto n No. 339.
13, 1904.
Oxna rd, Oxna rd. 1901. Consolidatrd with Huen eme No. 311. as Oct.
Oxnard No. 341,
O ct. 16, 1902.
342 M anila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transfe rred to Jurisdict ion of
Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19. 1912.
350 Cavitc, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transfe rred to Jurisdiction of Philippi
ne Islands, Dec.
19. 19 12.
360 San F rancisco, San Francisco. 1904. Consolidated with
Victory No. 474, as San
Francisc o-Victor y No. 360, Nov. 29. 1961.
364 O livet, Corning , 1904. Consolida ted with Newvill e No.
205, as Olivet No. 205,
Oct. I. 1917.
370 Ami ty, San Francisco, 1905. Consoli dated with Seal
Rock No. 536, as AmityScal Rock No. 370, March 1. 1963.
37 1 Oceanic . Honolul u, Oahu, T . H.. 1905. Name changed to
Lodge le Progres de
!'Ocea nic No. 371. O ct. 12. 1916.
373 Veteran . Sawtelle. 1906. Name chctnged to West Los
Angeles No. 373, Oct. 12,
1939.
381 El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as
El Centro N o.
384. Aug. 30, 1937.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transfe rred to Jurisdiction
of Philippine Islands,
Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler. Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with S elma No. 277, as
Selma No. 277, Oct.
Ii, 1915.
4 13 Waucoba, Big Pine, l9JO. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221.
as Inyo No. 221.
Jan. 10. 1945.
Ht Arlingto n, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438.
as Arlington
No. 4H, Sept. 28. 1959.
132 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consoli dated with Granite No. 222, as
Roseville No.
222. May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Na me changed to Acacia No.
Oct. 16, 1918.
Acacia, Los Angeles. Consolidated with Arlingto n No. 414, as 438,
Arlington No. 411,
Sept. 28. 1959.
'153 Bethlehem, San Francisc o, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker
No. 154, as Crocker
No. 454 , April I, 1961.
454 Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 153,
as Crocker No.
151. April I. 1961.
456 Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consoli dated with Reading No. 254,
as Reading No. 251,
Dec. 19. 1925.
471 Victory , San Francisco. 1919. Consolidated with San Francisc
o No. 360. as San
Francisco-Victo ry No. 360. Nov. 29, 196 1.
496 Riverd ale, Riverdale. 1921. Consolidated with Welcom e No. 255.
as W elcome
N o. 255, May 18. 1943.
536 Sea l Rock, Sctn Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Amity No.
370, as Amity-S eal
Rock N o. 370. March I, 1963.
542 Lankcrshim, North Hollywocxl, 1923. Name changed to North
Hollywo od No.
542, Oct. 12. 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisc o, 1923. Consolidated with Educiltor No. 554,
as E ducator N o. 551, Feb. 16. 1940.
551 Educato r, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Golden City No.
553, as Ed uacator N o. 554. Feb. 16. 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1921. Consolid ated with Beacon of the
W est, No. 628, as
Truth No. 628, Feb. Ji, 1939.
6 11 Owensmouth, Ov.•ensmouth, 1925. Subsequent to the name
of the commun ity
being changed to Canoga Park. the name of the Lodge was changed
to Ca noga
Park No. 611, Oct. 15. 1931.
612 Workm an, Temple City. 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612,
O ct. 10,
1929.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No.
616. O ct. Ii,
1937.
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolid ated with
Truth No. 597, as
Truth No. 628, Feb. H . 1939.
664 Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolid ated with El Centro No. 384,
as E l Centro No.
384, Aug. 30. 1937.

488

.
Elected Officers Gran d Lodge of California, F. & A. M
1850

Since Its Organ izaiion . April 18. A. L. 5850
1856

Jonath• n 0. Stevens on .. G. M.
Ctlllornle No. I
lorn Jan. I. llOO
Died Feb. 14, IH4
J ohn A. Tutt.............. O. G. M.
Caleb Fenner............ S. G. W.
Suhel Woods............J. G. W.
Levi Stowell...................... G. T.
J ohn H. Gihon ................G . S.

1851
J ohn A. Tutt................._G. M.
Tehama No. l
lorn F•b. 4l 1815
Died May IT, 1900
Be nj. 0. Hyem..........D. G . M.
E. F. F. Ellis................ G. W.
8enj. S. Olds. ............J. G . W.
Townsend A. Thomas...... G. T.
Levi Stowell ...................... G . S.

s.

1852
Benjam in 0. Hyam ........ G. M.
Benicia No. 5
l orn M•rch I. 1111
Died July 12, 1193
Chas. M. Radeliff..... _D. G . M.
Addiso n Martin .. .............. G.T.
J . R. McCon nall........J . G . W .
Addiso n Martin ................ G. T.
Levi Stowall........•..... - ......G. S.

1853
Charles M. Raddiff...... G. M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Fob. 5, 1811
Died Dec. 11. II.,
T. A. Thomas..............O. G. M.
Jno. R. Crende ll ........S. G. W.
Rich.,rd F. Knott........J. G. W.
Addison Martin............ .. G. T.
Lovi Stowall......................G. S.

1854
William H. Howard ...... G. M.
San Jose No. 10
Born Au9. 29~ 1110
Died Sept. 11. llU
Nath. G. C urtis........ D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole ..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. W ood ..........J . G. W.
Addiso n Martin .............. G . T.
Levi Stowell...................... G. S.

1855
William H. Howard ...... G. M.
T. A. Thomas...- ......... D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ......$. G. W .
Sem. A. Merriff...____J. G. W.
Addiso n Martin ....._____ &. T.
Levi Stowell - - - • · S.

1863

William H . Howard __.... G . M. William C. Belcher........ G. M
John A. Raymon d .... O. G. M. Gil. 8. Cloibor ne...... D. G. M:
Lemuel Lyon ..... _........S. G . W. Louis Cohn ............ .... S. G. W ,
Peter W. Rendle ......J. G. W. Wm. A. Oovies ..........J . G . W.
Addiso n Mertin.•.....--... G. T. James Loldley .................. G, T.
Alex G . AbelL................. G. S.
Alex G. Abell..............- .. G. S.

1857

Nathan iel G . Curtls ......G. M.
Wuhln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. l.l 1125
Di.d July 1,, 1m
Charles Marsh ............ O. G. M.
A"ro n D. ParL..........S. G. W.
John B. Pope ..............J . G. W.
Addiso n Martin .............. G . T.
Alei G. Abell _______..,_ _(;, S.

1858

Nathan iel G . Curtis......G. M.
P. W . Shephe ard ...... 0 . G . M.
Wm. McCorm ick. ..... S. G. W.
Jas. W. Bidnell ........ J . G . W .
Addiso n Mertin .............. G. T.
Alei G. Abell..._____ .......... G. S.

1859
N .. thaniel G . Curtis ..... G. M.
P. W. Shephe ard ...___D. G. M.
Ebenezer Lene.......... S. G. W.
Thos. P. Hewley........ J . G. W.
Addiso n Martin ............._G . T.
Alu G . Abell .. --.............. G. S.

1860

Nathan iel G . Curtis...... G. M.
P. W. Shephe ard ...... O. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........ S. G . W.
Alvinze Haywa rd....._J. G. W.
Addiso n Martin --- -----·····G . T.
Alex G. Abell.. __.............. G. S.

1861
James l. English ............ G. M.
S•crarnonto No. 40
Born June!&. 1813
Died May n, 1889
Wm. C. Belcher........ O. G. M.
John W. Harvill e...... S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Laidley ............ .... G . T.
Alex G. Abell ..................G . S.

1862

William C. 8elcher........ G. M.
Corinthian No. "
Born Dec. 12, 11120
Died Sept. I, 1195
Gil. 8. Cleibor ne...... O. G. M.
J ohn W. Harvlll e ......S. G. W.
John 8. Hewson........J. G. W.
James Laldley ...........- •.... G. T.
Alex G. Abell_ ·- - · ·· · S.

189

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

PRO CEEDINGS OF THE

1864
William C. 8elcher........ G. M.
Gil. 8. Cloibo rn•--.... 0. G. M.
Wm. A. OavieL ........ S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus..............J. G. W.
Jomes Laidley............ ...... G. T.
Alex G. Aball.................. G. S

1865
Gilbert B. Claiborr>e .. .... G. M.
San Joaquin Ho. 19
Born 1821
Died Dec. I, 1908
Wrr.. A. Devies.......... D. G . M.
Isaac S. Titus............ .. S. G. W .
Henry H . Hertley ......J. G . W,
Jemes Loidley............ ...... G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..................G. S.

1868
Gilbert B. Claibor ne ......G. M.
Henry H. Hartley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H. Peterso n ......S. G , W .
Thomes BecL ...........J. G. W.
James Laidley .................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

1867
William A. Davles.. ........G. M.
Columbl• Ho. 21
Born Feb. 5, 1127
Died June 20, 1916
Henry H. Hartley.... D. G. M.
Thomas 8ecL...........S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Pratt ......J. G . W .
J.,mes A. Laidley ............ G. T.
Alex G. Abell... ............... G. S.

1668
Charles Marsh................ G. M.
Nevada No. U
Born Dec. 6 1821
Died Aprll 2a, 187'
Theo. G. Cochi lL...S. G. W.
Leonida s E. Pratt......D. G. M.
Fredl. F. Berss.. - ....J . G. W.
James Leldley.................. G, T.
Ale1 G. Ab..!l.. ______.. 6. S.

1689

1876

1883

Hines........&. M.
Leonide s E. Pratt.......... G. M. John M. Browne ............ G. M. J onathan 0. ntur• No. 214
San luonevo
Mountain Shade No. II
Ches. L. Wiggin ...... 0. G. M.
Born Jan. I , 1825
Born Au9. 29, 1831
Wm. S. Wells ............ S. G. W .
Diod Dec. 30. 118'
Died Oct. 25, 1816
W.
G.
J.
....
reigue
C
W.
Solon
Wiley J . Tinnin........ D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titvs.............. D. G. M.
............. .....G. T. Edm. C. Atkinson......S. G . W.
John S. Werd ............ S. G . W. James leidley
......... _... .. G. S. Hiram N. Rucler......J . G. W.
Rlcherd Dele ..............J. G. W . Alex G. Abell.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
.>emes le idley.............- .... G. T.
1877
Alex G. Abell.. ............... G. S.
Alex G. Abell ............ ...... G. S.
John M. Browne...•........ G. M.
1870
Ches. l. Wiggin •..... D. G. M.
1884
Leonfda s E. Pratt............G . M. Wm. W . Traylor........S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus............D. G. M. Wm, 1-'1 . C rene ..........J. G. W, Jonatho n 0. Hines....... _G. M.
Cha1. L W iggin........ $. G . W. Moses Heller ·-····- ········G• T. Wiloy J . Tinnin.....•.. D. G. M.
Benj. H. Freernan_ .....J. G. W. Aler G. Abel l.. ................ G. S. Edm. C. At kinson ......$. G . W .
Hiram N. Ruckor......J. G . W.
James Laidley.....- .......... G. T.
Mo~es Heller ............ ......G . T.
1878
Alex G. Abe!l....... ........... G. S.
Alex G. Abell..............._.. G. S.
John M. Browne ............G . M.
1871
M.
G.
D.
........
Traylor
W.
Wm.
Leonide s E. Pratt..........G. M.
1885
H. Crane..........S. G. W .
Chas. l. W iggin ........D. G. M. Wm.
C. Broder........J. G. W. W iley J , Tlnnln ........•.....G. M.
Ben. H . Freeme n...... S. G. W. Robt.
Heller .................. G. T.
Trinity No. 27
Geo. C. Perkins ........J. G. W. Moses
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.
James Leidley........- ..- ..G. T.
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Alex G. Abell............... ...G. S.
Edm. C. AHinson ...... D. G. M.
1879
Hirem N. Rud er...... S. G . W.
1872
William W. Traylor........ G. M. Henry H. Knapp ......J. G . W.
Cellfornla No. I
Leonide s E. Pratt..........G. M.
Nathan W Spauldi ng ....G. T.
Born March 17, 1m
Benj. H . Freeman....•. D. G . M.
Died Ja n. 18, 1111
Alex G. Abell............ ... _..G , S.
Geo. C. Perkins ..._$. G. W. Samuel C . Denson .... D. G. M .
John M. Browne.....•..J. G. W. Clay W. Taylor........S. G. W.
1886
James Leidley.................. G. T. John Q . Adems........J . G. W .
A lex G. Abell..................G. S. Moses Heller .................. G. T. Edmund C. Atkinson .... G . M.
Sacramento No. 40
Alex G. Abell................. G. S.
1873
Born Nov. 17. 18J7
Died March :ZO, I" I
lsHc S. Titus................G . M.
1880
S.n Joaquin No. 19
Hirem N. Rucker...... D. G . M.
Born Od. 14, 1827
Samuel C. Denson ........ G. M . Morris M. Estee ........S. G . W.
Died April 22, 1192 •
Union No. H
Alv"h R. Conklin ......J . G . W,
Born Sept. 23, 113'
Geo. C. Perlins........ O. G. M.
Nathan W Spauld ing .... G. T.
Died July 26, 1917
Jno. M. Browne........$. G. W.
D. G. M. Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S.
Chu. E. Mitchel l ......J. G. W. Cloy W. Taylor........
........S. G. W.
Jemes Leidley......••....- ... G. T. John Q. Adams
.. J. G. W.
1887
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S. 0. W. Hollenb ecL
Moses Heller ............. ..... G. T. Hirem N. Rucker ...•...... &. M.
S.
G.
......
1874
Alex G. Abell ............
le 6ran90 No. '9
Born Stpt. 6, 1844
George C. Perlins........G . M.
Died Doc. IJ, 1905
IOJ
No.
Orovllle
1881
Born Au9. 21, 1839
M. Morris M. Estee ........ D. G . M.
&.
..
............
Taylor
W,
Clay
1923
26.
Died Fob.
Alvah R. Conllin ...... S. G . W
Western Star No. 2
John M. Browne........D. G. M.
Sorn Sept. 10 1144
Wm . JoJ.nsto n..........J . G. W.
.
W
.
G
$.
..........
W m. 8. Parker
Died Mey I , 18'7
Nathan W Spauld ing .... G. T.
M.
G.
O.
W.
.
........
G
.
J
John Q. Adams
Wiley J. Tinnin.........
Alex G. AbelL.............. ... G. S.
W.
G.
S.
T.
....
G.
.
Jonetha n D. Hines
James Leidley.- ............
W.
S.
Thos. J. 8owers..........J . G.
Alex G. Abell........ .......... G.
1888
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
1875
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S. Morris M . Estee............ G. M.
John M. Browne............ G. M.
Ca llfornla No. I
N••al No. 87
l orn Nov. 21, 1814
1882
Born May 10, IUI
Died Oct. 7, 1903
M.
G.
.
.............
Taylor
W.
Cloy
1"4
7,
Doc.
Died
D. G. M. Alveh R. Co nklin ...... D. G. M.
....
Hines
D.
an
Jonath
M.
G.
-D.
.....
iggin
W
l.
Chu.
W. William J ohnston......S. S. W.
Wiley J . Tinnin ........... S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G.
W. Marc. D. BorucL ......J . G. W.
G.
J
.......
_
..
Hinds
George
W.
G.
.
J
.......
Jacob H. NefL
_.. G. T.
T. Nethan W Spauldi_ng_____
G.
......
............
Heller
T.
Moses
G.
......
G, S.
Jarnes lAid ley............
Ale1 G. Abelf _
S.
G.
..
............
S.
AbelL
&,
G.
___
.
Alex
Alex G . Abell............

490

1111

1895

1901

Morris M, &tH--···-G. M.
Wiiiiam Johnston _.D. G . M.
Ch ... R. Gritman...... S. G. W.
Hanry S. Orme ........J. G. W.
Nethan W Spaulding ....G . T.
AIH G. Abell ..•---·- .. G . S.

Edward M. Preston __ ___ G. M.
Nevada No. 13
lorn May 4, IMI
Died April 24, 1'°3
Wm. T. Luc:as............ D. G . M.
Thomas FlinL ..._ ...S. G . W .
F. M. Angellotti ........J . G . W .
Edward Coleman....- ...... G . T.
George Johnson ............G. S.

William S. Walla_ •.- ...& . M.
Martlnu No. 41
lorn June 24, 1161
Died Jan. 23, ltlt
O. S. Hendenon....... D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting ._S. G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter __ J . G. W.
Edward Coleman........._ G, T.
G eorge Johnson - - ·····G . S.
Wm. H. Edward1 ....._ .... G. L

1890

Alveh R. Con~lin ............G. M.
1896
Inyo No. 221
William T. Lucas... ......... G . M.
Born 1835
Guadalupe No. 237
Died Oct. I, 1m
lorn March 19, 1850
W illiam Johnston ......O. G. M.
Died March 21, 1'31
Chas. R. Gritman .... S. G. W, Thomas Flint............. D. G. M .
Henry S. Orme........J. G . W, F. M. Angellotti........S. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ... .G. T. Chas. L. Patton ........ J . G. W.
George Johnson ...- ....... G . S. Edward Coleman............ G . T.
George Johnson ............. G S.

1891

1897

William Johnston .......... G. M,
Thomes Flint .................. G. M.
franklln No . 141
Tuu No. 4'
Born June 2, 1'25
lorn May It, 1958
Died Nov. 14, IM
Died Nov. 19, 1'16
Chu R. Gritman ......D. G . M. F. M. AngellottL. ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme ........ S. G . W. Chas L. Patton ______S. G . W .
Jas. B. Stevens.- ...... J . G . W . Jas. A. Foshay..........J. G. W .
Nathan W Spaulding .... G . T.
Edward Coleman ......._ ..G. T.
George Johnson ............ G . S. George J ohnson ............G. ) .

1908

1903
Ch1rles W. Nutting...•.. G. M.
Evenln9 Star No. 116
l orn Oc:t. 3 lllSl
Died Sept. JO, ltl7
Geo. W. Hunter ......0. G. M.
Motely H. Flint ........ S. G. W .
Edw. H . Hart......._ ...J. G. W.
Edward Colemon............G . T.
George J ohnson ............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwords ..........•. G. L

1898

1904
George W. Hunter......G. M.
Humboldt Ho. 7'
Born 1954
Died Oct. 14, 1921
Motley H . Flint.._ ... D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart............ S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine .... .....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ............ G . T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............. G. L

1894
James B. Stevens .......... G. M.
Yount No. 12
l orn March 271 1141
Died Dec. 6 , 1,19
Ed .... M. Predon ...... D. G. M.
Th omas Flint ..............J. G. W.
Wm. T. Luc:aa ............S. G . W.
Edward Colemen ............ G. T.
&eor9• Johnso" ... - ....... 6. S.

1899

1905

Charles L. Petton .......... G. M.
Callfornla Ho. I
lorn 1165
Died Aprll 11, Im
Jas. A. Foshay.......... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells..._ _ _ G. W.
0 . S. Hendenon ......J. G . W .
Edward Colaman ...... _.... G. T.
George Johnson ............G . S.

Motley H. Flint .............. G . M.
Eu! Gate Ho. 2'0
lorn Feb. It, 1161
DI.cl July 14, ltlO
Edward H. Hart........ D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine........ S. G. W.
Reuben H . Lloyd ......J . G. W.
Edward C olemen ............ G . T.
George J ohnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H, Edwards ........_.G, L

1900
James A . Foshay ............ G . M.
So. California Ho. l7I
lorn Nov. 23, 11156
Died Jan. 14, 1'14
Wm. S. WellL-_ ......D. G. M.
0. S. Handenon ...... S. G . W.
Chas. W. Nutting ....J. G . W.
Edward Coleman .....- ... G. T.
George Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards- ........6 . L

1919
Charles Albert Adams..G. M.
Elrcelslor No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1167
Died May I , 1962
Geo. F. Rodden ........ O. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke._ __.S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman ......J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer..... - .G. T.
John Whicher...•.............. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker........ _ .. G. L.

Oscar Lawler
..
G . M.
E.,t Gate No. HO
lorn Aprll 2, 1171
W. Frank Pierc:e ........D. G . M.
Dana R. Weller ........S. G. W.
A. J . Monroe ............J. G . W.
Edward Coleman ............G, T.
John Wh icher ................. .G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G, L

Frank M. Angellottl ...... G. M .
Marin No. 191
lorn Sept. 4, 1941
Died May 23, 1n2
Chas. L. Patton ........ D. G . M.
Jes. A. Foshay .......... S. G . W.
Wm. S. Wells............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman... ......... G. T.
George Johnson .. _ ....... G. S.

s.

1913
John D. Murphey..........G. M.
Alta No. 333
lorn July 7, 190
Died Sept. 15, 1'45
Benj. F. Bledsoe ........ D. G . M.
Alb. G. Burnett........ S. G . W .
F. V. Keesling ........._ J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G . T.
J ohn Whic:her .................. G . S.
Thomas J. Boker.............. G. L

1902

1892

Henry S. Orme.......- ..... G. M.
So. C. llfornl• No. 271
lorn March 25 1137
Died Nov. 2,, \912
Ju. B. Stavena.......... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston ..•___S. G. W.
Wm. T. Luc:as............J. G. W .
Edward Coloman ............ G. T.
George J ohnson ____, .... G. S.

1907
George M. Perlne ........ G. M.
Pacific No. IM
lorn 1152
Died Oct. 6, 1'1J
Reuben H . Lloyd ...... D. G . M.
01c:ar Lewler............ S. G . W .
W. Frank Pierce........J . G . W.
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
George Johnson ............ G . S.
Thomu J . Baker.............. G. L

Orrin S. Hender1on ...... G. M.
Mornln9 Siar No. 61
Born June !i.116J
Died June o, I "40
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M.
Geo. W. Hunter..•... S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint ........J. G. W,
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
Geor9e Johnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards...- .......G. L

Charles R. Gritman ......G . M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec . 10, llll
Died May 14, 18'4
Henry S. Orme ........ O. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens.......... S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston ........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G . T.
George Johnson ...•........ G . S.

1893

491

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1906

Edward H. Hart ___ .... G. M.
live Oak No. '1
Born 1158
Died Sept. 26, ltl7
Geo. M. Perlne........ D. 6 . M.
Reuben H . Lloyd ..... S. G. W .
Oscar Lawler ............J. G. W.
Edward Coleman ....... -•..G. T.
Geor9• J ohnson ..._.......G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards._._.G. L

1909
W. Frank Pierce............G . M.
Oakland No. tH
lorn Jan. 16, 1155
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller ...... D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe............S. G . W.
Wm . P. Filmer ..........J . G . W .
Edward Coleman............ G . T.
John Whic:her .................. G . S.
Thomas J. Beker.............. G, L

1910
Dano R. Weller.............. G . M.
So. Callfornla No. 278
lorn Much 24, 1174
Died Jan. t , 1'47
A. J . Monro•·-······· D. G . M.
Wm. P. Filmer.......... S. •G. W.
J . D. Murphey ..........J . G. W.
Edward Coleman ........... .G. T.
John Whic:her .................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G. L.

1911
Alonzo J . Monroe ... ...... G . M.
Humboldt No. 7t
l orn Oct. lt1 IISi
Died Juno 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer.......... D. G . M.
J . D. Murphey...- ... S. G . W .
Benj. F. Bledsoe ........J. G. W,
Edward Colemen ............G , T.
John Whlcher.................. G . S.
Th omas J . Baker.............. G. L

1912
Wm. P. Filmer .............. G. M.
Kln9 Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, 1166
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey .... D. G . M.
Be,,j. F. Bledsoe ....... S. G . W.
Alb. G . Burnett ........J . G . W,
Edward Coleman ............ G. T.
John Whlc:her....... ........... G. S.
Thomes J, laker..__ _ .:;, L

191'

1920

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............G. M .
San Bernardino No. )48
Born Feb. I , 1174
Died Oct. 30, 1n1
Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
F. V. Keesling ............ $. G. W .
W. Rh. Hervey.......... J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ..........G. T.
John Whic:her.................. G . S.
Thomas J. Baker .............. G. L.

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin Ho. 1'I
lorn Dec.24, 1947
Died March I, 1"4
Sam. E. Burke ............ D. G. M.
Wm. A . Sherman ......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites........ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Wh icher..................G. S.
Thomas J . Baker... .......... G. L.

1915

1921

Albert G. Burnett .......... G. W.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April ' · 1154
Died Au9. 15, 19ll
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G . M.
Wm. Rh. Harvey ...... $. G. W.
Bradford Websfer....J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer......... G . T.
J o hn Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomes J . Baker.............. G . L.

Samuel E. Burke ............ G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1170
Died Feb. 14, 1961
Wm. A . Sherman .... .. D. G . M.
Arthur S. Crites........ S. G. W.
David J . Rease ......J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher.... ..............G . S.
Thomas J. Bahr.............. G. L

1916

1922

Francis V. Keesling...... G . M.
California No. I
Born F•b. 17, lln
Died Sept. 25, 1963
Wm. Rh . Hervey.... .. D. G . M .
Bradford Webster ....$. G. W.
Charles A. Adams....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.. ........ G. T.
J ohn Whic:her ......... ......... G . S.
Thom111 J . Baker.............. G. L.

William A. Sherman .... G. M.
PrHldlo No. 354
l orn Sept. 17, 1990
Died Feb. It, 1"40
Arthur S. Crites........ D. G. M.
David J. RHse .......... S. G . W.
Alb. E. Boynfon ....... .J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Wh ic:her......... .........G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G. L.

1917
Wm. Rhodes Hervey.. G . M.
Penlalpha No. 202
Born March 26. 11711
Died Feb. I, 1953
Bradford Webster ... D. G. M.
Charles A . Adams ....S. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ........ J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer........ G . T.
J o hn Whic:her .................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baker ........ . .... G. L.

1918
Bradford Webster ........ G. M.
llvo Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, ""
Died June 4, 1"41
Charles A. Adams .... D. G . M.
Geo. F. Rodden ........ S. G. W .
Sam. E. Burke ............ J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Beker............... G. L.

1923

Arthur S. Crites ............. G. M.
lakersfleld No. 224
Born Feb. 4, 117t
Died Apr. 29, 1957
David J . Roese .......... D. G. M.
Alb. E. Boynton ........ S. G. W.
Geo. L Jones..._ ......J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J. BakeL ...........G. L

1924
David J . RHse.............. G. M.
Sen Buen.venture No. 214
l orn Au9. 22, 1171
Died Nov. ' · ltl4
Alb. E. Boynton....._ D. G. M.
G eo. L Jones............ S. G . W.
Will H. Fisc:her..........J . 6. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....•...•G. T.
John Whicher..- ............. G. S.
Thom" J, leker ...... - ......G. L

492

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

1925

1931

1937

1943

Albert E. loynton .... ...... G. M.
Orovlll• No.IOI
Born Oct. 9, 1171
Died Feb. 22, 1945
Geo. L JoneL.......... D. G. M.
W ill H. Fischer.......... S. G. W.
Gus. A. Hutaff__ .....J . G . W .
Wm. Perker Film•r.......... G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.............. G. L.

Robt. I . Gaylord ...•...... G. M.
Oakland No. IH
Sorn No•. 24, 1176
Died Au9. 4, 1%3
Frank W . Mixter...... D. G. M.
James B. G ist... .........S. G. W,
W m. A. Sitton..........J . G. W .
W m. Parker Filmer ..... - ...G. T.
John Whicher................ .. G. S.
Thom11 J. Baker..............G. l.

Ja mes T. Fraser ..............G. M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Au9 . 21, 11&9
Died June :U., 1953
Leon 0 . Whitsell ...... D. G . M
William H. Wute.. .. S. G .
William B. Ogden ....J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer- ...... - G. T
J ohn Whic her ..................G .
Leslie E. Wood ....... - .......G. L.

C laude H. Morrison ...... G. M.
Sen Dlt90 No. 35
l orn July 10 1117
Died Nov. i, 1953
G ilbert C. DeForest.. D. G. M.
Lawrence C . Kelley..S. G . W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G . W .
Francis V. Keesling-.•..•..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.............. G. S.
Chester H . W erlow........G . l.

1928
George l. Jones............G. M.
Madison No. 2J
Born May II , 1171
Di•d June 22, 1956
Will H . Fischer ........ D. G. M.
Gus. A. Hut aff..........S. G. W.
C . M. Wollenberg ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher..... - ........... G. S.
Thomas J . Baker...........- . G. L.

1927
Will H. Fischer.............. G. M.
Wilshlre No. 445
Born Sept. II, 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1'53
Gus. A. HutefL ...... .D. G . M.
C. M. Wollenberg .... S. G . W .
J . S. Ross........ _..........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G . T.
John W hicher..................G. S.
Thom as J. Baker.............. G. l.

1928
Gustav A. Huteff.......... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 'lt7
Born Oct. 5, Im
Died Oct. 17, 1'33
C . M. Wollenber9....D. G. M.

J . S. Ron .................. S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ......J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Wh ich er.................. G. S.
fhomes J. Baker.........- ... G. l.

1929
C. M. Wollenberg ........G. M .
Sl1rr Kln9 No. 3-44
Born M1rch II 1m
Died Oct. 22. hn
John S. Rou ..... ......... D. G. M.
Robt. B. Gaylord ...... S. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher ....... - .........G . S.
Thomas J . Baker .............. G. L.

1932

Frank W . Mixt1r............ G . M.
Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. lO, 1173
Died May 22, IW
James B. Gist............ D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton .......... S. G. W.
R. V, Whiting ............ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.•................ G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G . L.

1933
J ames B. Gist... ............. G. M.
Pentelph• No. 202
Born Au9. I, 1161
Dltd April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting .. - ........ D. G . M .
Earl Warren .............. S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller...._ ..J . G . W .
w~ . Parker Filmer ........ G . T.
J ohn Whicher..........- ...... G. S.
Thomas J. Baker ............ ..G . l.

1934
Randolph V. Whiting G . M.
l(ln9 Solomon No. 2'0
Born Nov. lO, 1170
Died Feb. 4, 1952
Earl W arren ............. D. G. M.
Rollie W. Miller........ S. G. W.
James T. Fraser........J . G. W.
Wm. Park e r Fil"'er.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher................. G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. l.

w:
s:

19U

1950

G ilbert C . DeForest.._.. G . M.
R11dln9 No. 254
lorn Sept. II, 1119
Died Jan. 25, 1'52
Lawrenc e C. Kelley .. D. G . M.
Arth ur W. l rouillet..S. G . W.
J ohn R. Moore ..........J . G. W.
Francis V. K.. sllng ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ..._ ______ G. S.
Chester H. Werlow........ G . l.

1956

Arthur Paulsen - - ... G. M.
Trinity No. 11
lorn May 4, lno
Louis C . DrapHu--.D. G. M.
Arihur M. Warren•...S. G . W.
Fronk Ha rwell, Jr.....J . G. W .
Francis V. K. .sling ........ G. T.
Lloyd E. Wllson.............. G . S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L

L Hpa rold Anderson ........G .M.

a 1o Alto No. 34'
Born March 29 1900
Leo E. Anderso~ ...... D.G .M.
Phil N. Myors ...........S.G.W.
. .. .... J.G.W .
J oe l. Shell ..
..... G .T.
Edwa rd H. Siems
Lllboyd E. Wilson ......... G .S.
E erf W. Davis....
. . ... G.L.

1945

1951

1957

1939
W illiam B. Ogden .....--.G . M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born Au9. 26, 1876
Dltd Sept. 12, 1'154
Lloyd E. Wilson. -..-D. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ........ S. G . W .
Leslie E. W ood ... - ...J . G. W.
W m. Pa rker Filmer........ - G. T.
John Whicher........-......... G. S.
Welter Leonard .. ............G . L

1940
Llo yd E. Wilson ............. G . M.
ln9loslde No. '311
Born Au9. 16, 18~
Died Nov. 2, 1961
Frank M. Smith .......... O. G . M.
Leslie E. Wood........ S. G . W .
Claude H. Morrison..J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher..................G. S.
W alter Leonard ..............G . L

1941
Frank M. Smith .... .. . .. . G. M.
Eall Galt No. 2'0
Born April I, 18'4
Dltd April 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood .......... D. G. M.
Claude H. Morrison .. S. G . W .
G. C. DeForest........J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson ..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow ........ G. L.

1936
Rollie W . Miller... ..... ... G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1893
Died July 18, 1960
James T. Fraser........ D. G . M.
Leon 0 . Whitsell ..... S. G . W.
William H. Waste ....J . G. W.
Wm. Pa rker Filmer ......... G. T.
John Whicher ..................G . S,
Leslie E. Wood. -·····- ····&• L

Edgar V. Stewa rt, Jr•. ... G.M.
loyalty No. 529
Born Oct. l , 1901
L. Harold Anderson .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ........ S.G.W .
Ph il N. Myers....... ......J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems............ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....... ......... G .S.
Elbert W. Davis . ............ G.L.

1938

1935

1930

1955

Ellsworth Meyer ..... ... .... G. M.
liberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905
Arthur Pa ulsen .......... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau ...... S. G . W .
Arthur M. Werren ....J . G. W.
Francis V. K.. sling........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Wa lter H. E. von Kon sky G. L.

Leon 0. W hitsell.......... G. M
•
Oron9e &rove No. 2'l
Sorn July 10, 1176
Willia m H . Waste-... 0. G . M.
William B. Ogden .... S. G . W .
Lloyd E. Wilson ______J. G . W,
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G . T.
J ohn Whicher................ _G, S.
Leslie E. Wood ........ _...... G. L

Earl Warren ................... G. M.
Sequoia No. 34'
Born March 19, 18'1
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser ....... S. G. W.
Leon 0 . Whitsell ...... J. G. W.
Wm. Pa rker Filmer......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher.......... ....... G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ................ G. L

J ohn Stewart Ross ........ G. M.
El Centro No, 384
Born May 21l 187t
Dl•d Au9. l , 1952
Robt. B. G aylord ...... D. G. M.
Frank W . Mixter ........ S. G . W.
James B. Gist... .........J . G. W.
W m. Pa rker Film er ......_ .. G. T.
John Whicher ..·-··-·········G· S.
Thomet J. 81ker....._ . ___ E;, L

493

1949

1942
Leslie E. W ood .............. G . M.
Provident No. '°'
Born April 2, 1897
Claud e H . Mo rrison .. D. G. M.
Gilbarl C . De Forost..S. G . W.
Lawrence C . Kolley..J . G . W.
Wm. Parkor Filmer..._ .. ...G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
Chester H . Warlow ........& . L

Lawrence C . Kelley...... G. M. Louis C . Drepeau .....___G. M. Leo E. Anderson ............ G .:.4.
Ptnl1lph• No. 202
Polnstltla No. 63]
Hollywood No. 355
Born J uly 23 118'
lorn Au9. JO, 1185
Born Februuy 20 1902
Died Oct. 2~. IMS
' .. D.G.M.
N• Myers... .......
1
P1t·1
Arthur M. Werren.. D. G. M J
Arthur W. llrouillet...... G. M. Frank Ha,.,.,ell, Jr..... S. G. W
..... S.G .W
....
....
Shell
L
oe
Pork No. 449
Henry C. Clausen....J . G. W . A lfred F. Bresl.,ue r .....J.G.w:
Born Jtn. 21 1114
Ditd Sept. i'1, 1953
Francis V. Keesling ........ G. T. Edward H. Sie ms. ......... G.T.
John R. Moore.. _.... S. G . W . Lloyd E. Wilson ............. G. S. Lloyd E. W ilson.... . ....... G.S.
Fr.ncis V, K.. sling.._ .... G. T. Wolter H. E. von Ko nsky G. L. Elbert W. Davis ......... .... G.L.
Uoyd E. Wilson .......... - .G . S,
1952
Chester H . W erlow ___.. G. L
1958
A rthur M. Warren........G. M
1946
. G .M
......
Myer~
N.
Phil
•
Mt, Davidson No. 481
·
McCloud l odot No. 430
John It Moor• -····-·-··· G . M.
lorn December 27 ltOI
1897
12
ry
Janu•
orn,
l
Morldlt n No. 6'7
Frenk Harwell, Jr...• . D. G. M. Joe L. Shell . .... '. ..... D.G.M.
lorn Sept. 1191
Chester H. Werlow.. D: G. M. Henry C. Clausen.. .S. G. W. Alfred F. Breslauer ... S.G .W.
Edward H. Siems ......S. G . W . Edgar V. Stewa rt, Jr. J. G. W. Guy B. Mize .. . .. ..J .G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer..- ....J. G . W. Francis V. Keesling ........G. T. Edward H. S'o ""s ..... .... G .T.
G .S.
Fr•ncis V. K. .sling ...- ... G. T. Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G . S. Lloyd E. Wilson ... .
Lloyd E. W ilson- ........... G. S. Elbert W. Davls...... --.... G . l. Elbert W. Davis.... _ ... G .L.
Arthur M. W e rren ___ __. ___ G, L.

1953

1947
Chester H . Werlow...- .G . M.
Fresno No. 247
l orn J une 30, 18"
Edwud H. Siems...... D. G . M.
Ellsworth Meyer.- ..... S. G. W.
Arthur l'aulsen..... -.J. G. W .
Francis V. KHsling..._ . G, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson..-........... G. S.
Arthur M. Wuren .......... G. L.

1954

1948

Edward H. Siems..........G . M. Henry C . Clausen ......... G.M .
'lymoulh No. 560
ln9leslde No. '30
Born June JO, 1905
l orn December 7 190J
G . M. Edgar V. Stewart, J r•.. D.G.M.I
Ellsworlh Moyer.......
Arthur Poulsen .. ........S. G. W . L Harold Anderson_ .S.G.W.
Louis C. DrapHu...... J. G . W. Leo E. Anderson ........ J .G .W.
Francis V. K. .sling._..... G. T. Edward H. Siems.........- ... G.T.
Lloyd E. W ilson............ G. S. Lloyd E. W ilson ................ G.S.
Arlhur M. Warren ...•...... G. L Elbert W. Davis. ...•.·-·-·····G.L

'o.

1959

Frank Harwell, Jr.........G. M. Joe l. Shell... .................. G.M.
Btverly Hills No. 528
Se n Dle90 No. 35
Born October 4, 18'9
Born February 18 1892
M.
G.
D.
....
Henry C. Clausen
Alfred F. BresJeue~...... D.G.M.
W.
.
G
S.
JrEdger V. Stewart,
Guy B. Mize ...- .......... S.G.W.
L. H e rold Anderton ..J . G. W . Ira W. Coburn ....•.......J .G .W.
Frencis V. KHslin9.. - ... _G, T. Edward H. Siems..•........... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson•.•....- - G. S. Lloyd E. W ilson ........ - ...... G.S.
Elbert W. Davi1-•.......... 6. L Elbert W. D•vis_·-·-·····-·G.L.

1960
Alfred F. Breslauer........ .. G.M .
Starr Kin9 No. 344
Born Au9usl 26, 1898
Guy B. Mize .......... .. D.G.M.
Ira W . Coburn ........... S.G.W.
Elmer W. H eald ......... J.G .W.
Arthur M. Warren ....... ..... G .T.
Edward H. Siems.. ............ G .S.
Donald G. Camp bell .... .. G. L.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THR

494
1961

1962

1963

Guy B. Mixe.................... G. M.
Unity No. 361
lorn April 23, 1901
Ira W . Coburn .......... D. G. M.
Elmer W. Heald ........S. G. W.
Theodore Meriam ....J. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ..........G. T.
Edward H. Siems............G. S.
Donald G. Campbell.. .... G. L

Ira W. Coburn ................G.M.
Doric No. 216

Elmer W. Heald ............G .M.

Elmer W. Heald .......... D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam........ S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith............J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............G.T.
Edward H. Siems ..............G.S.
Donald G. Campbell. .......G.L.

Theodore Meriam ...... D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith ..........S.G.W.
Laurence E. Dayton ....J.G.W,
Arthur M. Warren .......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ............ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

Bor n Jan . 2.6, 1904

El Centro No. 384
Born Jan. 7, 1885

495

UST OF INSPECTORS
lrupector'

Date of Commission

D~trict

Clarence L. Fraser....................................Decernber, 1927................................424
Wm. S. Thompson ............................................March, 1928................................412
Niles 0. Millar ......................................................July, 1932................................346
Herbert R. Hargrave ............................ September 15, 1934................................418
John Behrens ............................................ J anuary 2, 1935 ................................378
Samuel Dollar ............................................ December, 1935................................416
George S. Ward ..........................................January 1, 1937................................ 104
Fred Weed .................................................. September, 1938................................642
Guido de GhetaldL......................................October, 1938................................ 306
Roy H. Lenthall.............................................January, 1939................................354
Harold S. Morrison ................................December 1, 1940................................ 516
Melvin R. Berbower ............................November 10, 1943............................... .624
Frederic E. Clark..................................... January 26, 1944................................ 560
James B. Lawson.......................................... March 6, 1945................................426
Arch Balchin..................................................March 27, 1945................................392
Edward C. Lohmeyer........................ September 27, 1945................................ 322
Alexander Duncan...-................................. October 9, 1945................................301
Robert W. Nicol.. ................................... October 24, 1945................................612
W. Ralph Anderson................................November 4, 1946................................ 360
Fred C . Pritschke............................................April 7, 1947................................428
Roy T. Kiele.................................................... April 22, 1948................................544
Elmer Glen Van Tassell... ................. September 11, 1948................................ 112
Reginald Reynolds ................................November 5, 1948............................... .108
Louis H. Mahler ........................................J anuary 31, 1949................................ 580
John A. Owen ..................................................May 16, 1949................................ 586
Chas. A. Thomasset.. ...................................... June 28, 1949................................546
Wilson Ernest Lathrop ..............................October 1, 1949................................410
Earl CaldwelL .........................................Janu ary 16, 1950................................324
Elvin C. Drake ..............................................April 14, 1950................................ 570
TPd R. Siems ...................................................... May 8, 1950............................... .614
Frank W. Raddatz ................................ November 24, 1950................................ 524
J oseph Myron Ruggiero....................December 21, 1950....................... .........332
J . Ralph Dawdy......... ,. ............................. J anuary 26, 1951................................422
Andre L. Armand.................................... J anuary 26, 1951 ............. ...................376
Reginald Bunce .......................................... October 23, 1951 ............... ................. 520
Kenneth C. Stanley ..................................February 7, 1952............. ................... 636
Wilfred W. Partridge ..................................March 31, 1952................................500
Lynn A. Blackmun...................................... March 31, 1952.......................... ...... 502
Edward Farley..................................................May 12, 1952 ....................... .........208
Harry K . Widup ..................................November 10, 1952................................ 344
Harry H. Airnan....._______ __________ ......March 2, 1953................................644
Paul A. Hackler.........- .... -....-.................March 26, 1953................................330
Ray Earl Burdg...................._____ ...........September 5, 1953................................217
James E. Finley......- ... - .........._..............October 10, 1953................................328
E. Lloyd Hanson ..........................................January 1, 1954................................350
John H. F erguson........................................J a nuary l, 1954................................622
Milton Hoffe Sharp..................................February 1, 1954................................ 210
Claiborn Schonhoff......................................March 12, 1954................................ 402
Wallace H. Fiske..........................................March 12, 1954.................................404
Ray Smith.............................................. December 15, 1954................................550
Palmer A. Wells ..........................................January 7, 1955................................ 222
Clarence C. Smith......................................J anuary 7, 1955................................364
Alva A. Daniells ........................................January 13, 1955................................4.27
Henry Drashner...................................... FP.bruary 14, 1955................................ 506
Edward C. Will .................................. - ..........July 14, 1955................................367
Frank Leroy Sutliff.. ....................................August 9, 1955................................ 542
Carl E. Moore................................................ October 3, 1955............. ...................43:l
Ralph M. Hinds..........................................October 29, 1955................................318
William Waters Shugart ..........................January 6, 1956................................ oi31
Harold F. Trafton......................................... .April 24, 1956............... - ...............388

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROl.EED JNGS OF THE

496
Inspectors

Dote of Commissio n

· .
D11trl('t

.
A. B.ll'd Cr'?ss.................................. ................. May 20, 1956 ........... - .................. ·629
411
Daniel Kleunan ..............................................July 16, 1956......................
602
Joseph L. O~sley............................................July 16, 1956...............................
365
...............
.................
E. Ross Baylis.................................................. July 25, 1956
..........825
Floyd 0 . Mason................................................July 30, 1956........... __
·607
R ewell E. Carlton .. ............... .....................August 15, 1956 .............. :=:::::·------K enneth Dowell ........................................August 20, 1956................................ 805
. ......... 803
Earl Moore Vigus......................... - ...........August 23, 1958...............=:::::·-·······
632
...............
1956
29,
.August
................
.................
Raymond
J.
bert
Hu
--···-···53'1
.....
.................
1956
31,
August
......
.................
.................
Cutler
W.
Ralph
w_ayne A. Dahling..............................Septemb er 11, 1956......................:~::::::·206
·562
Field T hompson ...................... ............ Novembe r 27, 1956.....................
:::::·.....576
L eslie S. Wayman ..................... ......... ..Novembe r 27, 1956.................................
314
George T. Rowse ......................................January 1, 1957..................
1.'lysses George Patropulo s ....................January 1, 1957....................... ~:::::::333
594
George Q. Evans......................................January 4, 1957.................
48
George W. P erkins ..................................January 16, 1957................. :::::::::::::::5318
Cla rence E. ShoaL..................................January 25, 1957.........................:=::::6
34
B~-re u RoWrts Ries................. ...................April 1, 1957.........................
300
{_L ncy A. eb~te r ................. .........................May 9, 1957............... - ...............
637
...............
.................
1957
15,
We_wfls Hugh F1eld ................... _.....................May
...............639
R .\n eld Scott McLees..................................May 15, 1957.................
628
i ey L. Blurton ..............................................May 24, 1957......................
Frank N. Long ................. ...............................July 31, 1957......................::-----...374
Victor Prenk ......................... .. ............. Septemb er 5, 1957.......................~::=:::320
............... 504
~~r;i~s E. Bacop...................................... Decembe r 15, 1957 .................
ihp Stembr dge Hunt..........................January 1, 1958..........................-- ....610
117
Lester Howard Casagran de....................January 1, 1958...........- .............. .110
Albert A. Bryceson . ...................................January 1, 1958............................... 114
Lloyd Arlo Countrym an. .........................August 13, 1958................................334
Charles L. Foster......................................January 1, 1959.........................
::::342
Carlton H. Rothblum ................................January 1, 1959.........................
Samuel G. Clark.. .......................................January 1, 1959................................326
............... 109
Arthur L. Hughes .................................. ..January 23, 1959................................
361
Alfr~d Johnson ....................................... .Februar y 9, 1959.................
340
Daniel D . Rowland s ........................................April 6, 1959................................
.....106
Percy W. Lindt................................................June 4, 1959.......................- __368
Elmer E. Ross .................................................. June 8, 1959.........................
Frank P. Lemen. .........................................October 8, 1950................................218
Arthur Linsk ........................................Decembe r 1, 1959................................ 554
596
Claudis Thomas Shirley ...................... Decembe r 1, 1959................................
........ 530
Thurlan Wm. Heidner........................ Decembe r 15, 1959 ..... .. .................
William Robusch ................................Decembe r 15, 1959................................ 582
John W. Baker, Jr._............................... Decembe r 15, 1959 ................................372
Ralph P. Partridge..............................Decembe r 15, 1959................................319
Charles J. Wentz .................................. Decembe r 15, 1959................................626
224
A lfred A. P enrose...................................... January 1, 1960................................
227
.........
.................
......
1960
,
I
nuary
a
J
...............
.................
J:Iamma
G.
Taubner
John D. Dearmg, Sr ...................................January 1, 1960 ................. ...............302
...............362
Carl R. Ramsey ......................................February 26, 1960................................
564
We ndell L. Goodwin.......... .................. February 26, 1960 .................
Theodore B. Fach .................................. ........March 1, 1960................................574
578
William Bottor ff .......................................... April 22, 1960 ................................
Earl James Walker.............. ..........................April 22, 1960................................621
Frederick Bolte ................................................May 3, 1960................................385
Lee H . Buchheis ter.. ..................................August 20, 1960 ................. ...............390
R ay H. Paine .......................... .............. Septemb er 20, 1960................. ............... 508
606
George Dennis Lober....... .........................October 4, 1960................................
Romayne Harvey Bantz ............................January l, 1961................................310
Larry C. Basker ................. .......................... January 1, 1961 ................................358
Herbert H. Hobson. ...................................January 1, 1961 ............................... .348

497

Di.,rrict
Date of Commissio n
lnJpector.,
638
.............
.................
1961..
1,
Lorenza H. Shaw ........................................January
Burton Meyer, Jr .................................. ..... J anuary 1, 1961 ................. ...............552
Ei lO
Frank E. Stevens ......................................January 10, 1961 ................................
Russell F . Bragg ......................................January 12, 1961 ................................ !iOl
.............536
Benjamin F. Nash .................................. .. January 18, 1961.. .................
Roy C. Addlema n, Jr................. ............January 18, 1961...... ....... ................... 538
540
Arnold G. Robertso n ..............................Jan uary 18, 1961... .............................
603
Richard Marks Lustig ................. ...........January 18, 1961... .............................
.. ..........20-1
Cressey J. Wescott.. . ........... .................... January 20, 1961... .............................
212
William E. Mars hall... .............................January 27, 1961... .................
216
Horace R. LaFortun e ............................February 15, 1961................................
A. Boyd Collier................................. ....February 15, 1961... ................. ..... ...... .219
120
Wayne E. Philippi.. . ................................... March 29, 1961................................
118
....
.................
........
1961...
15,
May
................
.................
er
Spellmey
L.
Edward
308
.............
.................
1961..
1,
June
.............
.................
..
.................
r
J
Keller,
John
Wendell Howard Nicol... .. ................Septemb er 22, 1961.. ..............................226
John Clifton Carpente r....... .............. Septemb er 28, 1961................................ 430
George D. Stroope.......................................October 9, 1961................................370
T. W. Moore .................................. ........ Novembe r 27, 1961................................116
Albert E. Thirkill.. . ................. ................January 1, 1962................................304
352
Merrill D. Coy ..........................................January 1, 1962 ................................
............... 358
Ralph M. Webb .. ......... ................ ............January l , 1962................................
512
Ronald E. Jones ........................................January 1, 1962.................
538
Mark E. Schrock ................. .... .................January 1, 1962................................556
...............
Alfred J. Navin .................... ................. ...January 1, 1962................. ...............
Lloyd V. Smith ........................................J anuary 1, 1962................. ............... 558
566
Erwin H. Gebhardt ... ...............................January 1, 1962.................
568
Irvin Shulkin ..........................................Jan uary l, 1962................................
...... ......... 572
Thomas J. McKimso n ................. ........ ...J anuary 1, 1962.................
...588
Robert E. Crist... ................. ...................... January 1, 1962........... .................
James D . Kelso ...................................... ..January l, 1962................................592
Wayne C. Bates ........................................ January 1, 1962................................618
630
John Lacy Taylor....................................January 1, 1962................................
635
Herman W. Toedter ................................J anuary 1, 1962................................
215
Sam I. Bonn................. ............................. J anuary 13, 1962................. ................406
William Lowell Hurd ................................ March 14, 1962................. .............. 382
William E. Foster..v ....................................March 15, 1962................................
420
Chad Horton .................................................... April 5. 1962.............................. ...42
1
Paul Landis Turner ........................................ April 5, 1962................................
616
William Henry Price ............ ......... .................Junc 1, 1962................. ..............
...... ......... 532
L awrence C. Lamb .......... ....... ........... ..Dece mber 18, 1962.................
211
Clyde E. Sinclair.............. ................. ...... J a nuary 1, 1963 ......... ..................... .214
...............
Albert W. Frey ...... ....................................J anuary 1, 1963.................
Joseph W. Wright... ........................ ...........January 1, 1963.......... ............ ..........307
Bertram C. von Konsky ...... ................ .J anuary 1, 1963............................... 330
337
Hazelton French ............ ..... ...................January 1, 1963 ................. ...............338
...............
Robert M. Montgom ery .. ........................J a nuary 1, 1963.................
J ohn Joshua Williams .......... ..... ... .......... January 1, 1963 ......... .................. .... 368
518
L eRot W. Schlaegel... ................ ..............January 1, 1963................................
522
Ray . Peterson .................................. .... .J a nuary 1, 1963................. ...............
...609
Hiram Ode ll Gordon................................J anu ary 1, 1963.............................
William F. Poynter ............................ February 5, 1963................. ................ 336
228
genzil D. Kitchens ................................ Febr uary 26, 1963............. .................
.....384
Wharles H. McAlliste r ........................ ........ March 29, 1963...........................
ilton J . Smith, J r.. .......................................June 4, 1963................................ 394
...............620
~eonard D. Ba bcock ..........................Septcmbe r 1, 1963 .................
imon F. Bolge r ................... ..............Septemb er 18, 1963... ................. ............. 640
Lrank L. Richards ...... ............... .. .....Septemb er 18, 1963............. ................. 590
528
Gloyd D. Hanselm an.......................... Septemb er 26, 1963................................
Deorge F. Harrison ...................... .. ..... ... .. October 18, 1963... ........ .....................526
...............584
Ronald J. Shoemaker.. .............. ..............October 18, 1963.................
aymond C. Reeder ................................October 18, 1963........... ................ ... 046

498

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R1toxnii.J 6n4 ;,, Pr.i,,.,,.,J R•l4ti<>tfs w;1h th•
c;,.,,,,J LoJz• of C.J;fONJu

Argentina:
Carlos Wilson, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Fritz Blum, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium:
Rene Desgain, Secty.
5, Rue Du Chene, Brussels 1, Belgium

Bolivia:
Humberto Frias Rojas, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 554, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brasil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Joaquim Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sergio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
A. Napoleao Figueiredo, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Lourival Evelin Vieira, Grand Secretary of Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de Janeiro
Sy lla Ribeiro, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Brasiliano deSouza, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 247, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lod$:e of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Arr Silva Antunes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Av Brigadeiro L uis Antonio 1195, Apt. 72, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Oswaldo Baucke, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.

GRAND LODGE O F CALIFO RNIA

Canada:
Alberta-

Ed ward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 - 12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British ColwnbiaJ. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver 2, B. C.
Canada-(Province of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty..
P. 0. Drawer 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario.
Manitoba•
Thomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.
New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 430, St. Johns, New Brunswick.
Nova ScotiaHarold F. Sippre~ Grand Secty.
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandFloyd Drake, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
Quebec-J. Mel. Marshall, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 25, Quebec.
SaskatchewanGrand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Oscar Pereira H., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
Pu-Ching Hu, Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Ignacio Ramirez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S . A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Carlos Rincon C., Grand Chancellor-Fore ign Relat ions,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-75, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
National Grand Lodge of Colombia
Ricardo Steffens, Grand Secty.,
Calle 66 No. 62-45, Barranquilla, Colombia, S.A.
Orie ntal Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula San tander"
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
J ose Valverde P., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Nal. No. 16, Car tagena, Colombia, S.A.

Costa Rica:
Jaime Granados Chacon, Grand Secty .,
P. 0 . Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
••cuba:

499

PROCEEDING S OF THE

500

• Czecho-Slov akia:
Grand Lodge Lessing at Prague-National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slov akia at Prague.
Denmark:

National Grand Lodge-Alfred Nyvang. Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic::
Altredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 865, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Ecuador:
Bruno Sadun Mamo, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
•••Egypt:

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Salvador (Cuscatlan)I
Carlos Alfonso Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 43, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:

James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.
Freemasons H all, London, England.
Finland:

Martti V. Mustakallio, Grand Secty.,
P . Esplanaadik atu 35E, Helsinki, Finland.

France:

French National Grand Lodge,
S. J . L. Humbert, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-S eine, Paris, France.
Germany:

United Grand Lodges
P. 0. Box 16367, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Greece:

N. Economopou los, Grand Secty.,
21 Xenias St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala:
Benjamin Godoy C., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 48, Guatemala City, C. A.

Honduras:
Ramon Hernandez Rivas, Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 336, Tegucigalpa, D. C., Honduras, C. A.
Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
P . N. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 681, New Delhi 1, India.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ireland1
J . 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Shlomo Zarankin, Grand Seery.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
ltalys
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Umberto Genova, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome.
Japan
Carl T. Nakamura, Grand Secty.,
No.13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Cho, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan
Luxembourg :
Leon Hamus, Grand Secty.,
Case Postale No. 260, Luxembourg -ville, Luxembourg .
Mexico1
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Cantwell C. Brown, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico 1, D. F.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Antonio Escamilla Montiel, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 564, Mexicali, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Reynaldo Luchaga F., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Jose Gonzalez Ponce, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexirfl
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 2p, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Enrique Solis Lopen. Grand Secty.,
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodie Unlda Mexicana
Marcial Fernandez Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mex.
Gra.n d Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Fernando Arias Rendon, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico 1, D. F.
Netherlands1
Grootoosten der Nederlanden ,
Dr. P. J . vanLoo, Grand Secty.,
22 F luwelen Burgwal, The Hague.
New South Wal"s
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
279 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand:
F. G. Northern, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 6439, Wellington C. 2, New Zealand.
Nicaragua:
Carlos H. Muniz, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nica.r agua.

501

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

502

503

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

Norw ay:
Odd Lie-D avids en, Gran d Secty .,
Norw ay.
Maso nic Tem ple, Nedr e Vold gate 19, Oslo,
Pana ma:
Julio A. Ram os, Gran d Secty ., blic of Pana ma.
Apar tado 84, Pana ma, Repu
Peru i
.,
Luis F. Andr ade Del Valle, Gran d Secty
Apar tado 587, Lima , Peru .
Phili ppin es:
Esteb an Mun arriz , Gran d Secty ., l.
1440 San Marc elino , Mani la, P.
Puer to Rico :
.,
Juan L. Mato s-Cin tron, Gran d Secty
P. 0. Box 8385, Sant urce, Puer to Rice .
Quee nslan d:
V. I. Cart er, Gran d Sect y.,
.
Box 875, K.. G. P . 0., Brisb ane, Aust ralia
Scot land:
.,
Alex ande r F. Buch an, Gran d Secty
96 Geor ge St., Edin burg h, 2, Scotl and.
Sout hern Afric a:
Gran d Secr etary ,
P. 0. Box 3431, Cape Tow n, So. Afric a.
Sout h Auat ralia1
F. J . Ellen . Gran d Secty .,
ralia .
Box 19, Rund le St. P. 0., Adel aide, So. Aust
Swed en1
Sven Sved in, Gran d Secty .,
khol m, Sweden.
Frim urare orde n, Blasi eholr nsga tan 6, Stoc
Swib erlan d1
Gran d Lodg e Alpi na,
Hum bert Vetto vagli a, Gran d Secty .,
zerla nd.
11 Chem in Cham p-Ro nd, Laus anne , Swit
Taam ania:
H. A. Wilk inson , Gran d Secty .,
119 Maq uarie St., Hoba rt, Tasm ania.
Vene zuela :
(Rep . ot Vene zuela ).
Migu el E. Teje da R., Gran d Secty .,
zuela .
Apar tado de Corr eos 927, Cara cas, Vene
Vlct oriu
Unit ed Gran d Lodr e.
C. W. Davi s, Gran d Secty .,
25 Collin.I St., Melb ourn e, Aust ralia .
Weater n Auat ralia :
N. J. Mun ro, Gran d Sect y.,
.
G .P.O. Box D-17 7, Perth , West ern Aust ralia
•yug oslaT la1
enes.
Gran d Lodg e of the Serv s-Cro ats & Slov
of Calif ornia prior to being rende red
•Rec ogniz ed by the Gran d Lodg eWar
II, s ubse quen t to whic h no resur np
d
Worl
g
inope rativ e befor e and durin
ted.
effec
tion of frate rnal relat ions has been
ornia prior to the Cast ro regim e.
••Re cogn ized by Gran d Lodg e of Calif
ct for some years .
conta
no
... Reco gniH on not with draw n but

ALP HAB ETI CAL UST OF LODGES
A
Abel l (146), Ukia h.
Acal anes (723) , Lafa yette.
Acom (494). Oakl and.
Adin (250), Adin .
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedr o.
Alam eda (167), Frem ont.
Alam o (122), Waln ut Cree k.
Alba ny (686) , Alba ny.
Albe rt P ike (484), Los Ange les.
Alca traz (244), Oakl and.
Alex ande r Gra ha m Bell (595),
Los Ange les.
Alex ander Ham ilton (535) ,
Los Ange les.
Ale x:rnd ri;i (531) . San Fran cisco.
/\ lhani br a (:122) , Alha mbra .
Ali!;;i J ( 32 1). Pleas an ton.
All State s (593) , Long Beac h.
Alph a (431) . Rich mond .
Alta (333) , Bridg eport .
Altad ena (678) , Altad ena.
Alta Lom a (643), Long Beac h.
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Altu ras (248) , Altur as.
Ama dor (65), Jack son.
Ame rica (475), Los An~eles.
Ame rican Rive r (795), Folso m
Bake rsfiel d (224), Bake rsfiel d.
Bald er (393), San Fran cisco.
Bald win Pa rk (660), Ba ldwi n Park .
Bars tow (682), Bars tow.
Bay City (526) , San Fran cisco.
Bay Clair e Vista (799), San Dieg o.
Bay View (401), Oakl and.
Bear Mou ntain (76), Ange ls Cam p.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellf lowe r (523), Bellf lowe r.
Belm ont Shor e (716) , Long Beac h.
Belveder e (539), Mon terey Park.
Bene vole nce (631), Los Ange les.
Beni cia (5), Beni cia.
Benj . Fran klin (509) , Beve rly Hills .
Cahu enga (513), Holly wood .
Cala vera s (78), San And reas.
Cale donia (486) , Bake rsfie ld.
Cale xico (412) , Cale xico.
Calif ornia (1), San Fran cisco .
Calis toga (233), Calis toga.
Calla yomi (282) . Midd letow n.
Cam ellia (805) , Tem ple City.
Canb y Cros s (679) , Tule lake.
Cano ga (611), Cano ga Park.
Capi tal City (499), Sacr amen to.
Carm el (680) , Carm el.
Carm elita (599), Pasa dena .

Amit y-Se al Rock (370),
San Fran cisco.
Anac apa (710), Oxna rd.
Anah eim (207), Anah eim.
Anch or (273), Com pton.
Ange les Mesa (625), Los Ange le1
Antioch (175), Antio ch.
Apol lo (396), Alam eda.
Arab ic (763) , Los Ange les.
Arbu ckle (182), Arbu ckle.
Arca dia (547) , Arca dia.
Arca ta (106), Arca ta.
Argo naut (461), San Fran cisco .
Argo nne (514), San Fran cisco .
Arlin gton (414) , Los Ange les.
Arro yo (274), Arro yo Gran de.
Arte sia (377) , Artes ia.
Arvi n (738), Arvi n.
Asco t (538) , Gard ena.
Ashl and (798), San Lore nzo.
Ashl ar (306) , Colto n.
Atas cade ro (493), Atascader o.
Athe ns (228), Davi s.
Atwa ter (622) , Los Ange les.
Aven al (772) , Aven al.
Azur e (533) , Fulle rton.
Azus a (305), Azus a.

B

Berk eley (363), Berk eley.
Beve rly Hills (528) , B everl y Hills .
Big Bear (617) , Big Bear Lake .
Bixb y Knol ls (699), L ong Beac h.
Blac kmer (442) , San Dieg o.
Blue L akes (714), San Brun o.
Blyt he (473), Blyth e.
Braw ley (402) , Braw ley.
Bren twoo d (345) , Bren twood.
Broo klyn (225) , Oakl and.
Buckeye (195) , Wint ers.
Buen a Park (357), Buen a Park .
Burb ank (406) , Burb ank.
Burl ingam e (400) , Burl ingam e.

c

Carp inter ia (444), Carp inter ia.
Carq uinez (337), Croc kett.
Castr o Valle y (713) , Cast ro Valle y
Cata lina Islan d (524), Aval on.
Cent enni al (729), Com pton.
Cent er (465), Fresn o.
Cent ral Calif ornia Rese arch Lodg e,
Fresn o
Chan nel (757) , Stock ton.
Char ity (362) , Cam pbell .
Char ter Rock (410) Berk eley
Chat eau Thie rry (569) , Oakl and.
Chic o (Ill) , Chic o.

504

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.
Confidence (203), Castr oville.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Claremont (436). Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482). Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Claude H . Morrison (747),
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Chula Vista.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clay (101), Dutch Fla t .
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake .
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crocker (454), Da ly City.
Coachella (4 76), Coach ella.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coa linga (387), Coa1inga.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Culver City (467), Los Angeles.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francis co.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220) Downey.
Dr ytown (174). Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759), Rico Rivera
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
East B elt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsin or e.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Lea ndro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Eel Riv er (147), Fortuna.
El Cajon Vall ey (576). El Cajon
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
SI Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
Evergre en (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Elm hurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

F
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount ( 435), San Francis co.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
F allbrook (31 7), Fa llbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
F ellowship (480) , Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379). Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (649), Walnut P a rk.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forhestown, (50), Forbestown.

Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), F ort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), F all River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Berkeley.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), B erkele y.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San J ose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

GRAND LODGE O F CALI F ORNIA

505

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586). Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanz1t (492), Los AngelE>!l
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
G eorgetown (25) , Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden G ate (30), S an Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San J ose.
Golden State (358). L os Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino
Golden W est (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), San Fernando.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville .
Greenleaf (670), Whit tier .
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Gu adalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Highland P ark (382), Los Angeles.
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Hillcrest (573), Berkeley.
Hammon ton (433), Sutter.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hills F erry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), L os Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), L os Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
H artley (199), Lakeport.
H oltville (425), Holtville.
H awaiian (21), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
H awthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hem et (615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry Mor se Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
San Francisco.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Huntin~ton Beach (380),
Hermosa (557), H ermosa Beach.
Huntmgton Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Highland (748), Highland.

I
Illinoistown (51), Colfax.
Inglewood ( 421), Inglewood.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.
lone (80), lone.
Ind ian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest. Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.

J

J ames A. Foshay (641),
J ohn Marshall (636). Bt>ver ly H ills.
Playa del Rey.
John P. Jarman (669) , San J ose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), S an Francisco.
James H . Kew (766), Inglewood.
J oppa (508), San Joaquin.
James Madison (572), L os Angeles.
Jordan (654), Waln ut Park.
J a nesville (232), Janesville.
J osiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jewel (374). San Francisco.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.

K
K auai (589), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kennan (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), H ilo, Hawaii.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.
Koolau (801), Kailua, Hawaii.

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

(;RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

N

L
Lemon Grove (736), L emon Grove.
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
le Progres de l'Ocean ie (37 1),
La Canada (739), La Crescenta.
Honolulu, Hawaii.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
La Fayette (126). Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach . L~beral Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
L1bertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
La Jolla (518). La Jolla.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakeshore (551). Oakland.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627). Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lorenzo (709), San Loren zo.
Lancaster (437), Lancas ter.
Los Alamjtos (809) , Seal Beach
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Parfaite Un ion (17), San Francisco. Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
Los Ange les (42), Los Angele.s.
La Puente (446) , La Puente.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lassen 049), Susanville.
Loyalton (359) , Loyalton.
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Luther Burbank (752) , Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600). Lynwood.
Leland Stanlord (784) , Chico.

M
Mission 069), San Francisco.
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego.
Maruson (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia Park (715), Burbank.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Manchester (585), Los Angeles.
Moneta (405), Los Angeles.
Manhattan (U.D.), El Segundo.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa .
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Marin (191), San Ralael.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monte Vista (655), L ong Beach .
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Moreno Valley (804), Sunnymead
Maui (472) , Maui, Kahului, Hawaii.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Maxwell (288). Maxwell.
Morningside Park (742) , Inglewood.
Maya (793). L os Angele.s
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McCloud (430), McCJoud.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
McKinley (347). Richmond.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim.
Melrose (602), Hollywood.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mendocino (179). Mendocino.
Mountain View (194),
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Mountain View.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mount Baldy (U.D .), Ontario.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Merid ian (667), Gl endale.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Metropolitan (646) , Los Angeles.
Mount Jac~son (295), Guerneville.
Meudell (695), Bakersfield.
Mount Mona h (44), San Francisco.
Midway (426) Talt
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Military Service c57o) Sa F an .
· n r cisco. Mount Oso (460) , Tracy.
.
.
Mount Shasta (281) , Anderson.
M~llbrae (792), Mlll~rae.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
M~ll Valle)'. (356), Mill Valley.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altadena
Mmeral King (720), Visalia.

507

Northern California Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188). Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Ocean Park.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688) , Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (813), Newhall.
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacilk Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Moruca.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palo Alto (346), P~Io Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568) , Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286) , Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
P eninsula (745) , Sa n Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), C o rnin~.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental (144), San Fran cisco.
Orinda (704), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orl:rnd.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard

p
Petaluma (180), P etaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Be rnardino.
Piedmont (521), P iedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353) , Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), P ittsburg.
Plaza de Los An geles (814),
Los Angeles.
Plumas (60) , Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
P olaris (730) , No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
P onderosa (700), Fresno.
P orterville (303) , Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578) , Los Angeles.
Provide nt (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.

Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Ri ;ilto (582), R ialto .
Richmond (375). San Fra ncisco.
Rim of the World (711). Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

508

PROCE EDINGS O F THE

ALP HAB ETIC AL LIST OF LODGES-Continu~d
Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda .
H 10 V1!'ta (208). Rio Vista.
Risin g Light (397), Hunti ngton Park.
River bank (459), River bank .
River side (635), River side.
Rivie ra (780), Pacifi c Palisa des.
Rock ridge ( 468), Oakla nd.

...

Rollin g Hills (781), Lomi ta.
Roose velt (500), San Franc isco
Ros·e mead (702), Rosem ead. ·
Rose's . Bar (89), Smar tsvill e.
Rosev ille (222), Rosev ille
Russi an River (181), Wind sor.

s

Sacra mento (40), Sacra mento .
Secur ity (581), Baker sfield .
Saint Elmo (697), Oakla nd.
Selma (277), Selma .
Saint Helen a (93), St. Helen a.
Semp~r Viren s (552), Eurek a.
Saint John' s (725), Waln ut Creek .
Sequo ia (349) , Oakla nd.
Salin as (204), Salin as.
Servi ce (594), Long Beach .
San Anton io (694), Bell.
Sierr a (788), Bass Lake.
San B enito <?11), H ollister.
.
S~erra Madr e (408), Sierra Madr e.
San Berna rdino (348), San Berna rdino. Sierra
Valle y (184), Sierra ville
San Buen avent ura (214), Ventu ra.
S~gnal (543), Long Beach .
·
San Carlo s (690), San Carlo s.
Silve rado (782), Napa.
San Clem ente (671), San Clem ente.
Silve
r
Cord
(505),
Santa Ana.
San Diego (35), San Diego .
Silve r Gate (296), San Diego .
San Diegu ito (775). Cardi ff-by- theSe a. Silve
r
Trow
el
(415),
Holly wood .
San Dima s (428), San Dima s.
Silve yville (201), Dixon .
San Ferna ndo (343), San Ferna ndo.
Simi
Valle
y
(806),
Simi.
San Franc isco-V ictory (360),
Since rity (132), Green ville.
San Franc isco.
Sisso
n
(310),
Moun t Shast a.
San Gabri el (546), San Gabri el.
Smyr na (532), Ceres .
Sange r (316), Sange r.
Snow
Moun tain (271), S tonyf orcl
San Gorgo nio (668), Bann ing.
Sojou rner (607), Duart e.
San Jacin to (338), San Jacint o.
Solan
o
(229), Valle jo.
San Joaqu in (19), Stock ton.
Soqu el (746), Soque l.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Sotoy
ome (123), H ealds burg.
San Juan (732). Fair Oaks.
South ern Califo rnia (278),
San Leand ro (744), San Leand ro.
Los Ange les.
San Loren zo Valle y (718),
South ern Califo rnia Resea rch
Bould er Creek.
Lodge , Holly wood .
San Marin o (685), San Marin o.
South Gate (320), Los Ange les
San Mateo (226), San Mateo .
South land (618), Los Ange les.
San Migu el (285), San Migue l.
South Park (563), Los Ange les.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo .
South Pasad ena (367),
San Pasqu al (452), Pasad ena.
South Pasad ena.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro .
South San Franc isco (212),
San Ramo n Valle y (724), Danvi lle.
Sa.n Franc isco.
San Simeon (196), Camb ria.
South West (283), Natio nal City.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Spera .nm Italia na (219),
Santa Barba ra (192), Santa Barba ra.
San Franc isco.
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Stand ard (440), Oakla nd.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Stani slaus (206), Mode sto.
Santa Maria (580), Ramo na..
Starr King (344), San Franc isco.
Santa Moni ca (307), Santa Monic a.
Stock ton (498), Stock ton.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula .
Suisu n (55), Suisu n.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Summ it (112), Knigh ts Ferry .
Santa Ynez Valle y (701), Solva ng.
Sun Garde n (530), Fresn o.
Scept er (808), West Sacra mento .
Sunny side (577), Los An~eles.
Schof ield (443), Wahi awa, Hawa iL
Sunn yvale (511), Cupe rtino.
Seafa ring (708), Newp ort Beach .
Sunri se (522), Mont erey Park.
Seapo rt (550), San Franc isco.
Sunse
t (352), Los Angel es.
Searc hligh t (567), Long Beach .
Surpr ise Valle y (235~ Cedar ville.
Seasi de (504), Long Beach .
S. W. Hack ett (574), ;:,an Di.ego.

GRAN D LODGE OF CA LIFOR NIA

ALP HAB ETIC AL LIST OF LOD GES -Con tinue

509

d

T
Table Moun tain (124), Parad ise.
Taft (516), Tart.
Tehac hapi (313), T ehach api.
Teham a (3), Sacra mento .
Tejon (773). Bake rsfield.
Temb lor (477). Fello ws .
Teme scal (314), Coron a.
Temple (14), Sonom a.
T emple City (612), Temple. City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bauti sta.
The Gabil an (803), Salina s.
The Garde ns (621). Los Ange les.
Thou sand Oaks (478), Berke ley.
Three Pillar s (613), Sacra mento .
Tila Pass (797), Los Ange les.
Torra nce (447), Torra nce.
Union (58), Sacra mento .
Unity (368), Glend ale.
Unive rsity (394), Los Ange le!.
Vacav ille (134), Vacav ille.
Valle de Franc e (329), Los Ange les.
Valle jo (487), Valle jo.
Valle y (135), Linde n.
Valle y Forge (587), Los Ange les.
Van Nuys (450). Van Nuys.
Verdu go Hills (727). Gl~dale.
Verit as (640), San FranclSCO.

Trave lers (692), Sacra mento .
Trave r (294), Kings burg.
Triad (812). Mont ebello .
Trian gle (548). Venic e:
Trini ty (27), Weavervill e.
Trona (684), Trona .
Truckee (200), Truck ee.
Truth (628). Los Angel es.
Tujun ga (592), Tujun ga.
Tuolu mne (8), Sonor a.
Turlo ck (395), Turlo ck.
Tusca n (261), Willia ms.
Two River s (731), Bell.
Tyre (741). D own ey.
Tyria n (439). Mant eca.

u
Uplan d (419), Upland .
Utopi a (537), Los Ange les.

v
Verm ont Squa re (5 15), Ingle wood
Vespe r (84). Red Bluff. .
.
Victo ria Palms (810). Il1ver s1de.
Victo rville (634), Victo rville .
Visali a (128). Visali a.
Vista (687) . Vista.
Vitru vius 045). Bloom field.
Volca no (56), Volca no.

w
Waik iki (774), Hono lulu. Hawa ii.
Warr en G. Hardi ng (579),
North Sacra mento .
Wasc o (583), Wasc o.
Wash ington (20). Sacra mento .
Wayf arer (717), Whitt ier.
Welco me (255). Lemo ore.
West Adam s (565), Los Ange les.
Westcheste r (703). Playa de! Rey.
West Covin a (758). Baldw in Park.
Weste rn Star (2), Shast a.
West Gate (335), Los Ange les.
West L ake (392). Los Angel es.
West Los Ange les (373).
Wes t Los Angeles.
Wesb ninste r (787). Westm inster .
Westw ood (501), Westw ood.
Yerba Buen a (403), Oakla nd.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda .
York (423). Walnu t Par k
Zenit h (768), Van Nuys.

White Pine (555) . Weed .
Whitt ier (323). Whitt ier.
Willia m B. Ogde n (U.D.). Holly wood .
Willia m D . Steph ens (698),
Los Ange les.
Willi am Rhod es Hervey (767),
Los Angel es.
Willits (365), Willit s.
Willo w Glen (676). San Jose.
Wilm ington (198), Wilm ington .
Wilsh ire (445), Los Af'!geles.
Winn edum ah (287). Bishop.
Wood bridg e (131) . Wood bridge .
Woodland (156), Wood land.
Woodl and Hil ls (811), Canog a Park.
Wood stock (491), Alam eda.

y
Yosem ite (99), Merce d.
Youn t (12). Napa.
Yuca ipa (726). Yucai pa.
Yucca Valle y (802), Yucca Valle y.

z

510

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I NDEX

!..Q..!!

511

.!...2...§.1

A

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT

Additions and Rspl~cemente Reserve
Aud.it .. . • ..•• ··•••··••••··•••••••·••• •••••••••••••••'••'••• •••••••••••••••
Affiliati on Fees Tabulated •••••••• •• • • • • • • ••• • •••• • •·••••••··••••••••••••• •••
Alphabet ical List of Lodges •••• • • ·••·• ••• ••• ·••·· ·• • •• ••••••• ••• ·••• • •••••• ·•
Amend CMC Section 17(d) - Accelerate Printinc Supplement
Resolution Presented. •.. .•.••......•• • . • •••.•.••••••• • •••. • .•. • •••••••••• ••
Legislntion . .... . . .................. • • •. •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
/.mendments to By-Laws
Reported by Grand Secretar,-•• ......... . ......... • • • • • • .• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
ftpproved by Conlftittee •••• • •• .• ••• • ............ •• • • • • • • • · • • • • • • . -. · •• • • • • • • · •
J.nnive rsnrles of l.,o.dgae,, •••.....••••• • • • .•• ••• . •• • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Annu~l Elect.ion • •••• •• • • • • ••••••••••• • • • ••••• • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Annual Ret urns
Audit••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••• • ••••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••

ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "Califor.
nia Freemason," copies of which have been sent
to each Grand Lodge. This program will be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hence,
they do not appear in these Proceedings.

Detaile by Lodges .. . . .... ......... . . .... ........... ••• ••••• ••.••··• .. • ••· •
Memberehip Reported •••••••• •••••• ••••• ••• •• •• ·•···· • •••••·•••••••••• •••• • •
>ppendi.x
General. .................... .. ...... . ........... •••••·•••• . ... •·•••• • •••••
Special ••••••• • ••• • • ••••• • • ••••• •• • • • • • • • ••• • •• • •• •• • • •• • • • • • ••••• • •• • •••·
Applicetion Feee Tabulated ••• • • • , • • •••• •• •• • •••••••••• • •• •• • • •• • •••• •• • • •••• •
Appoint111Bnts
For Year 196J-64 . •• •• •• •• • ••• • • · • • • • • • • • • · · · · • • · • · · • •• · · · · · · • · • • • · • • • • • • • •
For Co11111unication .. .... . .. ........ .. . .... . ...... • • .. . ...... . .. . • • • • • • • •• •.
Trueteee f o r Masonic Hoinee .... ... . . . . . .. ........ .......... ....... . . ...... .
T:nietees for Kel'lorial Tenq>le ....................... ...................... .
Colllllitteee and Constitutional Boards ... . .. .. . . . ... . ...................... .
Appropriatione, Supplemental
Reported ..•... . .••• ..• • ••. • . • •••••••••••. • • ..•. •• • ••• .. .. • ••.••. • .•.••••••
Appr-oved, ........ , •• •• , •• , • ... ........ • ••• ••••• •• • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
A\lelited •• ............ . . ....... , , ... , , •••••••••• , ••••••••••••• , •••••• • , . ...... ..

Atten:tance

Jn

h66
503

66
288
1 0)

1.69
h2
322

348

466

96
397

332
h66
322
9
323
323
412
91
309

3lih

Listed (Registration and Hi1eAge P~ts)., •• , ••• •••••• •••• , •••• ••••• , •• ,
Reported • • ••• • • • • •• •••• • ••••••••••••••••••••• •·· ·••·••• · • ··•·•· ··•••••••• •
Attendance Church Service lllaundy Thursdaj'

420

Legielation •• ••• ••••• •• •• • • ••• •••• • ••••••• •• •••• • •• • • • ••••••• • • .. • • • • • • • • •
Audita
1963 Returns ....... .. ................ . , ..... . . . ...... . ................... .
Grand Lodge .. .. .. . .. . .... ............. .. ........... .. . . .................. .
111\aonic Hoines •••• • • • • •• • •••••••••••••• •• ••• ••• ••••••• ••• ••••••••• • ••••••••
!4e:mor1al T•ple •. . ........................ ...................... • • • • • • • •• • • • •

284

Resolution Presented •••• .•••••••• ••• • • •• ••••••••••• •• . •• •••••••••• •••••• ••

246
8J

348
334

350
J87

B
!lay Chire VUta Lodge !fo, 799, F. & A. M., Changing JlaM

Reeolution Presented .•. , .. , ....... ,, ... , ............. ,.,,., ....... , . ••. ,,,•••

Wittd.ra'WTl • • • •• , •• , , • ••••• , •• , ••••• , ........................ .. , • , • , , • • • • • • • • •

Biography, Ira w. Coburn............. ........................ ................
Blood Banke ..... ... ...... . ... . , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Board of Control
Report or. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •. . . • . . . . . . . • . .. • ••
Helli:>ers Listed. . • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Boards of Relief.. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Brigham Scholarship Furxl Audit,.............. ........................ ........
Budget

Appropri'i.t ions, 1963~h •.... .. . , •.• . . ,, •......• • • .•. ,............ •• • . • • • • •

87

90
l

1S7

iss
418

lS6

3S9

310

By-Laws
A1118rximerits 51.ll:Jtti.tted • •••••• , • • • • • • •• •• • •••• , • , ••• , • ••• , • •••••••• ,,, •••• • ,.

Report ot Cc.m:i.ttee.,, •••••••••••••••• , • • , •••••••••••••• ,., ••••• , ••••••• ••

103

"'167

513

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

c

Califolt'ia Freemason
Auditor's Report ••••••••.•.•• •• .•••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••.•••• •••• 337, 3h6
Grand >faster' s Recommendation •.••.•.•••••.••• • •••• • • •• • •••.•••• • • • . . • • • • • • . 30
Report6 of Co1n111ittees •• • •. •••••••• •••• ••••••••• • • •••••••• , .. • • .. 200, 307, 309
Celifolt'ia Masonic Menorial Te111ple
Audit ••••• •••••••.• •• •••••.••.• , •• ..... • •• •.•• ••• ·•· ••••••• ·•··• ••• •••••••. 387
Honor Districts ................. ................. ............ ••• •••.• ••... 160
Merit Roll ................. ............. .... ................. . •••·•••••••• 160
Officers and Trustees... • • .. • • • . • • • • .. • • • • • • .. • • . .. .. .. • • • .. • • .. • . • • • • • .. • 419
Report of Building Manager •.• •• , • . • • • • • .. • • • . • • .. • • • . • • • • • • . • . • . • . • . • • • • • • 162
25
Tax Exemption ••• ••••. ••••••••. • ••••• • ...• • •••••••• •••• ••••• •.•··· ·· ••• ••..
Trustees Appointed ••••.••••••..• ,................ ............... .... ...... 323
Tnistees 1 Report .. .. ................. ..... ... ....... ..... ... •.•• ..... ..... 159
)18
Calli~ Up Procedures., ,.................. ................... ....... . ........
Candidate Education
Grand Lecturer' a Report........ .................. .................. .. .. ... 120
Cemeterie s (Masonic), Reports of Collllld.ttees •••••••.••••••••• ••••••••• . • • 226, 266
Celbetery at James t (}\(Tl
CoJ!ll!littee Recommendation •••••••• •• ••••••• •• •••••••••• ••• •••••.• •••• • •• ••••• 227
Legil!l11tion. , , •.. .••• , ............... , • • • • • • • .. .. • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • 286
23
Centennials - Grand Master's Co11111Snt •• •••• • ••••.•••••• •• •• • ..•• •• •••.•• • • • •• ,
3
CertificAtion . ......• . •.••••••••...••• , • , •• •••. , ••• • •.••••••••••. .• •••• , • • . . .
Changes of Meeting Pl ace
Report by Gra."ld Secretary •• , ... .... .... , • ••• • , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • 95, 105
Report of Cormittee on By-Lavs .... •••• ••• •••• •••• •••• , • • •• •• • .. • • • • .. •• • •• 170
Report of Committee on Charters:.. ....... ...... . . . ....... ....... ..... ..... 225
Changing Name of Bar Cl aire Vista Lodge No. 799, F. & A. M.
Res olution
90
Withdr11vn. ... . . . . • . . • • . . . • . . • • . • . . . • • . . • . • • . • • . . . • . • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . . • • . • • •
Charitabl e Fund Board of Control
89
Resolution Presented ................. ...... , . ........ . ................. ...
90
Withdrawn.. ................... ................... ................... ......
ChArters
Reporl of Comittee ....•.•.•...•.• , •. •••• .......... , • ••• •• •• • • •• • •• • •. • •• •• • 223
Granted ................. ................. ................. ............ , • • • 223
Christ111Ss ani Entertainment Reserve

Presented. ........ ..... ....... .... ....... ... ................. .. 87

A'11!1t • •• •• .•..• • . ••••• •••••••• ••• • ••••••• • .• ••••••• •• •••• •• ••. ••• •• ••, ••••

)80

Contributions . • • • . • • • . • . • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • li08
Clubhouses, Reports on
Berkeley • ........•.•••..•• . • ••.• • •.•••••••..••••• , ••• •• ••••••••••. •• • ,.... 183
Los >nge les....... .... ....... ..... ...... .... ......... .. . . ........ .. ....... 181
Coaches ~andbook
G:::"'and Lecturer 's Report ................. ................. ......... ·•• ••... 120
Coburn , Ira 'rl ., Gr~nd Master
Photograph •••..•..••..•.•••• ••••••••.••.••• ,.. . ...... . ......... . . Frontispiece
l
Biograpey ••.........••..•. ......••.• , •. •.•.•••• •• •• ••• • •••.•••••• . •••• ,...
9
ippointllleute for COIW!lunication.. . . ....... .. ................. ..............
32
Daciaione •.••••••• ••••• ••••• • ,, .... ...... .... ....... . , • •• • • • • • • • •• • • •• • . • •
!i8
Edict... ...... ........ .... ...... .... . .. . .. ... ........ ..... ...... ...... ....
Eulogy - 0, J . Wohlge111uth . . . .... ...... ....... .. .. .. ... .. ..... ... ..... .... , 260
31
Lodgee Constituted •.•••. • ••. . •.•• • •. • • •• • • •.• • • •• • . • • • .•••••••.• ,...... ...
16
Meeeage .•• , .....•. .. •••..•• , • ••.•• .. ,...... . . .. ...... ... ......... ...... ...
li3
Procl811\8t1ons .••. . .. .• .....• • •. •• •••• , • • • • • . • • • . . • • • • . . . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •
39
Receptions and Miscellaneous . ...... .... ...... ..... , • • • •• •••••••• ,. ... .....
Reconnend'ltions •. ••••...• •.• ••.• , •••• •••• •• •••••••.••••• , • , •••.• , • • • • .. 28, 32
38
Specia l Ceremoniee •••••.•. . ••••••• • •• ••. ••••• , ••• •.• ••••••• , ••••••• • • , . ...
37
Special Co111111unicatione •••••. ••.•• •.•.•••• , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • •
u2
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions ••..••• , •. , •.•••• ,, .... , •••.• •• ,... .....
Code Collllliss1on, Report of ••••••••••• , .......... , ................. ...... ,.... 2ul
Collins, Ralph I{,
2u
Gram Master' s Comneots......... . . . ... ...... •• • • • . • • • . • • • • • • • •• • . • • • • • .. • •
Eulost.... .. ........... . . ... ........... . .... ............ . .... . .. . •• •• •• . • • 262
Grand Lectu~r's Reference •.. .. •••.••.•• • •••• • • • ••••••••• ••• •••••• ,.... .. . 120
Ctli!ornia Masonic Ke'"orial Te111ple ........ , •• •..•••• , .......... , • • • • • • •• •• 160

d Hecome!¥iation •• •• ... • •" • •" • • •' • • • •, • • '• • 28, ~~
t
Colu.itbia Temple
'O
• • • • • • • ... • • . . • • • ... ..... '. '• •. • ... • • • •. •
r<rand ;;,,ster' s Co11111ten s all
......... , • • • • . • 2u
.. • • ·
···
•
·
·•
.
Presented
asolution
R~
·······.. ...... .. .. . . , •• , • ••,.,. • • • 286
• · • . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . .
u~...,.,..+ o" Co:-nittee •• • • • • · · · • • · • •• •• ...
288
tu'..,-··· •
•.• ...•. . • • • • • · • • • •
l.er,isl~t.l on ... • · · • · • · • · • • · • • • • · ·
Combi~"d Comi t tee Reports •. • •• • ••• ••. • ..... •. • .•• • • • .•. • .
28
• • • • • • • • • • 17 "
conrnercialism s Coimnetrt:.s .. • • • • • •. .. ...•....•• ••• ••..•• • . •. • • • • •• •• ·•"
'
• •. • • .. •
Grand }\aster•
Report of Connittee • • • • • • • • • • .. ...... .. • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • . •. • .. •
9
, .... . ... .. .. . .. ... . .
c~llfllittce Anpointrnents
F'or Coml!lunicati on • • • • · • • · • • • • • • • • • • • • ' · • • · • · ' • '· ' · • • • . . . . • . . . • • • . . . • . • • • • 412
for 1963-6L •. · · · · • · • • · · · • • • • • • • ' • • • • • " ' • •• .. ·' · · · " · •
Co1'1!11ittee Reports (See Reports of Co:m1itteea )
31
• .. • . . • • .. • • • .. .. • . • . • . • . • • .. • • • •
Co1n111itt ee Structuro Study
····• •• •• •• ·· 283
Grand Master's Reco!Tl'lendation... .. . . ... ..
•
.
•
•
•..
.
·
•
·
•
•
•
•
'
·
•
•
·
Legislation.• •• • • • • • • • • • • • • '· • · • • ' · • · • · • ·
··· ·· · · · ·· · · ·• •• • • 95, 119
Consolidations of Lodges
Repor~ of Gr~nd Secretarr · • • • • • • • • • • • • • · • ·' · · • · : :: ::.. ... .. .. ... .. . . ... . .. 225
neport of Committee on Charters •. •• •• • •.••• •.••
. . . .. . . . ... , • • • • • • Sau
Constituent Lodi;es Lis ted
ftlphabetically •.... · · · • ·•· • • ••• ···•· · .. · •··· .... ·•· ·· .. : ....... ... .. . .... !i66
Hwneric~lly. •· • · • · •• •" • ... • • • • · • · · · · · • · • · · • · " · • .. · • . •.
••••···· · · ·· ··· · ·····• ••••• •••
.
Constitution Obser vance
• '• • • ' • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • 166
Grand Master' s Procl~m3t1on. • . ' • • . • • • • • • • ' • •
Renort of Commit-tea . .. .. ·•··•• •• •• • •· ·~····r·········
29
• • .. • • • • • •• • • • • • ••••••
Constitution Observance Col'!U'li~tee, ~an.s1on o
• • •. •. • • • • • . • • • •· •• 283
Grand Master's Recol'tlmendatl.on•• • •• .. ... • •• • • •• ••• • •..
37
••• ••.• •••• •••••
Legislation .. . ·•· · • • ••• • ···•· · ··········•• •' ••••'··'' ~·
Constitution of Lodges .••· • • • · • • • • • • • • • • · • · • ·' • • • • • '· • • '·:::: •••• • • • • •. •• • • • • 417
ConstitutioMl Boards•••• ··• • ·" •·•·• ··· · · ••'· ''· · ···· ··'

u7

1ioa

nt Reserve? .•.• , •. • , • •.•.••••..•••••• • •.••. • • ••••• 1)6
.,
• • •••••••••• •• •••• , •
Chr istmas and l'.ntertaitune
...... ... .... .. 4o6
EndoVl!l('nt Fund •••• • ··•• ·····••·· ................ ••••• •
Special Reserve:; .. •·••• · • · • ·' .. · ·· ·· · ' · " ' i.id~ 'F~
69
••••············•• •••
Contr ibutions Leviod Upon Lodges - RevolVing u
............... . 292
Resolution :Presented•• • •• •••• ••• •••·•·•• •• .. · ••·•·• ' ·•
5
Legisl:\tion •.... • • •. • • • • • ·· • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·• • · • • • · : :: ••. , .. .• ...••••
8;di,il;~;
cop;rright Notice·· · • • • • · • · · · · · • · • · • •
23
•·•······ ·· · ··· ··••
c
Cornerstone/ Dedicat;on Ceremonies Gr and Master' e RecOMl!len:!ation. • · · • · " • • • • • · • • • • • ·::::::., ...... . , • ••••• ,., 283
·
·
·
Legblation •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · '• • '' ' • • •
30
. ..... • • . • • ' • • • •. • • •. • ..
Corresponisnce Conr.iittee
Grand Master's ConPents. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • •• • • • •••••••••• • .• • , •• , ... . 200
• .. . .... . . . ... . $10
Report of •• •• • ·······•· ..... . .. .... ... ···. ..........
n -~ v of Proceedings Other Gr~nd Lodgee • • ••• •••••••••• • •••
95
• , • ••. •• •• , ••• , • • •., •. , ••• , ,. • • ,. •• , ••
"ev..1.e
Covelo Lodge No. 231 . • .• ...•••. .••••• •• •
128c
CovinA Home
•• •. • • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • "• • • • • • • · • ' • • • • • • • • • 403
Report of s uperintendent
•
·
·
·
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
.... ..... ... • • • • • • • •• • •• • • • • • • • •
378
nesidsnts Usted .
Specinl Reserve Audit .•. •:·• ••• •••• • •••• •••• ••••• •• ••• •..••••••• • • • •••••• • Lo6
Special Reserve Contributions • •• • ••••• ••• •• • •••••
67
• ••••••••••••••••
Create Office of Pa.at Inepector
•••• 289
Resolution Preeented ••••••••••••••••• • • ••••••••••••••••• •
2L6

Contributionl'!

B·

fubit··

•. •.

... ••. '

.........................

Cr~:~!~~~o~~~;.t' ~f· ~~~tt;;: '.: '.: ::: :: '. :: ::: '.: '.: '. :: :'. '.: '. :: '. :: '. ::: :: :: ·· ·•
Cub~~~111~~:~e~oment •••.. • .•. • • ... • •. • . . . .... . • •• • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • . • ... • • •

19

Gr and Master' s &Sict. • • • • •• •• • • • ·· •• • • • • · · • •· • • • • • • •• " ' • •• •· • • • ·" · ·' •• • •

119

Grand Secretf'X)'" 1 s Coiment.e · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·::::
Report of Coimrd.t tee • •••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ' • • • • • • • • • •

.... . . ... ................. .
Curt.is, The Veey ~verend Ivol Ira
.•
Devotional sern.ce. . ........ . . .. ..... .. ........
• • • " ·' • • • '· ' ' •' • '· • •' • • ·'' '· '• • • • • • • •' ... •
Invocation - Wed.naaday • • • • • • •
O}:>ening Pr81'8r8· • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ._. • • • • • • • • • • • •

LB

282

lO

2Su

................. ......... 319

515

GRA N D LODGE OF CA LIFORNI A

514

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Extinct Lodges, lncludin& Consolidati one •••••• ••••••••• ••••••••• ••••••

0
Deci.sioM of Grand Master
32'
Reported bT Gr and Maater •• • • • • , •• , ,. , . , , • • : : : : : : •'' · · ' ·'' · ·' • ' · ' ' ' ' ' ' · ' ' • •
276
Report of Co1'1li.ttees. , • , •........ .........
'
"
"
·
·
'
"
·
•
·
·
'
·
·
"
'
·
·
·
•
·
'
Decoto Home (Union City)
Report o! Superinte ndent •• ,, . .. • , •• • •• , • •• ' ' '· .. ' · ' ' ' ' ' • • • .. ' • • • • · • ·' .. ' " l28a
394
Reaidcnts Listed
Special Reserve ~:idit "
)79
"
"
•
•
·'
·
•
'·
'
"
'
•
"·"
•
•
'
·
•
'
..
'
....
'
·
·
·
·
·
•
..
"•
•
t
Special Reserve Contri.b~
• .•• 406
..•
•
·
·
·
·
•
·
·
·
·
·
•
·
·
·
·
·
•
•
·
·
·
·
·
•
·
·
·
'·
·
·
·
·
•
ons.''
Tabulated
Degree Fees
· • ' ' ' ' · ' 466

.... ... .. .... '" ••·.. ·"" " .... .. ·'· .. ·" " .. " "'

' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' •• ' • · · · · · · •· · · · · · ' ' ' · · ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' • · ' • ' ' '

IJegree~ Conferred

Tabulated by Lodges, , • , , •• , • , • • , , • , . . . . • . . • • • • · · • • · • · · · · · ' • • ' • • • • · ' • • • • • ' •
Totals Reported •••• • •••••••• • •• • •••• • .• .. • ••• ••.•••••• •• •••• •• •••. •• •••• ••
Mol.ay'

466

Qr3Jld Master' s Comnen t,s,,.,,.,,, .,, . .. .. , •• , . , , .. · • • •• • · • • • • • • • .. . •• • • • • • •
Master's Proc1- tion ••••••••• •••••. •••..•.•. .•• a • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
0 rand al
SerY1Ce
I>eTotion
Dil':ctor s of Ma11oni.~ • c i~h~~;~

.31

.... •.... .... ....... ' ' ..... •......... .. ...... '

10

aznes or •.•• •. .. , ••• , •.••• ,.,.,.,,, ., . . . · · · • ' · · · ' · ' · · ' · · • · · • · ' · · · ' • • ' · ' · • '
Report of Berkeley
' • ' ........ . ........ ' " .. "
Report of Los A,.,.,..1" .. • .. • .... • " •• • • , .........
·~- es •••••.•• .•••..•.. .... ... ...
··· ······••• •

419

De

· ·· · ·········
(Ke1110rial. l! )
Resolutio n Presented , .. ..... ..... . .... , ••.• , : •. : ·' ' ' · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · • • • • •
liegi.Blati on . •• • ••. ••• • , • • , • , •• , , , ... .. ......
' ' ' .. " ·' '' .. " " ' ' .. " ' ' ' '
Diapelll!a tions
.
...
...
.........
New Lodges ........ .... ... .. ......
" .. ' '' ' "•• • • .... . • · •' • •
M!.scellan eous
' ' •· · ' • • •

Discret ion:uy Expenditu re

· • • •' · ' • '• ' • • ' ' • •• • •' · · · · · · · · • ' · • '· • · • · • · · ' • · · · · ' • • · '

96
4J

183

Appoint mnt,,,,,, ,,, , , .. , , • . , , , , •.•. . · · · · · · · · ·' · · · ·' ''' '' ' '· ••' "'' '' ''' •' •
Report ot
•• •••• •
•• ••• •• ' ' ' • ··• •••' ·' ' ' ' ' ••• • • · · • • • •• • • • •• • • • • • • • •• • • •• •• ••
r>u.es

F
fees for Degrees By-1.Bva • • ••• • •.••••.•• •••••••• • , ••• •• ••••• • ••• ••....... ..... 103
AJnerdznent.s to
...... 1001 L66
Tabulated by Lodge11 ............ .. ... ..... .. . .... .... .. ...... ...
. . .. . 108
.........
.
.
.
...
,..
•
..••..••.
.••.•.•..
,
.
.
..•.
Presented
Button~
Fi.tty -Year
. ••••• • J08
..
,
.•••.•
,
•
•
•
,
,
.•.••
•
.•.
•
.•.
•
•
••
,
•••••
,
•
•
.
o!
Report
e,
Filll'nce COllDitte
9
..... , .. • .. • .. • .. .. •
F1.ag Presentat ion, Special . ......... . ... . ..... . ..... ... ..
......... ..... )62
flint ·Trust Fund Audit.... . ......... ......... ......... .........
Foreign Grand Lodges e.. . . . .. . .. ... • • ... .. ... ... .. . . .. ..... . . .. ........ .... .. 204
Report of Comitte
.... 498
List of Rec ogni:r.ed Jurisdict ions ......... ....... ,... ......... .........
Forin of Applicati on
.. , ... ..
Res olution Presented .... ... . . . .. , ......... ... ... .... . .... ... . .....
, • •• • •. • •
Legis lation .. . . . . . . ........ , ....... ..... . ... ......... . .. . . ... , •••

80
)03

Function al >mendiiients C.M. C., ......... .. . ,. .. ... ......... ......... .... ... .....
Resolutio n Presented ... .
.......
Legisl ation.. ......... ......... ......... ......... ......... ............ .. ...
Funeral Reserve, Audit .... ....... .. .. , ....... ,..... .. ......... .......

279

88

380

G

7.3

295
101
102

a~~;t.;

Addressed Grand Lodge •• •• •••• • ••••••.•. .• • • :: : : '·· ' ' ' ··' ' •• ' ' · ' ' ' '· ' •• •• •
Atte~ance Lle:ted . • .• ••• •• ••••••• , ........ . :
'• • • • · · '•' • ·' " ' ' • • ' " ' " •
Distribu tion Colllllittee

483

181

'· ··· ·' "·•·' ·' 277
Diapl.ay' Nati~~i' ~i;~· ·•·'' '·' •'' '· ·· ··' · ·' · '' · · ·' ·' · '· ' ·' '''
84
Resolutio n Presented • •••• , .... ,, •. ••• ,.,, .•• • "· .. " ·" '• · • • .. .... .. • .. • ..
Legislati on
284
..
·
..
·
..
..
·
..
·
·
·
·
..
....
·
·
..
·
......
·
..
·
·
.......
.........
..
tshed
Diiitingu
Approved

••••• ••

66
65

9
164

104
...................................................... 466

BJ'"-i.va •........ ...... . . . .... ... ... ... .. . .. ......... ........ .
Alllendments tby0 Lodges
Tabulatio n

. ,. ....... 318
Ga..rels (See Calling Up Procedur es) ......... ......... , ..... . . .......
,........ ... 411a
General Appendix ......... . . ......... ......... .. , ......... ........
.. .
Grand Chaplain. . •. .• . , . . • • . .. . . .. . • • - ...••••
10
• , .•.•••• ••. , • • • • .. • • • . . • • . • • • . . • •
Devot iona.l Serrlce •••••••• , .••••••.•
. . , .. .. ... , • .. • • • ... .. .. • • .. .. • • • • • .. 254
.
.
...
...
.
...
,
•
•
q
Invocatio n - Wednelld
319
..
.. • . • • • .. • . •
Opening Pr819X" B........ . ......... ......... ......... ....... ..
120
Grand Lecturer
.. ..• .... • ..••.•
Repot"t of • . • ....••••• ••.••••.• •• •.••••••• .•• , •••• .•..•.•..
, . •••• • • • •• 120
•••
•.
•
.
•••••
•
•
•
•
••
••
..••.•
•
•
,
..•••••
.••
••
es
Conferenc
al
Divil!ion
, .. ... . 120
Candidate s Coaching Program . . ...... ... .... , , .. , •••••• •• •••• , .......
Gr aI>d Lodge Alld.i.t •••• • •••••• •••••• , , • •• •.••.•••• •.•••.•••

•••••• • ••••• • •• •• • • •

334

65
, •••••. ••••.•
Grand Lod.ges Repnaen ted • • .•• •.•••••• •• •••• • • •• • •••••• ••• .• .••••
w.)
Grand Master (See Coburn, Ira
. ......... .. . .. 212
Grand Oration . ... .. .. .... ........ .. . .. .. ......... ......... ....
95
• • • .. . • .. .. .. •
Grand Secretary , Report of. .. .. • .. .. .. • . .. .. • .. . .. • • .. • .. • • • • .. ...... , ... . ...
91
Grand Treasure r, Report of,. •••• , ...... . ... ,, ......... .........
.... .. •• 248 , 253
Grievanc es, Report o! Colll!litte e... ........ •• • . .. • .. .. ... . .. .....
. ....... ..... 363
Grose Hemor ial Fund Audit... ..... . ... . ...... .. ......... .........

E
48
Member~• Duea ••••••••• ••••••.•• • • ••••••••• ••••••• • ••••• • ••••• ••
Edict, Cuban
488
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Sine: o lll'U. i•on,
•••
•••
••••
5850
A.L.
18
April
&at
rg
e
El ection of Officers
322
• • • • ••
••••• • ••• • •• • ••••••••••••• ••• •
t:.""'I ..
' · • • · ' ' •'' •' • • ' ' • '' •
•
...............nate Homes Contribut ion by Affili t
a ea.... .
70
Re sol ut i oo Pr eseuted ......... .........
· .. ' .. ' .. ' .. " .... • • • • · " · " "• 293
Legisl ation
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
'
'
•
•
•
•
'
·
·
·
·
•
'
·
·
·
·
'·
•
·
•
•
·
•
•
•
•
)$7
E:nlployment B~;~~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · • • •
~

El¥iOW11ent 908.l"'Cl

• • • • • • • • • • • • • •' ·' • • • · ' ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ·' • ·' • • • '· • • ' '• ' '

•' ••

Composition of Board ••••••••• ••••••••• •• •

• • • • • • • "'• • · • • •
Contribu tions Analyzed •••• , •••• . •••• •• •• : • : : : ·' '• • • ' · · • · • • • •• • • '· • • • • • • • • · •

Contribu tiona Through Lod888

.Report ot

• •• ••• •• •• • •• •

••••••••• •••••••••••• ••••••••••••••••••••• ••• •

417

1)6

142
129

· ····· •·· ··"' ··•·•· · ' ·· ' ·· ·••' 380
Entertail\J ll9ni • R.;.;~;..;.; 'A :aiit·· ' · ' · •·· ' •· ··' '• '• ·• ·• •· '· •
• •• ••• ••• ' • ' • •• ••• · · • •• ••• · • ••
• ' ' • · • •• •· ' ' •
ful og1.es

262

CoUins, Ralph w.
· · · ••· · · ·' • '• ••'"' ••' •' • '• • '• ••' ••· •••••· ••· •••• J27
Xeesling, Francis V· •· P•Q•M
• · • • · • •' • • • • • •..• 255
• • • • · • • • •' · • • •..• •.........
•. : ~ •. : ,:. :.:: : ::::: : : : : : ·...
Mlscellan eouaO• •••
.....
. ...... . ...
J
Wohlgemuth
260
• • ... . .
·
..
•
....
·
·
..
•
..
·
·
•
·'
•
•
·;.;.
•
...
•
...
{~g
..
M
'j,'
·
H.'
'
ch.ri~
Wollenberg ;
e 309 , 1:-v2 Proceedin gs)
•' • • •
Exlllld.Mtion

c,·

74
.......... ......................... . 278

Reeol'ltio n Presented •••••••
• • • · • • •., •.. • •
Legislati on . •......•• • , . . .. : : : : : : : : : : '•' • • • · • • • •' • • • · • • • • · · • •

H
, .. . ... , .. .. . 171
History, Report of Colaittee ......... ......... ......... .........
e
Homes Statistic
• • • .. • 353, 383
Oper ating Revenue and Expenzle.. . •• .. • .. .. • .. • .. .. ...... • • • • • ... . ..... , • . 40S
Per Capito Expense ... ..... ......... . .. ........ .. ... , ......... ....
• • .. .. 394, L03
Residents Li&ted .. , •• • ••• , ...... , • ... • • .. ... .. • .. .. • • .. • • • .. • .. • •• , • • • • • 142
Honor RoU (Endowmen t FUDd) . ... , .. ... ... .... , ...... . ..... , •• • •••••••

J. udit
I dentify Banlc and Jlanlc Blll.ance in A'llllllal
, ••• • , • • • . . • • • ••
Relllol ution. Preeented. ••• ••••• • •• ••• •• •••• ~ ••••• , • , , •• .. • • ••
.. . .. , .. ,.
Legislati on • • , ... .. .. .. , .... . , .... .. ..... ... ..... , .. , .. ... , ... ,,
Master
Paet
Title
Confer
ation
I n Consolid
•.• . ,
Reeolutio o Preeented . .•• • •.• •• • •••• • • • •• •••• , ••••••• , • •••.••• • ..••.••
• . . . . •• • . . •. . .

76
297

...•.. .....••.• .•

U9$

I..eg·islatio ri . ••• .•• • •.•• • •••••• , •.. .. ....... . ......... ...... •

Jnspectol"I!

Li.et or ... ...•.....• •.••...•. •..•.•••• ••••.••• ••••••.• •..

83

314

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL
PRO CEE DIN GS OF THE

516

•••
of Off icer s . .• • • •. • • • • . • .. • • •• • • • • • • • •' • •' '. '' • ' • ' •' •' • •' • •''
Inst alla tion of
Lodgee
Inst itut ion
..
reta ry, .... . ,... .... ... .... • .. •• · • • • • •• ... .. .. • • • • • • •
Rep ort of Grnnd Sec
Con nitt ee. .... • • • • • • • •• • • •• • · • ····• •••• ••• •••• •••• ••·• ••
Insur ance , Rep ort of
ort 0 f
• • • • • • • • • • • ••
Inve stme nt Comndtt~e Ren
•••••••••••••• ••••
,

•

J24

•• •••• •• •••••••

lOl

241
l 7C

J

l
7, 42
•••• •••• •••• •••• ••
ited . . .... .... ....
••••
••••
••
•
•
•
·•••
Juri sdic tion s Vis
····
e
rdtte
•. •. •.. 276, 288
Juri3prudence Report of Cont
· · ••• •• • •• • • • • • · • •• • •• • • • •
on.·
•

K
M.
Kee slin g, Fl-anc1s V., P,G.
... . .... ... . .
•••• •••
.Fun eral Serv ice .... . ... ..
·••• • •••• •••• •••• ••••
•••• ••
• • .•.. .••• ••. :::: ::··
••
•
•••• •••• ••••
••••
•••.
••..
or
f
•••• •••• ••·•
Eulog)"
• ••• •• •
•
•
.
•
•
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
.
•
•
.
•
.
•
Photograph
.
•
•
.
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•• . • • . •

326

)27

325

•• • • ••

L
Leg isla tion Prop osed
ers)
Sec tion 17 (Leg isla t.i ve pow , • , •• , • • •

• · • • • • • • · ••
• • •' • ' · ' ' ' ' • • · ·' · • • • • • • ·
•••••••·•
Leg isln tion
•·••
··••
··
····
~;;)
;; ·t;· ~;[~;.;,:~;;.;,;~
Sec tion 137 (f~;.;, · ;[·;;~~;
... . . . ....
•• ••• •• ••
Arnendment Prop osed .... ....
·'" · • "· • "'" ·'" · • • · • · · · • · • • • • •
••
Ariendnent Proposed .. .• •.•.

66
288

88

Leg isla tion
• •• • •• • • • • • • • •· •• .. • •• 279
• • •• • • •• •• • • • ' · •• •• ••• ••• • •
6
sect ion 160 (I~;p;::t~;.;,)"
7
•• •
nt Pro poe ed. ..... ..... ..... . • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • •• • • • · · • . 289
Anlendlletion
.
• •..
..
•
·
·
•
·
·
•
Leg islA
•
..
"·
..
•
•
·
•
·
•
·
·
•
·•
..
"·
· Fi_~~~;)
Sec tion 193 (~ti~~·;~
88
• • • • • • . • • • . • • • •" ·' • • • • ·• • • • • • • .. • • • • • • •• .. ••
ft111e?Xllllent Prop osed . • • • • • •
•
280
··
·
·
··
···
····
····
·
Leg isla tion
·
··
~·L,;.;~;·Fi~~~i~~)···········
6
Sec tion 199 (C;,;.;,;_tt;~·;
9
••. . . •
•
•
•
•
•
•
.
•
•
•
"· • • •
•
.
•
•
•
•
.
osed
Amendment Prop
• • • • • • • • · • · · • • • • • • ·' • • • • • · • • • 292
•
•
•
•
•
•
·
•
•
•
·
·
•
•
•
•
Leg isla tion
;;_;,;~t) • • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Sec tion 246 (~~~; • ;[ •i~~;
68
•• ••. •. .
•
•
•
.
..
osed
Prop
•• •• ••• •• •• •'
t
ndmen
.~.ne
• • • · • • • • · • • • • .. · · • · • · • · • .. ··•••·•••••• 290
····
··•·
Leg isla tion
i;.;.f,;d"~~·~~}········
Sec tion 283 (c~;.t;.fb~i~~;·
69
.
•••• ••••
• .. • • • • • • • . •••
•
•
•
•
•
.
osed
Prop
nt
• •••• •••• • •••• •••• •••• ••••
c:hae
Amen
•··•·• 292
••••
Leg isla tion
••••
••••
••••
··•
··
;)··
; ·i;;·K.;~~~~·H;~
Sec tion 284 (C~~t~ib~ti~
70
. . .... .... , • • •
•• •••
Alllendment Prop osed •. , . ..•••• • •••• •.• •. · · • · · · · · • · '· · · • • • · • • • • • • • • • • •••
•• 29)
•••• ·••• •••• •••• ••••
1..eg islnt ion . •. , •••• ••.•eting}
••••
••••
•
Sec tion 324 (Place ot JDB
88
•••• • ••• • , • •
.. • " • • • •
Amen<!Jnent Prop osed • • • ••••
• •• • •• •• · • •• • · • · • • • · • • · • •
280
Leg isla tion
thi~)
Sec tion J28 (l'~;~;J.~ · ;i;
..... . .... .
• · •• • • • 70, 7 l
ft.10endiaente Pro poe ed. .....
•" • ... • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • · • •
···· .. •• •••• • •• •• 293
Legiel~tion.
····
····
"·•·
'"'"
'"""
~;)"
·~;~
Sec tion 333 (Co;.;,;,;..;;;i
•••• •• •••• •. .
• • • •.. J2, 33
Gran d Mas ter's Dec iaiol'll! .••
• • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• •• •• •• •• •• ••
• • 'l76, 277
• • • • • • • • "· • • · •
Leg isl• tion
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
••
•
·
"
•
•
•
•
'
'
•
Sec tion JJ6 (S;~j.) • •••
88
, •••• •• ,... .. . . • '· • • • • • • • •' .. ·' • '• • ·" • ·' • •'
•
Al'lend.J:ient Prop osed •••• ••••
280
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
..
•
·
..
"
•
•
..
·
·
·
·
Leg islat ion
·
u;d~; j · ·· · · · · · · · · •·
~·
Sec tion 375 (C~~ ;lld;t;
72
.... . ,. ... .
....
....
....
· • • • • '• •" •
osed
Prop
rrt
Amondme
• · • • · · • • • ·" • • · • • • • •·•
277
...
•..
•
•
•
••
•
•
..
•
•
•
•
••
•"
•
Leg1 11ls tion
·
·
·
~~~)" · " · · · · .... · ·
Sect ion J85 (~;;~~~ •Lc;d
e 61, 1962 Proc eedi ngs)
(Pag
283
oe~
• •. • • •• • '•
~me~etl Prop
• • •' •••• • • • • • •• • •. '
• •. • • • '• •. ' . • • • ' . ' .
•
•
•
•
•.
•
'
g e a ori •• ' .

··· ••·••··· •••••·••·· ·· •·· •··••••·••••••••••

;t·

IFO RNIA

517

for requ ired pro~r"1!1)
32
· .• • •··• ·••· .. ••· ·
Sec tion ulO (J::x pend iture s
.... .... .... .... .... .... ..
Gr 2nd Has ter' s Dec isio n .... .••• •• . ••.. ••• ..•. •.. . ••. • .. .••. . •. ·• • •. •. •. 276
Lcg isl• tion .• • . . ••.. , .. •••• ndi ture s )
73
i::Xpe
.... .. •.·• ·••• .••
Sec tion ull •.Dis cret ion, .ry
.. . .. .... . .. .... .... .... ....
Amcn:hnent Prop osed .... .... • • • • • • • .. • • .. .. • •• • • • • . • . .. . • . • • •• ••• • •• • • • 295
• . . •. •
Legisl~tion.... •• . . •• .
68
)
• . . • •• • . •• •• • • . • . • •••
Sec t i on 412 (Soc i;il purn. oses
• . . • • • ••. • • • . . •• ••• . •• . . .
• . • • • • • • • • • • • 280
.
•
•
.
.
•
Amendment Prop oDed. • . • • •
.
.
.
•
•
.
•
•
.
•
.
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
• . •• • • •. •
J.eg iela tion ••• ,., .. ... ...
74
Sec tion 439 (C:X,.mination) •••• •••• • , .... .... .... .... .... .... ... . .... ... , • •
.. . .... .... .. 278
....
.
'111endlllent Prop osed • • •••
.
,...
•••
,
.•••
.•••
.•.•
••.• •
Leg isla tion •••• ••.. .•.. ••••
76
!-t.s ter )
Sec tion 1.90 (Tit le o:! i'•st . ... .... . . . (i'pt'.e 61 1962 f'To ceed ings ), 74, 75, 297
/111endme nts Prop osed .. .... • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • 28J, 296,
Lep ;isl2 tion.... .... .... ,,.. ter)
Mas
e 61 , 1962 Proc eedi ngs )
Sec tion 491 (Deg ree of Past
• •..• • •• •••• •••• •••• (PRK .... .... .... ... , • 28J
A111endment Prop osed , •.•• ••••
.... ....
....
,
...
....
....
....
.
Leg isl ntio n .... .. ... . ....
77
ic.'.>l qua lific atio ns)
•••••••• •
•• •••• •••••
Sec tion 511 (!·!or ;il Hie! phye
• , , ••• • ••••
. •. .... .... t • • • • , , • • • • ,
• • • • 298
••
•
•
•
•
.
•
•
•
•
•
..
.
-~JYJenchr\er.t Proposed
.
•
.
•
•
•
•
•
,.. .. ... . .... .. . .... ... ••
Le gisl ~ti on .... ....
on requ ired )
77
Sec tion 512 (Sound di~creti ... . .... . .... .... .... .... .... .... .... .... ... ,,
• •• • 298
••
••
••
••
••
,
•.••
ftmend.n'8nt Prop osed .... ....
•
,
•
••••
,
.... .. , ••.. •••• •••• ••
Legisl~t i cn . .... ... . ....
sdic tion )
79
Sec tion 518 ( Conc urre nt juri •••• •••• ••• ,., •• ,,.. . . .... .... .... .... .... ..
, ••••
• • • • • . • • • • 279
•
•
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
.Antendrie.nt P'r'opo.sed ••••
•
.
•
•
•
•
•
,
.•••
• •••. ••.• • , ••••
Leg isl11 tion •••• •••• •••• ••
80
ica tion for deg rees )
.... ... . .... .... ....
Sec tion 527 (~o rrn of appl
. .... . . ... . .. .. ... . . , ....
.. ,... .... .. JO)
....
Amendment !'rep osed .... ....
....
...
.
.
....
.
...
... . . .... ....
Legi sla ti on .... .... .... ..
81
Sec tion 516 (ldv11ncement) •••• .••• •••• •••• •••• •. , •••• • , • ••• , • .. • • • • • • • • • •
• . • • • • • • • • • • • • J04
.
•
•
•
.
Amendment Prop osed •• ••••
•
•
.
•
.
.
•
.
•
.
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•. ••• •••
Leg isla tion ... • • • • . • • • . • •
send noti ce )
81
••• •••• ••• •••• • , • • • • •
Sec tion 57~ (Sec reta ry to
.••• •.•• •••• ••• •••• • ••••
••• •••• •••• • •... 3C>5'
Amend.Jnent Proposed . . . .....
, ••• • • • •• • • •••• •••• ••••
l..egi:isl::Jt ion •.•. ••.• .•••

•.• •• .•••

71, 82
.... .... .... ... , •••• , •
.... .... .... .... .... ....
.... .. , 29J, J06
t.mend"TDents Pro:posed • .. .
.... .... .... .... .... .... ....

Sec tion 605 (Fun eral serv

ices )

....
Leg isla tion . .. .... . ... . .... of serv ice )
n~rmer
and
e
(Tim
2
692.
ion
• . • • • • • • • • • . . • . • . • • • • 251
Sect
• . • . . . . . ••• •• . •• •• . •• •• ••
Amendr>ent . • . . . . • . . . . • . . . .
)
ion
ITliss
88
ColT
• • • • . • . .. • • • • • . . • • • • •
Sec tion 697 (Ele ctio n of
.... . .. .... . . .... .. .. . ...
289
Amendment Prop osed . . . ....
•• •. ••• . ••.• • •••• •••• ••• ,
•
••••
••••
••••
•
.
••..
.•.
.•
Leg isla tion •••. ••.• •. •
88
on of Mas ter)
Sec tion 7CXJ ( Dis qial ificati.... . . .. . .... .... .... .... .... . , .... ... .... .. . .. ,
... .
.... . 281
,...
•
••••
••••
~mendment l'rop ol!ed .
•••.
••••
•••• •••• • , •••. ••••
Leg isla tion ••.• •••• •••• •••• ice)
of Serv
88
•. •• • • • • . . • • •. . • •• •• •
Sec tion 708 (Cer tifi cat e
••• ••• •• •• •• • •• • ••• • • • • • •
• • • • .. • • • 281
..
•
,
..
Amertlrnent Prop osed , . • . • • •
....
....
....
....
.... .... ....
Leg isla tion • •• , •• •• , .... ....
88
Sec tion 721 (Ve rdic t)
, •• • . • • • • • • •• • •• • • • •
.... .... .... .... .... .... .
. . . • • • . . • • • 282
.
•
•
•
.
•
•
•
Amendl'IE!nt Prop oeed .... ....
•
•
.
•
.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
.
•
•
•
•••• •• , • •
Leg isla tion •••• •••• •••• •••• proc eedi ng )
rd of
88
• •••• •• •••• .• • • •• , • . •
Sec tion 722 (Forl11 of reco
.• , • •••• •••• •••• • • • • • • •• •
.... .... .. ... , ... 282
Amendment Prop osed • • ~ ••••
....
....
...
....
....
..
.
.. . ....
Leg isla tion.... .... . . ....
ict)
ouncement ~nd reco rdin g verd
88
Sec tion 725 (Y.i nute s or a!Ul .... .... ... . .... .. . , .... .... .... .... .... . ,. ,.
....
....
osed
Prop
nt
. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 282
,
•
Amendme
•
••..
•
.•••
•••
.•.•
....
•..• .•
Leg isla tion ••.• •••• •. •• ..
nt
Acc eler ate Prin ting Supp leme ••• • •••• •• •••• , • • • ..
66
Amend CMC Sec tion 17(d ) •.•. •... .••• •• •• ••• ••• , • . .... .... .... .... . 288
..•.
.••
d
ente
Pres
ion
olut
..
Res
....
....
....
.
..
.
.
....
....
Leg isla tio n... .... .... .... d¥ Thu rsda y
SJ
Serv ice Kaun
, •.•• •••• •••• • ,.
~ttendance Chu rch
.... .... , •••• •••• •••• •• , •••.
Resoll..-tion Pres ente d .. . .... , •••• • . ••• , •.•• • , •••. •. , ...... ... , . , . . • . • • . • • • 281'
••.
,
Leg isla tion •• • .••• ••• •••

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA
PROCE EDINGS OF THE

518

519

32
Parndie e Parle Mil$onic Club .. . . . .. ·• • . ···· .. .. .. ·• ··· •· ·· ·· .. •·•· ·· ·• · " •
Grand Mllster 1 s Decisi on . .
276
"•
•
•
......
•
•
•
•
..
•
..
•
•
·
•
•
..
•
·
•
·
•
·
•
·
··
·
..
•
..
··
·
Legisla tion •• •• • ••..•. • • •
' l< Loan l.ssn.
Permit Grand Lodge to Invost Funds vith ::!'.nsured S11Vin1:!
66
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. •..
•
•
•
·
•
•
•
•
•
·
•
...
•
•
•
•
••
•
....
.......
ed
Present
Resolut ion
• .. ··••• •• 290
..
···••·
·····
•···•••
·
•
•
···
·
..
·.·
.
•
·
.
•
•
•
•..
.•
..
.
Legi slation •••
17
Physica l Qualifi cations ••.•.• . . • • •. • . . • • .. · • ••• ··· ··• •• .. ···••• ..... ••....
Resolut ion Present ed
• • • • • • • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • • 298
Legiel ation • ••• •• •• •..• • ••••••. • • •. • • • • • • • • • · • • ..
81
Profici ency Examina tion •. • •.. ••• •. .. .....•. •.·.•·· .· · · · •·•• • ·•·•• •· •••• • ••
Resolut ion Present ed
· · • · · • • · · • • · • · · • • • • • • • 304
Legisla tion. , ••••• , .••. .•• .•• ...••. .••. . · • · . · • • • ·
Publish N~ines of Elected Cardida tea ...... . ·• .• • •·•·••• ••·•••• • • .. • ••• •••
79
Resolut ion Present ed ... .... .......
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 279
Legisla tion •••••.• •.. ... .....•.• •.. • .• · • • •. • • • • • •
by Masons
RelllOve Emble111S, etc. f rom Buildin gs No Longer Used • • • . • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
84
Resolut i on Pr1lsent ed . ••• • • • •• . •• • • • •• .•• ..• ..•..•
·• • . •••·•·• • •••· • •••• 307
Legisla tion., ••••• , . ••• •• , • • • •.•• •.• • • •• • • .•.••• ·.
s
Reeearc h Lodge Officer
(!'age 61, 1962 l'roceed inge)
Resolut ion Present ed ....•••. •.••••• ••••. •• ••• • ••
..... •••"•• • ..... ·•• • 283
··•
•
...
•·.·•
.......
.......
.
...
...
Legisl ation .. ...
32
Secreta ries Associa tions
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 276
Grand Master 's I>ec1sio n •• • • • •• • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •• •• •• ••• ••• •• •
I.egisla tion .• ... .. ..•.••. . .. •.•.... • • . •. • • • · • · • •
33
Shrine Temple, Sponso rship Baseba ll . Game
• . . • • •• • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • 277
Grand Master t e Decisio n . . .. ..... .....•. ... ....••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •• • • • •• •• • •
Legisl; ition • •• ••• • ••• •• • •••••• • •• •• •. • • • •. · · • · • • ·
27
Sojourn ers, Homes Contrib utions
0

Columbi11 Temple
. .• , .•.• • ••• , • • 28 2~
Gr11nd M<>ster' s ColTl!lents and lt~co!IU>ICnd~ tion •.•. , •..•••
, ..... .. .... , •• ' fl7
....
.......
..
....
.......
.......
.
.
...
ed
Resolut ion Presf.nt
, ....... ..... , 2LO
......
.......
.......
.......
.......
.
.
..
tee
Ile port of Col1(11it
2

Co~~!:!a;~~~~l~;; • St~d;' ' ' · · ''' · •' '· ''' •· · •'' · · · •· ••'· · · ·' · •'•

· '' •· · ••· •

66

31
..... , , • . ••• .• ••• •• • ,
Grard Master' s !le comer.d e ti ~n ..... ... ... .. ...... ..
. • .... • .. • .. • .. • .. ... 283
..
••
•
•
.
..
•
..
•
•
..
.......
.
...
...
...
..
..
tion..
Le~isl~
Constit ution Observa nce Corm,it tee, i::.xpMEion of
29
.• •• , • ••• •• • , ••• ..••...• ..•• ,..
1
~a~d Ha~ter s Recommendation • . ••• , •••••
, ... , . ... , • . . . . . . . • • . . . • • . . • . 283
gisl~tion . .. . ... •. . .... .. •. ... ••. .. . •..•
Hevolvi ng Buildin g F'und
Contri b utior~ Levied Upon Lodges 69
•• . ,, • •• ••• •••• •••.,••
~ s o luti on Present ed .••.• , ••. .•••••. •. ,, • . •..•••.
. , ... , , . .. . . . •• . . .. ;:>92
egisl,.tion ....... ....... ....... ....... , .. .. .... . ...
gs
Corners tone/De dic,.tio n Ceremon ies - Public Buildin
23
.................
Grand ~~ster 1 s P.eco111nend~tion...... . .. ........ . .......
28
3

·..

cre~:i~~~i~an;r· ;.;;t ·i~;~;;,;~ .. ·· .. ·.. ·· .. ··.... ...... .. ···· ····· ···· . .
. . ....... ....... .. , .... ,..
~esol~tion !'resent ed ..... . ....... . .. .......

•·· ••••
Disc ~!~~o~~"E~;rlit~ •(M;;,;,;.t;i;) •• ·' ••• •·· ·• · •··' ··' ••' ••'•• •••
., ., .... ... . , • • , .,, .• • , • ••••••• •• ,
:::s~luti ~n Present e<!,, •• , ••••.• , •• , ..
g1s at1on. . . .... ..... .... '' ' ' · ' • • ·' ·' · · ' • '· ' ·' '· '· • · ·' • •' ·' · '· · ' ' · · • •
Disolay llation• l )'..l:lblem
Pre~entod .. • ••••••• •• •• •••••••• •• •• •• ••• • ••••••• • ••• ••• • ·· • •
Resolut
i
L i l ion
, .. . ... . .. , ....... . .. . , • • .. • • . • . ..
~ . eg s a~ on. .... .. ....... . . . ....... ..
cs
ffili~t
I
by
ution
Contrib
homes
ate
:o.llrr.in
••••••• ••••••· ••••••
••
Laesolut ion Present ed •• ••••••• • • ••••·•• · ••• •••••••

1

67
28

9
73
295

84

284

70

••······ ·••

293

o:amiru ition
• .•.• . •••• ••. • .• • ,
Resol ution Preaente ci . • ••• • . .•.•• . . . . .. . .•... • • ..• ...• , •••• •• •.. . .••••
•..• •
.
•••••••
..
.
...
••.
..
••.•
•
••
,
•••••
.
.
...
.
.
tion
Lc:gi:sla
F onn of Applica tion
.. ... . .. . .... .. ..... . .
;::soluti on Present ed .. . .... . .... . , .. ... . .... .. ...
.. ... .. , ... •• .••••
gislation ....... ....... .. . ....... . , . ... ... ... . .. ...
F uncti ona1 Amendmen"';s C. M. C.
.••••• •. ••••• , •••••.• • • •• , , •.•••
:s~l~ti~n Present ed ....... ...... , ••• ••
•..• . .•..... ...•• ••.. .. .. ... .. .. • •
~ s At on ••••••• ••••••• • •. • , •• •....
I dentify Bank ~nd Bank B.,)Rnce i n .1- nnu•l /,udit
Resolut ion Present ed •••
Legi:1la ti0t1 ••••• ,.. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · · • • • •
In Consoli dation Conte;·'!'iti;' P~;t '~t;~
..... . ... .... .. .. . ....... .. . . .
~~;ra!~n Present ed ....... ....... .......

74
278

,. .,

egi:slat ioo .•••••• ••••• , ... • •. • . .. .... .. ······· · •· · ·· ··•••••

1

80
]03
S(l

279

83

•'' · ·' '· ·•· ·' ''' ··'' ·' '·' '· ·•'' ·· JU
•

Limit Promia~ {i~;;ti;~
0

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

• ·' •

•

•'

·is· t~ ·5·i~~;~· · ·· ····· ·· ·· ·· ··· ·· ··· ·· ··· · ··· ···· · · !lo

Resol ution Presen ted... •' • • '' • • • • "· • • • '· • • • • • • '· • • • ·' • · ' • • • • • · · · ·' · · ' · ·
.
Leeisla tion. .......
Limitin g She of
• ••• ••••••• , ••• , • •. , •• •. ••••••• ••
Res~lutti on PJ-eacnt.ed ••• •• • • • •• ••• , ••••
eg s a on . •• ••. ••• •. • .•••
.;,
Lodge Consolid ation - Cls:vU'y p;;~~d:i;
....... ....... .. . ..... . .. ... , ..... . .. .. ... .. ... .

L

1 1

76
297

Lodge;·· •••••••'. ·•• ·· ·· ··' ··· ····· ··· '' ···· ····· ····· ·• 85

JOJ

•· ··' ·· ··•·' ·' · ·' '· ··'' ·· ·· ·· ·'· ' ··

285

""g s1 a on.. .. ... .. ... ..
• · · · · ' · • ' · · · · ' · ' · · ' · '· ''
11Rsonic Insigni a, Wearing ;[ • • • ·' • · • ·' • • · · · · · '·'

277

~=s~l ut!oin Presented.~·

•
• ~ Decisi on . • • • • • . •. • • .. • • • ... • .. • . • .. .••.•.• . . •.. . ' •..
Grand
ti
L i l Master

.. •

72
33

·· ··•'· '•'• ·· ·· •·· ··•• 276
M.:isO::~c s M~e:·:. c;i.:i;.i,i ~' ' '' •·' '· '' ' · · '· · •' ''' •' '' ·
...... .

::!8

.......
~ Rec011111erdation ....... ....... ....... .......
Grand !laster'
t
...... ....... ... ....... .. .
t~ C~ttee .. ... ....... .... .. . ... ....
... .
eented ... . ...... ,, . ....... ....... .. . ... . . ..... .......
t~~

240

.. ... . ....... . .. .. ... .. ..
. • ....• · • •• .
on.•••• •••• •• ••• • . •. .• •. •·•• •• • . •• • • •• • .. • • .......

305

R:por-

~

Les~s~a

87

· •' · · ' ' ' · ' '· · ' ' ·· ·· ' · · ··• 256
Notic: to Deif~~~ ·M;.:.t,;; ••' '' · •· ·' · '' •'· · ·' '· •
=~~~~Presented . ..... ....... . ....... .....

81

• •• •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
70
••••••• ••••••• •
Resolut ion Presented..•.•.•. .•. • .•. •.••••• ····•••· •·•••••• • • • •. • • • · • • • • • • 293
•
•
•
• • •.
J.,egisla tioo. •• •••• ••• . . .. •.. . ..•••.• .• •• • • . .. • • . •
33
Square and CO!llpass , Displ.3.y of
· • · • · • · • • •• • • • • • • • • •• • • 277
Grand HAster• s Dec~ion .• •••.. • ..•• • • •. • •• · •• •• •
..
..
••
••••••
••
••
••••
••.
Legisla tion . . ... .... .... ... . . . ..... ... . . • •. • • •••
66
Third Degree Candid ates Le cture
· · · • • · · · • · • • • · · · • • • • • • )l6
Resolut ion Preeent ed ••• • ••.. ••••••. • .•. • • · · • • • · • •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
· · · • •· • •• • • ••• •
Legisla tion •• .••• , • •• , • • • •• .•.• • • · •• •·• ••· · • · • · • ·
74
Title ot Past Master
· • •• · . • • • • • • •· •· • • •• ••
•.
•
Resolut ion Present ed • •• •.• ... ..• .• .••.• • •••••• .. .. .. .. . . ... . ....... .. . 296
.......
..
......
Legisla tion •• • : ... .... ....... .. ,
7S
Title PRst Master
.. . . • .... • ..... • • .•
Res olution Present ed ..... .. ....... ..... . ... .. .......•• •• ••••••• ••••••• • • 296
••
••
•
•
•
•••
••..•••
••
•
•
•
.
.
IA!gisla t ion . ..•••• . .. . ·.•.••
Gr and· Master• 6 Comerrt. ••• • • ••••• •• ••• •• •• • • •

es

Wearing Masonic Aprons
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • JlS
Re:1olution Pre11ented •• ••••••• •• • • • • •••• •. • • • • • • • • •••••••
••• •• •••.•. ••• •
Legislati on . ... . •• . . • ••• .•• ••...• •• . . • • • •• •.•••••
ion
70
Wearing Masonic Clothin g and Encoura ge Public Process
. • •• .• •• · • • • • • • · • · • • · • • • 293
Reaolut ion Present ed • • • ••• ••••••. •••••• • •••••• • ••
•
•
•
•
•
•
• • • •• • . • • •• • . • • •
Legisla tion• ••.••.• ••••••• .•.•..•• ••• , •. •.•.•••
82
We aring of Masonic Clothin g - Funeral . ••• • • • •• • •• • • • • • • ... • •• . • • .. ·•••• •••
3oS
Re11olution Present ed • .•••••• • • ••.•
..••..•
•.
•.•
•
•.••
liegi.,latioo .• ..••••• •. .. •. .• •. .. .• .•..•.• .• .. • . ..•••.•
71
Wearing of }lasonic Clothin g - Public Process ion•.. •. •• •. •· .. ••• • ·· •· ··•• • •·
293
Resolut ions Present ed .•••.•• .••.••• ••.•••• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• • • • •• • ••• • • • • •
I.Ag·i slation • •••••• •••• • • •••• • ••••• •• • • • • • • • • • • • •
229
Library and MW!eWUt tee • •.• •• • ••••• •••••• • ••••••• ••••••• •.••••• ••••••• ••• .•• ••
ReJ>Ort of Collllli
60
Lilnit Promise Questio n lS to S Years
• •••••• • • • • • ••. • •• •. • • • • • • 303
Reaolut10'0 Pr9aent ed •• •• ••••••• •• • ••••••. ••.•.•.
•
.•
•
....•.
•
.•.
.
.
.......
..
...
I..egiela tion •••.•.. .••..•• •• ; •...•.. .. • ..... . ..
85
L1.1111.ting Size of Lodges
• • • • • • • • . •. • • • . • • • • • • • . • • • 285
Re8olut ion Preaerrl·e d .• ••••••• ••••••• ••••••• •• • ••
••
•••••••
•
•
••••
••
•
••••
••
••
466
'Le gisla.tio ri .•••• • ..• . .•••••• ••••••• • • •••• • ••.•••
• • ·• • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • · • • • • •
Ust of Comtit umt Lodges . .....••• •..•• • •••••.• • •
Lodge Consoli dRtiOll - Cl arify Procedu re
•• • 12

• • • • • •. • • • • • • · • • • • •
Reaoltttion Preaenteci•.•• • • , ••••••• . .•.••. • •• • • ••• • •. . ..• . , ....... ....... . ..
Legiala tion .•••••• ••• .•.• .. . .• . . . . ..• . •• .•.. .••••• ••

277

521

GRAN D LODGE O F CALI FORN IA
P ROCEE DINGS OF THE

520

• •• •• •• ••
Member s• Contri butiOM by Lodge1 • • • •

Lodf(e Financ ing

. ••• ••• ••••• •••• •• •••••• •• ••• •••••• •••
Grard ~ stert s Col"IT'lents . . .. . .. ......
••
. .. ..... . .. . .. ...... .... .. . _ • • •• • •••
.
...
.
....
.
..
....
.
ittee
Report of Co?rWn

29
189

J,odge"
•••• ,, ...... .. ...... . ... .. , •• ,, 503
Alph11 betic"l List •••••• •••••• , • • • ,. , ••••••
h2
•••••• • , •• ...... ...... ...... .. •
•.••••
••••••
.•
.
.
......
.
...
•
..
•
riP.s
rs.i
Annive
, • , , • • ,, .... . . .. ... , . .. .. ... . . . , 223
..
..
......
...
...
.
.
.
..
,
.i
horiz..
Aut
.rs
ChartP
37
. ••••• ,., ...... .. .. . ....... ..... . .
CoMti tuted . • •. . •••. .• . • •••.•• ••••• • , •••
39
..... ...... .. . , ,. ,, ...... ...... .... . ... ..
Insti~uted ...... ... . ...... ......
, ...... .. .. . ... . ... .. .. , ... . . ... , 466
Nu1'!er1cal List ...... ...... .. , ...... .. ...
37
• •••••• • •••• • •• • • • ••• ••••• ••• •• •••
Lo5 Al:ur1itos Lodr.e No. 809, Con5ti tuted ••
•
Hall at Los Angele s)
Los Ar.gele3 -~sonic ~~11 (See OJd Masoni c
•••.•• ••• • ••• •• •••••• ••••.• • • •• •• • • 358
Luckenbach Fund Audit •. ••••• • •••••• ••••••
Luther llurb3nk Lodge No, 752
••
21
. ... . ... . ....... .... .. .... . ...... ....
Grand M:ister ' s Coinment.s •••••• ••• • • ,
37
••• , •.•••. • , • , . , , . •• •• , • , •••••• •
Recon stituti on Cere.m.ony •••• • • , . •• • •• , •• •.

GraM. Maste r's COTl'l'\\en t • •• •• • •••••• •••

• ••• •• • • ••

381

• •••• ••••• •••••• • •••••• ••• • • •••••• •

21

• ••••• , • . ..••.••
Instit. uted. •.•• • • ••.• •• • •..•• • ••• ••• , • • .••••
Kasoni c Clubho uses
Orand 1"..ostcr s Co"'11E?J'Jts • • •• • •••••• ••••••
1

•••••• • ,..

39, 102

•••••• • , • , • • •••• , •••••• , •• • ••••••

• • ••• ••••• • • •• • •••.•• •• • • ••••••
Berkele y Clubho use , Repor t of Tru3te es ••••
• •••••• •• •• ••• • • ••• •• •• • •• •• •
•••
es
Trtll!te
of
Report
115e,
Clubho
es
Los Angel
. ...... . .. ...... . ...... . . . .. . .
....
......
......
.
....
......
.
Listed
es
Trwite
...... ...... . .. ... , ...... ...... . • ••
Masoni c Educ.! tion, Report of Coruni ttee on
...... .... . ... .. . .. ...... . •• ..
K.soni c Histor y, Report of r:o,..,..1ttee on . ......
l<.asoni c Homes
Audit
Lbt ~f. T;~;t~~;:
.. ... . .. ... .. . .. .. ...... ... , ••••
Report of EndC71rn>ent :!o:>rd .. ... .. ...... . ..
•••••• •• • •••... •••••. •• • •.••••
Report or Superintende nt, Covina .•• •• •• •
..... . •• . . ... . ... .. ...... ..... .
Report of Superi ntende nt, Union City......
• , ••• , .•.•. .• •• .. . , •.••• •• •
••••••
•
,
•
•
•
•••.•.
,
••
Report of Tnl.!'te ee . . • ••.. ,
•••• •• • • ••• •• •••• •• • •••••
••••••
••••••
•••
Costs
nd
a
Statis ti cs on Reeide nte
. ..... ..... ...... .. . . , .. .
,
....
......
...
......
.
...
,
...
Truste es Reappo inted
Fund
and
Bo:\l'd
!lent
~~soni c Homee End.Oll!
, •••• ,., • •,, .... , .. . , •. . , .. , , .. .. •
Audit • •• . ..... . .• . . . . •..... ....•. ...• , ••
, , ••• , •• , , , • ••• , •

2h

18)

lBl

hl9

138
25h

c Memori al Templ e )
160
!'.emoria l Temple (See <:.!li.f ornia 1-1.;soni
) •• • ••.••• •••• •• •••• • ••• •• ••••
16
Merit Roll. (Calif ornia Mason ic Memor ial Temple
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• •• •• ••• ••• ••• •• • •••• ••• •• •• •• ••
Me5sage of Grand ?-taster • • • ••• •• • . • ••
247
~iJea& o Ps=1?:1ents
• • •••• ••• •• •• •• · • •••• •• •• ••• ••• ••• •

420
Report o! ~ttee ••.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
• ••• • • • •• •••• · • • • •• ••• •• •• •• • •
Tabu"Ution o! P9J111Cnte •••• ••••• • •. • • • • • • • • •
21
Mount Baldy Lodge, U. D.
• •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••
39
Grand 'MA.st.er 1 s Co~nt ••• • •••• • • • •• •
•
•
·
•
·
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
· · · •· • · • · · · · · · · · · ·
223
I?\Stit uted • .•.•. .. .••• , . • .. • . • · · • ·. • • • • · •
•
••
•
•
•
••
•
•
•••
·•
·
•
•
•
••
•
•
••

225

• • •• • · • • •
Rep':lrt of Comit tee on Ch:>rt ers . • • • ••••
••• ••• · ••• •• •••• ••• • •• ••• ••• •• •• •
DispeMJJti on Contimed • ••• • • •• • ••• • • • • • •

205

II • •

, •• , , ••• , • , •••••• • . , •
Beques ts • •••.• ••.••• •••• , •••••• • . , •• ,
• , ••• •••. •••••• •••••• •••. , •• , •• • •••••
Co!Tl'Oents of Grand Pi:\3ter .••••• ••••••
•••••• •••••• •
h Lodges • ••• , •• •• •••••, •••••, ,••• • ••• •• •

Honor .Roll . . ... .. . .. . . . . . .... . ...... . . , •••••

• , •••••• • .•. . • •. . .•• , , , • • , • •, ,

J50

l28c
l28a
12)

405

)23

357
1)8

26

142
142

...... , ....... .... , • • Ul.7

, , •.. , .. . ....
HePtbers and Of!ice rs, 1963-64 •••..• . . ..••
... , ••••• •....• .•..... ••...• • ,.
Memorials . . ... . . ...... ...... ...... .. . ......
, •••••• •••••• ..• , ..•••• .•••• , •
••••
,
•••
,
•••••
,
tttster
Grand
of
on
Procla mati
. . , ..... .... . .. .. . . ...... . . . ... ..
.
......
.
.....
.
.
,
••
•
••••••
Board
ot
Report
...... .... , ....... . , .• • • , , •.• , ••
Teru of f4eln):)ers • . . . ... .. ...... ...... ......
•• •• •••••• •••••• •• • •

•. • • • •• •. •• •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Necrol ogy ,. H.eport o! Comit t.ee • • .•.•••

254

• •• •

223
Jjew Lodge:<
• •• • • • • •· •••••• • ••• •• • •• •••••• ••
37
Charte rs Author ized. ..•... .. . .• ••·•. • ·• · ••
•• .... ·• .... ·•• 102
·
·•
•
..
•
••
•••
•
•
...
.
...
..
.
..
....
....
.
Consti tuted .... . . ......
• ...... . • ., 101
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
·
•
•
..
..
•
•
•
•
..
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
...
.
.
.
Dispen eationB . ..... .. . ....
.. • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 39 •
Instit uted . , • •• •••• • ••• • • , •••• •• •••• • •• •
81
Notice to Delinnuent hember
. ... . ... ... • . • •. •.•• • .·· • •• • •••••• 30S
Resolut ion Presen ted ...... ...... ...... ..
•••
•
•
•
•
•
•• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
1'egis l ation .. . ...... . ...... . .... .. . .. .. .. •

171

::::::: ::'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :·:: ::'.::::: ::: ::: hl8
129

Contri bution s throug

96
466

• • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . • • • • • • •• • • • •

Grand Secret ary 1 s Report • •• • • •. • • • • • • •
•• • ••• • •••••• •••••• •••• ••• •• •• • ••••
T11bul11.ted b1 Lodges •• •.•••• •••••• • • •••
• .. • •• • • • • • .. • • .. • • • • • • • • •· • • •• • .. "
Me1110rial Contri butiON ! . ... ..... • .. •• .. • •
• • • • • • · • • · • · · • · • • • • · ·• • • • • • • • · • • • • • • · •
t1emor1al Senic e ••. , •••.• • . • . • • • • • • • • •

N

M
••. • • •••••• • • ••••. • • • • • • ••••
Major Pl"'ojects Reserv e Audit ••• • . •• •• •

Manha ttan Lodge, u.n.

He!llber ship

h66

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • •

1)8
1W
129

1)6
2)h
••••••
••••••
•
on
.ttee
COl!fti
of
Report
ation,
Inform
~Ollie
.ttee on
Ma11onic Infonn ation - RecommendRti ons , Co111!d
•• • ••••• ,. . . ...... ...... . .... , 2)6
!lec0111nend:.ti ons •••.•• ••• • •• ••• , •• , ••• ••••••
, • ...... .... , ...... .... . ...... . .. 266
Report or Co!lni ttee ...... .. , • ., . ...... . ,
Masoni c Insigni~, Wearin g or
33
.... ...... .. .. ...... .. ...... .... .
Grand Maste r' s Decisi on ..... , ...... .... ,
. . .. . ...... .. , ... , •• ..••.• • • , • 276
Legislat i on . . . . .... . . ..... . , .. . . , .. .. .. , .. ..
Ma.soni c ~usewn - Colunb ia
28
•• • •• • •• , •• • •• . . . •••.•. . . •• ••••
Gram Master ' s RecOS11Erdation . • •• • ••.• ••••
, •••••• •••• , ••• • .. . , •• , ••• • • •• • • 2h0
Report or Co1'1J1d..t tee •••• . , • • • • , •• • ••. • , , • , ••
•
87
, , • ••• •• •••• •• •• • •••• •• • ....... .... • •
Reeo lution Pre~ented . • • •. . • , •• •• , •••
••••• • •••••• •• , •• ,.,. •• 286
Leg 1elatio n . .•... ... .. ~ .•.. • .• • , ..• ,, .••••• •.•• ,.,
e111}
Pract1c
c
l Conlld.ellion on Muoni
Mason ic Practi ces Col!l!li ssion (See Specia
• •••.• , •• , •••••• • •• , , •. • • •••••• •• • 2h6
:st.er Mas on.s ' Attend ance .•.. . . . , . . . •• . •.•
l"'1' ••• , •• , , ••••• , •• •• , •• • • • • , • 105
Secret&
GraJXi
by
Listed
s
Change
et ing flace -

0
)22
Office rs of Gr And Lodge
.... • • • • .. • • • • • .. • • • • • • • · • • "• • • •
65
Appointment of for l963-6 L .. ...... .... • •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•·••·
•·•·•·
••
•
•
••
ions ••••• •••• • •.•
322
~tt.en::tance frOl'I Other Jur isdict
•
"
·
··
•
•···
...
•
•
...
·•
•
· ... • .. • ••
324
<:lecti on of. .. .. .... ... . ...... ... ... • .. ••
• • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • · • • • ·' •'
7
Ins tAllcd for 19~3-64. • • • .. · • • · • · •• • ••• •• •• ••• •. • • • • • • • • • • · • • • • • • • · • · • • • • • • •
L8B
Presen t at Col!l!lw;ics tion ..••..• ••••••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•.
•
••
•
•
S1 nce Org~nization • ••.••• • ••• • •••• • • • • ••••••
27
Ol d !-\l>sonic H~ll ~t Lo~ Aneelcs
•• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
B8
Ctrard MR.st er 1 s Co~ nt s . •• ••••• •• •••• • • •
••
•••
•
•••
••
••••••
.
••
••••••
•
.
•
•
••
,
•.••
280
Res olutio n Presen ted .. . • , •. • . , ••.•••
• • • ..
......
•
•
•
•
•
..
•
..
•
•
•
••
•
..
..
.
......
.
223
Legisl Ation .. .. . .. . . . . . .. . . . ......
• ... • •.. • • • • • • • • • •• • .. • · • • ..
7
Old Wes t Lodge No, Al ) , Cllllrte rerl ...... .. .. ..... ••• • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • • • .. "•
•
••
,
••
•
••••
319
Opening or l J..4th Anllllal Coimn .micati on
.. . . . •• • • • • •
....
......
.
......
......
......
..
.
,
.
.
.
212
Openin e Pr11;yers .. . ... . ......
•••• ••• ·••••• ••• •• •••••• •••
Oration by Grahi Orator • •••• • • • .• ••• • •• e• • •• •••••

p
32
Paradi se Park M;is onic Cl ub
• • . • • . • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 276
Orc.nd 1-111.ster 1 E: JJecis1 on . ••• • • •• • • • ••••
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• .. . .• • • · • · • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Legisl.a t.ion . • . •••. . .. ..•.• • ••• , ...... . . .
Paet Grand t!Ast ers
• •••• • • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • h88
List. S ince Org~nization . •• •• ••. , • , • • , • • •••
8
•.•• • •••••• •• •••••• •••••• ••••••
•.•
•
•
.
.
.....
•
.••..
cation
i
Commun
Presen t at
.. . • ••• • • • • • • • •• • • • • ... • 65, 66
...
......
......
....
.
.
n
icatio
Cornun
at
Visit ors
.. .. . . • ... •• •. • •• •••• ... • ••.. . 255, 264
Pitst Master s - llecrol oe Y Report ... . . . . . ..
2L7
Pay of Members
• •••• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • •• h21
Report of CoTT111.it tee .. • • • • •• ••. • •• • • • • • ••
• • • • • •.., • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
• •• • •. • • • • • •
T.:"bul:ttiori o! P1=1Y'J"E!'llt9 •••• ,,., . , ... ,. • •
. . •• e •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Per Cttpita Cost o! Homes Oper at i on., . .
•• , • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Per C1tpi":..a Payinent by Lodgee • •••• • •• • ••••
t

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

'

•

•

•

•

•

405

466

522

•• • , , •• •• , • , , •• , , • , • , , •
Perine EndCJ11111ent Fund Audit ••••• •• , •• •• • , , , , ••• , • , •••
&: Loan Allan • .
SaVings
nsured
I
h
t
i
v
Funds
Invest
to
Lodge
Permit Gra nd
, . .. ,., .. , .. ... . . ..
Resolut ion Present ed , •••• , ... .. .. . . . . . ... . .. .... .. .. ..
, ••••••• • ••• , • • • ••
••
,
•••
••
••
••••
•
••••
•
•••
•
•
,
•••
•••
•
,
,
•
••
,
•
•
••
•
on
i
Legisl at
Phi lippines , Textbook e !or
• • • , , , • , • , , • , • , , • , ••
Report of Coir.mit t ee. , ••• •• , • , , , , , , • ••• , • , • ••••••• • , • ,
PhJ'aical ~ual1!1cations
, • ••• • , ••• • • • , • • •
Resol ution Pre sented ., . .... , • • • • • , . .. ........ ...... , ....
, • ••• • , • • , •• ,,, ••
Legislat ion .• , • • .• ,, ••• , ••• , ••• •• ,.,. , •• • ,,, , • •••• , , ,.,.
Plaza de Los Angele1 Lodge No. 614
Gr and Master' s CoaneJ'lt • • • ••• • •• • ••• • •••••••• •••••••

523

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

P ROCEED INGS O F TH E

• • , •• • • , • • • , ••••• , • • • •

360
66
290
203
77
296
21

, •••••••• , •.• , • •• , ••
96
Re,J>Ort o! Grand Secre ta.ey • • . • •• • • • • , •• •• • • , • , • ••••• , •
. ...... , ... . . ... .. . . .309
Report of Collllllitte e o n Finance • • • , . ...... .. . ...... .. .
•
,,.,,
,
,
.•
,,,,,,
)9
•••••
••
.•
•••
Inatitu tOO. . ... .. .. ••• •.. •. .••••••• •••... .. .•.
.. .. . .... .... . . . 22)
Chartere d., ....... ..... ........ ........ . .. . . . ... . ........
•• ••• • •••••••• •••• 262, 266
Policy and Genera l Purposes , Re port of Co111111t t ee on ••
Procl.a.llat ions
L7
• •. • • •• • •. •• • , , , •• • •
Constitu tion Observan ce .. . .• • ••• •..•• • •• • •• , , •• • •• ,, • •
.. .. ... .. .. ... ... .
L3
De Mol ny ... ... .. .... . ... .. .... . .... . .. ... .... .. ........
L6
... . . ..... .. .... . .. .
Let Freedom Ring ... ....... . . . ... . ... . ........ . . , .... .
, .... . ., • ., • , .. . . , ,
44
Ma11onic Homes .Eixlcnmen t Month,. , • • •• , • , • • •••• ••• , • , • ••
,, ••• , •• , •• • • • • • •• •
L5
Public Schools Week .• .• .•• .••• ••• . •• •.•. • • • , • • ,, ••• , ••
Proficie ncy Exalrlna tian

•••. , .,., •.••• •
Resoluti on Presente d .... .• .• , .. . ......... . . ,, . • , , .. .. •.•.• •,
• •••• ,,, ••• , ••• ,.

,•
Legielat ion ••• • •• • ••• . •••••••• , •• • • • • • ••• • ••• •• •• ••• •
Public School.ll
... .. ... .. .... , ••• • •
Declicati ons ... .. . ~ . ....... .. .. . . . ... . . . .. . ... . ....... .
.. ..... .. .... ... . . . .
.
....
...
......
.
.
........
..
....
Co1D1Mnts
.aster's
Gr~nd !"
. ......... ..... . .....
.....
•
••
•
•
••
•
•••
•
•
•
,
••••.
11Aater
Grand
by
ion
t
P'roclaina
••• • ••• •• •• ••
Report of CoJTIDi.ttee • ••• ••• . .. .. ..... . ......... .... . . , ••••••••
Publish Names of Elect ed Cand1dat ee
.•. , •• . , • • •• , • • • • • • •
Resol ution Preeente d . ••• •••.•• • ••.• • •••••• , •••••••• , •
.. . . ..... ... .. ,.. ...
Legislat ion ... ........ , .. . ....... . ... .. ..... .. ... ... .

61

)~

YI

)o

L5

202

19
279

R
• • •••• • , •• , ••• ••••

39

• • , •• , • •• •• • ••• ••
Report of COlllll.ittee . •••• •• • , • , •••••• , •• , • • •••• ••, • • •••• ,, • • ••• •• •• , •• , • • • •
Recogniz ed Juri:Miiction.s ... .. .. , • . •. . , •• • , •• .. • ••••• ••• •

1'98

Receptio ns and Breakfa sta Reported •••• • ••• • • • •• • • • ••••••••
Recogni tion of Foreien Gr a nd Lodge e

2C>L

Reconnen dations of Grand Milster
. .. ...... .... . ., 31, 307
Call!orn ia Freemaso n . ....... .... .... .. .. . . . .. ..... .. ,
• • , • •• • • • •• •••• , , 29, 286
Col u.ni>ia Tel'llll e . • •. • • • • ••• • • •• • • .•• • •. .• •••• , • • • • •••
• •••• • • •• • • •••• 32, 283
Committ e e Structur e Study . . • • •••••••• •••• • ••• • •••••••• ,....... . ...... 29, 263
Consti tution Observan ce .. . . . .... .. .. ... . .. . ... , .......
• • •• • • • •••• ••• • , 2), 26)
Cornerst one/ Dedicati on Ceremon ies - Public Building s •
•• •• •••••••• •• • , J6, 263
•
e
nc
Continua
e,
PrActice
11.osonic
on
on
Special Commissi
• •• • •• •• ••• •• ••••• 420
••
•
•
•
•
•••
•
••
•
•
••••
.
•
...
•
.
PA.)'Jlents
Mileage
Regis tration arrl
Masons
by
Used
r
Lont':e
no
ill8s
d
Buil
om
r
f
.
etc
elll.S,
Remove &nbl
84
.•

• ••• • •. •. . • . . . .
Heeolut i on Presented.. . . . . . • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • •
•• • • • •

Legiel ation • •• • •• ••• • •••• •••• ~ ·· ··•• ••••••• •• ••••••• ••• ••• •

• ••• • •••

Reports o! C0111111 t t e es

•• • ••••• • ••••••
Board of Control • ••••• • • •• •• •• •••• •••••••• •• ••• • • • •• • • • •••
. .. . . .. ..

307

155

. ....
11>7
By- Lav5 , , ,, ........ . ... . . .... . .. .. .. .. .. ... ........ ........
....... ... . .... . , •• 226
..
........
........
........
..
..
.
.
..
.
........
.
ies
Cemeter
•••
•••
•
•••••
•
••
223
. • • ••
Charters • • •• , , , , •• • • •• •• • • , ••••• •• • • , •• • ••• • • .• • •••• ,
........ .... . . ,. .. 2L.l
Code Co11111issi on .. . ,,, . .... ...... , ........ .... .. ........
•
••
,
...
..
..
.
.
....
.
2LO
..
.....
.
Col u..bia Temple . ... .. .. . ...... . ... ...... , ... ...
•• • • • • • ••••• • •• • ••• ••• • 266
Combined COlllnitteee • • , • •••• • • • • • • •• • •• •• • •• • • • ••• •
••• •• , ........ , ••• • , 172
Connerci al iam•• , •••••••• • • , .. , • • •• , . . ... . , ••• • , . .... ,
•••• ••• • •• , .. , •• •• •• 166
Constitu ti on Obaer TIUlce .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . . . .... ..... . , • ,
.. . ... .. . . . .... . 200
Correspo nde nce ... .... . .. .. . . , • , ..... , .. ..... . , .... . ......
. ...... .. .. . ... .. . . . 2L6
Credenti ala ... ... ....... . ... . . . .. , • • , . . .. . .. .. . . . ... .
..... . . .... .. . . .. l.6li
Distribut ion .. . .. . .. .. . ... . ... , ........ . .. ........ ......

Finance •. •• .•• . •.•••••• • • • , ... . , . . . •. •....• , •• • • . • , ••.•••

, ••.. • •.... , • . ••

306

Grievanc e:1 . . .• .. •. . . •.. ...
Ineura.nce ... •.. . . • • . . .• . .•.• · . • •. .•. • • · • • • · • • · · • •
t

•

•

•• •

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

246, 250
• • • 2Ll
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
·
•
•
·
•
•
•
•
•
•
•••
•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

174
" .. . ........ . . .. " (, 266
I nvest 11111nt .. . .. . ... • .... · • • • • • • • • . ....... . • .. ..... . . •
•
27
•"
•
•
•
•
...
•
•
..
•
..
•
•
..
•
..
229
Jurisp?'\ ldence • • •. •• • , . .. . . . .. .... ... · · • • • .. •
• • • • · · • • · • • • • • • • • • • • 185
Libru-y Commiss ioners •• ••. • . • • • • • • • • • · • · • • • • • • • · · • • • •
· •• · · · • • · • • • • • •• · • • •

·•
Lod.ge FiMnc ing .. . .. .. . . . . · · · • • · · · • · · • • • • • • · · • • · • • ·
Masonic Clubhous es
• ••• ••••• •• • ••
Berkel ey . •. .. . .• ....... .. . ..... . ••• • • • ••••• •• · ••••• • ••••
• • • • .-. • • • • • • • • • •
Los A~eles . .... . ... .. .. .... . . · · • · · · • • · · · •• • •• • • • · • • · ••
· ···• • · · · • ··· ••••
Masonic Educatio n •• .•. • • • •• ••• · .··· · · · ··· ·· · •·•· ·•· · ····
.. • • · • • • • • .. .. • • • • .. ; .. • • • • •
Masonic History .. . .... . .. . . . . • • • · · · .. • · • • • • • ••••
•.. • • . ••. •• . • • • • • • •• • • • • • •
Masonic Homes Endovme nt lloard . • ••.• . • . ••••••

163
161
205
171

129
123
.. 23L
·"
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
..
•
•
..
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
·
...
...
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
...
on
Masonic Info?'ll.ati
159
• •• •••• •• •• ••• ••• •••
Memorial Tenq>le Trust ee!! . .• • . •. · ·, · · • · · • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
··• 255
·
··•
·
··•
·
•
··
·
•··
·
•
•
·
·
·
•••
•·
••
·
••
········
•
··
·
••
•
•
•
••
2L7
Necrolog y•••••••• ••
• •··• • • .. • .. •• •• •• ... • · • . .. . 286
Pay of Members ........ ... ... • · · .. •• ·• · .... •. ..
.. ... . . , •• •• •• •• • •• • • • •• • • ••• • 262,

••••••••••• ••••••••
~.a.sonic Hornes TriJ.Steee • .. • .• • ••. • · • • • • • •

•••• •••• •• •• ••

Policy ard Gener:tl. Purposes . . .. ......
• • • .. • • .. .. .. • • .. • • •
Public Schools ..... .... . . .. . . .. ... • • .. • · · • • • • • · • •• •• •• ·••• •• .. •• • . .. • .. • ·• • •••
Recogni tion of For eign Grand Lodges .• ... . • • · ... .
. .. . '····· .. ·• •• • •
Ritual. .. . ..... •• • . . ..... ..... ....... .. .. .. . .. ... •· ....
• .. •·• • •·••"•• · · ••
Sojourn ers . . .. , . .. . .. . •.• .. • ·• .. " · .. •• • ·• · .. · ·"••· .. . ... . .. ..... .. . • ••
Special Colllllissi on on Masonic Pract i ces . . .. .. . . ........
•• •• • .. • •• .. .... •• •
T8X8ti on • • •• • • •• •••••• • •• • • ••• • •••••• • • • •• ••• • · •• ·•• ••
Reports of Of ficers
•• • •••• •• ••• ••••• • ••
Grand Chaplain - Devotio nal Service • •••• •• • • • •• ••• •••
• .... ··•• · ·• .. • .. · ••
Grand Lecturer . .. .. .. . . .. . .. .. . . ..... · · • · · · ... ··• .. ··

202

• •• • ••• • • •• • • • ••• •
Grarrl Orator . ...... ... . ... . ... . . . • . •• ••• .• · · • • ·• ••·••··•
· • • .... • · · · • • .. "•• •
Grand Secretar y . .. ........ . ........ . . •• ... .. .. .. · • · ··

212

Grarx:t Ma,et er • ••• • •••• •• ••••. • •••• • •••••••• • • ••

• • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

• •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Orafld. TreasUl" er • • • •• • •••• • •. ..• ••• . ••• • • • • • • • • •

••• ••• •••

204

315
237

51

2L3

10
120

J.6

95
91

Repr esentati vee of Lodges
• .. • • •• • • · • .. • .. • • • 2L6
Atteooan ce Reportod .. . .. .... . . . . .. .... .. .... .. .. . . . . ..
• .. ···• • .... •· ·•· .. L20
·
..
.
••
..
..
..
..
•
•
..
..
....
.
..
...
...
.
ce
Roster of Attendan
Officers
Lodge
Re search
61, 1962 Proceedi llgB)
Resoluti on Presente d . .. ...... . ....... .. . . .. . .... .. (Page
• • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 263
1.,egisl a tion •• • • • • •••. , • •••• • •• •• •• • . • • . •• •. • •• • • • • •.. • • • • ••• • . • •• •• ••• •• 377
• •. •
Reserve for Addition11 and Repl acet11enta - Audit • • • •• • •
. . .. . .... ... . • .. . .... .. 377
Reserve Fund Audits ... .. ... .. .. .. ...... .... . . .. .... . .
Residen ts at Homes
L02
Covi:n.a .. ... ... ........ .. ... .. . .. .. ... .. .. . . • •• •• • • •

· •••• ••· •• ••• ••• ••• •• ••

.. .. . ..... .... . . . .
Union City, .. ... .. ..... . . .. . ... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .. ...
.. .. .. . . .. . .. . . .. .
Statisti cs . .. ........ ........ .. . ....... .. ........ ......
••• ••••••• ••.• •• ••• • • • •
Residen ts 1 Accounts Audit •••••••• ••• • •• • •• •.• •• , • ••• •
Resoluti ons ( Also see Legisla tion)

• • • • • • • • • •. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
'PI"esente d •• •• : •••••• • •• ~ •• • •••••• •• • ••• ••• •••
••••••• •••••••••••••••••••
Witldralf'Tl •••••••• •••• • • ••• • • • •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
• • • ••••••••

•• •••••••
Ritual, Report of Coasd.t t ee on• • • • ••• • • •••• ••• •• •• ••• • • •
••·•· ·· •· · • ·• • ·
Roll Call •• , ••••.••. . • • •• • ... .• , • •. •• •... • ...... . . · .. •.·•••••

s
... .. .. • •• •• • • .. • •
Scepter Lodge No . 806, CO!llltitut ed...... .. ........ ........ ...... . . . ........
. .. ...
.
.......
.
.
,.,
.
..
.
.....
.
.
.
.
.
.
...
Audit
Fund
hip
Scholars
Secret ariea Associat ions
. • • • . . • • •• . • • • • •• • • • • •
Grand. Master'8 I>ecis i on. ... . . . ... •• • . . . • . •• •• • • • •• • •

393

L~

365

66
90

3lS
7, 6

37

364
32

276
I.,egislation. .... . ... .. ... .. .. ....... . ... . . . .... .... . . . . ........ ....... .. .

Sessions of Co111Dunication
• ••• •• . • •• •. •• •• ••• •
Mom a:y- Momi.Ilg. • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • •
•• •• •• •• ••• ••• ••• •• ••• •••
Morlday Arten1.0on • •••• , ... . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
. .. . .. . ... ... . . .. . .
Tuesday- Morning , ... ... . .... .. . .. .. . .. ... ........ ... , ..
. . . .... , • • • • • • .. .. ..
Tuesday Afternoo n. , •• •• • • •••• • •• • •• •• • ••• • • , ...... ...

Wednesda y Morni.ng •••.• • ••• ••• . • • •• • •• • •• • ••••• , .. . ... .. ...

. . . . ••• • ••• •• ••

. .. . .... , •••• • •• ,...
Thursday Morning .. . ... . ..... . .... , .. . ........ . ... . ...
..... ... ........ ..
Thursday Afternoo n... . . .. ... ... . .. .. .. . . .... .. .. . . . . ...
••• ••• •• ••• ••• •• •••
fi i d"y Morning •• • • , , • , • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • • • .. .. • .. • • • • •
. • • • . • • • . . • • . . • • • • ..
Ft-ida.y" Afternoon... .. . . . . . . . • . . • • • . • . . . . • . •• . . . • • . • • • .

7

65

166
212
2116

276

288
316
321'

524

Pl<OCEEDINGS OF THE

Shrine Te~ple, SponBorshi~ Baseball G~l!2
Gt-and Master's Llecision ..••••...• , .•••.....••••.... .•...••......•..• • , . • •
J3
Legislation ............ , .... ......... .... ...... ....... ...... . ......... ·.. 277
Sojourners , Homes Contributions
Grand M.ister's Co111J11Elnt , ....... , • . .. .. .. . . . . . . • • .. • . .. • .. • .. .. • .. . . • • • ... •
27
Resolution Presented •••• •• , •• • •.•• ••..•.. .. • .•.• .• • .•.. •.••.. •.••.•. •. •• ,
70
Legislation •••••• •• , ••• •••• • •. •.••. ...•. ••.••. ....•• ..•.•.. .•••... •.• .•. , 293
Sojourners, Report of Coinr.dtt ee on.............. .................. .......... 237
Special Appendix...... ... .............. . . • . • • . . • • . • . • • . • • • . . . . . . • • • • • • • • . • • • 332
Special Cere~':>nies Reported.. ..... .. ..... ..... . .. .. ............ ... ..... .. ...
J8
Special COTl!r.lission on H.,sonic PrRctices
Grand Master's Comment~ and Recommendation~. .......... ... . ............ ...
34
SU11VMry Rel!1<lrks and Report of Commission.... . • • . . • • . • . • . • • • . . . . . . • • • • • li9 , 51
Heport of Committee ........ ,, ............. ... ........... , ............... , 283
Special Cormri.ttees ... ... ;. ........ .... ...... ....... ..... ....... ...... ..... •• ul5
Sr>eci~l Communications Reported, •••.. .. , ,.... . . . . . . . . • • . • . • • • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • •
37
Square ~rxl Compass, Display o!
Grand ~:aster's Decision •.••. •... . . .•• . ... .••..• .•.••. ••.••.••••.•••••• ,.,
33
Legisl~tion .•• ,., •• • •••••...• , ••.. .....••.. .•.. •.... .•.••. ......•• ••••• • ,
277
Standing Comittees,. ... ....... ...... ................. ..... ... ....... . ...... 412
Student,e ' Loan Flllld Audit ........ ...... ... ....... ...... ............ ... . ..... 364
Supplel'lental AppropriAtions
Auditor's P.eport ................. ........ ... .... . .... ... ................. 343
?irulnce Comi.ttee Report .... ......... ... ...... ....... .... ..... , .. ........ 308
Grand Treasurer's Report ..... ...... ........ , ... ...... ..... ,., .... ... .. ,..
91

T
Taxation, Report of Col!llli.ttee on •••••••••••••••• •• ••••••••••••••••• •••••••• , 243
Telegrams
Sent........... .................. .................. .................. ....
9
Received.. ........ .... ........ ....... . .......... .... ........ .. ......... ..
9
TestalllCnt ary Gi.rts.... .. ...... .......... • • . . . • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • • • 1)8
Text.books for the Phillp¢.nee
Report or Col!lllittee........ ..... •• • .. ... •• • . • . • • • • •• •• • • • .. .. • . ... ... • •• • 203
Third Degree Candidates Lecture
Resolution Presented..... .................. ... ......... ..... ...... ..... ..
86
Legisl~tion........ • • • • • • • • . • • . . • • • . . • • . • . • • • • • . . • . • • . • • • . • . . • . • • . • • . • • • •
316
Title of Past Y~ster
Resolution PreSetlted.... •• . . •• • • • • . • . .• . . . • • • . . • • • • • • . . . • • • . . . . . • • • . . • . . •
74
Legisl11ti':>n ••••••• , ••• ••••.. .•• ••.••••••. .••••• ..•• ,..... .. ... . . . . • . . . • • • 2~6
Title of Paet Y~ster - In Consolidation (See In Consolidation)
Title Page .. ............ ,................ ......... . • .. • .. .. . . . . . . . . • • .. • • • ..
5
Title Past ¥.aster
Reeolution Presented• • • ••••• ••••••••••••••••• •• •• • . , • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • . • • • •
75
Legislation .. .. .... .. ...... . ................. ........ ..... ,.............. 296
Triad Lodge No. 812, Chartered .... ... ...... ..... ........ ............... ,.... 223
Trial Records
Reported by Grand Secretary. .. . .. ...... ...... .......... ..... ...... ....... 105
Grievances Committee Report......... .. ......... ... . .. ... . . . . .. ... .. . 2hB, 250
Trusteee of Masonic Homes
Annual Report..... • • • • • • • • • . .. . . • • • . • . . . . • . . . .. .. • • . • • • • • . • . • .. • • • • • . • .. • 123
Reappoioted.. .... .... ......... . ................. ................. ........ 323
Listed ................. ................. ............... ,, •• ••••••• ,...... ulB
Trust Funds Audit .... ........ .... ....... .... .... ......... ..... ...... . . . . . . ,. 356

u
Unappropriated Reserve Audit ................. . .. ....... . ... , •.•.•.•• ,,• ••,.• J82
th!iniehed Business for 1964
Form of Application ... . . .. . ................. ..... . . . .......... ... 80, 303, 304
Fllllct~onal Alllerxlments C.M.C., Section l )7a ..•.•.•• • .....•••. •• .•••••• 88, 279
Trial Record 1797 •••• .• ••••••• • •..• .••.• ••.•.•••••••••••• ••• .••• ••••••• • , 251

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

525

v
Veteran Buttons Presented
50 Yet1r autt ons . .••.• .. . . ..•.. • •. • · · • •. · · · · · · • • • · • · · · · · • · · · • • • · • · • • • • 96, 108
Victoria Pal.ms Lodge No. 810, Constituted.. .. ....... ... . . . ............. .. ...
37
Visitations to other Jurisdietio~•· · · · ····················· · ····· 17, 18, 19, 42

w
Wadleigh Fund Audit .• ••• , •• .•.. .•• •••••••.•. •.•• • ·.•• • •.•.•·········•• ·• •·•• 361
•,.rearing Masonic Aprons
Res ol ut ion Presented ................. ................. .... • · ........ •• •··
85
Legislation .. ...... .... .... ......... .. . ................. • .... .. ..... • •• .. 315
Wearing >lasonic Clot hing arv:l Encolll'agc Public Procession
Resolutiort Presented • ••••••.••••.•.••• ... . .. •• ••. . .•....•.......... · • • .. •
70
Legislation ......... ...... ...... ...... .. .......... ....... . • ........ •· .. •· 293
Wearing of Masonic Clot'hing - FlUlcral
Resolution Presented ........... .... ...... ........ .. .......... .. .. •.• .. · • •
82
Legislation••.• • • ••••• ••• , ................. ... .. . ... • •. • •• ••• ..• • • • • • • • • • 306
Wearing of ¥~sonic Clothing - Public Procession
Resolutions Presented ••••••••• , ••••• •... ••.•••• • ••••••.••. • .•..•• ••· •••••
71
Legislation ....... .. .......... ..... ......... . ...... ..... • • • .••••. • · · • • • • • 293
William B. Ogden Lodge, U.D.
Gra nd Master 111 C011111ent ••• , ................. ................. ........ • .. • •
21
IMtituted . •• ................. . ...... ................. .............. • 39, 102
Wohlgenith, O. J,
Eulogy- for •• •• ••••• ••••• ••••.• .....•... ..• .• .••••••••••.••••• •••••• ••. • • • 260
Wollenberg, Charlee K,, P.G,K.
co-nt3 ... , ... . .... ... ........ ........ ... .... .... ......... ... . .... ... ... 255
Eulogy••• ,................ .... . ................. (Page 309, 1962 Proceedings )
Woodland Hill s Lorlge No. Bll , Constituted...... . . ... ... ........ . .. ....... . ..
37

