ROY J. DENVILLE
Grand Masters come and go, each leaving a bit of himself in the annals
of Freemasonry in California and Hawaii. Roy J. Henville, the 119th Grand
Master, is certainly no exception.
Born in Rockville, Missouri, on August 11, 1913, he came to California
at an early age, attending public schools of Los Angeles and South Pasadena.
He graduated from South Pasadena High School, where he competed in track
and established a cross country record that stood for over 20 years.
Undaunted by the economic problems of the Great Depression, he married the charming and supportive Elinor Phares on March 7, 1935. She was
his sweetheart since the fourth grade. She has proven and continues to prove
his wisdom in this choice. A daughter, son and two grandsons enhance his
immediate family.
While working hard as a salesman and, later, as a food broker, to sustain
his family during the hard times, he soon became a Mason, being raised in
Three Pillars Lodge No. 613 in Sacramento on September 29, 1944. Two years
later, he demitted to Las Palmas Lodge No. ·366 in Fresno where his work
had taken him. Nine years later, finding himself in Southern California and
unwilling to accept a lapse in his Masonic activity, he joined San Marino Lodge
No. 685 and became immersed in community and Masonic activities, reaching
the Oriental Chair in 1964.
As a member of the San Marino Congregational Church, he served progressively as usher, Head Usher, Chairman of the Board of Deacons, and
on the Board of Trustees, greeting all who entered the door of the church.
With his characteristic warmth, friendliness, and sincerity, he convinced
everyone that "there were no strangers in that church." He expanded his field
of community service as a director of the highly respected and dedicated Midnight Mission in Los Angeles, the institution that provides so many meals
and shelter for homeless men.
He rendered additional service through his Masonically related offices of
President of the Pasadena Masonic Service Bureau; San Marino Lodge
Trustee; and member of the Advisory Board of the San Marino Chapter, Order
of DeMolay. He is a recipient of the DeMolay Legion of Honor Award.
He is a member of the Southern California Research Lodge, Southern
California Past Masters Association, Al Malaikah Shrine Temple, Past Masters
Shrine Club, San Marino Chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star, San
Gabriel Valley High-12 Club, Allied Masonic Degrees, the Saint Gabriel Conclave of the Red Cross of Constantine, Honorary Member of the National
Sojourners and its Heroes of '76, the York Rite Bodies of Alhambra, and
the Royal Order of Scotland.
Originally joining the Scottish Rite in Fresno in 1946, he demitted to the
Pasadena Scottish Rite Bodies in 1960, where he served as Venerable Master
in 1976, and where he was honored in 1975 with the rank of Knight Commander Court of Honour, and in 1981, coroneted with the 33rd Degree, Inspector General Honorary. Recognizing Brother Roy's talents, the Sovereign
Grand Commander appointed him Assistant Chairman of the Inspector
General's Advisory Conference for the Pasadena Scottish Rite Bodies.

ROY J. BENVILLE
Grand Master
October 11, 1984-0ctober 16, 1985

iii

His services to Grand Lodge began in 1963 when he was appointed to the
Jurisprudence Committee. In 1976, he was a member of the Committee to
Select the Junior Grand Warden. From 1969 to 1978, he was the Inspector
of the 532nd Masonic District, after which he was appointed Assistant Grand
Lecturer for Division V.
The Brethren recognized his abilities and services by placing him on the
first step to the ultimate office in California Masonry. They elected him Junior
Grand Warden in October of 1981, at which time he began his membership
on the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees. Successively, for the next three
years, the Brethren, convened at each Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge, advanced him up the steps to Senior Grand Warden, Deputy Grand
Master (during this year he was a member of the Masonic Memorial Temple
Board of Trustees of Grand Lodge) and finally, to the office of Grand Master
in 1984.
Brother Roy's greatest legacy and the part of himself that he has given to
Masonry in California and Hawaii has been the example and instruction of
his great measure of social intelligence and the ability to deal successfully
in interpersonal relationships.Enlisting the traits which have combined to constitute this enviable ability, there are such elements as warmth, friendliness,
humility, sincerity, kindliness, and resourcefulness. These traits have enabled
him to be comforting, generous, gracious, self-effacing, and hard working.
In short, his gift to Masonry has been his exemplification and personifica•
tion of Peace and Harmony.

I ROBERT A. KLINGER, Grand Secretary of the M ... w .·.Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do hereby certify that the
following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of
that body at its one hundred thirty-sixth Annual Communication, commenced
at the city of San Francisco, on Monday, the 14th day of October, A.L. 5985
and terminated on Wednesday the 16th day of October, A.L. 5985.

I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M:. W :.Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California,
at the office of the Grand
Secretary, this fourteeth day of
November, in the year of Light,
five thousand nine hundred and
eighty-five.

~~
(''

iv

v

~RAND SECRETARY

PROCEEDINGS
of

THE M. ·. W. ·.GRAND LODGE
of

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

136TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

MONDAY, OCTOBER 14, A.O. 1985, A.L. 5985
AND TERM INA TING ON

WEDNESDAY, 0cTOBER 16, A.D. 1985, A.L. 5985

Copyright © 1986 by Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
Printed in the United States of America. All rights in this book
are reserved. No part thereof may be reproduced in any manner
whatsoever without written permission from the Grand Lodge of
California, except that quotations may be embodied in reviews by
such other Grand Jurisdictions as have been recognized officially
by this Grand Lodge. For information, address Grand Secretary,
1111 California Street, San Francisco, California 94108.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3

ONE HUNDRED THIRTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California commenced its One Hundred Thirty-sixth Annual Communication in the California Masonic Memorial Tumple, San Francisco,
California on Monday, October 14, 1985, A.L. 5985, at 9:00 A.M.
Prior to Grand Lodge opening, Grand Organist Harold M. Hand presented
a concert of old time favorite songs on the organ, for the assembled Brethren.
Grand Lodge was raised by James R. Paden, Master of San Marino Lodge
No. 685, using the gavel presented to the Grand Master on the occasion of
a Golden Veterans' Award presentation for Frank B. Batty of Meudell-Oildale
Lodge No. 695. Other gavels used during the Morning Session were as follows:
a setting maul type of gavel and sounding block with the Grand Master's
emblem inlaid in the sounding block presented at a Reception of the 610th
Masonic District; a gavel and sounding block presented at a Dinner and Reception hosted by the Santa Ana York Rite Bodies at which Senior Grand Steward
Leroy Connelly was Master of Ceremonies; a gavel presented at the Installation of Officers of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42; a gavel and sounding block
in the shape of Yolo County which was presented at the Cornerstone Ceremony
for the Erwin Meirer Yolo County Administration Building, hosted by
Woodland Lodge No. 156; a gavel presented on the occasion of a 75-year
Veteran's Award presented to Jeptha Purcell, a member of Evergreen Park
Lodge No. 1171 in Evergreen Park, Illinois; a gavel crafted from mountain
ironwood and used at the Installation of the Officers of Covina Lodge No.
334; a gavel presented at the Centennial Celebration of San Gabriel-Southern
California Lodge No. 278; and a gavel presented at a Reception for the Grand
Master hosted by the 590th Masonic District. Upon the call of the roll, the
following Elected and Appointed Officers responded:
ELECTED OFFICERS

M:. W:. Roy J. Henville ............................... Grand Master
R:. W :.John W. Driskell ...................... . Deputy Grand Master
R:. W :.Jack R. Levitt ........................ . Senior Grand Warden
R:. W:. Leo B. Mark .......................... Junior Grand Warden
V:. W:. John A. Sicken berger ........................ Grand Treasurer
V :. W :. Robert A. Klinger ........................... Grand Secretary
V:. W:. Joe Hammond .............................. Grand Lecturer
APPOINTED OFFICERS

V : . R:. Wayne B. Williamson ........................ Grand Chaplain
W :. Donald E. Weisse ............ . Assistant Grand Lecturer, Div. I
W :. Louis A. Lasell, Sr........... . Assistant Grand Lecturer, Div. II
W :. Ulysses G. Patropulos ....... . Assistant Grand Lecturer, Div. III
W :. William J. Tuylor, Jr........ . Assistant Grand Lecturer, Div. IV
W :.Philip I. Hylton ............. . Assistant Grand Lecturer, Div. V

4

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

W : . James A. Boyle .. ... . ... . . . . Assistant Grand Lecturer, Div. VI
W. ·. R. Stephen Doan . ... . . . .... .. .... . . . ... . ... ... Grand Orator
W:. Kenneth H. Boucher . . ....... . .... . . Assistant Grand Treasurer
W :.Clare W. Wilson, Jr. .... .. . ........ . Assistant Grand Secretary
W .·.Joe A. Dines ...... ..... .. . ............. .. . .. Grand Marshal
W:. David L. Zack ... .... . ... ............. Grand Standard Bearer
W : . C. Ray Whitaker .... ... ................. Grand Sword Bearer
W :.Louis G. Carsner, Jr. .. .................. . Grand Bible Bearer
W :.H. Edward Barr .... . . . ... . ............ . Senior Grand Deacon
W :.Robert E. Crist ...... . .. .. .. . ......... . Junior Grand Deacon
W: . Leroy G. Connelly .. .... .... .. . . ... . ... Senior Grand Steward
W:. Bennett K.C. Ing .... . . . . . . . . . .. .... . .. Junior Grand Steward
W :. James E. McGlothlin .... .. . . ... ... . . . .. . .. Grand Pursuivant
W :.Harold M. Hand ..... . . ... . . . ... . ...... .. .. . Grand Organist
W :.James C. Richey .. . .. . . . ... . .......... .. ... .. .. . Grand Tiler

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5

TRIBUTE TO THE AMERICAN FLAG

By R. Stephen Doan, Grand Orator
When we present with honor the starry
emblem of our own beloved Land, we are stirred by
that patriotism which is graven upon the heart of every
true American. Old Glory, emblem of Liberty
symbol of Freedom under constituted authority;
Old Glory, beneath whose protecting shadow, the weary
and oppressed of every land have found opportunity
and peace; Old Glory, beneath whose tattered,
blood-stained folds so many of our Brethren have
surrendered their lives in defense of Justice,
Truth and Right; Old Glory, flying proudly above
the land of the free and home of that democracy
which we shall ever strive to preserve: of the
people, by the people and for the people.

PAST GRAND OFFICERS
PAST GRAND MASTERS

M:. W:. Edward H. Siems

M :. W :. Burton Meyer, Jr.
M:.w:.Kermit A. Jacobson
M:.W:.Leo E. Anderson
M :. W : . Donald B. McCaw
M : . W :. Myron E. Smith
M:. W : . Vernon L. Gordon
M:. W:. Chester R. MacPhee
M:. W :.H. Douglas Lemons
M:. W : .Lester S. McElwain
M :. W :. Robert 0. West
M : . W :. William H. Price
M:.w:.Harry L. Maynard
M:. w:.Raymond A. Ebbage
M : . W :.Arthur Haglund

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

V :. W : . Verne W. Hendrix .... ... .. . . . . ..... . Past Grand Secretary
V :. W :.Burton 0. Young .... .. .. ... .... .. ... . Past Grand Lecturer

Upon conclusion of the roll call, the Grand Master asked for a moment
of silence in respect to the memory of Worshipful Kern H. Copeland, Assistant Grand Treasurer, and Worshipful Louis R. Mitchell, Junior Grand
Deacon, both of whom passed to their reward this past year. Brother Copeland
entered into rest on October 28, 1984 and Brother Mitchell on October 2, 1985.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A.M. of California was opened
in ample form with the Graand Master presiding. The Flag of our Country
was formally received and presented at the altar. R. Stephen Doan, Grand
Orator, then delivered a stirring tribute to the Flag:

Following this tribute the Brethren joined in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Brother Davis Leonard, a Past Master of Alhambra Lodge No. 322, led the
Brethren in the singing of our National Anthem.
Present during the Communication were 1194 officers and representatives
from 557 chartered Lodges, 1226 past Masters, 513 Master Masons not
members of Grand Lodge and 33 Distinguished Guests from other Grand
Jurisdictions. 28 of the 29 Grand Lodge Officers of this Jurisdiction as well
as 15 Past Grand Masters and 2 Past Grand Officers were registered. The
total attendance was 3,011.

APPOINTMENTS
The Deputy Grand Master announced that he had appointed Leroy G. Connelly as the Chairman of the Committee on Distribution. Others appointed
to serve on that Committee were Verne W. Hendrix, Past Grand Secretary,
and David A. Poole, Jr.

TELEGRAMS-LETTERS
The Grand Secretary was instructed by the Grand Master to send appropriate telegrams to those Past Grand Masters who were unable to be in
attendance for the Communication. A message addressed to the Grand Lodge
from the Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo, located in Brazil, was then
read by the Grand Secretary. The message brought fraternal greetings and
a wish for a most successful and productive Annual Communication.

6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GAVELS

MEMORIAL SERVICE

Gavels used by the Grand Master during the ceremonies indicated and
presented to him on those occasions by Lodges, District Associations or Clubs,
were used at various times during this Communication:

Cornerstone Ceremonies-Erwin Meirer Yolo County Administration
Building, Woodland; new Masonic Temple, Castro Valley; Lemoore Senior
Citizens Building; City Hall, Temple City; Rocklin Post Office; new Aphasia
Unit, Sacramento Scottish Rite Temple; Old Marshall School, Sacramento;
new Masonic Temple, Westminster; Trabuco Hills High School, Mission Viejo; Big Bear High School, Big Bear Lake.

Receptions-610th Masonic District, Pomona; Santa Ana York Rite Bodies;
590th Masonic District, South Gate; Alhambra York Rite Bodies; 570th, 572nd
and 574th Masonic Districts, West Los Angeles area; Aahmes Shrine Past
Masters Unit, Oakland; East Bay Masonic Officers Association, Oakland;
500th Masonic District, Bishop; James Boyle, A.G.L., Division VI, Santa Ana;
San Gabriel Valley Master's and Warden's Association, Pasadena.

Anniversaries-100th Anniversary, San Gabriel-Southern California Lodge
No. 278, Alhambra; 75th Anniversary, Perris Lodge No. 411, Sun City; 75th
Anniversary, La Mesa Lodge No. 407, La Mesa; 125th Anniversary, Vitruvius
Lodge No. 145, Petaluma; 75th Anniversary, Upland Lodge No. 419, Upland;
75th Anniversary, Lindsay Lodge No. 416, Lindsay; lOOth Anniversary,
Madera-Joppa Lodge No. 280, Madera; lOOth Anniversary, Hanford Lodge
No. 279, Hanford.

Various-50 Year Veteran's Award to Frank Batty, Meudell-Oildale Lodge No.
695; Installation of Officers, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42; 75 Year Veteran's
Award to Jeptha Purcell, Evergreen Park Lodge No. 1171, Evergreen Park,
Illinois, Primrose Masonic Temple; Installation of Officers, Covina Lodge
No. 334; Mortgage Burning Ceremony, Arcadia Lodge No. 547; Outdoor Third
Degree, Oklahoma Indian Degree Team, Reading Lodge No. 254; Mortgage
Burning Ceremony, San Juan Lodge No. 732, Citrus Heights; Institution of
Joseph L. Shell Daylight Lodge U.D., San Diego; Outdoor Third Degree, 160th
Masonic District, Jack Ladd Ranch, Brentwood; Southern California
DeMolay Conclave, Santa Barbara; Institution of King Kalakaua Daylight
Lodge U.D., Honolulu, Hawaii; 320th Masonic District, U.S. Constitution
Observance Barbeque, Templeton; Mortgage Burning Ceremony, Ontario
Lodge No. 301.

7

Devotional Message to the Grand Lodge ......... Wayne B. Williamson,
Grand Chaplain
Solo: "The 23rd Psalm" . . . ........ .. ........ Davis B. Leonard, Soloist
Memorial Message .... . ............ .. .... Richard J. Pierce, Chairman
Memorial Tribute:
Kern H. Copeland
Former Assistant Grand Treasurer .. .... . Chester R. MacPhee, P.G.M.
Louis R. Mitchell
Former Junior Grand Deacon .... .. .... Raymond A. Ebbage, P.G.M.
Eulogy:
Ellsworth Meyer, P.G.M . . ......... . . . .... .. Myron E. Smith, P.G.M.
Guy B. Mize, P.G.M .. . . ..... . . . . .. ... . . Kermit A. Jacobson, P.G.M.
Memorial Devotional . . . ........ Wayne B. Williamson, Grand Chaplain
Solo: "Love Never Faileth" . ....... . . . . . ..... Davis B. Leonard, Soloist
Harold M. Hand, Grand Organist

Devotional Message
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Members of the Grand Lodge:
If I may ask your indulgence for a few moments I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to express my heartfelt appreciation to our Grand
Master, the Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, for having appointed me to
this position for the past Masonic year. It has been a most gratifying and
rewarding experience, and one that I shall cherish for the remainder of my
life. I also want to express my warm and sincere regard for the other members
of this year's Grand Family, who collectively have made this such a thoroughly
enjoyable experience and whose acquaintance and friendship have come to
mean much to me. It has been a year that has enhanced my appreciation of
our Fraternity immeasurably and afforded me insights that I would otherwise have never had. For all of this I am most grateful.
My remarks today are an expression of some of the thoughts evoked as
a result of my experiences this past year and my reflections on them. Basically,
they are an effort on my part to consider at least some aspects of the meaning of Masory for me and to express them in such a way as may give them
a more general significance.
First of all, I spent some time in reading and rereading portions of Morals
and Dogma, one of the great beacon lights of Masonry. Like the sacred volume
that lies open upon our altar, it is a distillation of the highest thoughts and
noblest aspirations of the hearts and minds of men of noble character. In
short, both of them hold up before us a standard of excellence which we are
encouraged to emulate as being the only basis for a life well lived.

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We are all conscious of living our moral life as if it were in a two-storied
house. Downstairs goes on what has too evident a claim to the painful label:
ordinary. Upstairs we have a different outlook and associate with better company. Not that our everyday routine should be called ordinary. It, too, can
be representative of upstairs living, depending upon the thoughts and motives
that direct us as we go through our daily routine. The intention of our thoughts
and motives are the soul of action and behaviour.
We know perfectly well when and how we can be upstairs and when and
how we linger downstairs. The precepts of Masonry are an attempt to draw
us upstairs. I believe that for most men, at least at some time in their life,
there is a desire to live as spiritual aristocrats. We have no doubt in our hearts
that true happiness is inseparable from distinction, and when we enjoy cheap
good times downstairs we never cease to be aware that there could be a different kind of happiness upstairs. Masons, I believe, are characterized as "Men
of Desire" ... the desire to live life upstairs.
As Masons we do not claim to be a religion; in fact, we reject the allegation when it is made. We do, however, claim to be religious, which is to say
we believe there is a spiritual nature in man as well as a purely physical nature.
As men who profess a religious faith we ascribe to the belief in an all-powerful,
all- knowing, beneficent Diety. Few of us would make the claim that our comprehension of Diety is perfect, unflawed, needing no correction ... like Paul
we would say, "Now I see imperfectly, as one seeing himself in a flawed mirror." We claim to be in search of further light, which is to say we acknowledge
that we do not yet possess full illumination. We can admit, can we not, that
as individuals our moral and spiritual development is imperfect, unfinished ... but, at the same time, we desire further light that we may become
more fully human.
If Freemasonry has a mission and a future, it must not content itself with
merely a beautiful ritual flawlessly rendered. If the noble ideals and teachings
of the Craft are limited only to dramatic and colorful performances in our
Lodge rooms, then there is little place or use for our Fraternity in the daily
affairs of men.
As a member of the Craft each of us is either an asset or a liability. We
are either part of the problem or a part of the solution. We cannot imitate
certain politicians, who have a liking for straddling fences and for sitting on
the center of the beam. Every member of a Lodge who is not a real benefit
to his fellow-man is a liability and not an asset, and if the majority of members
in any Lodge answer to that description, then the Lodge itself becomes a drag
on the community and an embarrassment to the Craft. Service is a fixed law
of nature, and a fundamental command of the Judea-Christian
faith ... "Learn to do good, to be fair and to help the poor, the orphan,
and widows", (Isa. 1:17). "Whoever will be great among you, let him be your
servant; And whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant", (Mt.
20:26,27). We need always to live in a house by the side of the road, always
on the lookout for opportunities for service, not only to the Brethren of the
Craft, but to those outside as well. Consecrated service is the need of the
moment; it is always the need of every moment - labor and service are two

of the dominant keynotes of Masonry. Masonic service is not servile, for it
is based upon fraternity of the highest order - Brotherhood springing from
Fatherhood.
We all know that in most organizations promotion to higher office carries
with it increased salary or benefits: as a consequence there is always a sufficiency of applicants for advancement in these. But progress in Masonry
accomplishes none of these small-minded ambitions. Rather it calls for an
expenditure of time and effort which, if put into the commercial affairs of
life, would reap a compensating financial harvest.
There are other harvests of ultimately greater value which can only be reaped
by first sowing the good seed of service to one's fellowmen and assisting
generously and ungrudgingly in such ameliorative plans and endeavors as are
likely to leave a world a better place for one's having passed through it. Is
not this latter the harvest we Masons most desire to be remembered by? For
the exercise of benevolent motives and the full and free activity of charity
towards others, free from the destructive influence of partisanship, our history
as Freemasons is one that few, if any other, such organization can compare.
Within the Lodge the symbolism of our ritual and ceremonial is intended
to convey nuances of meaning that defy our efforts to put into words alone.
Not all truth is verbal...one has only to meditate upon a great painting to
realize that. The symbolism points us toward heights as yet unscaled, a splendor of spiritual and moral challenge that towers over us like some majestic
Mount Everest, beckoning our spirits upward. Realistically, we know that each
man ascends this Everest of the spirit to a level commensurate with his desire
for the fullness of human perfection, and his understanding of what comprises that perfection. Inevitably this implies a certain aristocracy... not all men
respond the same. For some, ascending the foothills is quite enough. Others
more diligent will scale the middle heights. Only those who are most passionate in their pursuit of such excellence will persevere in the struggle for
the greater light of truth and clarity of moral vision that comes from attaining
the summit. Few indeed are these, but it is to these great souls that we are
indebted for the inspiration they afford us when they recount the glory of
the vision of the promised land.
Masons understand, therefore, that not all men are open to the challenge
of Masonry and that none can be compelled. Therefore, it is the individual
who must first reveal his readiness by inquiring about the benefits of Masonry,
and he is likely to do that only when he has reached a stage where moral
and spiritual values become important to him and he sees those values
demonstrated in the life of another whom he comes to know is a Mason.
In short, men want to see the virtues of moral and spiritual achievement
displayed, not merely talked about, or, as the prayer puts it..!'not only with
our lips but in our lives." Herein lies the secret of Masonry's success.
Those who, over the years, have been most admired in our Fraternity and
have tended to fill the highest offices have been men who, by-and-large, have
not only been imbued with those high qualities and noble virtues proclaimed
within the confines of the Lodge, but demonstrated in their daily living. A
litmus test of greatness is when it can be said of a man that he left the world
a better place than he found it.

9

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It follows, does it not, that proclamation and practice are both needed:
the latter validates and confirms the former. Where the instruction is inadequate, inept, or uninspiring there will be little encouragement for the neophyte
just beginning his ascent to persist. Where the example is lacking demonstration in the life of the instructor there is no credibility in the message and
discredit is brought upon the moral philosophy or religion being proclaimed.
Within the Lodge, those who would teach must first be learners, and then
they must put into practice that which they have learned.
Although we would hope for the day when all men would aspire to such
an aristocracy of the spirit, and, therefore, be potential candidates for the
instruction our Craft can offer, realism compels us to recognize that day has
not arrived. Troubled as we may be over the decline in numbers, it needs to
be said that in a hedonistic, even narcissistic culture (such as characterizes
much of Western culture today) with its stress upon "rights" and "doing one's
own thing" there is little inclination on the part of many to accept the discipline
of self that is necessary for the development of moral virtues exemplified by
Masonry and the higher religions. Unless and until our general moral climate
changes for the better, I am convinced that we will not be inundated with
applicants.
Like the ancient pagan Roman world where men had become sick of their
own corruption and so were compelled to turn to the cleansing, purifying
power of a higher faith for their healing, so must today's culture come to
the same realization; then, men will again seek the light of our Craft for
guidance in their lives. In the meantine, we must be faithful in our own individual and collective pursuit of the integrity of excellence.
Any desire to spread superficially and win over an immense number of men
by any lowering of our standards needs to be resisted. The ancient Church
made that mistake when pagans in great numbers came into the Church, not
so much because they were convinced of the rightness of its faith, but because
it was made the legal faith of the Empire. Well-intended though the edict may
have been, it resulted in the corruption of the Church. The supreme goal of
our ancient Order and of the higher religions is the moral improvement of
the individuals comprising our membership by a sincere and enlightened
personal commitment, and not the more or less indifferent obedience of
external forms and rites performed perfunctorily without thought as to their
deeper meaning and the obligation they impose. There is a direct relationship between that which an individual truly believes and his subsequent
behavior. The old folk adage puts it well: "What you do speaks more loudly
than what you say!" Unless our professed belief and our daily conduct are
in harmony, the profession we make is nothing but "sounding brass and
tinkling cymbal."
Any man in his right senses will realize that the cause of man's higher aspirations, and Masonry is but one manifestation of such aspiration, is something
that transcends our scientific concepts or our efforts at rationalization. Our
sincere desire to progress morally and spiritually...the efforts made in this direction to erect that inner temple of the spirit, "not made with hands;• without

which the outward manifestations of faith become meaningless, can only come
about through a determined application of the will, and the aid of the Supreme
Architect.
I do not imply that effort of the will alone is sufficient. It is not. I mean
only that it is necessary that we make the effort. To say that the human will
alone is sufficient is to say that man can achieve by his will alone the heights
of moral and spiritual perfection towards which the Master Architect of the
U~iverse is.summoning all of us. The real truth is that we can only collaborate
with the D1ety who made us all and calls us to a higher degree of perfection
that He alone can enable us to achieve. Our part is to acknowledge the impulse and to seek further light while imploring Divine guidance.
This is not easy, for the ordinary man (and all of us have some of the ordinary ~n us) know~ well that the flattering title of being a morally upright
person is only acqmred at the cost of restrictions in numerous activities from
which he. ordi~arily derives all his pleasures. When we speak of the fight of
man agamst his own lower nature, we think not only of the temptations of
the flesh, but also of the perversions of the mind born of life in common.
There are many of them, but let us take one example: the desire to shine
to preen in the attention of others, to be the admired center of adulation'.
All of us are afflicted with it in some measure. As long as it confines itself
to an effort to better ourselves, to outdo our brothers in good deeds it is
a virtue. However, it often overshoots the mark, and becomes a goal in itself.
It may assume various aspects; greed, authoritativeness, desire for acclaim all o~ which are vices detrimental to the improvement of the self. It may even
turn mto one of the most dangerous vices of intelligence, the lust for power.
~ ?umber of us are would-be dictators in our own small spheres, and amb1t1ous men are all the more eager to play a flattering, leading part when their
professional abilifies alone would not qualify them to outshine the others.
The only way in which religion or moral philosophy can be of genuine
assistance to mankind is to the extent to which those professing it perfect
th.emselves, by building an inner temple, by judging themselves soberly and
w1t~~ut compl~cency. In so doing that individual is unconsciously shaping
a spmt that radiates to those around him, influencing others to seek that which
has so blessed him.
One cannot but be struck by the disproportion between the duration of
~ man's life .and the duration of his influence on future generations. History
1s replete with examples. The destiny of man is not limited to his time on
earth. A man exists less by the actions performed during his life than by the
effect he leaves behind him. He may be unaware of it himself. He may think
that his death is the end of his reality in this world, whereas, it may well be
t~e beginning of a grea~er and more significant reality. Each of us may be
hkened to a comet flashmg through the heavens, leaving a trail that is either
modest or brilliant in its effect upon others. That which was best in each
of us, which we may have given unconsciously to our circle of friends and
relations will never completely die. An impressive trail has been left by the
founders of the higher religions, by the prophets, by the thinkers, those to
whom we owe the unalterable framework of our moral life. Our intellectual

10

II

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

endeavors, our whole structure of speculative Masonry will be of no real
significance if they do not lead us, and through us others, to a better comprehension of ourselves, of the meaning of our lives, and the resources and
the potential buried deep within each of us.
The extraordinary strides made in the conquest of disease and of nature
will not bring to man the happiness he has a right to expect, unless there
is also a corresponding moral development. To do this we need enlightenment which we receive from our religious faith and from the teachings of
this Ancient and Honorable Order of Freemasons, the encouragement of our
mutual fellowship, the advice of our wise leaders, the inspired traditions
represented by our religious heritage, heirs to all the spiritual treasurers of
mankind and keepers of the eternal flame which the greatest and noblest of
men have passed on to one another, from time immemorial.
Today, my Brethren, the torch is in our hands; it is up to us to pass it on
to those who will follow after. May we ever hold it high that its light may
be a guide to others who would seek further light and truth in our Fraternity.
And now it would be appropriate for us to set aside time in which to
remember those members of this Grand Lodge, each of whom has been a
light in his generation and now has "traveled to that undiscovered country
from whose bourne no traveler has returned."

MEMORIAL TRIBUTE

Memorial Message
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Distinguished Guests and Brethren all.
It is fitting and proper that we pause a few moments, early in this 136th Annual Communication, to pay respect to the memory of our Brothers who have
laid down their burdens to rest for awhile. During this past Masonic year,
there have been 565 members of this Grand Lodge who have passed away.
Our Grand master, Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, has been called upon
to offer the Masonic funeral service for one of his appointive Grand Lodge
Officers, two past Grand Masters and several others who were members of
his Lodge.
We are indebted to the Lodges and Brothers of Hawaii for the theme for
this Memorial Service. On the occasion of the Grand Master's visit to Hawaii,
this past July, one of his first activities was a visit to the National Memorial
Cemetery of the Pacific. There, under the watchful approval of the statue
of Columbia, your Grand Master, with the aid of the other Grand Lodge
Officers present, placed a wreath at the Dedicatory Stone in memory of all
Masons who have gone before as well as those from the Armed Forces who
gave their lives for our freedom.
·
The Grand Lodge Officers attended the Central Union Church on the last
day of their visit in Honolulu. There, on the reredos behind the altar, the
words "Love Never Faileth" are engraved. Those words are the title of the
solo which will conclude this Memorial Service following the Memorial Devotional by the Grand Chaplain.
Members of this Committee will now present the Past Grand Masters who
will give a Memorial lfibute and two Eulogies.

13

KERN HADLEY COPELAND
By Chester R. MacPhee, P.G.M.
The Grand Lodge of California has lost another pillar of strength in the
passing of one of our most revered Grand Lodge Officers, Brother Kern
Hadley Copeland.
Born in Denver, Colorado on May 1st, 1919, he is survived by his beloved
wife Laura, two sons, Kern Copeland III and Todd Copeland, and a daughter
Allison, as well as two grandchildren.
Our Brother was a graduate of Pepperdine College and the University of
Southern California, and finished among the top 10 at the Graduate School
of Indiana University. He was a retired Captain of the U.S. Army in World
War II. In 1964 he joined Glendale Federal Savings, was appointed an Assistant Vice- President in 1969 and Senior Vice President, Property Service Division in 1973. He was a member of the Glendale Chamber of Commerce, the
Glendale Adventist Hospital and a Board member of the Los Angeles Midnight Mission. He was Chairman of the Design Advisory Board of the City
of Glendale in 1979-80 and Treasurer of the Friends of Burbank Airport.
Brother Copeland was raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason on
March 8th, 1957 in Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535. In 1964 he served
as Master of the Lodge and President of the 560th Masonic Officers
Association.
Appointed by Most Worshipful Grand Master Kermit A. Jacobson, as
Assistant Grand Treasurer in 1977, he gave substantially of himself in that
capacity. I can testify to his outstanding ability and concern for our Fraternity for I was Grand Treasurer at the time. We worked well together and I
admired him greatly. In 1978 and 1979 he served as an outstanding Chairman of the Temple Properties Committee. For five years, from 1980-84, he
served as a knowledgeable and prudent Chairman of the Finance Committee of this Grand Lodge.
Our present Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, recognizing the financial acumen of Brother Copeland, appointed him for the second
time as Assistant Grand Treasurer of this Grand Lodge to serve during the
current year. That service was interrupted by his death, and we mourn that
passing today.
He was a man for all seasons, certainly one of California's best, and he
will be sorely missed by this Grand Lodge.

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MEMORIAL TRIBUTE

LOUIS ROBERT MITCHELL
By Raymond A. Ebbage, P.G.M
Junior Grand Deacon of the Grand Lodge of California for the year
1984-1985.
Born in Salt Lake City, Utah on October 22, 1924 into a Masonically
oriented family. His father lived to receive his 50 year Masonic pin, and both
father and mother were members of the Order of Eastern Star.
After moving several times Lou finished high school in Grass Valley, California. Lou also joined and participated in DeMolay for over three years.
He graduated from high school into the United States Navy during World
War II and served as a radar man for three years on supply ships in the South
Pacific.
Lou returned home and entered college to study engineering under the G.I.
Bill. However, after a couple of years in college, he decided to finish his studies
on his own and with correspondence courses which he completed while being employed by the State of California. He started with the Department of
Architecture and ended with the Department of Water Resources as a Civil
Engineer. Lou retired after 25 years with the State in 1983.
He married his wife of 18 years, Betty Jean, in 1967. His twin daughters
Janice and Joyce have been a constant source of gratification, Janice providing him with even more joy through three children of her own.
Lou petitioned Masonry in 1976, and was raised December 17, 1976 in Three
Pillars Lodge No. 613 in Sacramento. Almost immediately he went to work
as an officer and served his Lodge with distinction as Master in 1982.
Lou was an active Mason. He joined the Scottish Rite and Ben Ali Shrine
in Sacramento, played trombone in the Ben Ali Band and was a working
member of the Ben Ali Keystone Cops.
Lou was appointed Junior Grand Deacon of the Grand Lodge of California, installed in October 1984 and served until his death October 2nd, 1985.
An avid reader, specializing in history, he also enjoyed photography and music,
especially playing Dixie Land Jazz on his trombone.
As an outdoors man, his pursuits were hiking and fishing - hiking to where
the fishing was good.
He passed into that land from whose bourne no traveler returns on October
2, 1985.
His presence will be sorely missed.

GRA ND LOD GE OF CAL IFOR NIA

15

EULOGY
ELLSWORTH MEYER, P.G.M.
By Myron E. Smith, P.G.M.
"Nei ther do men light a candle,
and put it under a bushel, but on a
candlestick; and it giveth light unto
all that are in the house."
"Let your light so shine before men,
that they may see your good works,
and glorify your Father which is
in Heaven."
-Ma tthew 5:15-16

ELLSWORTH MEYER
Gran d Master
October 14, 1949 -0ct ober 13, 1950
BORN
February 27, 1905
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

DIE D
October 7, 1984
Gran ada Hills, California

chapter of the Book of MatThis beautiful passage, recorded in the fifth
lives of the brilliant light of
thew, characterizes for us the influence in our
whose memory we here honor
life which radiated from the great and good man
divine intellect, surely this
the
of
today. If, as we are taught, man is a ray
e - for he has imparted to
igenc
intell
e
man has been many rays of the divin
And through his good works,
us vast light in our travels from darkness to light.
fied.
our Father in Heaven indeed has been glori
greatest thought that had ever
the
was
what
d
aske
was
once
ster
Web
Daniel
ction, he responded: "The
refle
ent's
mom
entered his massive brain. Afte r a
Him."
greatness of God, and my accountability to
orth Meyer's every thought,
Ellsw
of
core
al
centr
the
at
was
This concept
firmly in the Fatherhood
ved
belie
word and action. A deeply spiritual man, he
of the soul, and the acity
ortal
imm
the
of God, the Brotherhood of man,
ed us and breathed into us
countability of each of us to the God who creat
the breath of life.
nia, on February 27, 1905, the
Ellsworth was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylva
he was four years of age, the
n
Whe
r.
son of Leonard H. and Ida A. Meye
ed until 1916. In that year, they
family moved to Los Angeles, where they resid
and then in 1917 moved to Long
relocated to Sant a Barb ara for a few months
home in Pomona, Eagle Rock,
Beach. Subsequently, Ellsworth has made his
.
Hills
Pasadena, Laguna Hills, and Gran ada
iage to the beautiful, loveOn June 18, 1930, Ellsworth was united in marr
Their union was blessed with
ly and gracious Hazel E. Reeves, of Pomona.
me Research Paleontologist
three children: Gran t Edward Meyer, who beca b Museum in Claremont,
Web
the
of
ctor
for Yale University and now is Dire
Frohlich, who became an
California; Sondra Jean Meyer, now Mrs. Drew ona College and now is
at Pom
Instr ucto r in the Depa rtme nt of Dramatics
Ted Meyer, who has earned
and
e;
merc
Com
of
ber
Cham
ar
Sylm
with the
Japanese fluently, and is
ks
spea
,
ersity
a Master's Degree at Stanford Univ
& Walsh.
in public relations work with Cunningham

16

There are five grandchildren, whom Ellsworth loved dearly. His beloved
wife Hazel, who was so devoted to him preceded him in death several years ago.
Ellsworth's remarkable speaking and acting ability, for which he has been
so distinguished, became apparent at a very early age. In 1911 and 1913 he
appeared in juvenile roles in Mack Sennett Comedies and in films which starred Charlie Chaplin, Mable Norman, and Ford Sterling.
Ellsworth's formal education began in the Los Angeles public school system,
followed by attendance at Long Beach Polytechnic High School, where he
graduated in 1923. While in high school, he was a member of the tennis and
the debating teams, and was one of six finalists in a state-wide oratorical contest on the Constitution of the United States.
Upon his graduation from Long Beach Polytechnic High School in 1923
Ellsworth entered Pomona College, where he was prominent in college
activities:
-

-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

He won a letter as Captain of the Freshman tennis team.
He played football.
He captained the Freshman debating team.
He made the Varsity debating team and toured Northern California successfully meeting Stanford, the College of the Pacific and other univ~rsity
teams.
He won in 1925 the Southern California Oratorical Contest and the
Southern California Extempore Contest.
He won in 1926 the Southern California and the Pacific Coast finals in
oratorical contests on the United States Constitution. He achieved second
place in the National finals. [Parenthetically, one of the U.S. Constitutional
oratorical judges was Joseph H. Joplin, himself a learned Consititutional
authority, who subsequently became my father-in-law. And a $1,000 prize
which Ellsworth won in the National finals made financially possible
Ellsworth and Hazel's marriage in 1930.]
He won the 1927 Southern California Peace Contest.
He was elected to membership on the Student Body Council.
He was made President of Delta Sigma Rho honorary forensics fraternity
in 1926-27.
He was appointed by Pomona College as Student Coach of the Women's
Varsity and Freshman debating teams, the former winning second place
and the latter the Southern California championship.
He acted in several college plays, in one of which Joel McCrea participated.
He became a member of Kappa Delta fraternity.

Ellsworth's professional schooling was obtained at the School of
Jurisprudence, University of California, Berkeley, and the University of
Southern California School of Law, where he received his LLB degree in 1930.
Ellsworth's law school activities, like his college activities, were outstanding:

-

17

He was elected President of the Student Body of the U.S.C. School of Law.
He was made President of Gamma Eta Gamma legal fraternity.
He was elected to Skull & Scales, a law school honorary fraternity.
He was elected to Skull & Dagger, an all University honorary fraternity.

Throughout his law school career, his fellow students admired and respected
him for his remarkable intellectual skills and his inspiring leadership.
His graduate activities were many:
- He became President of Pomona College (Alumni) Men's Club in 1944-45.
- He served as President of the Pomona College General Alumni Association in 1945-46.
- He was a member of the Pomona College National Committee in 1964.
Among his civic activities has been his participation since 1943 as an active member, and during his illness as an Emeritus member, of the Board
of Directors of The Midnight Mission, which ministers to the needs of
homeless men in the City of Los Angeles and where today an average of more
than 40,000 free meals are served to the destitute each month.
In 1938 Ellsworth was President of Wilshire Men's Club. Also, at Wilshire
United Methodist Church (across Wilshire Blvd.) he was a member of the
Official Board while his long-time friend, the Reverend Dr. Willsie Martin
was the minister. On becoming Grand Master, Ellsworth appointed Dr. Martin
as Grand Chaplain of the Grand Lodge. How appropriate it was that Dr.
Martin took as his theme for the Grand Lodge Devotional Services "Give
me men to match my mountains" and as a text from the Holy Word, that
Magna Charta declaration of man's true greatness found in the 8th Psalm:
"When I consider Thy heavens, the moon and the stars which Thou hast
ordained, what is man that Thou are mindful of him, or the son of man that
Thou visitest him. For Thou hast made him but a little lower than God. Thou
crownest him with glory and honor. Thou hast made him to have dominion
over the works of Thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet." And
as a keynote, that bugle call by Paul to the early Christian Church: "Quit
·
you like men. Be strong."
After being admitted to the California State Bar in 1930, Ellsworth received
an appointment as a Deputy City Attorney for the City of Los Angeles,
specializing in civil litigation. In 1935 he transferred to the legal division of
the Department of Water and Power where he handled many important cases.
In 1945 he became Judge of the Municipal Court in Los Angeles and in 1949
was made Judge of the Superior Court where he served until his illness of
recent years. Frequently, on assignment by the Chief Justice of the State
Supreme Court, he was called upon to sit on the Appellate Department.
As a judge, Ellsworth was greatly honored and respected. In the courtroom,
attorneys often stood in awe of his phenominal photographic memory,
whichenabled him to quote at will the testimony of witnesses who had testified
before him. At his request, the most complicated cases were assigned to him,
particularly those involving matters of first impression. Administratively, he

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

participated in resolving important operating procedures for the court system
and was a member of the judicial group which assisted in the design of many
court buildings throughout the County of Los Angeles. His tremendous
knowledge of the law, his legal and judicial ability, and his wide experience
were superb. In spoken or written word, his expression of the law had a clarity
rarely equaled.
As a Master Mason, Ellsworth was particularly active:

As Venerable Master for more than two decades, Ellsworth has been diligent
and untiring in his devotion to the Scottish Rite. His achievements have been
truly magnificent and he has been an inspiration to all around him and near
him.
In degree work, his faultless memory often has achieved what to others
would have proved an impossibility. Across the years, when an emergency has
occurred and an actor could not be present at the last moment, it has been
Ellsworth who at one reading could photograph in his mind the script and
go on stage with such perfection that it seemed as though he always had performed the assigned role of the absent actor.
In truth and in fact, Ellsworth was the real architect of the beautiful Scottish Rite Masonic Temple, in which his funeral services now are being held.
Hour after hour, day after day, week after week, month after month, and
year after year, he devoted himself to the design, construction and operation
of this magnificent edifice. With Millard Sheetz, the artist and designer, he
journeyed to Italy where together they selected in the quarries the marble to
be cut and polished for the walls. He guided personally the sculptor who
created the statues which adorn the exterior. He alone composed the quotations and prescribed exactly how the Masonic symbols would be placed for
all to see. He it was who counseled Millard Sheetz in content and design of
the beautiful mosaics which adorn the building and the graphic Masonic story
they portray.
There is not a cubic foot of the building which has been unknown to him.
Even the door knobs and hardware were selected individually by him, such
was his attention to detail. He specified the design and painting by the artists
of the more that 100 drops which grace this stage, including this beautiful
Cathedral Scene. Small wonder that this Temple has received international
acclaim.
•
From this podium, we have listened to our Brother teach us the great lessons
of Masonry and the wisdom of all nations and generations. Here, he has
helped us to understand the better the great religions and philosophies of the
world. His was the priceless ability to correlate and explain Biblical and secular
history. Of him, a member of the Class - Mayor Bowron - once marvelled
how one man's mind could hold so much knowledge and share it so generously
with others.
In retrospect, how appropriate now are Daniel Webster's classic words:

18

- He was raised a Master Mason in Claremont Lodge No. 436 while a
Senior in college.
- He became a Charter member of Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677 in 1930
and was its Worshipful Master in 1934.
- He was Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge in 1939-40.
- He was for a time a member of the Committee on Credentials.
- He was Inspector of the 85th Masonic District from 1942-46.
- He was a Charter member of Southern California Research Lodge.
-He was Junior Grand Warden in 1946-47.
- He was Senior Grand Warden in 1947-48.
- He was Deputy Grand Master in 1948-49.
- He was Grand Master in 1949-50, the Centennial Year.
- He was Chairman of the Committee on Ceremonies in 1951, when
many of the Grand Lodge Ceremonies were revised, including this
Funeral Service.
- He was Chairman of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
for many years.
- He was Chairman of the Committee on Revision of the Masonic
Code in 1965.
- He served as Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California in 1946-49.
In all of these Masonic activities his leadership has been a constant inspiration to all, especially when he presided over the Centen\lial Communication
of the Grand Lodge, at which 56 other Grand Masters were visitors from all
over the world.
In Scottish Rite Freemasonry, in the Valley of Los Angeles, Ellsworth
received the 32nd Degree with the Class of June 26, 1937. Almost immediately
he took very active parts in the degree work and the administration of the
Bodies of the Rite. His services were recognized by the Supreme Council in
Washington, D.C., in 1939 by award of the Rank and Decoration of Knight
Commander of the Court of Honour. In 1943 he was coronetted with the
33rd Degree. He was the Master of Kadosh from 1942-47; Venerable Master
from 1947-68; Vice President of the Board of Directors of the Los Angeles
Scottish Rite Cathedral Association beginning in 1941 and continuing for
many years; and also was Representative of the Sovereign Grand Inspector
General.

"If we work upon marble, it will perish.
If we work upon brass, time will efface it.

But if we work upon men's immortal minds, if
we imbue them with high principles, with the
just fear of God and love of their fellowmen,
we engrave on those tablets something which
no time can efface, and which will brighten
and brighten to all eternity."

19

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Truly, Ellsworth was the builder of a great Masonic edifice but, more importantly, the unseen temples which he built with loving and infinite care in
men's souls will last while the ages roll.
As with one illustrious in Masonry long ago, no one man can ever replace
him or the light he bore. It will require all of the light of many men to approach that of this great servant of God and man.
In the search for truth, Ellsworth Meyer never ceased building and climbing up the mountainside toward that light which radiates from Him whose
Holy name lights our Lodge. We shall think of him as ever advancing in
wisdom, strength and beauty of character in the Great Grand Lodge on High
where, as Saint John, the patron saint of Masonry recorded:
"There shall be no night there; and
they need no candle, neither light of the
sun; for the Lord giveth them light; and
they shall reign for ever and ever."
-Revelations 22:5

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

EUWGY

GUY B. MIZE
Grand Master
September 29, 1961-0ctober 12, 1962
BORN
April 23, 1901
Ullin, Illinois

DIED
February 27, 1985
Glendale, California

GUY BOYD MIZE, P.G.M.
By Kermit A. Jacobson, P. G.M.
"The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord; and he delighteth in
his way." - Psalm 37:23. This beautiful passage was well-known to the great
and good man whose memory we here honor.
Our dear friend and Brother, Guy Boyd Mize, was born on April 21, 1901,
in Ullin, Illinois. At an early age the family moved to St. Louis, Missouri,
where he studied accounting and auditing and became a cost accountant.
In 1921 Guy moved to Glendale, California and immediately joined the
Central Christian Church where he met Ruby Evelyn Eubanks, who became
his wife on June 20, 1925. To this marriage one son was born, Guy, Jr.
Guy's remarkable professional and business talents brought early recognition as he joined the John M.C. Marble Company in 1929 and became President in 1959.
As a leader in his profession, Guy served on both state and national
mortgage banking associations. He was admired and respected throughout
the profession; and his business acumen and qualities of leadership found
expression in all areas of his life.
As a churchman, Guy was a devoted servant of the Lord. He was looked
up to as an elder statesman of insight, gracious spirit, broad sympathy, sound
judgment, faithful stewardship, and fairness. He served his church for many
years as its Treasurer.
As a Master Mason Guy's influence reached no less than 237,000 Master
Masons and their families, when in 1961~62 he was Grand Master of Masons
in California and Hawaii.
He was raised a Master Mason in Unity Lodge No. 368 on November 23,
1928 and served as Master in 1939.
He was made Inspector of the 86th Masonic District in October 1944, and
appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer in October of 1950.
In addition to serving in our highest office, that of Grand Master in 1961,
Guy was recognized nationally by being elected a member of the Board of
Directors of the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, Alexandria, Virginia in 1962, in which capacity he served for many years.
He was honored with the 33rd Degree of the Scottish Rite and the Honorary
Legion of Honor, Order of DeMolay. He was a member of the York Rite
and Red Cross of Constantine.
There were three characteristics ever present in Guy's life.
The first was courage. There was a fearless forthrightness about his speech.
He spoke with authority, for he made certain of his facts before he spoke.
He was open, frank and direct but there was ever present a warmth and
kindness.
The second characteristic was peace. It was good to be near him and with
him. Guy was at peace with himself and with his Creator.
The third was strength. Guy's whole personality possessed a granite-like
strength that was impressive. How wonderful his strength of character was

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

evidenced in his practice of the principal tenets of Masonry - Brotherly Love,
Relief and Truth, and the domestic and public virtues of Temperance, Fortitude, Prudence and Justice.
We have been better men and better Masons because of the life of our Most
Worshipful and Illustrious Brother Guy. No higher honor, nor more sincere
tribute, can be paid to him. May we all honor his memory by heeding the
example and advice of his life.

"But when the great and good depart,
What is it more than thisThat man, who is from God sent forth,
Doth yet again to God return?Such ebb and flow must ever be,
Then wherefore should we mourn?"
-(William Wordsworth)

22

Memorial Devotional
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:
As we direct our attention to the remembrance of those of our members
who have departed this life we do so not so much to mourn their demise,
but rather to pay tribute to their memory and in the assurance of a faith that
"the souls of the righteous are in the hands of God."
"Man comes and tills the soil and lies beneath." In one short, poignant
sentence the poet sums up the life and death of mortal man. We who are
gathered here today know that "a time will come for each of us, and the wisest
know not how soon, when all distinction save that of goodness shall cease,
and, death, the mighty leveler of human distinctions, reduce us to the same
state."
Masonry is an institution; those of us who comprise it in any generation
are but mortal, and one by one, year after year, individual members must
obey the solemn summons and lay down their tools for the last time and depart
for that celestial Lodge, while other workmen from the quarries come forward to take their places and to carry on their works.
"They are passing away, these dear old friends,
Like leaves on the current cast;
With never a break in the rapid flow,
We watch them as one by one they go
Into the solemn past."
The roll call of those departed in a Fraternity with the number of members
of this Grand Lodge of California and Hawaii is inevitably long. Time does
not permit more than a few eulogies of our departed Brethren, yet all are
worthy.
In the democracy of the dead, all men are equal. The poor man is as rich
as the richest, and the rich man as poor as the pauper. The creditor loses
his usury, and the debtor is acquitted his obligation. There the proud man
surrenders his pomp; the politician his honors; the worldling his pleasures;
the invalid needs no physician; the laborer rests from toil. The wrongs of time
are redressed; injustice is expiated, and the irony of fate is refuted.

23

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
DECEASED
Lodge
No.

Name

Date of
Death

1 Antracoli, Russell J ........... l-08-8S
1 Jones, Harrison A ............ 9-29-84
1 Mott, Ralph E .............. 11-21-84
I Reed, James M ............. 10-06-84
2 Dahlgren, Victor H ........... 6-03-8S
2 Hickey, Roy L. ............. 10-02-84
3 Donley, Guy T ............... 7-13-84
3 Ehorn, Paul ................. 2-12-8S
3 Haddy, George H ........... 12-2S-84
3 Wardlaw, Thomas J ......... 11-01-84
3 Yeargrain, Carl E ........... 10-24-84
9 Manwell, Edmund T .......... 4-12-8S
9 Moline, LeRoy H ........... 12-20-84
10 Richards, Ralph E ........... . 1-0S-8S
12 Knipe, Charles F ............. 3-04-8S
13 Fisher, Murray .............. 3-28-8S
13 McPherson, Hiram A ......... l-30-8S
14 Bonbright, George E .......... S-01-8S
14 Vehn, Oscar F. . ............. 3-02-8S
17 Pasdermadjian, Bedros ....... S-23-8S
19 Ek, John W ................. 6-04-8S
20 Nason, Marion E ............. 8-22-84
23 Jackson, Burnice L. .......... l-l 3-8S
26 Roepcke, George F .......... . 2-0S-8S
27 Thomas, Alfred H ............ 2-20-8S
30 Bostic, Edmon L. ............ l-22-8S
30 Bruno, Vito L. .............. 6-14-84
30 Cereghino, Edward L. ........ 4-26-8S
30 Prior, Cecil M ............... l-28-8S
41 Ludwig, Donald G ........... 2-03-8S
41 Primiterre, Walter E ......... 11-23-84
41 Ralls, Gordon C ............ .4-18-8S
43 Scheiber, Ernest G ........... 2-16-8S
43 Vedder, Cecil M ............. 3-28-8S
43 Wells, Alva W ............... 6-14-8S
4S Griffin, Marshall M .......... 4-22-8S
SS Frawley, Louis M ............ 6-19-8S
SS Knowles, Kay W ............. 2-13-8S
6S Bailiff, Norman B........... .4-27-8S
68 Plecarpo, Clement A. . ....... 3-1 S-8S
70 Robinson, James R.......... . 6-06-8S
78 Cruickshank, Oliver G ........ l-04-8S
78 Langley, Lionel ............. IO-OS-84
78 Smith, Clayton J ............. l-28-8S
84 Betty, Vernon ............... l-22-8S
84 Kaeding, John H ............ 12--07-84
84 Moore, Marion J ............. 9-28-84
84 Rawlings, Clyde W........... 9-04-84
93 Beard, James E ............. 12-26-84
98 McCollum, Walter A ........ 10--04-84
99 Cleary, Charles M ........... 10-23-84
103 Chrisp, Henry B., Jr ......... 7-13-84

Lodge
No.

Name

Date of
Death

103 Mefford, Dolan ............. 10-03-84
111 Ramstead, Odin W .......... 10-2S-84
112 Browning, John D ............ 2-14-8S
113 Noon, Perley B.............. 7-29-84
117 Cotter, William E ............ l-06-8S
120 Goldstein, Morris ............ 9-06-84
120 Himmelstern, Robert J ........ l-22-8S
120 Spindel, Nathan S............ 6-13-8S
122 Champion, Frederick ......... l-28-8S
122 Songey, Arthur P ............ 4-29-8S
122 Van Nieuw, Albert .......... 11-21-84
123 Badger, Douglas V. . ......... 2-02-8S
124 Van Etten, Chester L. ....... . 1-IS-8S
126 Hersam, Eugene C ........... S-l3-8S
128 Fleming, Festus R., Jr ........ 6-23-8S
128 Winings, Marvin 0 .......... .4-22-8S
129 Stineman, Chester W ........ . 6-08-8S
131 Diekman, Herman L. ........ 10-13-84
131 Peterson, Willard A ......... 12-16-84
131 Wells, Palmer A ............ . S-03-8S
132 Doyle, Claude D ............ 11-06-84
13S Kyddson, Thomas W ......... 6-16-8S
13S Margason, Chester J ......... .4-0l-8S
l3S Shelley, Oliver R............ . 6-l0-8S
139 Allen, Arthur E., Sr .......... 8-30-84
139 Callaham, Zina R............ 6-30-84
139 Cleveland, Neal A ........... 12-03-84
139 Fedeli, Samuel ............... J-28-8S
139 Hucks, George J ............. l-12-8S
139 Osborne, William H ......... 12-04-84
141 Dietiker, Jacob .............. 8-22-84
141 Faye, E. M .................. 3-18-8S
141 Johnson, Jerome F .......... 11-28-84
141 Miller, W. L. ............... 12-18-84
141 Nuttall, A. E ................ 7-I0-8S
144 Fall, Earl S.................. 6-07-8S
146 Farnsworth, Kenneth F ....... 9-30-84
146 Lindsey, James L. ........... l-06-8S
147 Dougherty, Paul L. .......... l-24-8S
147 Eastin, Thomas D ............ 2-13-8S
147 Reese, Melvin J ............. 11-29-84
149 Langley, John M ............ . 2-2S-8S
149 Van Tassell, Elmer G ........ 11-18-84
ISO Lane, James R ............... 2-20-8S
161 Guthrie, Pearl L. ........... 12-23-84
161 Jardine, Emile R............. l-22-8S
166 Aeschlimann, Jean F ........ 12-10-84
166 Burnworth, Everett E ......... 2-l0-8S
166 Gray, Loyd W. T ............ 3-07-84
166 Wharton, Alexander. ......... l-29-8S
167 Brazle, Ferris M .............. 6-17-8S
168 Steiner, Kenneth L. .......... 3-11-8S

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
169 Priest, Irving F. . ............ l-2 l-8S
169 Soghomonian, Haig D....... 10-28-84
178 Loy, Harry P ................ 9-29-84
179 Colburn, Henry J ............ S-24-8S
179 Wakerley, Harry J. . ......... 9--0S-84
184 Gordon, Maurice W .......... 9-02-84
184 Grist, Joseph A .............. 2-17-8S
184 Winfree, Ernest W .......... 12-16-84
187 Harrison, Ernest A ........... 8-24-84
187 Husk, Robert H ............. 11-26-84
190 Carpenter, Earl E ........... . 2-lS-8S
191 Lindman, Walter ............ 8-01-84
191 McNear, Lawrence P., Jr ..... l-01-8S
192 Haberlitz, Eliot F ............ 3-31-8S
193 Miller, Robert R............. 2-13-8S
194 Erichsen, Engelbert B......... 2-16-8S
194 Moore, Charles M ............ 6-04-8S
l9S Adams, W. Lloyd ........... 12-30-84
198 Shunk, John C .............. 11-21-84
199 Van Herick, Gerhard ........ 12-21-84
201 Schmeiser, Vernon .......... .4-08-8S
201 Van Sant, Vernon D ......... 11-03-84
202 Bustrum, Nevin A ........... 12-01-84
202 Dailey, Leland A ............. 6-24-8S
202 Rogers, Edwin S............. 7-27-83
202 Wheeler, Duane W ........... 7-04-84
203 Schell, Charles T ............. l-24-8S
204 Calderia, Allan .............. l-06-8S
204 Regli, Jess W ................ 7-30-84
206 Larrabee, Cliffoid D ......... l-29-8S
207 Toogood, Theodore L. ...... . 6-09-8S
210 Goudie, Clyde D ............. l-OS-8S
210 Winslow, Kenelm B.......... 4-30-8S
211 Huston, Robert B............ 8-24-84
211 Tiffany, Frank Q............. 2-17-8S
212 Barazoto, Benjamin D ........ 7-2S-84
212 Neil, Robert A ............... 8-24-84
214 Strimple, Charles D......... . 6-20-8S
21S Hacke, Chester F ............. l-18-8S
218 Livermore, Robert J ......... 12-23-84
220 Millers, Harry ............... 2-13-8S
222 Tannehill, Thomas H ........ 10-03-84
22S Aydlotte, Milton J ........... 7-20-84
226 Nuding, Hubert A ............ 8-09-84
226 Schmidt, Reinhold .......... 11-13-84
229 Buhn, Edgar T ............... 9-14-84
229 David, Persis A .............. S-30-8S
230 Burlington, Paul ............ 12-2S-84
231 Dunlap, Leslie R............. 9--02-84
231 Gingell, Jack 0 .............. l-28-8S
231 Gravier, Robert L. ........... 8-04-84
231 Rutler, Herman R............ 2-26-8S
231 Williamson, Cecil L. ........ . S-l1-8S
233 Boland, Chester E ............ l-08-8S
234 Nicolos, Chris P. . ........... 2-03-8S
23S Grove, Ernest B.............. 1-23-8S
236 Pettis, Floyd E ............... 7-30-84

25

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
237 Higgs, Arthur W ............. l-29-8S
237 Wood, David J ............. 11-16-84
243 Clemens, Nelson E .......... 10-24-84
243 Harwood, Burhl R., Jr ...... . S-11-8S
244 Olsen, Alfred ............... 11-28-84
244 Tolentino, Peter G ........... 2-02-8S
24S VanHuizen, P.J .............. l-19-8S
246 Ericson, Bruce A ............ 10-27-84
246 Goff, Clarance .............. 6-06-84
246 Goss, Alvin ................. 6-11-84
247 Tyrrell, Robert 0 ............ 6-26-8S
248 Burmeister, A. H ............. l- l 8-8S
2SS Billingsley, Reginald ......... 11-11-84
2S6 Durston, Edmund W ........ 11-06-84
262 Bullard, Gordon L. .......... 9-26-84
264 Barnard, Herbert J ........... 7-01-84
264 Hite, Mark W............... 2-l0-8S
26S Blacet, Stephen 111 ........... 3-12-8S
271 Fisher, Lee R................ 4-02-8S
271 Nordyke, Joseph D .......... .4-24-8S
273 Hubbell, Merideth G ........ 10-26-84
273 Prior, Cecil M ............... l-28-8S
273 Sledge, Virgil L. ............. 7-03-84
273 Weddle, Otis D.............. 9-08-84
278 Hetzler, Hannes W .......... 10-0S-84
278 McNabb, Charles M .......... l-30-8S
278 Schrumpf, Elmer W .......... S-03-8S
281 Magnussen, Max C ........... 9-09-84
282 Hacke, Chester F ............. l-27-8S
282 Moody, Ray F., Sr ........... S-20-8S
282 Payne, Ethan A ............. l0-0S-8S
289 Barnett, Ralph 0 ............. 3-23-8S
290 Dinning, Hugh A ........... . 3-2S-8S
290 Snow, Harold S.............. 2-08-8S
291 Mabee, Clarence F .......... . 2-2S-8S
292 Broadstone, William 0 ........ l-17-8S
292 Walker, Harrison M .......... 7-19-84
293 Feldner, Clyde F ............. 4-22-8S
293 Mezzacappa, Charles ........ 12-08-84
294 Hellbaum, Walter F .......... 3-22-8S
294 Kennelley, Ivan G ...... : •.... l-02-8S
29S Morelli, Morvin U ............ 9-07-84
296 Cass, Shelton W. . ........... 3-23-8S
296 North, Oakley D ............. 2-14-8S
297 Evans, Clyde K.............. 2-27-8S
297 Petty, William R............ 12-26-84
299 Hulme, Joseph A. . ......... .4-30-8S
299 Lamb, John W .............. 2-19-8S
300 Garrett, Austin H ............ 3-28-8S
302 Epps, Charles .............. 10-11-84
302 Jones, William R............ 11-11-84
302 Leffingwell, Henry E ........ 12-01-84
302 Young, Porter S............ 11-01-84
303 Bentz, Howard E ............. 2-26-8S
303 Weaver, Albert W ............ 8-02-84
30S Ingram, Arthelle A ........... 4-29-8S
30S Lindsay, Richard E .......... . S-IS-8S

26
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Date of

No .
Name
Death
306 Drake, Linus C ..... ... . ... . . 7-31-84
306 Jorgenson, Floyd E .... . .... . . 5-29-85
306 Saunders, Melvin . ........... 5-04-85
308 Dreyer, Charles R . . ........ . 10-30-84
308 Ellsworth, Charles H ........ 10-24-82
308 Hahn, Alvin W............. 10-25-84
308 Setterland, Walford M........ 7-12-83
309 Marshall, Harold W.......... 1-03-85
309 Paden, Jesse J .......... . .. . 12-25-84
309 Smith, Marion L. . . .. . . . ... .. 6-18-85
310 Adams, Mervin 0 .. . . . .... . .. 3-08-85
310 Stevens, Robert J . . . . .. .. .. .. 4-15-85
314 Crandell, Jack L. . . .......... 5-26-85
315 Grant, Robert G . .. . ..... . ... 4-14-85
315 Moore, Gilbert C . . ..... .. . .. . 3-19-85
315 Stoakes, Floyd K............ .4-28-85
316 Frane, Ralph H . ... .. . ..... .'12-11-84
316 Simpson, Thomas W......... 6-20-85
316 Winter, Gilbert G ............ 5-07-85
321 Cranfill, Albert J ............. 1-22-85
323 Jackson, Sam M., Jr ........ .4-15-85
324 Dahlem, William S. .......... 6-30-85
325 Turrentine, Lawrence N.. . .. . . 4-30-85
326 Griswold, Robert S ... . .. . .. .. 3-28-85
326 Rowen, Arthur F . . . ........ . . 1-19-85
330 Chang, Tyrus L . . .. . .. . . . .. . . 6-06-85
330 Tong, Chun C .... . ... . .... .. 7- 16-84
331 Giles, Russell W. . .... .. ... .. 8-09-84
332 Beaton, Robert H .... ..... . . . 1-08-85
332 Voorhees, Eugene C .. ........ 2-07-85
334 Bradley, Aden N............ .4-28-85
336 Swanson, Herman D.......... 4-26-85
337 Booth, Joseph C ............ 10-24-84
338 Miller, Dixie G ............... 3-06-85
339 Danenhauer, Wendell B....... 2-09-85
339 Hawkins, Archie D ......... . . 5-24-85
343 Schaeffer, Theodore M . . ... .. 3-14-85
347 Akers, Sidney E . ... ... .. ... . 12-17-84
347 Keading, Lewis C . ....... .. .. 4-06-85
347 Moorhead, Archibald C . .. .. . . 7-16-84
348 Moore, James T . .. . ..... ... . 7-04-84
348 Purdy, James M...... . ... . .. 5-06-85
352 Campbell, Roy S., Jr ....... .. 8-05-84
352 Gray, James R. .. ............ 1-03-85
352 Horner, Harold R........ . ... 3-16-85
352 Livings, Waldo E ........... 11-11-84
357 Wicker, Sherman T .......... 10-18-84
362 Scholle, Adam A ............. 6-19-85
365 Johnson, Raymond A ........ 12-03-84
365 Rutler, Herman R............ 2-26-85
367 Edmondson, John B.. . ... .... 1-15-85
367 Hunt, Russell G . . ... .... .... . 6-01-85
367 Kirby, Francis L. .. . .. .. .. . .. 6-02-85
367 Martin, Hoyt F . ...... . .... . . 5-13-85
368 Mize, Guy B. (PGM) . .. . . .... 2-27-85
370 Finnigan, George R.... ...... . 1-30-85
370 Furay, Frank F. . . . ......... . 9-25-84

Lodge

Date of

Name
Death
No.
370 Hammerich, Henry 0 . . . ... . .. 3-16-85
370 Krayenbuhl, John F . . .. . . ... . 5-28-85
370 Petersen, Lester C .. . . ........ 3-04-85
370 Ure, Charles G . .. .. . . . . . . .. .. 1-26-85
373 Jewett, Oris F ........ ... . .. . 8-24-84
373 Kultalahti, Harold E ..... . . ... 3-20-85
374 Rose, Edward I. .... . . ....... 3-20-85
375 Wisherop, Fred E .... ........ 3-28-85
376 Troneum, Tobias .... . . ... .. . 5-18-85
376 Vaccari, Elmer J. , Sr ... . ..... 5-25-85
379 Myers, Aaron L. .. .... ....... 5-21-85
380 Leue, Carl . .... . . . ..... . .... 4-23-85
381 Stanley, Kenneth C .......... .4-02-85
384 Clemmons, Raynor C .. ....... 7-20-84
384 Gresham, Olin R.. . .. ...... . 11-02-84
387 Epps, Charles ..... . .. .... . . 10-11-84
388 Dawson, William F . . . ........ 9-01-84
389 Abramson, Richard S. .. ...... 4-25-85
391 Bergman, Garnet H .... ..... . 6-11-85
392 Duhn, Irvin J ......... . .. .... I-21-85
392 Elliott, Harry W . .. . . ... . . . . . 7-24-84
392 Glenn, Charles G ..... .... . ... 1-25-85
392 Knee, Ernest H .. . . . .. .. . .... 6-15-85
392 Knudson, John T ... . . ...... 10-10-84
393 Nelson, Carl E ....... .... ... . 1-31-85
394 Crouse, Charles 0 .. .... .. .... 9-06-84
394 Kildoo, Carl W .. .. . . . . . ..... 3-29-85
395 Anderson, Reuben W .. . . . .... 6-02-85
397 Mcclintock, John . . . . .... . .. . 9-27-84
397 McCurry, Cecil L. . ..... . . . . . 1-18-85
397 Mitchell, Maynard S .. ..... . . . 5-20-85
399 Lean, Richard G ... . . . . . .... . 9-18-83
399 Lenz, Edward W ...... .... .. 11-10-84
399 Lewin, Victor James F .. ...... 9-03-84
399 Quirk, Robert L. . . . ..... . .. . 7-12-83
399 Snyder, Philip L. ... ...... . .. 8-09-83
401 Morr, George M . . .. .. . . . . . .. 7-04-84
403 Durst, Walter V.. . . . ........ 11-18-84
403 Hayes, Paul M . . .. . .......... 1-22-85
403 Shum, Mel . ... . ............ 12-16-84
405 Fleming, Leo J .............. 11 -20-85
405 Haughton, James A .. ....... . 5-15-85
405 Stafford, Joseph J .. . . . . ... .. . 2-06-85
406 Ryan, Warren A .. . . .. . ..... . 4-14-85
409 Hapai, Charles L. . . . ..... . . . .4-22-85
409 Moir, William W. G . ......... 2-21-85
411 Anderson, Carl A .... ..... . .. 9-18-84
411 Anderson, Carl H ... .... . . . . 10-10-84
411 Stoakes, Floyd K.... ........ .4-28-85
418 Mayhew, Frederic H., Jr ...... 7-10-84
419 Hanna, Michael J . . . ... . . . . . . 2-12-85
419 Mathers, Wiley W .. . . . ... . ... 5-17-85
422 Mead, Loyd W ..... . .... . ... 7-15-85
423 Bradford, George G .. .. ..... . 1-23-85
423 Wilson, Maeser . . . . . . ... . . . .. 9-22-84
424 Estabrooks, Mason ... . . .. .. . 10-02-84
426 Tregea, John H . ... . ...... . . . 1-15-84

Lodge

/

Date of

Name
Death
No.
428 Morrison, Mortimer C ....... . 1-02-85
430 Langdon, Charlie A . . . ... . . . . 5-25-85
431 Davis, Charles M .... . . . ..... 10-05-84
431 McCoy, Lee G . . . ....... .. . . .4-01-85
431 Trimeloni, Joseph B. .. ... .. . 11-30-84
433 Hooper, Harry S.. . . . ...... . 11-15-84
435 Bowen, Robert L . . . .. . .. ... . . 9-11-84
435 Buehn, Frank E ..... . ........ 1-01-85
437 Trammell, Morgan E .. . . ..... 8-09-84
439 Brown, Leland F . .. . .. .. . .. . 12-05-84
447 Bartsch, Christian A . . . . . . . . .. 6-17-85
447 Lougee, Raymond 0 . ........ 12-19-84
447 Reddington, Jess M..... . . . . . 7- 13-84
448 Jackson, Burnice L. ......... . 1-31-85
450 Wynne, Paul A .. ... ......... 6-20-85
454 Davis, Charles A ... . ..... .. . 10-06-84
457 Dolan, Howard D . ........... 8-13-84
459 Snow, John H. . .. ... . ... . ... 3-03-85
461 Brown, Herbert N. .. ....... . 10-09-84
461 Holden, Winfred C ... . . . . .... 1-30-85
461 Inge!, Fred P . .. . . .. ..... . .. 11-15-84
461 Lea, John H ...... . .. ....... .4-13-85
461 Taylor, George H . .... . ... . . . 7-17-84
463 Brooks, Rawleigh 0 .......... 1-04-85
465 Goodrich, Walter M . . . .. .. . . . 5-06-85
466 DeTuncq, Harold R...... . ... 5-16-85
466 Irwin, Herman H . .... ... .... 3-13-85
466 Ketchem, Thomas V. . .. ...... 6-07-85
466 Lane, Arthur H . .... . ...... . . 1-18-85
466 Myers, Robert J . . . ..... . .. .. . 5-05-85
467 Butterfield, JamtJS W . . . . . .. . 12-21-84
467 Cooke, Edwin D.. .. . ...... . . 3-25-85
467 Stevens, Fred R . . .. .. . .... .. . 1-01-85
469 Schalles, Charles A . . ... .... . . 3-04-85
471 Jardine, Emile R... . .. . . ... . . 1-22-85
472 Wick, Erling P .... ..... . . . .. .4-21-85
473 Warren, James P .... . . .... . .. 8-02-84
475 Bronson, Hiram B. . . . ........ 3-18-85
475 Fales, George 0 . . . .... . ... . .. 8-23-84
479 Hasen, John S. . .... . .. . ..... 3-14-85
480 Winchell, Pitt K............. 12-25-84
482 Maiser, Joseph . .... .. .. . .. . . 3-20-85
483 Herndon, Alva 0 . .... . ... . .. 4-24-85
488 Copeman, Wayne . .. .. ... . . . . 8-06-84
490 Isenhower, Owen W .. .. ... . . 12-01-84
493 Hansen, Emory T .. . .. . ...... 7-23-84
494 Miserez, Joseph L. . ... . ..... . 6-10-85
498 Bromme, Clifford E .......... 2-13-85
499 Henderson, Adin D . ... ... . . . . 4-23-85
499 Rogers, Eugene L., Sr .... .... 3-31-85
501 Welch, Joseph E .... ........ . 9-06-84
502 Poulton, Edward C .. . . .. .. . . . 3-19-85
504 Cullen, Calvin R . ... . ... . ... 11-05-84
504 Potter, Don E . ... . .. . ... . .. 12-17-84
505 Rockhold, Arthur . . ...... . .. 12-04-84
511 Eggers, Kenneth R., Sr ...... 10-04-84
512 Dilworth, Robert E .. ......... 9:04-84

Lodge

27
Date of

No.
Name
Death
512 Johnson, Herman W...... .. . 5-01-85
512 Smith, Les T . .. .. ..... ...... 3-18-85
513 Gruebner, Richard J ... .. .. .. 11-30-84
513 Perry, Ben J .. . . .. . .. .. ...... 5-17-85
513 Yecsman, Charles ... ... ...... 6-07-85
518 Owen, Calvin P., Jr .......... 9-28-84
520 Quint, Sam L. . . .... .. ....... 7-30-84
520 Smuckler, Isadore . . .. . . . . ... 12-22-84
523 Swap, Homer E . .. . . . ........ 8-15-84
530 Petersen, Leland T . ... ....... 4-26-85
530 Spencer, Lincoln A . .... ..... 11-05-84
532 Moon , Dale V............... 3-23-85
532 Ritchey, Glenn A... . .... . ... . 9-28-84
533 Bunnell, Richard W . .. . . ... .. 2-17-85
533 Johnson, Ebert D . .. . ... . . ... 6-05-84
535 Asp, Elmer C . .... . .......... 8-28-84
535 Blickfeldt, Edward J . . ...... . . 9-02-84
535 Bucklin, Howard F . . . .. . .... 11-02-84
535 Copeland, Kern H ........... 10-28-84
535 Pitman, Warren S., Sr ........ 3-15-85
540 Lafferty, Harry H . . .......... 1-27-85
543 Smith, James C .... .. . ...... 10-28-84
543 Watson, Howell E . .. . . . . ..... 9-10-84
544 Barnes, Sylvester R . . ... ... . . 12-24-84
544 Cameron, Elvin W . ...... .... 5-10-85
544 Strayer, Archie D... . . . . .. ... 1-13-85
547 Nash, Benjamin F ........ . .. . 6-05-85
551 Clark, Donald J .. . ... . . . .. . . . 7-29-84
551 Dunnagan, Ernest E .. .. ...... 3-24-85
551 Giles, Frank ............. .... 5-04-85
551 Mirigian , Edwin . . . .... . .... 10-01-84
556 Waldhaus, Curt F . . ... . . .... 11-02-84
560 Gillette, Willis H ... . ... . ..... 8-01-84
561 Ford, Harry K.. . . . .. .. . ..... 1-20-85
561 Meltzer, George . ............ 6-18-85
561 Miller, Edward P .. ..... . ..... 9-26-85
564 Davis, Paul S.... . ... .. . ..... 3-19-85
564 Farley, Ray A.. .. . ..... . . .. 12-10-84
567 Carlyle, Paul E ......... . ... 12-06-84
567 Clayton, Beverly C . ........ .. 4-19-85
567 Cruchley, Edward F. N . . . .. . 11-14-84
567 Thach, Frank B. . .. . . .... ... 10-18-84
569 Berry, Beryl B. ... ... .. . . . . . . 3-07-85
572 Anderson, Walter H . . .. . .... 11-07-84
574 King, William 0 .... ........ 12-01-84
574 Robertson, Oliver S. . . .. ..... 9-25-84
576 Patrick, James A ............ 10-28-84
576 Wylie, Kenneth L. . . ......... 3-06-85
577 Maiser, Joseph .. ...... .. . ... 3-20-85
577 Walters, John S. ... . . ....... 11-04-84
579 Coon, Elbert M . ... . . . ... . . . . 6-16-85
579 Monroe, Earl T .. ... . . . .. ... . 4-15-85
579 Powers, Walter W . ........... 5-25-85
580 Leach, William C .......... . . 5-12-85
582 Mace, Patrick H . . . . .... . ... 11-20-84
585 Gibbs, Wilson 0 ............ . 2-24-85
585 Shields, Lowell D... . ... .... . 3-23-85

28

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No .
589 Cannon, Leonard T .......... 2-12-85
589 Oyagi, Charles K... . . . .. . . . .. 8-11-84
590 Herrling, Harold E . .... ... ... 7-19-84
590 Lewis, Herbert E . ... ..... . .. 11-20-84
590 Stebbins, George F . ......... . 5-11-85
590 Unroe, Norman V...... ... .. 12-18-84
591 Nelson, Wallace S .. .. . ..... . . 9-23-84
591 Peterson, Carl H . . . .. .. ..... 12-13-84
593 Walker, Homer M .. .. .... . ... 5-14-85
595 Kidd, Charles D . ............ 12-18-84
595 Murray, William J ... . ..... . 10-06-84
596 Scherschnider, L. . .. .... .. ... 1-10-85
600 Eulberg, Robert C ........... . 8-20-84
600 Libsack, John L. . . ..... .. .. 12-15-84
601 Wise, William H .. ... . . .. . ... 3-16-85
601 Young, Walter H .. .. .... . .... 6-25-84
605 Foster, Alford L. ... .... .. . : . 9-20-84
605 Haley, George M .. .......... . 8-25-84
605 Saffell, Francis B.... . . . .. . . . . 2-01-85
612 Curtis, Rupert C .. .. ... ... .. 10-25-84
612 Henzel, Stephen C . . .... .. .... 1-20-84
614 Arbogast, Lewis C .. .... .. ... 2-10-85
614 Chworowsky, Frederick A . . ... 1-02-85
615 Jolley, Sam L. ...... . . .. ... . . 1-27-85
615 Simpson, James . .... ... .. ... 6-04-85
616 Bearse, Andrew B.... . . .. .. .. 1-01-85
621 Frazer, Mason G . . ... . .... .. . 7-24-84
621 Parker, Clare J. V. . ..... . ... 1-09-85
621 Stanley, Lester R .. . .... . ..... 2-05-85
621 Watson, Wayne L. .. . . .. .... . 7-05-84
626 Gilbert, Kenneth J .... . ..... . 11-10-84
626 Spencer, David A . ..... . .. ... 2-20-85
627 Roling, James M., Jr. .. .... .. 2-11-85
627 Taylor, George G. . . . ..... ... 3-08-85
627 Worrell, Elmer P .. ..... . .... 11-20-84
629 Leue, Carl . . ..... . ...... . .. .4-23-8.5
632 Clark, Floyd E ... . ......... .. 9-06-84
633 Ax, Alf C .. . . .. .. ...... . ... 11-28-84
633 Havins, Henry W. . . .... .. .. .4-05-85
635 Hutchinson, Jack C .. . ....... 4-12-85
644 Graham, John W. . . . ...... .. 3-03-85
645 Goar, Gordon M . .... .. ... ... 2-27-85
645 Walker, Earl J .............. . 9-20-84
653 Hawkins, John M . .. .... ... .. 1-03-85
653 Philbin, Griffin M .. ... ... .... 3-07-85
655 Hines, Pleasant E .. . .. . ..... .4-26-85
656 Denson, LeRoy F .. .... .... .. 7-10-84
658 Dunbar, Herbert 0 ..... . .... .4-19-85
659 Herman, Jesse D . .. . .. . ... . .. 5-12-85
659 Mimoso, Bertram Q...... . .. 10-06-84
659 Steel, Doyal G ......... . . . ... 5-21-85
660 Rooks, Robert E . .. . . ... .... . 2-08-85
661 Riggs, Gideon S ... ... .. ... ... 6-14-85
663 Burgess, Carl M . . . ... . ....... 8-19-84
666 Butts, John W., Jr. .. ... .. . . . 8-21-84
668 Crawford, William E. R... .. 12-16-84
668 Fales, George 0 . ..... ... ... . . 8-23-84

Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No .
668 Raatz, John . .. ... ... ..... .. . 9-05-84
674 Davidson, Paul M ........ . .. 10-18-84
674 Glick, Morton B... ... .. . . . . . 9-15-84
674 Spitz, Morris .. . . .. .. ... ..... 6-08-85
676 Console, Henry J . . ........ . . 1-29-84
676 Eilers, William W ... . ... . .... 2-26-84
676 Janis, Sam . ... ... ..... . ..... 6-09-84
677 Hall, Clarence G . . ... . .. .. . . 12-06-84
677 Meyer, Ellsworth (PG M) .. .. .. 8-07-84
677 Porter, John F .(PSGW) ...... 7-16-84
678 Tripp, Vernon C . . ... . . ... . .. 3-10-85
680 McKinstry, Edward P . .... .... 8-09-84
680 Sands, Claud D . .. . .......... 9-16-84
682 Claypool, Vincent B.. .. . .. . .. 5-21-85
683 Higley, Floyd . . .. . ..... ... .. . 8-10-84
683 Pancoast, Carroll A ...... . ... 2-25-85
684 Beerup, Robert H .. .. .... .. .. 6-14-85
685 Acosta, Guillermo T ... . .. . .. . 2-25-85
686 Grisham, Roland R . ... . ...... 9-21-84
686 Johnson, Merle W .. .. ..... . .. 7-19-84
687 Pullen, Stanley C .. . .......... 2-09-85
690 Driffill , Frank . ... .... . . . ... .4-24-85
691 McMillan, Claude D . . . . .. ... 12-06-84
692 Oliphant, James E ........ . ... 8-15-84
695 Briles, Robert B... .... .. .... .4-23-85
698 Finney, James B. ........... 11-04-84
698 Priest, Tracy J .. .. ........ . .. 6-14-85
700 Eldridge, Roeliffe F . .. ... ... . 9-07-83
702 Klusmann, Frederick L .... . .. 11-16-84
702 Zube, Edward V............ 10-13-84
707 Parks, Jay D .. ... .... .. ... .. 1-11-85
708 lngmundson, Roy E .......... 3-26-85
711 Hunter , James S .. ..... .. .... 4-01 -85
711 Smith, Harry F., Sr. . . ... . . . . 6-06-84
717 Conly, Eugene R............. 5-22-85
718 Canuel, John 8 ... ... . . .. ... 11-08-84
718 Krayenbuhl, John F . . ..... ... 5-08-85
724 Beckham, Harold D ......... 12-10-84
726 Turner, Gerald H .. ... .. ... .. 5-31-85
729 Foreman, Harry D ........ . .. 6-08-84
732 Gore, John E .... .. .... .. ... 12-09-84
733 Tice, William A .... . . .. . ... .. 1-04-85
734 Counter, Harry D ....... . .... 7-10-84
734 Davis, Agee B........ . ..... . 1-26-85
739 Christensen, Milton C . .. . . .. . 1-06-85
740 Turner, Carl E . . ..... . ...... I 1-16-84
749 Wallace, Letus A ... .. ... ... .. 2-25-85
752 Holden, Winfred C . . . ... ..... 1-30-85
758 Steedman, Robert W ........ . 1-10-85
761 Wilcox, Delmar D .. .. .... ... . 1-02-85
776 Pieper, George A ............. 9-25-84
778 Martin, Thomas E . . . ... .. ... .4-02-85
780 Hopwood, Francis M ... .. .. .. 5-05-85
782 Moore, Charles M ... .. ...... . 8-22-84
786 Yeargrain, Carl E., Sr. ... ... 10-24-84
788 Riley, Charles L. .. ... . . . ..... 2-01-85
790 Webster, Elwin E ... . ... . .... 2-10-84

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
802 Bradley, Aden N ........ .. .. .4-28-85
806 Turner, Samuel E .. .. ... .... . 2-14-85
822 Bluff, Robert M . .. .. .. . ... .. 2-04-85

29

Date of
Lodge
Death
Name
No.
827 Coovert, Elmo R ... .. .... .... 3-23-85
830 Henderson, Adin D .. .. .. . .... 4-28-85

Respectfully Submitted,
RICHARD 1. PIERCE, Chairman
ROBERT L. SORENSON
BERNHARDT A. BERLINER
ROBERT W. MOORE
PRESTON
FRANKLIN R.

30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER'S ACHIEVEMENT AWARD
The following 92 Lodges qualified as first time recipients and were presented
with a handsome and suitably engraved plaque. To properly recognize the
earning of this award, the Master or representative of each of these Lodges
was escorted into the Grand Lodge by the Grand Marshal and presented with
the plaque by Grand Master Henville. Following these presentations, the
Brethren accorded these Lodges a standing ovation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Wayfarer No. 717
Arabic No. 763
Palmdale No. 769
Mission Bay No. 771
Waikiki No. 774
San Dieguito No. 775
East Whittier No. 776
La Mirada No. 778

31

Rio Linda No. 786
American River No. 795
Golden Valley No. 796
Ashland No. 798
Yucca Valley No. 802
Moreno Valley No. 804
Mount Baldy No. 815
Kern River Valley No. 827

FIRST YEAR RECIPIENTS

Tehama No. 3
Yount No. 12
Washington No. 20
Hawaiian No. 21
Howard No. 37
Sacramento No. 40
Martinez No. 41
Los Angeles No. 42
Woodland No. 81
Naval No. 87
Alamo No. 122
Table Mountain No. 124
Antioch No. 175
South San Francisco No. 212
San Mateo No. 226
Alcatraz No. 244
Olive Branch No. 269
Anchor No. 273
Hanford No. 279
Fellowship No. 290
Santa Monica No. 307
Fallbrook No. 317
Corona No. 324
Redondo No. 328
Fountain Valley No. 351
Las Palmas No. 366
South Pasadena No. 367
Jewel City No. 368
Le Progres de I..:Oceanie No. 371
United No. 374
Mizpah No. 378
Orosi No. 383
Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392
University No. 394
Rising Light No. 397
Fraternity No. 399
Moneta No. 405
Upland No. 419

Eagle Rock No. 422
San Dimas No. 428
Lancaster No. 437
Blackmer No. 442
Golden Gavel No. 445
San Pasqual No. 452
Libertas No. 466
Seaside No. 504
El Segundo No. 507
Sunnyvale No. 511
Palms-Adams No. 512
Bellflower Paramount No. 523
Sun Garden No. 530
Azure No. 533
Granada No. 535
Queen Beach No. 540
Triangle No. 548
--l:_lermosa-Manhattan No. 557
Foothill No. 564
Chateau Thierry No. 569
Westchester United No. 572
S.W. Hackett No. 574
Warren G. Harding No. 579
Manchester No. 585
Garden Grove No. 586
Tri No. 595
Atwater Larchmont No. 614
-Big Bear No. 617
Point Loma No. 620
Menorah No. 623
Poinsettia No. 633
Riverside No. 635
Menlo Park No. 651
Crescenta Valley No. 652
Monte Vista No. 655
Liberal Arts No. 677
Rim of the World No. 711
Castro Valley No. 713

There were 50 Lodges that received a properly engraved tab in recognition
of attaining this award for the second consecutive year.

SECOND YEAR RECIPIENTS

San Diego No. 35
Santa Rosa No. 57
Lexington No. 104
Vacaville No. 134
Salinas No. 204
Anaheim No. 207
King David's No. 209
Reading No. 254
Evergreen No. 259
Winnedumah No. 287
Orange Grove No. 293
Whittier No. 323
Consuelo No. 325
Pacific Grove No. 331
Los Angeles Harbor No. 332
Covina No. 334
San Fernando No. 343
San Bernardino No. 348
Sequoia-St. Elmo No. 349
West Los Angeles No. 373
Huntington Beach No. 380
Oceanside No. 381
Palos Verdes No. 389
La Mesa No. 407
Morgan Hill No. 463

Culver City-Foshay No. 467
Yorba Linda No. 469
Golden Rule No. 479
Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480
Capital City No. 499
Ionic No. 520
Arcadia No. 547
El Cajon Valley No. 576
Service No. 594
Guardian No. 596
Southland Heritage No. 618
Composite No. 639
Jordan-Golden Bowl No. 654
Greenleaf No. 670
Willow Glen No. 676
Vista No. 687
Palm Springs No. 693
Bixby Knolls Neptune No. 699
Los Altos No. 712
Home No. 721
San Juan No. 732
Lemon Grove No. 736
Luther Burbank No. 752
Five Points No. 779
Granada Hills No. 790

Grand Lodge was called off at 11:45 A.M. to be called on again at 1:30 PM.

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, October 14, 1985
At I :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
Grand Lodge was raised by Ronald R. Haase, Master of Three Pillars Lodge
No. 613 of Sacramento. The gavel used to raise Grand Lodge had been
presented to the Grand Master by Castro Valley Lodge No. 713 on the occ~­
sion of the Cornerstone Laying and Dedication Ceremony of the new Masomc
Temple located in Castro Valley.
.
Other gavels used during the course of the Afternoon Session were present~d
to the Grand Master at a Reception accorded him by the Alhambra York ~ite
Bodies; at the Cornerstone Ceremony and Dedication of the Lemoore Se~1or
Citizens Building, sponsored by Welcome Lodge No. 255; on the. occasion
of the IOOth Anniversary of Hanford Lodge No. 279; on the occasion of the
75th Anniversary of Perris Lodge No. 411; at a Re~eption hosted by th~ 570th,
572nd and 574th Masonic Districts; on the occasion of the 75th Anmvers~ry
of La Mesa Lodge No. 407 and on the occasion of the Mortgage Burnmg
Ceremony of the Arcadia Masonic Temple.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS AND RESPONSES
The following Grand Masters from other jurisdictions were n~cei~~d with
Private Grand Honors, introduced by the Grand Marshal and tndlVldually
greeted and welcomed by Grand Master Roy J. Henville. They were then
escorted to seats reserved for them:
M:.W:.Charles J. Shoup, Jr.,
Grand Master of Masons in Arizona
M :. W:. George W. Baldwin,
Grand Master of Masons in British Columbia
M:.W:.James Dunn,
Grand Master of Masons in Colorado
M:.W:.Paul E. Bovee,
Grand Master of Masons in Montana
M :. W :. Valdo A. Sei,
Grand Master of Masons in Nevada
M:. W:. Vern R. Garvin,
Grand Master of Masons in Oregon
M :. W :. Warren G. Gilbert, Jr.,
Grand Master of Masons in Washington
M .·. W. ·.Cliff Bloomenrader,
Grand Master of Masons in Wyoming

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

The following Distinguished Guests were then received with Public Grand
Honors, individually introduced, welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted
to seats reserved for them:
R : . W:. Gunnar Flygenring,
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Alaska
R :. W :. Monroe "Jim" Morton,
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Oregon
R. ·. W. ·.Jesse R. Barnes,
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Utah
R .·. W .·.Jefferson Ensworth,
Deputy Grand Master, Grand Lodge of Washington
R :. W :. Norman Hoff,
Senior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Colorado
R :. W :. Glendon K. Jefferies,
Senior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Oregon
R:. W :.Marks Ewing,
Senior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Washington
R:.W:.Ovid A. Moore,
Junior Grand Warden, Grand Lodge of Nevada
M :. W :. Robert F. Henderson, P.G.M.,
Grand Secretary, Arizona
R :. W :. Frank E. Hart,
Grand Secretary, Nevada
R:. W:. Robert D. Braman,
Grand Secretary, Utah
R :. W :. William Wood,
Grand Lecturer, Colorado
W. ·.Alvin E. Carter,
Grand Marshal, Oregon
W:. William Miller,
Grand Marshal, Washington
W :.Dalvin Hollaway,
Senior Grand Deacon, Oregon
W :.Richard McLean,
Senior Grand Steward, Oregon
M :. W :. H. Dale Walker,
Past Grand Master, American Canadian Grand Lodge in Germany
M :. W :. Theodore Fujiki,
Past Grand Master, Idaho
M : . W:. Clarence K. Jones,
Past Grand Master, Nevada
M :. W :.Henry C. Nelson,
Past Grand Master, Nevada
M:. W:. Eugene Frankel,
Past Grand Master, York Grand Lodge of Mexico

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

34

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

R:. W :.Leo L. Noel,
Past Grand Treasurer, Japan
R. ·. W. ·. C. Grand Wardlaw,
District Deputy Grand Master, British Columbia
W : . Duane Pinkerton,
District Deputy, Oregon
W .·.Ben H. Robertson,
Past District Deputy, Washington and Representative for California near
that Grand Lodge.

The visiting Grand Masters addressed the assembled Brethren a~ various
times during the Communication. Each brought greetings from their respective jurisdictions, expressed their thanks for the friendly hospi~ality of ~he
Grand Lodge of California and reviewed several facets of their respective
Grand Jurisdictions.

35

My Brethren:
I stand before you today, as I did a year ago, with a profound sense of
humility, gratitude, and apprehension. No man can serve as your Grand Master
without feeling how small and insignificant he is without the generous help
and support of all of you. The resultant humility is real; it is constant!
Your response and strength have been most effective and gratifying. For
this, I shall be everlastingly grateful. The measure of this gratitude., I am sorry
to say, I cannot express in words. Throughout the year, I have tried to express
it in and by my actions.
Now, I stand before you as the defendant in a court of law stands before
the judge and jury. My apprehension stems from the fact that I realize you
are the ones to judge my actions of the past year; you are the jury scrutinizing what I have tried to do; you are the ones who will determine the verdict.
I hope and pray that I have served you well. I assure you that I have made
every effort to be true to our Masonic principles, fair to everyone at all times,
and sincere in each personal relationship. As you review the events and
activities that have transpired this past year, I ask only that you judge my
role in them with fraternal understanding and compassion.
When I stood before you last year, I was fully aware that, while the office
of Grand Master is the highest honor that can be conferred upon an individual
Mason, it is also the challenge of a massive responsibility! Just as each Mason
is an ambassador of Masonry, a public relations committee of one, a builder
of goodwill, so is the Grand Master all of these things. However, because
of his greater exposure, the responsibility for being faultless is maximized.
I have kept this t.hought before me at all times.
INTER-JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTE

At the very outset of this administration, we faced an extremely serious
and potentially explosive situation.
The Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey knowingly and
arbitrarily had violated the long respected and basic American Masonic
principle of territorial sovereignty. He initiated, passed and raised a California resident in a Lodge in that Jurisdiction without following long established
rules and procedures.
Despite the very courteous, low key, but repeated efforts of both our Grand
Master, E. Arthur Haglund, and Grand Secretary, Robert A. Klinger, to rectify
the situation before it was too late, the recalcitrant Grand Master stubbornly
pursued his course. Finally, with complete reluctance, our Grand Master was
compelled to issue his proclamation severing fraternal relations and withdrawing official recognition of the deviate Grand Lodge and its Constituent
Lodges. This is a dreadful action with countless ramifications and resultant
problems - not the least of which was the embarrassment to the California
resident - the kind of action no Grand Master or Grand Lodge will take
without the most serious consideration and widespread consultation, both
of which our Grand Master earnestly and conscientiously pursued.

37

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Upon my coming into the office of Grand Master last October, the new
Grand Master (since April of 1984) of New Jersey, recognizing the impact
and import of the withdrawal of recognition, took advantage of the changes
in administration in both his and our Grand Lodges and made an honest
and sincere effort to correct the situation. He even traversed the continent
and personally visited with us in order to restore friendly fraternal relations.
Not only did he defuse the explosive situation and assuage our feelings, but
more importantly, he made sure that Masonic protocol was followed in every
detail.
Thus the California resident, Danny Thomas, a universally known entertainer and philanthropist, who was recently awarded a Medal of Honor by
President Reagan for his humanitarian activities, has become a dual member
of our Palisades Lodge No. 637. Peace and harmony have been restored among
and between our two Masonic Jurisdictions with the traditional American
Masonic principle of territorial sovereignty reaffirmed! This joyous ending
enabled us to go on to our other duties and responsibilities with a great sense
of relief and renewed energy. (Treated as Grand Master's Decision No. 4)

Almost from its inception in England in 1717, Grand Lodges have pursued
the policy of refraining from response to criticism and refusing to be drawn
into a fight.
The list of both political and religious entities opposed to Masonry is surprising. Even more amazing is the fact that our Fraternity has survived them
all, despite its unwillingness to respond to all critics.
We managed to grow stronger after the very severe anti-Masonic period
in the United States, ranging from 1826 to 1840. We were very badly crippled,
but undaunted!
The most recent attack is that of the British Methodist Conference censuring
the Fraternity as a "threat to Christianity" and urging its communicants to
withdraw from Freemasonry. This follows the statement of a few years ago
by Scotland Yar~ requesting its members not to join a Lodge and, if already
a member, to resign. The Church of England had previously issued a similar
statement.
The f~ct ~hat the Duke of Kent, like so many of the nobility and royalty
before him, 1s the Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England raises
a few questions. Has he or have his constituents strayed from our fraternal
tenets? Have the Methodists and other dissidents become disloyal to the
Crown? Is there an incipient dissatisfaction expressing itself in England? Is
anti-Masonic criticism justified?
What should we do about all this criticism? Our office has received a flood
of mail on this subject, indicating extensive concern, not only among the
Brethren, but also among some non-Masons, family members, and others.
There are several courses to pursue. One is to ignore all of it and to go
about our work as usual. The other extreme is to declare war upon our
attackers and to fight back, item by item.
Somewhere in between are such approaches as: l) to dedicate ourselves to
a better performance in our respective communities; 2) to develop a firm wellstructured program of public relations; and, 3) to reach out into our
community by: a) fulfilling local needs with more widespread, selfless service;
b) openi~g our meeting places to more community groups; c) inviting
commumty leaders to our activities; d) demonstrating a sincere and dedicated
d~votion to the people in our community; e) giving more time to working
with and for all young people, when and wherever we can; f) improving our
individual and Lodge behavior to create an impeccable public image.
Years ago, I was taught that to argue is fruitless because, "everything you
say merely convinces your antagonist how wrong you are and how right he is!"
In short, I suggest our best response is to expand our horizons, to arrange
to include more family and friends in our activities, and to develop more pride
in ourselves and our beloved Fraternity. We are definitely NOT a religion,
but we should demonstrate more clearly that we are devoutly religious! We
have so much to give; we have so many capable people to help in so many ways!
Let's get out of the Lodge Room and do what we are taught to do in it!
Let us exemplify and personify our lessons and our precepts!! Let us divest
ourselves of all unnecessary or imagined secrecy and prove to the world that
we are NOT a secret society!!!

36

ANTI-MASONRY DEVEWPMENTS

An irritating problem that has recently reappeared is the anti-Masonic expressions reported in the press. As you know, this is not a new problem. It
has reared its ugly head from time to time since before the formation of the
first Grand Lodge in London, England in 1717. King Henry VI, in 1425, was
one of the earliest to rule against the Masons in England. He was followed
with anti-Masonic sentiments and regulations by King George III, in 1799.
In between, during 1738, Pope Clement XII issued his famous, or infamous,
Bull entitled, "In Eminenti", in which he declared "excommunication, ipso
facto, for all Freemasons of Catholic persuasion."
About 20 or more other Papal pronouncements against Masonry have been
issued since then, most quoted of which is the "Humanum Genus" proclaimed
by Pope Leo XIII in 1884. He declared that the "human race is divided into
two opposing parties, the kingdom of God and the kingdom of Satan." As
might be expected, he relegated Freemasonry to the latter kingdom. He went
on to say that, "By opening their gates to persons of every creed, they promote, in fact, the great modern error of religious indifference and of the parity
of all worships, the best way to annihilate every religion, especially the
Catholic, which being the only true one, cannot be joined with others without
enormous injustice."
Another of his accusations against Freemasons was that we contend, "the
peoples are sovereign, those who rule have no authority but by the commission and concession of the people."
While most Masons ignored this diatribe, Albert Pike, the eminent leader
of the Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, responded publicly, calling it a
"declaration of war" against democracy and the principles we hold so dear.
These Papal attacks have been accompanied by numerous others; by
political leaders, other religious antagonists, and by individuals, all motivated
by a variety of reasons.

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

STATUE OF LIBERTY

Chairman of the important life-sustaining Investment Committee of Grand
Lodge. His dedication and service to Freemasonry and especially to the Grand
Lodge of California is an inspiration to all.

Lest you get the idea that we have had nothing but negative problems, let
me tell you about our commitment to the renovation of the Statue of Liberty.
With so many of us being descendants of immigrants who literally poured
across the Atlantic Ocean and caught their first glimpse of this Land of Hope,
Freedom, and Prosperity through a porthole or from the overcrowded decks
of ships, I need not recount the joy, the tears of happiness, and the prayerful
expressions of gratitude they displayed and expressed!
The Statue of Liberty has been a beloved symbol to uncountable millions,
not least of whom are the Freemasons. Only here are we guaranteed, in writing,
the right to meet as we are doing today, unmolested and respected.
Furthermore, Masons played such well known and prominent roles in conceiving, sculpturing, and delivering the famous Statue that I shall not take
the time to enumerate them now. Suffice it to say that for many reasons, the
Masons in the United States have pledged to support the renovation project.
We are no different, except that we, of the California and Hawaii Juris~ic­
tion, have set a goal to contribute $1,000,000 to the project, a sum far exceedmg
that of any other Jurisdiction. I am proud to report that with your generous
support, we are approaching the $800,000 mark in less than a year, without
infringement upon any other program. Our goal remains the same .$1,000,000! We have only $250,000 or less than one-quarter to go. I am confident that you will find this sum within our capability and that you will share
in the pride of accomplishment!
The California Masonic Foundation is still receiving contributions. Please
make it your earnest desire, your wish, and your duty to contribute whatever
you can without injury to yourself or your family. This is one opportuni ty
to create a very favorable public image, a chance to receive national publicity,
telling the world that the Masons of California and Hawaii are literally saying,
"Thanks a Million!"

MASON OF THE YEAR A WARD

Following the lead of Past Grand Master Donald B. McCaw, I have had
the pleasure and privilege of pre5enting an award this year to the Outstanding
Mason of the Year.
Ralph H. Head was selected and so honored at a banquet on t~e eve~ing
of May 30, 1985, at the Torrance Marriott Hotel. After due cons1derat1on,
Ralph was deemed to be a most deserving recipient during his 50th year of
Masonry. He is well known throughou t our Jurisdiction as the Editor o_f the
California Freemason Magazine and the author of many wonderful articles,
some bearing his name and many others, as befits an editor, bearing no name
or the name of someone else.
His Masonic credits are so very extensive that I hesitate reciting them to
you. However, to give you an indication, I mention a few of them. He is a
former Grand Orator a member and Past President of both the Homes Board
of Trustees and the Memorial Temple Board, and he is currently serving as

39

OUTSTAND ING MASONIC LEADERS

I wish to recognize three members of this Grand Lodge who are presently
serving as International leaders of concordant and appendant Masonic
organizations, thereby bringing great credit and recognition to this Jurisdiction for their outstanding leadership in their respective organizations. They are:
Most Worshipful Henry C. Clausen, Past Grand Master, Sovereign Grand
Commander, Southern Jurisdiction of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite;
former Grand Orator, Walker S. Kisselburgh, Imperial Potentate of the Shrine
of North America; and Grand Lodge Committeeman Arthur E. Buss, President of High Twelve International.
We all can be especially proud of these dedicated and devoted Masons.
GRAND MASTER'S RELIEF

From time to time, our Brethren in other Jurisdictions encounter
catastrophic misfortunes. Earthquakes, fires, tidal waves, hurricanes, volcanic
eruptions and other disasters leave these Brethren devastated, homeless and
hungry, with their meeting places destroyed. Masons from many Jurisdictions
respond with financial or physical help.
Some of our older members will remember the San Francisco earthquak e
and fire of 1906 and the assistance provided by Brethren in other areas. Japan
has received such aid more than once. Not too many years ago, the Lodges
in Guatemala weFe similarly helped.
The Masonic Service Association monitors such calamities and serves as
a source of authentic information concerning the need for fraternal assistance.
This year, we sent $500.00 to aid the members of the Grand Lodge of Chile
who were made homeless by the devastating earthquak e of last Spring.
Another $500.00 contributi on was sent for relief of those Brethren who
suffered loss of homes and property resulting from the Florida wildfires.
Letters citing the grateful acknowledgement of these contributions have
been received from Chile, Florida, and the Masonic Service Association.
75-YEAR A WARDS

One of the very enjoyable experiences provided to this Grand Master was
the opportunit y to present awards in recognition of 75 years of membership
in our Fraternity. This is always a rare experience. We have many Brothers
who achieve the 25-year award and are thus honored by their Lodge; quite
a few who earn the 50-year Golden Veterans' Award, but only a very few who
can boast of 75 years of membership.
This year, it was my distinct pleasure to award not one, not two, but SIX
75-year awards! This is a most unusual number! Two of the recipients are
Sojourners, while four are members of California Lodges.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

These distinguished members were: Jeptha Purcell, Evergreen Lodge No.
1171, Chicago, Illinois; Leslie E. Woodworth, Sequoia-St. Elmo Lodge No.
349, a plural member with Naval Lodge No. 87; Reinhold Bothe, South San
Francisco Lodge No. 212 (presented by Most Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee); Murray A. McDonald, Crescent Lodge No. 11, Grafton, North Dakota;
Albert G. Cornwell, Jewel City Lodge No. 368; and Adolph G. Bauer, Yerba
Buena Lodge No. 403.

specifically structured basis. After all, there can be no greater strength than
that derived from family support and encouragement!
This year, we have been blessed by a very generous demonstration of such
family unity. Wherever we have gone, Eastern Star, Scottish Rite, York Rite,
Shrine, Hi-12, and Youth Orders, we have been invited and received in a most
cordial fashion with the greatest courtesy and respect. Receptions have been
numerous, well planned, and obviously warm, gracious, and charming. Very
frankly, it takes a man with big feet and a lot of weight to keep from flying
into Cloud 9. With all the compliments, generous remarks, and tokens of
affection so kindly proferred to us this past year, it would not be difficult
to develop a big head, so full of air that it would be easy to take off and
go into orbit!
It is difficult and unfair to try to single out any particular group or organization for specific mention on this subject. All have been equal as integral
members as a family should be. All have been supportive; all have been
thoughtful and helpful.
Although the Shrine is the most visible, exciting, and best known segment
of our Family, I have been impressed by their humility and determined efforts to be "just one of the family." Unfettered by some of the restraints under
which we operate, and therefore, able to expand their membership and build
financial resources, nevertheless they insist upon conforming to our standards
with dignity, bearing in mind that they are Shrine Masons.
Their efforts to build a stronger Masonic Family unity is international in
scope. At the Imperial Shrine level, they have a Masonic Relations Committee. Perhaps, we, as Symbolic Lodge Masons, can learn some valuable lessons
from our Shrine Brethren, particularly in the areas of public relations and
personal enthusiasm.
While many of our Brethren worry and lament about our declining
numbers, I am more concerned about the causes of that decline, among which,
the chief culprit is apathy!
With a stronger Masonic Family, reciprocally encouraging each other, I
believe we can defeat our worst enemy. How can anyone be apathetic when
he knows what the family expectations are and that the family is constantly
watching and encouraging him?
We need more expressed appreciation of each other; more joint activities
to build a closer "togetherness"; we need to have more FUN together, rather
than going in different directions; we need more cooperation and less competition for members, for dollars, for programs; we need more family spirit,
leading us to more Masonic Family Unity!

40

MASONIC YOUTH ORDERS

For the second year, the Executive Committee has met with the adult leaders
of our three Youth Orders.
It is very important for Grand Lodge to take an active interest in the problems of the Youth Orders and to give our support and encouragement for
the good of these organizations. Adult help is urgently needed, especially in
the area of advisers.
This support must be more than financial assistance! Our young people
need and ask for our personal companionship and counsel. They need our
experience and guidance to avoid repeating the mistakes we have made. Only
in this fashion can progress be achieved.
The Youth Orders Committee, under the Chairmanship of Glenn Woody,
has endeavored to provide more visible support of the three Youth Orders
this year. A valuable manual of guidance has been provided by Chairman
Woody for the members of his Committee.
I want especially to thank Brother Woody for his assistance in providing
a close liason with the leaders of the Youth Groups and his guidance for the
Grand Master's visits to the Grand Bethel of Job's Daughters, Grand Assembly
of Rainbow for Girls, and the DeMolay Conclaves.
GRAND MASTER'S SPECIAL PROJECT

On many occasions during the past year of our Masonic travels, we were
especially pleased to receive monetary gifts in the name of the Grand Master
for special projects at the Masonic Home at Covina. A generous total of
$7 ,000.00 was received.
Among the purposes for which these funds have and will be used are the
purchase of Apple computers with the necessary accessories and software for
the School programs, concrete benches to be placed about the grounds and
even a Trust Fund for paying the initiation and dues of those children desiring
to join the Masonic Youth Orders.
This Grand Master wishes to express his sincere appreciation to those who
contributed so generously to these special projects.
MASONIC FAMILY UNITY

Our extended Masonic Family is very important to all of us. They provide
us with a great deal of direct and indirect support, consequently, it behooves
us to reciprocate, not on occasion or haphazardly, but upon a definite,

41

PROFICIENCY FOR CONCORDANT AND APPENDANT BODIES

At the conclusion of the Master's congratulations to the newly raised Master
Mason, he is told that by signing the Lodge By-laws it will subject him to
its burdens and responsibilities, as well as entitle him to its benefits and its
privileges.
However, there are some rights and privileges as a Master Mason that are
witheld for a certain period of time or for qualificaton. For instance, under

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Rules Governing Admission to the Home at Union City" for a member,
his wife or widow, and for admission of children of a member to the Home
in Covina, that member must have been a Master Mason in good standing
continuously for at least five years before making such application.
Under the five years of membership requirement for making application
to either Masonic Home, Grand Lodge has established recognition of the
member's sincerity, dedication, and support of Freemasonry to warrant
granting such admission, providing a need for either Home has been
demonstrated.
The privilege of making application to a concordant or appendant organization by a Master Mason is restricted under Section 2635 of the C.M.C .. Such
restriction involves waiting at least one year following the conferring of the
Master Mason degree and also having passed a satisfactory examination in
the Candidate's Lecture of that Degree.
I wholeheartedly support Grand Master Haglund's carry over Recommendation No. 3, entitled "Proficiency for Concordant and Appendant Bodies",
that the restriction in making application to concordant or appendant
organizations should apply only for a period of time not to exceed five years
after which the Master Mason would be eligible to make such application.
I think the precedent set by Grand Lodge in adopting a period of five years
of membership to establish the sincerity, dedication, and support of a Master
Mason for admission to our Masonic Homes should apply in this case and
suffice in lieu of having passed the Third Degree proficiency.

the topics of current interest to Freemasonry. Such meetings are constructive
in promoting fraternal relations and to exchange ideas of improving the image
and visibility of Freemasonry.
~he thir~ trip was. as a guest of Al Malaikah Shrine Temple to the Imperial
~hnne Session: held m_Atlanta, Georgia during the Fourth of July week. Fortyf1ve of the fifty Umted States Grand Masters were in attendance and
participated in a meeting conducted by the Masonic Relations Committee
of the Imperial Shrine.
Walker S. Kisselburgh, former Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge of California, was elected and installed as Imperial Potentate of the Shrine of North
America at the close of the Session. Next year's Imperial Shrine Session will
be held in Los Angeles.

42

0UT-OF-J URISDICTION TRAVEL

Of the three trips I made out of the Jurisdiction this year, the first was
to the Annual Grand Master's Conference, held in Myrtle Beach, South
Carolina from February 17 to 20, 1985. One major benefit of this Conference
is the opportunity to get acquainted with the Leaders of other Jurisdictions.
During the Conference the Annual Meetings of the George Washington
Masonic National Memorial and the Masonic Service Association were held.
Speakers and discussion groups among the Grand Masters continue to seek
solutions to the widespread decline in Masonic membership. Most Jurisdictions, like our own, have adopted Laymen's Night programs and leadership
training for officers to stimulate interest. Some have adopted some drastic
changes in reducing the Candidate proficiency requirements for advancement
through the Degrees. Some have instituted aggressive programs to induce nonMasons to inquire about membership. Careful observation of the results of
such changes will eventually indicate the value of such changes.
The second trip out of the Jurisdiction was to Portland, Oregon, on March
2 and 3, 1985 for the Western Conference. Those participating in this Conference included Grand Masters, Deputy Grand Masters, Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, Grand Secretaries, and Junior Past Grand Masters of the
Jurisdictions of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, California and Alaska.
Advance assignments were made to each of the six categories of Grand
Lodge Officers to write and present papers followed by open discussion on

43

A NEEDED COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE

Most Worshipful Gene Ross, Grand Master of Masons in Illinois in discussing a problem common to most Jurisdictions, that of "Unfinished' Work"
has said,. "the most concern and the greatest challenge comes in the area of
those Brethren who have stated they are no longer interested and do not desire
to complete their work. What has happened? Did the Investigating/Interviewing Committee fail in their duties? Was the Worshipful Master lax in
not determining the Candidate's intentions? What about the Brethren who
voted to accept him? How well was the First Degree performed? Don't we
all have a certain responsibility to our Lodge and our Fraternity to see that
only those who ale sincere should enter our door?"
Every applicant for the Degrees of Masonry is entitled to an explanaton
of the action he is taking. Every Lodge should have a Personnel Committee
tha~ meets with eac~ applicant, before his petition is read in Lodge, to explan~ that :v1asonry _is taug.ht by Degrees, that there is some memory work
re~mred with coac?mg available, what Masonry is and what it is not, along
with an opportumty for the Candidate to ask questions. Getting better
acquainted with the Candidate will make him feel more comfortable. This
~ctivit~ does not replace the work of the Committee of Investigation. That
is very important and necessary, too. Such a preliminary meeting may reveal
to the applicant that Masonry is not what he expected. If so, it is better for
him t~ know this be~or~ ~oing any further. On the other hand, it is an opportune time to sell the md1v1dual the merits of Masonry and increase his interest
in receiving the degrees. This approach can help reduce the 200/o of these applicants who receive the First Degree and do not continue further. We are
presently losing 20 out of every 100 applicants who receive the Entered
Apprentice degree and then continue no further. The Ritual of the Several
Degr~es must be performed as nearly to perfection as possible to impress the
Candidate. If only Lodges would make a point to use their most skilled and
prof~cient ritualists in the Degree work and instill a sense of pride in ritual!
If this were done, the Candidate would be impressed enough so that he would
develop a keen interest in seeking further Light in Masonry. It is a mistake

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to believe that every Lodge officer is a good ritualist. Many sideliners are
far more talented in this area and they should be invited and encouraged to
get involved.
Last, but certainly not least, Candidate coaching is very critical! Some of
the best memories of Masons are the enjoyable times spent with their coaches.
Friendships have been established that have been lasting. Our Candidate's
Coaches are entitled to far more recognition than has been afforded them
for the important place they occupy. Coaching should be not only a matter
of learning the Questions and Answers, but also the use of the well prepared
material in the "Handbook for Candidates Coaches" that explains the symbols, terms, furnishings, and other subjects.
I quote from the Handbook, "In this chain of instruction, the most intimate
contact of the Candidate is with his coach. His view of Masonry as a strong,
virile and worthwhile institution is more likely to be gained through evenings
spent with a strong and knowledgeable coach, than through the actual work
in the Degrees themselves. It is the coach who makes things come alive. It
is the coach who imparts life and meaning to a lecture. It is the coach who,
by answering questions and discussing ideas, may lead the Candidates to new
ideas and new interests in the tremendous pattern of Freemasonry." Candidate
Coaches have a great opportunity to sell Masonry to the Candidates.
In order that greater and long overdue recognition of Candidate Coaches
may be made in their respective Lodges, we have had a beautiful new
Certificate of Appreciation designed by Tom McKimson, Chairman of our
Certificates, Awards and Special Presentations Committee. These should be
presented to those dedicated Brothers who spend untold hours in the "quarries
of MasonrY,' coaching Candidates. Also a lapel pin designating a Candidates
Coach is available for presentation to these Brothers. These two items are
available in the Supply Room at a nominal cost.
Summarizing this topic, I firmly believe that a positive interest shown in
the applicant for Degrees, followed by impressive ritual in the Degrees, and
a warm, friendly Candidates' coaching program, all strengthened by the sincere
and earnest desire for a COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE on the part
of everyone, will help make active Masons of our applicants and will reduce
the 200Jo of present day Candidates who do not continue beyond the Entered
Apprentice degree. (The 200Jo loss figure is based on the total of the last five
years.)

Laymen's Night Programs also continue to flourish and to produce
applicants for the Degrees of Masonry where the Lodges plan and execute
details for a successful Laymen's Night Program. Brother Irving Berliner,
Chairman, provides a productive activity.
Lodge Resources Committee provides accomplished consultants on Lodge
problems. This Committee serves to alleviate problems by helping to find solutions that are sometimes being overlooked. This Committee, chaired by
Brother David H. Farlee, has been most creative in developing the incentives
to make the Grand Master's Achievement Award effective in stimulating a
variety of Lodge activities for members and officer participation.
California Masonic Foundation members have spent many hours in
handling the contributions for the Statue of Liberty Project and the
acknowledgement of contributions by return mail. At the time of its founding
in 1968, it was the general policy of the Foundation to foster and promote
Americanism, a respect for law, for our Flag, and for our Constitution.
Through the medium of education, they endeavored to convince young people
that freedom under law, as provided by our form of government is essential
to a free society. I believe the time and effort spent by this Committee under
the leadership of Brother Larry Basker in raising funds on behalf of the
Restoration of the Statue of Liberty is well within the charter of the California Masonic Foundation.
The Widows' Program has stimulated interest and activity throughout the
Jurisdiction. More Lodges are adopting traditional annual Widows' Night
Programs and are making a greater effort to invite the Widows of our departed
Brothers to Lodge functions throughout the year. This is, indeed, a very commendable effort on the part of our Grand Lodge Committee on Widow's
Programs chaired by Brother Herb Cahn.
These are but ·a few of the excellent Committee accomplishments contributing to our California progress. I salute all the chairmen and members
of our hard working Grand Lodge Committees! Their dedication and efforts
exemplify Masonry in action.

GRAND LODGE COMMITTEE COMMENDATIONS

Grand Lodge Committees perform many functions in support of the Constituent Lodges, often without recognition. At this time, I would like to express
a word of tribute and appreciation in their behalf.
Leadership Workships continue to be well attended by Lodge Officers eager
for guidance in assuming the officer responsibilities of their respective Lodges.
Brother Everett Houser, Chairman, and his skilled speakers are to be commended for their contribution to Leadership training.

45

COMMENDATION FOR SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH LODGE

Southern California Research Lodge, through its abundant and continual
circulation by mail of interesting Masonic data and information to members
throughout the Jurisdictions of North America and elsewhere around the
world, is a great ambassador of the Grand Lodge of California. We are profoundly indebted to its Editor, Ralph Herbold, and all of its members who
sustain him for the widespread exposure we receive without cost to this Grand
Lodge.
S.C.R.L. has available for every Senior Warden who is in attendance at this
Communication a valuable 16-page booklet on Masonic Leadership by the
well known Masonic author, Allen E. Roberts. Senior Wardens will find this
booklet to be of great help to them as a guide to self-improvement and the
development of leadership skills.
I extend our heartfelt thanks to the Southern California Research Lodge
for its thoughtful and constructive assistance.

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE OFFICE COMPUTER NEEDS

HAWAII VISITATIONS

Past Grand Master E. Arthur Haglund, in his Message last year, indicated
a need to continue the effort to get a .well-planned and well-defined scope
of overall computer equipment to accommodate cost control for our two
Masonic Homes, non-financial data on membership, word processing, and
eventual replacement of the present good, but inadequate, equipment.
To proceed with this recommendation, I took advantage of Past Gra?d
Master Haglund's expertise and appointed him Chairman of a Special
Committee to determine the total Grand Lodge computer needs and to make
recommendations. Assisting him on this Committee were: Very Worshipful
Robert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary; Hugo Delfin, Accounting Manager;
Adrian West, Charitable Gifts; Francis Lewis, Membership Department;
Ronald Sherod, Masonic Homes Trustee; Herbert Pompey, Chairman of
Finance; and David Shampay, Master, Liberal Arts Lodge No. 677.
.
The Committee reviewed the control, information, and word processmg
needs of the Grand Lodge office, as well as those of the Union City and Covina
Masonic Homes.
Only basic financial systems are on the existing computer in San Francisco.
This computer is too small, slow in processing, and incompatible with any
other system to allow for the required expansion.
The primary needs identified are: 1) to establish a satisfactory data base
for membership records, with the accompanying output support for the
Lodges, as well as mailing labels (which will save $10,000 per year now spent
for the California Freemason Magazine) and membership statistics for the
Executive Committee and others; and, 2) to provide the capacity to establish
small data bases and to produce statistical and word processing applications,
without the added expense of employment of professional programming
talent. These procedures include preparation of the Annual Proceedings, the
Grand Lodge Roster, Annual Inspectors' Report Analysis, control and information systems for each of the Homes, Grand Lodge Library, Memorial
Temple Management, and others.
.
The Grand Secretary inquired of all large Grand Lodges as to their computer status. California is the only large Grand Lodge in the United States
without a complete computer-based membership administration system.
The Committee recommendation is based upon using the latest technology
which is more "user friendly" than previous systems and for a lower cost than
processing by service bureaus or companies
The Grand Treasurer, Very Worshipful John A. Sickenberger, approves of
the recommendation. With the cost spread over several years, the per capita
addition of 17 cents per member will be recommended in the Finance report
to cover the capital expenditure.
I extend my sincerest thanks to the Committee and Past Grand Master
Haglund for the time and effort spent in the study and recommendation on
this very important technological subject.

47

One of the most memorable and enjoyable occasions for a Grand Master
is the Annual Official Visitation to the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands.
The friendliness and hospitality of the Hawaiians are just as warm,
spontaneous and sincere as they must have been when Captain LeTellier sailed
his small bark, Ajax, into the harbor of Honolulu on March 30, 1843 - 142
years ago. Within a few days, on April 8, 1843, he organized the Lodge "Le
Progress de l'Oceanie, U.D.'?...the first Masonic Lodge west of the Missouri
River, a notable distinction.
We enjoyed all this warmth and charm while carrying out a busy and eventful schedule. We celebrated the 75th Anniversary of Honolulu Lodge No. 409;
laid a wreath at the National Cemetery in honor and memory of our departed
Brethren; instituted King Kalakaua Lodge, a new Daylight Lodge in Honolulu;
shared in the pleasure and relief of the Mortgage Burning Ceremony of
Schofield Lodge No. 443, always a delightful occasion; and attended a very
successful Leadership Workshop.
Following all of these events in Honolulu on the Island of Oahu, we visited
the Islands of Hawaii, Kauai, and Maui, where we found the same traditional
friendly and gracious hospitality.
We learned that the Lodges in the Islands face the same problems,
challenges, and successes as do the Lodges in California. There are now 12
Lodges there with a total membership of just under 3,000.
We returned to the Mainland refreshed, invigorated, and with a rich collection of life-long memories. We cannot help but be proud of our Lodges
and the Brethren and their families in the Hawaiian Islands. They are a real
credit and asset to this Jurisdiction!

OKLAHOMA INDIAN DEGREE TEAM

Following the precedent set during the year of our famous Oklahoman,
Past Grand Master H. Douglas Lemons, Michael D. Sanders, Worshipful
Master of Reading Lodge No. 254, invited the Oklahoma Indian Degree Team
to journey to California to confer the Third Degree on an Oklahoma
Candidate. In excess of 2,300 Master Masons gathered in Redding, California on Saturday, August 24th to witness this unusual event.
The Team was accompanied by its Grand Master, Most Worshipful Joe
R. Manning, Jr., and its Grand Secretary Right Worshipful John E. Shaver.
Visitors included representatives from Oregon, Washington and Nevada,
together with California Masons from all parts of our Jurisdiction.
This outdoor degree held at the Redding Fair Grounds, was preceded by
a barbeque dinner in the afternoon, followed by the degree work in the evening.
Worshipful Brother Sanders and his committee labored diligently to arrange
all the details of this enormous undertaking. He and his Brethren are to be
commended for demonstrating that well planned Masonic events can generate
interest, support, and attendance among the Brethren.
I was saddened to learn that on the day following this event Brother Sanders
suffered a mild heart attack. His doctor diagnosed his condition as suffering

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

from complete exhaustion. Our prayers have been that Brother Mike will regain
his good health once again and very quickly. He has set a great example as
Master of his Lodge for his dedication to Freemasonry.

MEMBERSHIP SURVEY

48

HISTORY
One recommendation to all of our Lodges that I fervently hope you will
implement is the development of an on-going history of each of our
Constituent Lodges, with a narrative about its members. "HistorY,' as one
college professor maintained, is "his story" or the story about people! the
mere record of dates, events, and places becomes vapid and boring. People
like to learn about other people!
I am aware that a history of the Grand Lodge is being planned. My recommendation concerns the individual Lodges and their respective members. There
really are two seperate histories involved.
Each Constituent Lodge should have a Lodge Historian whose duty it would
be to submit an annual report to our Grand Lodge History Committee. This
Committee, under the Chairmanship of Brother John Nocas, has compiled
considerable information but has not been supplied with funds to publish it.
Many of us remember the overwhelming task so ably performed by Past
Grand Master Leon 0. Whitsell, Chairman of the Grand Lodge Committee
on Masonic History, when the four-volumne set entitled, One Hundred Years
of Freemasonry in California, was published during our centennial year of
1950. Some of our Lodges cooperated beautifully, others contributed little
or nothing. The results are clearly and permanently recorded.
.
I firmly believe that we owe it to posterity to leave a complete and interesting
history of our Lodges and their outstanding members. I hope you and my
successors will agree with me.
U.S.S. ARIZONA MASONIC MEMORIAL PLAQUE
Grand Master Haglund noted last year that there are many plaques at the
U.S.S. Arizona Memorial in Pearl Harbor commemorating those who made
the supreme sacrifice, but no plaque bearing the Square and Compass.
Through the assistance of the National Sojourners and the Masonic Service
Association of the United States we received approval from the U.S. Department of Interior to place a commemorative plaque at the U.S.S. Arizona
Memorial.
This was accomplished during the first week of October when I was privileged to deliver the Masonic Plaque to the Ranger in Charge.
The Plaque is inscribed: "In memory of those true Patriots who lost their
lives defending our Country here at Pearl Harbor, December 7, 1941. All
Freemasons gratefully acknowledge their unselfish sacrifices and forever will
remember their heroism."
A Masonic Square and Compass emblem is in the Center of the Plaque.
We invite you to look for it the next time you visit this sobering memorial.
We hope you will share in the pride and gratitude of all Freemasons.

49

Approximately 8,000 replies were received from members who responded
to the invitation to answer the Membership Survey printed in the Summer
issue of the California Freemason Magazine. At the writing of this Message
the complete results were not yet available. The total results will be published
in a future issue of this magazine.
The Executive Committee of Grand Lodge will carefully study the results
for future guidance. Lodge Masters and Wardens may find helpful indications of the members' thoughts relative to Lodge programs and meetings.
Thanks to all who took time to respond. Your participation is appreciated.
DECISIONS
Decision No. 1 - Use of Masonic Insignia
The California Association of High Twelve Clubs has requested permission to use the Masonic Insignia, the Square and Compass, on their printed
material.
Annotation la of the California Masonic Code reads as follows: "Grand
Lodge is entitled to sole use of its name and insignia. The name and emblem
have been registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to the California
Corporations Code, and the unauthorized wearing of fraternal organization
insignia is prohibited by Penal Code Section 538 (b)."
The insignia is used to identify Lodges and members of the Fraternity of
Free and Accepted Masons. Literature or printed material of Lodges and
Grand Lodge use that insignia as a mark of identification.
All concordant and appendant organizations of Freemasonry have their
own insignia of identification, and are set apart as separate organizations
by these individual insignia.
I am a member of High Twelve and support the purposes of High Twelve.
I commend the support and close association of High Twelve with Masonry
in California, yet I believe the purpose of the Masonic insignia is for identification of each organization. If High Twelve is permitted to use the Masonic
insignia, then all concordant and appendant organizations should be permitted
to do the same. If this should occur it would give the appearance that all
such organizations are a part of Grand Lodge, which they are not.
It is my decision, therefore, that the Masonic insignia should be restricted
to Grand Lodge and the constituent Lodges exclusively.
Decision No. 2 - York Rite Sovereign College
I have been asked to sanction a York Rite Sovereign College chapter in
California.
The applicable Section of the California Masonic Code is 2068 and the
question is whether the York Rite Sovereign College was in existence in California prior to September 27, 1957.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

After considerable investigation and with the assistance of the Committee
on Jurisprudence I have determined that a charter existed prior to September
27, 1957 for Chapter No. 12 of the York Rite Sovereign College, even though
an inactive chapter.
Therefore, it is my decision that the York Rite Sovereign College exists within
the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California and Chapter No. 12 may
be reactivated and new chapters may be formed within our Jurisdiction.

I recommend that the Grand Lodge of California sponsor a float on New
Year's Day in 1987 in the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Parade. The cost
would be about half of the cost of the newspaper insert, or 60 cents per
member to be added to the per capita assessment as of June 30, 1986, on
a one time only basis. This would be a $100,000 entry, with Masonic Youth
Groups helping in the construction and decoration of the entry.
The participation would not only reach the great numbers in attendance
at the Parade, but also, the many millions throughout the world who would
watch it on television.
Our involvement in this project would build morale among our youth groups
and would tell the world that California Freemasons are indescribably grateful
to our forefathers who produced the U.S. Constitution. Furthermore, the accompanying publicity could certainly emphasize the important role of Masons
who participated at the Constitutional Convention in 1787. This is a rare,
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity at a cost that is minimal, with so many
advantages, that I fervently hope you will act favorably upon it.

50

Decision No. 3 - Interpretation of C.MC. Section 2050
I have been asked to render a decision as to whether the tenants of the
Masonic Memorial Temple property on Pine Street in San Francisco are forbidden from serving liquor therein.
Section 2050 of the California Masonic Code controls the serving of liquor
at social functions. The particular clause in question reads:
"Provided, however, that, except for ritualistic purposes, no liquor, wine
or beer may be served in a Masonic Temple or in any building or structure
owned or operated by a Masonic Temple or any organization a prerequisite
of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason."
It is my Decision that the above Section with respect to the specific question was not enacted to prohibit the tenants of the Pine Street property from
the serving of alcoholic beverages where there is no exterior Masonic identification on the buildings.
RECOMMENDATIONS

Recommendation No. I - Application of C.M.C. Section 2050
It is my Recommendation that the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California be authorized to determine whether Section 2050 of the California Masonic Code shall apply to the private individual residences of its
employees on Masonic Homes Property.

Recommendation No. 2 - Pasadena Tournament of Roses
In 1982, we took advantage of the opportunity to observe the 250th Birthday of our famous Brother George Washington, by producing an 8-page insert
about Freemasonry for the newspapers of our Jurisdiction at a cost of $1.13
per member approved for inclusion in the per capita assessment.
Making Freemasonry more visible to the public is most desirable. There
are many ways to accomplish this, one of which would be to have a flowerdecorated float in the Pasadena Tournament of Roses Parade. It would provide a world-wide exposure for California Freemasonry.
The year 1987 will offer an opportunity for us to take advantage of this
as it is the Bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution. We are proud to say that
we have steadfastly supported each year, by Proclamation of the Grand Master,
the Anniversary of this great document.

51

Recommendation No. 3 - Admission of Children into the Home at
Covina
The present rules for admission of children to the Masonic Home at Covina
require, among other qualifications, that the child be the "minor next of kin"
of a Master Mason of this Jurisdiction, and under certain additional restrictions of other jurisdictions. These rules limit the eligibility for admission to
the children, nieces, nephews, grandchildren and great grandchildren of Master
Masons, including those legally adopted by them. Although the Trustees of
the Masonic HomfS have the power to adopt rules for admission, such rules
must be in accordance with the Constitution and Regulations of Grand Lodge.
The Trustees, therefore, have no power to change that basic requirement
without Grand Lodge approval.
In the experience of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes, it has become
evident that many Master Masons have responsibilities to children who are
related to them by marriage rather than by blood, and who are either needy
or require the services provided by the Home for Children. Applications from
such Master Masons in need of the services which can be provided by the
Home for Children are being rejected in those cases where the minors involved
are not next of kin, even though the Home for Children has the capacity to
render the required services. Unlike the Home for Adults at Union City, which
is filled to capacity and in many cases persons admitted are subject to a waiting
period, there are vacancies in the Home for Children at Covina. There has
been a marked increase in the number of residents now living at the Home
for Children over and above the number living there a few years ago when
the population dropped to an alarming low of 32 children. The number of
residents is now about 55 and seems to have stabilized at that figure. While
this is a substantial increase, the fact that it remains constant at this number
means that there is room for 25 more children who could be provided with
needed services.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

For this reason I am making the Recommendation to the Grand Lodge that
the present provisions regarding eligibility to apply for admission to the Home
for Children at Covina be modified to include the term "minor relatives by
blood or marriage of Master Masons" in lieu of the term "minor next of
kin of Master Masons." This would make available the advantages of our
Home not only to next of kin but also to stepchildren and nieces and nephews
of a Master Mason by marriage. By so doing, in many cases we would at
the same time be relieving the distress of a worthy Brother Master Mason
who may not be in a position either financially or physically to care for a
child for whom he is responsible although that child is not related to him
by blood. A number of applications for such needy children have been
presented to the Board of Trustees in the past, but due to our present rules
could not be approved. This Recommendation is intended to be operative
only when there are sufficient facilities available to accommodate such needy
children, and, in any case, the children of Master Masons of this Jurisdiction
would have prior consideration.

felt the honor, reputation, and usefulness of our Lodge were threatened. We
therefore ask your help."
Other letters had varying details, but they were very well represented by
the foregoing statements.
What seemed to trigger the problems of the August Stated Meeting centered
on the Master's removal of the Senior Deacon, who was informed by the
Master ten minutes before the meeting, with no explanation. Also at the same
meeting, the Master announced he had removed the Secretary from office.
After four hours of discussion of Lodge personnel problems and the
Master's responsibility to provide leadership and, in discussing the rights of
the Master to remove officers for just cause, and the way things should be
done to preserve the peace and harmony of the Lodge, I requested the Master
to call a meeting for the following week of all who had been present at the
August 7th Stated Meeting. In addition, I asked the Master to reflect during
the week on the manner in which he had conducted himself as Master and
to prepare to make an apology for his conduct.
The meeting was held on Thursday, August 29, 1985, at the Seafaring
Masonic Temple. Nearly all who were present at the August 7th Stated Meeting
were in attendance at this meeting. After two hours of explanation of actions
by the Master and each member present, I summarized the conclusions I had
reached. They were, as follows:

52

Recommendation No. 4 - Removal of Lodge Master
Following the Stated Meeting of Seafaring Lodge No. 708 on August 7,
1985, I received seven letters from members of that Lodge, most of whom
were Past Masters, relative to the conduct of Byron W. Kemper, Master of
the Lodge at that particular meeting. I also received a letter from the Master,
Byron Kemper, which stated in part, that "Seafaring Lodge is having serious
problems which have greatly increased with my discharging of the Secretary,
Donald H. Hargraves, P.M .." He further wrote, "I am in need of your
assistance because there was quite an attempt to take matters in their own
hands by a large group of members who seemed to be led by Worshipful Ralph
Enz, an Inspector of another District, at our last Stated Meeting of August
7, 1985. I would like to meet with you to discuss this situation and to receive
your help and advice." The letter was dated August 11th.
Due to the resignation of Allen L. Ellithorpe, Inspector of the 633rd
Masonic District, because of his moving to the Hemet area, and a new
Inspector not having been officially appointed, I requested James Boyle,
Assistant Grand Lecturer of Division VI to attend a meeting with me and
Brother Kemper. We met at the Santa Ana Masonic Temple on Tuesday,
August 20, 1985 for four hours. We reviewed the statements made in the letters I had received which were, in part, as follows: "Our Lodge faces a crisis
in leadership and direction as a result of certain attitudes of our present
Master. Our problem is the dictatorial manner in which Worshipful Kemper
executes the power vested in him by Masonic Law. The authoritarian attitude
shown by Worshipful Kemper at our August 7th Stated Meeting brought this
crisis to a head and makes us wonder if he is wielding the Gavel as an instrument of good or maybe of greater evil."
"An impromptu meeting of ten Past Masters was called after our Stated
Meeting. It was the consensus that Worshipful Kemper was completely in the
wrong in the manner that he handled the meeting. We were embarrassed and

53

The reasons given by the Master for the removal of the Secretary were
not substantial and reflected a personal antagonistic view.
2) The Master, because of the authority given him by the California
Masonic Code, used this authority by dismissing people from office,
remarking tpat those involved were acting in a conspiracy against him
as Master. This fact was not substantiated.
3) The Master stated that under his leadership troubles within the Lodge
had increased during the year.
4) The Master remarked that he had acted on the personnel problems in
what he considered to be the only alternative. Had he to do it again,
he would do the same thing.
5) The Chairman of the Lodge's Sick and Visitation Committee had been
removed abruptly by the Master at a previous meeting without explanation. This was very distressing to the Brethren because the Chairman
had done an excellent job.
6) Another change in officer personnel had occurred when the Junior
Warden-Elect resigned after election but before installation, stating he
was "unable to get along with the Master."
1)

Because of the serious disturbance of the peace and harmony between the
Brethren of Seafaring Lodge and their Master, acknowledged by all, and the
assertive attitude of the Master relative to his actions, I suspended the Master,
Byron W. Kemper, from office under Section 1016 of the California Masonic

55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Code until the next Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, that is, this
present Communication.
I now recommend that this suspension be made permanent.

upon their expertise and knowledgeable support. They have served well as
true "Pillars of Wisdom, Strength, and Beauty."
I wish for each of them in the years ahead that they meet the responsibilities
of this office with the greatest success and niay happiness be their reward.

54

Recommendation No. 5 - Special Committee to Study and Clarify
C.M.C. Sections 2048 and 2050
I was asked to rule on whether a chapter of the National Sojourners may
properly hold a meeting in an Officers' Club within California or Hawaii.
It is my understanding that a room is rented in an Officers' Club for the
meeting and during the time the meeting is in progress the bar in said club
is open - selling, dispensing and serving liquor.
Section 2048 - "Meeting Place Limitations" says, "A Masonic Lodge or
organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a
Master Mason, shall not hold a stated or special meeting in, or own or rent
a building, or be a tenant in a building, containing a bar", which in effect
would prohibit the National Sojourners from meeting in the above described
Officers' Club.
However Section 2048 goes on to say that "this section shall not prevent
a Masonic related organization from holding a meeting in a hotel, restaurant
or club where intoxicating liquor is sold."
As I understand it there is a general rule of law that if a specific provision
in the latter part of a document is contrary to a general provision in the earlier
part of the document, then the latter provision prevails.
The complication for me in this section is that the first provision spells
out that the persons attending the Meetings are Master Masons, but the provision at the end of the Section says "Masonic related organization". If a
Masonic related organization is Eastern Star, Daughters of the Nile, or others
whose members are not Master Masons, then there would be no contradiction.
In light of the difficulty in interpretation of Sections 2048 and 2050 of our
Masonic Code relating to Meeting Places and the Serving of Liquor at Social
functions, I recommend that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special
committee to restudy these two Sections for possible modifications and
clarification and that the Decision on the question of National Sojourners
meeting in Officers' Clubs be held in abeyance until such clarification and/or
modification is made.
GRATITUDE TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

The Executive Committee, composed of Deputy Grand Master John W.
Driskell, Senior Grand Warden Jack R. Levitt, and Junior Grand Warden
Leo B. Mark, has been a constant and invaluable source of comfort, wisdom,
and strength to me throughout this year. Without their wise counsel and
recommendations, it would have been very difficult, if not impossible, to confront the various problems and to chart the best course of action to resolve
the challenges that have occurred.
I want to express, publicly, my deepest appreciation for the stalwart and
unwavering assistance of the Executive Committee. I have leaned very heavily

CONCLUSION

In drawing this Message to a close, I beg your forgiveness for taking so
long to tell you what I have been accumulating in my heart and mind for
a year or more.
As every Grand Master learns first hand and with some measure of shock,
despite observing his predecessors for several years, this office is a very busy
one which, in California, because of our greater constituency and more
widespread geographic territory, could not be handled efficiently by one man
if it were not for the incredible support and assistance of so many people!
Therefore, I must pay tribute to some of them - with the fervent hope that
I do not offend anyone by an unintentional omission.
First and foremost of all - to prevent a domestic Civil War and lest I forget
- I must mention my long suffering and patiently enduring wife Elinor, who
unselfishly permitted me to accept this high office and who has been immensely supportive at all times, even though she has preferred to remain in the
background.
Then I must mention the entire corps of Grand Lodge officers who have
been superb; our Grand Secretary, Bob Klinger, and his highly expert staff
who have relieved me immeasurably by their continuous attention to details;
our Past Grand Masters who, somehow, have always been available with their
advice, help, and invaluable experience; the numerous Grand Lodge Committee Chairmen and members who have rendered valiant service; and last,
but most assuredly not least, those "on the firing line" - the Inspectors, Constituent Lodge officers and members -ALL OF YOU! - have been exceedingly
warm, friendly, and supportive at ALL TIMES!!!
I have been gratified, too, by the recognition and cooperation I have received
from the various concordant and appendant bodies, their officers and
members. I am especially grateful to Illustrious Tom Boles, Potentate of Al
Malaikah Temple; Noble Douglas MacMullen, Editor and Publisher of the
official publication of the Al Malaikian; and to Illustrious Walker Kisselburgh,
Imperial Potentate of all Shrinedom, for their determined and continuous
efforts to reinforce the spirit of Unity within the whole Family of Freemasonry!
A very special Thanks to the Grand Master's aides, Attilio G. Parisi, Clyde
Hubbell, and Jack Vickers, for their valuable assistance.
To Joe Dines, Grand Marshal, I extend my personal thanks for his
unrestrained loyalty, devotion, and service. He has been my alter ego, my
shadow - always present, always helpful, whenever and wherever I needed him!
He was always THERE!
I know I can never repay any and all of you for what you have done for
me. My expressions of gratitude - however frequent and laudatory - can never
reflect the full measure of my sincere and heartfelt appreciation. You have
been my motivators, inspiration, and my "vitamin pills." You have given me

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

energy when fatigue set in; you have re-kindled the fire that kept this body
going; and, above all, you have provided the warmth of fraternal fellowship
that keeps the glow in our hearts which makes Freemasonry the glorious and
wonderful organization that it is!

Since this annotation would amend our Ordinances, a five-sixth affirmative
vote for approval is required.

56

Grand Master
The Grand Master's Decisions and Recommendations were referred to the
Committee on Distribution, which Committee referred them to the appropriate
Committees for their individual reports which follow.

ACTION BY GRAND WDGE
DECISION No. 1

USE OF MASONIC INSIGNIA
The Grand Master's Decision No. 1 was withdrawn by the Grand Master.

57

To place this matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Decision.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Grand Master's Decision No. 2 approved the re-activation of Chapter 12
of the York Rite Sovereign College, allowing new chapters of that body to
be formed in our Jurisdiction.
This organization was issued a Charter on May 11, 1957. Its purpose was
not to confer degrees, but to stimulate interest in Masonry generally. At some
later date, it was de-activated.
California Masonic Code Section 2068 states, in part, "A Mason residing
within this jurisdiction shall not become a member of any organization, or
unit thereof, being newly formed in this jurisdiction, by whatever name or
character, which requires Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership,
unless such organization existed in this jurisdiction on September 27, 1957."
In view of the fact that Chapter 12 of the York Rite Sovereign College was
issued its charter prior to that date, the Committee recommends the adoption of Grand Master's Decision No. 2.
The Grand Master's Decision was approved.

DECISION No. 2

DECISION No. 3

YORK RITE SOVEREIGN COLLEGE

INTERPRETATION OF C.M.C. SECTION 2050
The Grand Master's Decision No. 3 was withdrawn by the Grand Master.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Decision No. 2 of the Most
Worshipful Grand Master has been referred, reports as follows:
The Grand Master has been asked to render a Decision sanctioning a York
Rite Sovereign College chapter in this Masonic Jurisdiction.
After a thorough investigation, he has determined that such a chapter existed in California prior to September 27, 1957, which is the cut-off date set
forth in Section 2068 of the California Masonic Code.
To carry out the intent of the Grand Master, your Committee submits the
following legislation:
RESOLVED, that Annotation 2068c be added to the California Masonic
Code:
"Section 2068c. A chapter of the York Rite Sovereign College was
in existence prior to the date set forth in Section 2068 and that
chapter No. 12 may be reactivated and new chapters formed within
this Masonic Jurisdiction. Henville, G.M. 1985; pp.

---·---· "

DECISION No. 4

(See Grand Master's Message)
RECOGNITION OF GRAND LODGE OF NEW JERSEY

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Grand Master, in his Message for 1985, reports that he has directed
the resumption of fraternal relations between the Grand Lodges of California and New Jersey, the problem between them which arose in 1984 having
been resolved.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence reports that this Decision of the Grand
Master is within his powers and is consistent with the facts.
To bring the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the approval of the
Decision.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs and recommends
a "Yes" vote.

mandate to the Committee on Finance to make the appropriate assessment.
To place this matter before Grand Lodge, we move that Recommendati on
No. 2 be approved and adopted.

58

The Committee on Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges:
Due to the acceptance of an application and conferral of the degrees upon
a California resident in 1984 by Gothic Lodge No. 270 in New Jersey, fraternal relations were suspended and recognition withdrawn by ou.r Grand Master
on August 31st, 1984, which was ratified and approved by this Grand Lodge
in October 1984.
.
The Grand Master of New Jersey, Most Worshipful Robert E. Feilbach,
and our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, realizing t~e disturbing effect resulting upon the Universality of Freemasonry determined to
resolve the problem.
On October 19th, 1984 our Grand Master was able to annou~ce the res.ult
of their efforts: A happy and harmonious agreement by all parties, resulting
in dual membership in New Jersey and California for the affected member
(Danny Thomas: AKA Amos Jacobs) and the restoration of normal fraternal relations and recognition by both Grand Lodges.
.
I move the Decision of the Grand Master on October 19, 1984 restoring
full recognition to the Grand Lodge of New Jersey, be ratified and approved
by the Grand Lodge of California.
The Grand Master's Decision was approved.
RECOMMENDATION NO. 1

APPLICATION OF C.M.C. SECTION 2050
The Grand Master's Recommendati on No. 1 was withdrawn by the Grand
Master.
RECOMMENDATION No. 2

PASADENA TOURNAMEN T OF ROSES FLOAT

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Recommendati on No. 2 of
the Most Worshipful Grand Master has been submitted, reports as f?llow~:
The Grand Master has recommended that the Grand Lodge of Cahforma
sponsor a Masonic New Year's Day 1987 float in the Pasadena Tournament
of Roses parade. He further recommends that a one-time only per capita tax
be assessed to each member of a Lodge of this Jurisdiction of 60 ~ents as
of June 30 1986. The Grand Master also recommends that the Masonic Youth
Orders be ~equested to assist in the construction and decoration of the float
as needed.
. .
.
Your Committee finds that no legislation is required. A majority vote is
required for adoption of the Recommendati on and such a vote would be a

59

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has recommended that we enter a float in the 1987 Rose
Parade in Pasadena.
Assuming that the theme for the 1987 Rose Parade is compatible with what
we would want such a float to say, and further assuming that we would be
permitted to make such an entry, the value to Masonry everywhere of a properly constructed and decorated entry with a U.S. Constitutional theme would
be invaluable.
It certainly is true that one message on television is not sufficient to tell
the whole story or to be convincing to all, but the effect upon those seeing
the parade would be great.
There would be a real boost to the morale of Masons and this in itself would
be worth the cost.
Our concern is the cost and its effect upon the per capita tax. We believe
on this occasion the cost is justified and presume the money would be returned
if our entry was not accepted.
We recommend approval of Grand Master Henville's Recommendati on
No. 2.

The Committee on Finance:
From the estimated costs presented to the Finance Committee, it appears
that the one-time 1'er capita tax increase of 60 cents will be adequate to complete the project.
The Committee on Finance has been assured that the cost to Grand Lodge
will be limited to the income generated by the one-time per capita tax of 60
cents.
For your information, the proposed per capita tax for fiscal year 1985-1986
now stands at $7 .40 including the California Freemason. This additional
amount will raise the per capita tax to $8.00.
The Committee on Finance makes no recommendatio n.
No report from the Committee on Film and Creative Projects.
The Grand Master's Recommendati on No. 2 was adopted.
RECOMMENDATION NO. 3

ADMISSION TO HOME AT COVINA

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Recommendation No. 3 of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the Most Worshipful Grand Master has been submitted, reports as follows:
The Grand Master has recommended that the Section (d) of Rules Govrning Admission to Children's Home, Covina, as found in the Appendix to
the California Masonic Code be changed to enlarge the language "minor next
of kin" to include minor relatives who are related to Master Mason by marriage as well as blood. Further, this amended provision would only be operative
when there are sufficient facilities available to accommodate such needy
children by marriage and children of Master Masons of this Jurisdiction would
continue to have priority over those from other jurisdictions.
To carry out the intent of the Grand Master's Recommendation No. 3, your
Committee on Jurisprudence submits the following legislation:
RESOLVED, that the second paragraph of Rules Governing Admission to
Children's Home, Covina, as presently found on page 39 of the 1984 Pocket
Supplement to the California Masonic Code be amended to read:
"The Trustees have the power to admit to the Home for Children
at Covina the minor relatives by blood or marriage of Master
Masons of this and other jurisdictions under such rules, terms and
conditions as said Board of Trustees may prescribe, subject to the
approval of the Grand Master. The admission requirement as to
'related by marriage' is intended to be operative only when there
are sufficient facilities available to accommodate such children and
the minor relatives of Master Masons of this Jurisdiction would
have prior consideration. (1985)"

this proposal could be accommodated easily and efficiently and with the
assurance that there will always be ample space for those who would be admitted under the present rules.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that, for
humanitarian and practical reason, the rules for admission should be revised
to this limited extent and recommend a "Yes" vote.

60

This Amendment to our Rules for Admission requires a majority vote for
adoption.
To place this matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Recommendation.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has recommended that the rules governing admission
to the Children's Home in Covina be changed to make eligible the minor
relatives by marriage, of a Master Mason. At present only blood relatives can
be considered.
The Home in Covina has long operated at less than capacity and at one
time its future role was questioned. Enrollment has increased in recent years,
but occupancy has pretty much stabilized at about 65 percent.
Since there appears to be a need that is not being met, under the present
rules, and because we continue to have space available, it seems only reasonable
to relax the requirements for admission, at least to this extent. The increase
in enrollment which will result will not greatly increase costs since much of
the overhead is already borne by the present operation.
Because the rate of occupancy has become fairly stable over the past few
years and since no large increase in demand is anticipated from the present
eligible group, it is apparent that the additional children made eligible under

61

The Masonic Homes Trustees:
The Grand Master's Recommendation No. 3 modifying the rules of admission to the Masonic Home for Children to include the term "minor relatives
by blood or marriage of Master Masons" in lieu of the term "minor next
of kin of Master Masons" has been referred to the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Homes.
This change would permit the Trustees to admit a child, related to a Master
Mason by marriage as well as by blood, for whom he is responsible. It would
allow them to relieve the Master Mason of responsibilities he might find hard
to discharge and provide a child with the advantages of our Home.
We have room at this time to admit children under this provision and would
only continue to do so when there are facilities available and the children
of Master Masons of this Jurisdiction would always have prior consideration. We therefore concur in the recommendation of the Grand Master.
The Grand Master's Recommendation No. 3 was adopted.

RECOMMENDATION NO. 4

SUSPENSION OF MASTER OF SEAFARING LODGE NO. 708

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Recommendation No. 4 of
the Most Worshipful Grand Master has been submitted, reports as follows:
The Grand Master has the power to suspend the Master of any Lodge from
the exercise of the powers and duties of his office, for good cause, until the
next Annual Communication (Section 1016 C.M.C.).
It is the opinion of your Committee on Jurisprudence that the Grand Master
acted within his powers in suspending the Master of Seafaring Lodge No.
708. The question of whether or not such suspension of the Master is to be
made permanent is a matter for Grand Lodge to decide. A majority vote only
is required for approval.
To place this matter before Grand Lodge we move the adoption of the
Recommendation.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
The Grand Master's Recommendation was not adopted.

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECOMMENDATION NO. 5

CEREMONIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LODGE

SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO STUDY AND CLARIFY

1984

C.M.C. SECTIONS 2048 AND 2050

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which this Recommendation No. 5
of the Most Worshipful Grand Master has been submitted, reports as follows:
The Grand Master has received many requests for interpretation of Sections 2048 and 2050 of the California Masonic Code, including a request from
the National Sojourners. During his review of these sections he has discovered
ambiguities and inconsistencies which have rendered interpretation difficult
or impossible when directed to specific circumstances. The Grand Master
believes that these sections need to be reviewed.
Therefore, the Grand Master recommends that the incoming Grand Master
appoint a special committee to study Sections 2048 and 2050 for possible
modification(s) and clarification and that the specific question as to the
meeting place of National Sojourners be held in abeyance until the special
Committee renders its report to Grand Lodge and action is taken thereon.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has determined that no enabling legislation is necessary to carry out Recommendation No. 5. A majority vote is
necessary to carry out the Recommendation.
To place this matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Recommendation.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master's Recommendation No. 5 asks the incoming Grand
Master to appoint a Special Committee to study Sections 2048 and 2050 of
the C.M.C. for proper interpretation and possible modification and
clarification.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is constantly appraising
and reappraising its position on what it believes to be a sound and acceptable policy of this Grand Lodge. We believe, therefore, that any and all studies
of this nature are invaluable, not only to this committee, but also to the General
Assembly in making thoughtful and progressive policy decisions.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote
on Grand Master Henville's Recommendation No. 5.
The Grand Master's Recommendation was adopted.

63

November 9

Cornerstone, Salvation Army Community Center, Stockton.

December 15

Cornerstone, County Administration Building, Woodland.
1985

March 8

Cornerstone, Old Marshall School, Sacramento.

March 9

Cornerstone and Dedication, Castro Valley Masonic Temple,
Castro Valley.

March 30

Cornerstone, Senior Citizens Building, Lemoore.

May 4

Cornerstone, Center High School, Sacramento.

May 18

Cornerstone, City Hall, Temple City.

May 19

Cornerstone, Shrine Hospital, Los Angeles.

June 22

Cornerstone and Dedication, Athens Lodge No. 228 Masonic
Temple, Davis.

July 27

Cornerstone, Norman F. Feldheym Central Library,
San Bernardino.

August 3

Cornerstone, Rocklin Post Office, Roseville.

August 10

Cornerstone and Dedication, New Masonic Temple of
Westminster-Fairview, Westminster.

September 6

Cornerstone, Scottish Rite Memorial Temple, Sacramento.
Cornerstone, Portola Fire Station, Portola.

September 7
September 17

Cornerstone, Paradise Pines Elementary School, Paradise.

September 21
September 28

Cornerstone, Thomas Jefferson Elementary School, Taft.
Cornerstone, Trabuco Hills High School, Mission Viejo.

October 5

Cornerstone, Law & Justice Center, Rancho Cucamonga.

October'6

Cornerstone, Big Bear High School, Big Bear.

64

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

SPECIAL CEREMONIES AND DEDICATIONS
~

October 19
October 20

January 25
April 27
April 28
May 3
May
June 21

Mortgage Burning, San Carlos Lodge No. 690, San Carlos,
Dedication, Azusa Lodge No. 305, Azusa. Richard Bingle,
Inspector, 610th Masonic District to represent the
Grand Master.

Institution , Orange County Research Lodge, U.D., La Habra.
Mortgage Burning, Arcadia Masonic Temple, Arcadia.
Dedication, Heritage House (Heritage Square), Santa Monica.
Mortgage Burning, San Juan Masonic Temple, Citrus Heights,
Institution , Joseph L. Shell Daylight Lodge, U.D.,
San Diego,
·
Mortgage Burning, Rio Linda Lodge No. 786, Rio Linda.

October 12

19!14
Feast of Tishri, San Francisco.

October 16

Luncheon, San Gabriel Valley High Twelve, Temple City.

October 20

Grand Master's Class, DeMolay of Northern California,
San Francisco.

October 20

Reception, Santa Clara Masonic Officers Association,
San Jose.

October 21

Breakfast Reception, Masonic Lodges of San Mateo County,
San Mateo.

October 22

Reception/D inner, Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, Sherman Oaks.
State High Twelve Luncheon, Anaheim.

October 26
October 27

Constitution Observance, Masonic Lodges of Santa Clara County,
Knights of Columbus and local businesses, Cupertino.

October 29

Retirement dinner, Merle L. Coon, Inspector, 639th Masonic
District, San Diego.

October 31

Fifty Year Golden Veteran's Award, Frank Batty,Meude ll Lodge
No. 695, Bakersfield .

November 2

Reception, 610th Masonic District, PoD>Jna.
Grand Chapter, Order of Eastern Star, Anaheim.
Grand Guardian Council, Intl.Order Job's Daughters, Costa Mesa.
Ontario Knights Templar, Southwest Encampment,
Legion of Honor, Center Division, Order of DeMolay to Joe
Hammond, Fresno. Past Grand Master Vernon L. Gordon to represent the Grand Master.
Midnight Mission, Los Angeles Service Bureau,

September 14

Institution , King Kalakaua Lodge, U,D., Honolulu.
Mortgage Burning, Schofield Lodge No, 443, Wahiawa.
Mortgage Burning, Yount Lodge No. 12, Napa.
Dedication, Lillian B. Hill School, ·P orterville.

November 5

October 4

Mortgage Burning, Ontario !1asonic Temple, Ontario,

November

July 11
July 12
August 3

65

November 10
November 10

November 11
November 14
November 17
November 18
November 19

25-Year Pin, Camellia Lodge No. 612, Temple City.
Reception, San Marino Lodge No. 685, San Marino,
All Masonic Church Service, 508th Masonic District, Santa
Barbara.

November 23

Third Degree, San Marino Lodge No, 685, San Marino.
Northern California DeMolay Conclave, Sacramento.

November 27

Reception, Trojan Shrine Club, Los Angeles,

November 28

Four-Way Reception/D inner, York Rite, Santa Ana.

November 30

California School Board Association , Hall of Fame, Anaheim.
Red Cross of Constantine .

December 1
December 5

San Francisco Education Foundation Annual Luncheon, San

Francisco.

December 8
December 8

Degree of Royal Purple, Beverly Kottkamp, Covina.
Installation , Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Receptions and Miscellaneous continued
December 11

ItStallation, South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, South
Pasadena.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Receptions and Miscellaneous continued
March 3

Masonic Leadership Workshop, San Bernardino.

March

Golden Wedding Anniversary, Grand Master and Mrs. Renville.
Dinner Dance, Sacramento Masters and Wardens Association,

Installation, America Lodge No. 475, Los Angeles.
Installation, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Van Nuys.

March 8

December 16

75-Year Veteran's Award to Jeptha Purcell, Evergreen
Park Lodge No, 1171, Illinois.

March 13

Reception, Grand Treasurer, John A. Sickenberger,
Henry Knox-Westlake Lodge No. 392, Los Angeles.

December 19

March 14

December 21

Christmas Party, Masonic Home for Adults, Union City.
Christmas Party, Masonic Home for Children, Covina.

Annual Chicken Dinner, Morgan Hill Lodge No.493,
Morgan Hill.

December 23

York Rite Christmas Observance, South Pasadena.

March 15-16

December 30

St. John Speaker, United Methodist Church, Hemet,

March 18

Division III Conference, Los Gatos.
Southern California DeMolay Preceptory, City of
Co11111erce.

1985

March 19

Board of Supervisors Meeting, Los Angeles.

January 4

Shrine East-West Banquet, San Francisco.

March 19

January 5

Shrine East-West Game, Stanford Stadium, Palo Alto.

Hiram Award, Delmer W. May, Magnolia Lodge No. 242,
Santa Barbara.

January 11

Installation, Covina Lodge No. 334, Covina.
Installation, Pasadena Scottish Rite, Pasadena.

March 21-23
March 21

Congress of the Three Californias, Mexicali.
Reception, Alhambra York Rite, Alhambra.

January 18-19

Reception, Oakland Scottish Rite, Oakland.
Division VI Conference, Ontario.

March 23

January 21

Installation, Santa Ana Scottish Rite, Santa Ana.

March 23

January 27

Past Grand Master's Meeting, Los Angeles.

March 24

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Ventura.
Orange County Breakfast, Santa Ana.

February 1

Ingtallation, Long Beach Scottish Rite, Long Beach.

February 2
February 2

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Los Angeles.
Installation, Van Nuys Lodge No, 450, Van Nuys.

February 8-9

Division V Conference, Lancaster.

December 12
December 13

January 12
January 14

February 15

Reception, Pasadena Scottish Rite, Pasadena,
February 16-20 Grand Master's Conference, Myrtle Beach, So.Carolina,

February 16
February 22

March 22

Reception, Los Angeles Scottish Rite, Los Angeles.
Reception, Santa Ana Scottish Rite, Santa Ana.

March 25

Visitation, Palm Springs DeMolay, Palm Springs.

March 26

75-Year Award, Leslie E. Woodworth, Sequoia-St.Elmo
Lodge No.349, Oakland .

March 29

Dinner Meeting, Central Coast Past Ma s ter's Association,
Santa Maria.

April 1
April 3

Grand Assembly, Rainbow for Girls, Fresno.
Reception, Masonic Home for Adults, Union City.

April 4

Maundy Thursday.

April

East Sunday, Relighting of the Lights, Pasadena Scottish
Rite, Pasadena.

April 9

Celebration, State Library and California State Library
Foundation placing of Capitol Extension Group (Office
Building 1, Library-Courts Building, Fountain Plaza on
National Register of Historic Places.
Public Schools Program California Bodies Scottish Rite,
San Francisco.

February 23

Southern California Past Master's Meeting, Los Angeles.
Masonic Leadership Workshop, Sacramento.

February 24

Reception, Southern California Research Lodge, Ontario.

February 25

Reception, 590th Masonic District, South Gate.
Reception, San Marino Chapter, Order of Eastern Star,
San Marino.

February 27

Sacramento.

Masonic Leadership Workshop, San Diego.
San Diego-Imperial Counties Past Master's Meeting,
San Diego,

February 23

March 1

Shrine on Parade, San Bernardino.

March 2-3

Western Conference, Portland.

67

April 10
April 13
April 13

Masonic Leadership Workshop, San Jose.
Reception, 570th, 572nd and 574th Masonic Districts, Los
Angeles.

April 14

Breakfast, Los Angeles Masonic Service Bureau, Los Angeles,

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Receptions and Miscellaneous continued

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

69

Receptions and Miscellaneous continued
June 6

Fifty-Year Golden Veteran's Award to two Past Masters,
Naval Lodge No. 87, Vallejo. Grand Bible Bearer,
Louis G. Carsner to represent the Grand Master.

June 6

80th Birthday Party, Past Grand Master Chester R. MacPhee,
San Francisco.

Breakfast, Masters and Wardens Association, Stockton.

June 6-7-8

Masonic Homes Board of Trustees Meeting, San Francisco.

Annual Banquet, Grand York Rite Bodies, Anaheim.

June 12

International High Twelve Installation of Officers, Stockton.

Grand Council Session, York Rite, Anaheim.

June 14-15

Division I Conference, Oakland.

April 15

Public Schools Song Festival, San Francisco City Hall.

April 17

Four-Way Reception, San Jose Scottish Rite, San Jose.

April 19-20

Division II Conference, Sacramento.

April 21
April 21
April 22
April 23

Public Schools Program, Arcadia.

June 19

Annual Barbecue, Paradise Park Men's Club, Santa Cruz.

April 27

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Fresno.

June 19

May 2

75-Year Award, Murray A. Mciklnald, 630th Masonic District.

Fifty-Year Golden Veteran's Award, Edward Lohmeyer, of the
Masonic Home for Adults, Union City.

May 4

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Oakland.

June 21-22-23

Weekend in the North ••••••••••

May 4

Aahmes Past Masters Dinner, Alameda.

June 22

Reception, llOth Masonic District, Napa.

May 5

East Bay Masters and Wardens Breakfast, Oakland.

June 23

Church Service and Brunch, Napa.

May 6

Visitation, Ionic Lodge No. 520, Los Angeles.

June 23

Reception, Grand Bible Bearer, Louis G. Carsner, Jr., Napa.

May 8

Fifty Year Golden Veteran's Award, Bob Hendrixson,
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, Los Angeles.

June 25

75-Year Veteran's Award, Albert G. Cornwell, Jewel City
Lodge No. 368, Glendale.

May 9

Reception, Senior Grand Deacon, H. Edward Barr, 518th
Masonic District, San Fernando.

June 27

Grand Bethel, Intl. Order Job's. Daughters, Long Beach.

May 11

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Long Beach.

June 30

May 11

Outdoor Degree, Jack Ladd Ranch, Brentwood.

May 13

Third Degree, Palm Springs Lodge No. 693, Palm Springs.

July 1-6

Imperial Shrine Session, Atlanta, Georgia.

May 17-18

Division IV Conference, Bakersfield.

July 10

May 21

Reception, Grand Chaplain, Wayne B. Williamson and Grand
Organist, Harold M. Hand, Jewel City Lodge No. 368, Glendale.

Wreath-Laying Ceremony, National Memorial Cemetery of the
Pacific (u.s.s. Arizona), Honolulu, Hawaii.

July 11

Tour North Shore/Polynesian Cultural Center, Honolulu.

May 22

Reception, William W. Dickson, Jr., 516th Masonic District,
Sherman Oaks.

July 13

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Honolulu.

July 14

•Church Service, Central Union Church, Honolulu.

May 24

Reception, San Gabriel Valley Masters and Wardens,
Pasadena.

May 25

Barbecue, 636th and 637th Masonic Districts, Fallbrook.

May 30

"Mason of the Year" Award, Ralph H. Head, Editor, California
Freemason Magazine, Torrance.

June

29

Reception, 500th Masonic District, Bishop.
Reception, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division VI, James A.
Boyle, Santa Ana.

July 15

Depart for Hilo.

July 16

Tour of Volcano National Park with lunch at Volcano Golf
& Country Club. Dinner, Hilo Hawaiian Hotel, Hilo.

July 17

Tour to Waimea via Hamakua coast.
Reception to follow.

Journey to Kana.

May 31

Visitation, Sublime Lodge No. 831, Vallejo.

July 19

Depart for Kauai.

June 1

Masonic Leadership Workshop, Redding.

July 20

Tour Waimea Canyon and Kokee Look-out.

June 1

Reception Dinner/Dance, Masters and Wardens Association,

July 21

Depart for Maui.

July 22

Dinner, Island Fish House, Kahului.

July 23

Picnic in local park.

July 24

Depart for Los Angeles.

San Francisco.

Dinner, Coco Palms Resort.

Reception, Lodge Maui No. 472.

70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Receptions and Miscellaneous continued

71

ANNIVERSARIES

July 28

Inspectoral Dinner, Fifth Division, Los Angeles.

July 30

Reception, Past Master's Shrine Club, Glendale.

October 26

lOOth Anniversary, Selma Lodge No. 211, Selma.

August 8

Honorary DeMolay Legion of Honor to Robert A. Klinger,
Grand Secretary, San Francisco.

November 3

15th Anniversary, Burbank Lodge No. 406, Burbank.

August 10

Reception, Masters and Wardens of Long Beach, Long Beach.

August 16

15-Year Award to Adolph G. Bauer, Yerba Buena Lodge
No. 403, Oakland.

January 26

lOOth Anniversary, San Gabriel-Southern California
Lodge No. 218, San Gabriel.

1985

August 11

Budget Meeting, San Francisco.

March 30

lOOth Anniversary, Hanford Lodge No. 219, Hanford.

August 18

Adult Leaders of the Youth Orders Conference, San
Francisco.

April 12

15th Anniversary, Perris Lodge No. 411, Sun City,

August 19

April 25

15th Anniversary, Alhambra Commandery, Alhambra.

April 26

15th Anniversary, La Mesa Lodge No. 401, La Mesa.

August 24

Reception to honor Grand Marshal, Joe A. Dines,
Pasadena Lodge No. 212, Pasadena.
Outdoor Third Degree, Oklahoma Indian Degree Team, Redding.

Hay 8

15th Anniversary, Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415, Los Angeles.

August 31

4-Way Reception, York Rite, Santa Monica.

May 10

125th Anniversary, Oriental Lodge No. 144, San Francisco.

September 1

May 18

September 6

Southern California DeMolay Conclave, Santa Barbar~.
Barbecue, 244th, 246th and 241th Masonic Districts, Vina.

130th Anniversary, Suisun Lodge No. 55, Fairfield.
Grand Bible Bearer, Louis G. Carsner, Jr. to represent
Grand Master.

September 8

Reception/Breakfast, 614th Masonic District, Norwalk.

May 23

60th Anniversary, Menorah Lodge No. 623, Los Angeles.

September 9

Joint Reception, Grand Master and Potentate of Al
Halaikah, Montecito.

June 2

125th Anniversary, Vitruvius Lodge No. 146, Petaluma.

September 15

Breakfast, 416th and 418th Masonic Districts, Fresno.

September 17

Hiram Award, Wendell Hockersmith, South Pasadena Lodge
No. 361, So. Pasadena.

September 18

Reception, Santa Clara Valley Officers Association, San Jose.

September 19
September 20

Constitution Observance, Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569,
Castro Valley.
Constitution Observance, San Gabriel Valley Districts,
Pasadena.

June 18

63rd Anniversary, Loyalty Lodge No. 529, Los Angeles.

June 22

125th Anniversary, Abell Lodge No. 146, Ukiah. Past
Grand Master Donald B. McCaw to represent Grand Master.

July 9

15th Anniversary, Honolulu Lodge No. 409, HOnolulu.

July 25

15th Anniversary, Upland Lodge No. 419, Upland.
15th Anniversary, Lindsay Lodge No. 416, Lindsay.

September 13
September 14

lOOth Anniversary, Madera-Joppa Lodge No. 280, Madera.

September i9

15th Anniversary, Elysian Lodge No. 418, Los Angeles.
25th Anniversary, Lamanda Park Carmelita Lodge No. 621,
Pasadena.

September 21

Barbecue/Constitution Observance, 320th Masonic District,
San Luis Obispo.

September 23

September 22

Masonic Festival and Constitution Observance, Sonoma County
Lodges, Sonoma Square.

September 21

September 23

Reception, Lamanda Park Carmelita Lodge No. 625, Pasadena.

September 24

Constitution Observance, Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528, Beverly
Hills.
Constitution Obs·ervance, 696th Masonic District, Downey.

September 26
September 29

Constitution Observance, Westchester United Lodge No. 512,
El Segundo.

October 4-5-6

Weekend in the South ••••••••••

October 13

The Robert The Bruce Luncheon, San Francisco.

25th Anniversary, Clairemont Mesa Lodge No. 199, San
Diego.

72

November 12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

VISITS TO OTIIER JURISDICTIONS

GRANO LODGE

1984

FREE ANO ACCEPTED MASONS

73
ROY J, HENVILLE
GRAND MA.•TE•

OF CALIFORNIA

Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada.
Senior Grand Warden Jack R. Levitt to represent the
Grand Master.

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
1111 CALIFORNIA STREET
8AN f'AANCl8CO
94108
(418) 779-7000

P R 0 C L A MA T I 0 N
MASONIC YOUTH ACTIVITIES MONTI!
February 4-5

Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Utah.
Attilio G. Parisi, Grand Lodge Committeeman to
represent the Grand Master.

May 20

Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona.
Junior Grand Warden Leo B. Mark to represent the
Grand Master.
Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon.
Deputy Grand Master John w. Driskell to represent
the Grand Master.

June 12

June 18

Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washington.
Past Grand Master E. Arthur Haglund to represent
the Grand Master.

August 11-13

Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Wyomin!'•

In this significant Masonic year we face an unusually important opportunity - and a
tremendously large need. At every turn and from every direction, our world is in a
rapid s.~ate of change and appears nearly every day to be in turmoil.
If the world appears such to us, just imagine how difficult it is for the young person
of today. The same turmoil, the same changes impact them but they must deal with them
without the benefit of the history, tradition and experience which you and I have.
There is an extremely important opportunity for us to he important in the lives of
young people of today in general, particularly those associated with our fine Masonic
Youth Orders -- Job's Daughters, Rainbow for Girls and DeMolay.
Nicely enough, the time has never been better for us to tighten our affiliations and
strengthen our relationship with these fine young people. On every front, there is a
swing "back to the basics". We see this in economics, education, social structures,
entertainment and societi in general. The "brief" fling at an open, permissible,
liberal way of life where anything goes has been tested and found lacking and all of
our institutions are enjoying a wave of nostalgia. We should recognize that this
brings the world back toward the things Masons have always stood for.
While we cannot yet boast of a rising membership either in our Fraternity or in the
Masonic Youth Orders, there are signs that the rapid declines of recent years are
slowing and there is some hope that the corner will be turned and our nunbers will
begin.to grow again.
While it should be a regular part of the activities of each of our constituent Lodges
to plan, promote and take part in Fraternal intercourse with these fine young people
at every opportunity, I proclaim the Month of March, 1985, as
MASONIC YOUTII ACTIVITIES MONTI!.
in the Grand Jurisdictions of California and Hawaii and encourage each Lodge to make
special efforts to promote a closer relationship with the young people in their local
Masonic family. Further, I direct that such emphasis and effort not be confined merely
to this official month, but should be made a part of the entire Masonic yea.r by including the members of the Masonic Youth Orders in such activities as Public Schools
Observances, U.S. Constitution Observances, Layman's Nights, Hiram Awards, Installations and any and all other public events.
Further, I direct that this Proclamation
should be read at the March Stated Meeting and, where possible, published in the Lorige
Trestle Board for the Month of March.
Sincerely and Fraternally,

~~ttr~

RJH:mlw
Dated:

January 15, 1985

ROY J. Hl!:NVILLI!'.

GRAND LODGE

G•AND lllA•T1:•

ROY J . HENVILLE

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

a•4NO MAeT••

OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC ~EMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

11 t I CALIF"OANIA BTRl!:l!T
84108
8AN f'RANC18CO

1111 CALIF"ORNIA 8TRllET
8AN FRANCISCO

75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

74

(41111) 779-7000

9•108

P R 0 C L A MA T I 0 N

(4111) 778-7000

P R 0 C L A MA T I 0 N

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK - 1985
''Public Schools
For Unlimited Opportunities "
America is on the move! From its bold, yet frail, beginning a little over
200 Years ago, our country has grown with such astonishing rapidity that it now
occupies a place of ·prominence among the nations of the world.
There was no way our founding fathers could have foreseen America's magnificent destiny, yet they, themselves, were the ones who made it possible by establishing a system of free public education • • • a system that provided unlimited
opportunities for the youth of this nation to develop their talents and use them
for the advancement and growth of our great country.
The unlimited opportunities offered by our public schools has provided America
with a vast reservoir of talented citizens who are competent in leadership, proficient in the professions, astute in business, outstanding in the sciences and
skilled in the crafts. The end result is a standard of living judged by many co be
the highest in the world.
If this standard is to be maintained, our schools muse have the whole-hearted
support of the entire community. I therefore call upon all members of society,
especially our Brethren in Freemasonry, to support our schools in their endeavor
to continue providing unlimited opportunities to the youth of our country. To
this end I do now Proclaim
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK during APRIL 1985
throughout California and Hawaii, and I call upon all Masonic Lodges to arrange
with the schools in their area for a mutually convenient week in the Month of April
to be sec aside for appropriate ceremonies and programs particularly aimed at the
concept of PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR UNLIMITED OPPORTUNITIES.
Furthermore, I direct that no Lodge programs or meetings, other than Stated
Meetings, be held during the designated week which might conflict with local Public
Schools Observances; and

Brotherly Love, Relief, and truth cannot be better exemplified than through the
existence and support of our Masonic Homes. Since 1906, the Masonic Home for
Adults in Union City has provided security and loving care for our elderly,
fostered feelings of individual self-worth, and encouraged societal interests
among the residents. The Masonic Home for Children in Covina has, since 1909,
aided youngsters to rebuild their shattered lives by providing an atmosphere of
family love and understanding while preparing them to become responsible adults.
The operational expenses necessary to maintain the existing grounds and structures
as well as to provide personnel and services are rising annually at a steady rate.
The average monthly number of residents at Union City will be raised to exceed 400
adults who require one of three levels of care - residental, personal, or skilled
nursing care. Over the last three years, the average number of children at Covina
has increased by 66%, Freemasonry serving mankind is essential to assure continued
quality for those to whom we provide relief,
In the 1983-84 Endowment Year, 75th year of this program, 51% of the Masons in
California and Hawaii gave their support by contributing to the Homes Endowment
fund. If we could increase the participation to 70%, we could reach our goal of
two million dollars this year.
"To relieve the distressed is the duty incumbent on all men but particularly on
Masons who are linked together by an indbsoluble chain of sincere affection." My
Brethren, won't you open your hearts to our elderly and our children?
With the aforementioned in mind, I proclaim the Month of May 1985, to be
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH
in California and Hawaii and I invite every Mason to share in the support of our
Masonic Hornes Endowment Fund.
Send in your contributions today. Many Brothers match their dues as contributions .
Let us not forget that the opportunity is present to give throughout the year as
memorials to our loved ones.
I direct that this Proclamation be read by the Master at the May Stated Meeting and
also be published in the Lodge bulletins or distributed to each member.

~Jely ; : : : : ; ; ; ·

That this Proclamation be read by the Master at the April Stated Meeting of
all Lodges and, where feasible, that it also be published in Lodge Bulletins or
distributed to each member.
February 1, 1985

Dated:
ATTEST:

!~~
~~
~rand
Master

~-Ll2 / fJ.

:a_JL._j~;'2--..
nd Secretarvd

''F REEMASONR Y-SERVING MANKIND"

G~}lter

R.JH:mlw
Dated:
ATTEST:

March 1, 1985

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

76

GRAND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
ROY J. HENVILLE

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

a•AND MAeT&•

OF CALIFORNIA
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
1111 CALl,.ORNIA 8TRIEll['T
•AN l"AANCl8CO
9'10•

(418) 77•·7000

PROCLAMATION
U, S. CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH
The Chairman of the convention that framed our Constitution was
George Washington.
On the back of hie chair, there was a painting of the
sun as it appeared just above the horizon, When, after many months of
wrangling and discussions which often threatened to break up the convention
entirely, the Constitution was finally signed by the 39 delegates, Benjamin
Franklin, then 83 years old, who had been a great stabilizing force in the
convention, arose and said: "I have looked at that painting again and ap;ain.
I have wondered whether it was a rising or a setting sun. But, now I know it
is a rising sun."
Now, we must see to it that this sun that has shone upon us with
such favor, that has seen America grow from a weak little group of colonies
into the greatest of all nations, does not set.
Now, 198 years later, we must continue to see to it that that rising
sun will forever shine on this Country of the People, by the People, and for the
People,
NOW, THEREFORE I Proclaim the Month of September, 1985, to be
U, S. CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH
in the Jurisdiction of California and Hawaii; and I direct all l.Ddges to arrange
and perform, or actively participate in, patriotic exercises to which the public
is invited, with the objective of demonstrating faith in our Nation, intensifying
our allegiance to it, denouncing its enemies within or without and pledging that
justice without undue delay or unconscionable interruption will always prevail.
I further direct that this Proclamation be read at the Stated Meeting
next following its receipt, and that wherever feasible it be printed in the
l.Ddge bulletin,

RJH:mlw
Dated:

July 15, 1985

ATTEST:

....,
/

''FREEMASONRY-SERVING MANKIND"

77

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The usual examination of our year-end financial results was conducted by
our Certified Public Accountants, Lindquist, von Husen and Joyce, of San
Francisco.
Their reports are reproduced in the pre-printed Grand Treasurer's report,
now available for your examination.
As you peruse the Grand Lodge financial data, please refer again to the
concerns expressed by our Committee on Finance in their report last year,
pages 268 and 269 of our 1984 Proceedings.
The unhappy fact that we are now losing two members for every one we
raise should be a compelling motive to closely scrutinize all levels of Grand
Lodge expenditures, without further delay.
The evident divergence in two significant trends - escalating costs and
diminishing membership - can only be counter-productive when reckoning
its continuing effect on the sole source of Grand Lodge income - the per
capita assessment levied upon our constituent Lodges.
On a more positive note, we are indeed fortunate that our accumulated
assets appear to be safe and secure, also productive, as evidenced in the Homes
and Temple operational reports.
We again extend thanks for the continuing generosity of our Brethren; also
for the devoted attention of our Board members and Trustees.
I must repeat, it is a pleasure and a privilege to serve.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER, Grand Treasurer

Referred to the Committee on Distribution. The Committee on Distribution referred the entire report to the Committee on Finance.

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In compliance with Section 1108-15th of the Supplement to the California
Masonic Code, I am pleased to submit to the members of this Grand Lodge
my annual report on the transactions and business which have occurred during
the year ending June 30, 1985.
The past year has been one of much activity in the Grand Lodge office,
and it is hoped that the actions and efforts of the office personnel in the
performance of their individual responsibilities have met, and will continue
to meet, with your approbation.
The responsibility of receiving all monies due the Grand Lodge and paying
the same to the Grand Treasurer has been faithfully executed, and these monies
have been credited to the appropriate accounts and are reflected in the published report of the Grand Treasurer. All supporting vouchers, receipts, records
and books are on file in the office of the Grand Secretary.
Also on file in the office are the minutes of all meetings held by the Masonic
Homes Board of Trustees, the California Masonic Memorial Temple Board
of Trustees, the California Masonic Foundation Board of Trustees, the
Investment Committee of Grand Lodge, the Retirement Committee of Grand
Lodge and the Executive Committee of Grand Lodge - some forty meetings
in all.
Your Finance Committee has continued to work in close cooperation with
the Executive Committee, the Grand Treasurer, the Grand Secretary, the Grand
Lecturer and the Manager of Accounting in diligently reviewing all items and
amounts which have been submitted to this committee in preparation of the
1985-1986 budget of Grand Lodge. Their report and their recommendations
will be presented to you during the course of this Annual Communication.
I would be remiss if I did not again express my continuing admiration for
those members of the Boards and Committees of Grand Lodge with whom
I have the privilege of working on a continuing basis. These Master Masons
fully understand and practice the tenets of our Fraternity.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

Following are the items of unfinished business which have been held over
·
from the Annual Communication of 1984:

Proposed Amendments to the Constitution
Availability of Widow's Pin to all Widows (Resolution No. 3, 1984
Proceedings, page 239).

Proposed Amendment to the Ordinances
Proficiency for Concordant and Appendant Bodies (Grand Master
Haglund's Recommendation No. 3, 1984 Proceedings, pages 70 and 79).

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

79

Other Matters
Optional use of a "Short Form" Closing Ceremony (Report and Recommendation of Ritual Committee to implement Grand Master Maynard's
Recommendation No. 3, 1983 Proceedings, page 34 and 1984 Proceedings,
page 224).

CHARTER AMENDMENTS

Change of Meeting Place (C.M.C. 2098 and 2100)
Following is a list of those Lodges which have changed their place of meeting
during the past year:

C.M.C. 2098
Athens Lodge No. 228; Reedley Lodge No. 304.

C.M.C. 2100
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329 from Los Angeles to Pasadena.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 from Oakland to Castro Valley.
Westminster Fairview Lodge No. 629 from Seal Beach to Westminster.
Belmont Shore Lodge No. 716 from Long Beach to Seal Beach.
Polaris Lodge No. 730 from Sacramento to Citrus Heights.
San Juan Lodge No. 732 from Fair Oaks to Citrus Heights.
Claude H. Morrison Lodge No. 747 from Coronado to San Diego.

Consolidation of Lodges (C.M.C. 2104)
All requirements of the law with respect to consolidation of Lodges having
been complied with, the Grand Secretary requests the authority to properly
endorse the following charters:
Oakland Rockridge Lodge No. 188 and Durant Lodge No. 268, effective
January 1, 1985, to be known as Oakland Durant Rockridge Lodge No. 188.
Oildale Lodge No. 688 and Meudell Lodge No. 695, effective January 1,
1985, to be known as Meudell-Oildale Lodge No. 695.
Hamilton-Harding Lodge No. 535 and Granada Lodge No. 608, effective
April 1, 1985, to be known as Granada Lodge No. 535.
Yolo Lodge No. 81 and Woodland Lodge No. 156, effective June 1, 1985,
to be known as Woodland Lodge No. 81.
La Puente Lodge No. 446 and West Covina Lodge No. 756, effective July
1, 1985, to be known as West Covina-La Puente Lodge No. 446.
Montebello Lodge No. 451 and Triad Lodge No. 812, effective August 1,
1985, to be known as Montebello Lodge No. 451.
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297 and Mccloud Lodge No. 430, effective September
1, 1985, to be known as Dunsmuir-Mccloud Lodge No. 297.

80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FEES FOR DEGREES

Orinda Lodge No. 521 and Plymouth Lodge No. 560, effective
September 1, 1985, to be known as Orinda-Plymouth Lodge No. 521.
Signal Lodge No. 543 and Five Points Lodge No. 779, effective October 1, 1985, to be known as Signal Five Points Lodge No. 543.

Amount

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS
As of June 30, 1985

1981
New Lodges Formed
0
(incl. Research) ........
Lodge Charters Revoked ..
0
7
Consolidations ...........
3,0IO
Initiated ................
2,547
Passed ...................
2,539
Raised ..................
2,706
Affiliations (Calif.) .......
Affiliations (from other
634
Jurisdictions) ..........
314
Restorations .............
3,470
Withdrawals .............
1,634
Suspensions (NPD) .......
Suspensions or Expulsions
(for cause) ............
8
5,821
Deaths ..................
Total Membership ........ 193,134
2,513
Dues Remitted ...........
Gains or Losses .......... -4,740
Number of Lodges
637
(excluding Research) ....
Plural Members
2,530
(included in total) ......
Research Membership
1,017
(6 Research Lodges) ....

81

1982

1983

1984

1985

2
0
13
3,184
2,433
2,443
4,313

0
0
7
2,920
2,476
2,465
2,930

0
1
IO
2,788
2,154
2,218
2,940

2
0
4
2,458
1,899
1,888
2,123

599
347
4,918
1,675

625
331
3,409
1,437

594
379
3,495
1,629

547
397
2,799
1,463

3
5,703
188,533
2,507
-4,597

4
5,734
184,300
2,506
-4,233

14
5,717
179,575
2,519
-4,724

8
5,837
174,423
2,496
-5,152

625

618

607

604

2,590

2,613

2,657

2,604

1,174

1,460

1,665

2,044

$50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
61.00
65.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
86.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
I00.00
IOI.00
I02.00
I05.00
lI0.00
111.00
115.00
120.00
122.50
125.00
126.00
130.00
131.00
135.00
136.00
140.00
145.00
150.00
154.00
160.00
161.00
165.00
175.00
180.00
190.00
211.00
215.00
261.00
265.00

Total Lodges
Average Fees

1975
1985
Increase in
Decrease in
No. of Lodges No. of Lodges No. of Lodges Na of Lodges
62
1
2
1
13
t43
1
18
2
1
32
2
1
214
1
12
2
52
6
77

3
7
1
9

2
7

674
$94.84

46
1
1
1
1
8
89
1
9
2
2
32
2
1
156
1

16

5
54
9

58

15

3

9
57
9
1
75
3

9

2

1
8
4
12
2
19
1

5
3
1
2
3
1

5
4

5
1
IO
1

5

5

6
6
7
3
1
1
4
1
1
604
$104.06

6
4
3
1
1
3
1
1

82

Amount
$12.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
22.00
22.50
23.00
24.00
25.00
26.00
27.00
27.50
28.00
30.00
31.00
32.00
32.50
33.00
34.00
35.00
36.00
37.50
38.00
40.00
42.00
44.00
45.00
48.00
50.00
52.00
55.00
60.00
66.00
Total Lodges
Average Dues

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL DUES

OFFICE PERSONNEL

Decrease in
Increase in
1985
1975
No. of Lodges No. of Lodges No. of Lodges No. of Lodges
25
83
22
3
142
149
37
14
3
78
56
8
2

5
32

2
4
1
2

674
$20.57

19
66
18
3
110
113
27
9

6
17
4
32
36
10
5
1
47
68
8
7
1
11
157
1
12
1
3
2
34
63
1
3
34
9
2
10
6
9
1
1
1
1
604
$29.42

3
31
12

5
1
6
125
1
11
1
2
2
32
59
1
2
32
9
2
9
5
8
1

83

During the past year several new people joined our office staff. These
additions were necessary due to two persons leaving our employ for other jobs
and another due to the desire of the Masonic Homes Trustees to employ an
additional field representative occasioned by a retirement. These new people
have assumed their respective job functions and have become valuable additions to our staff.
It is most gratifying indeed to be the recipient of many complimentary
remarks tendered by the Brethren concerning the efficiency and courteousness
of our office personnel, and I can assure those who are kind enough to express
these remarks that they are passed on to those concerned. Rarely do I hear a
negative comment and therefore I can only conclude that we enjoy a fine "batting averagC:' one which I can assure you we will do our utmost to maintain.
Again, I offer a sincere and appreciative "Thank you" to our office staff
members.
NEW LODGES

The following new Lodges were formed during the year ending on June 30,
1985:
Orange County Research Lodge U.D., located at La Habra. The Dispensation was granted on September 20, 1984 and the Lodge was instituted on
January 25, 1985, Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Dean F. Bradley (Master), Leonard L.
Todd, Sr. (Senior Warden), Joseph W. Drake (Junior Warden), E.B. "Jay"
Rider, Jr. (Treasurer), Burns H. Hamlett (Secretary), Elden C. Amesbury,
Ralph A. Andersop, Charles R. Ash, Norman D. Barge, Glenn Bertonneau,
John W. Blum, Jr., Wayne L. Butterbaugh, Clarence E.Chick, "J" Lloyd
Clayton, Sterlins S. Danziger, Jack E. Doughty, Jr., Robert E. Ferguson,
Raymond R. Frazier, Rufus W. Gardner, Stephen A. Gassett, Bernard P. Hardy, Donald H. Hargraves, Eugene L. Harp, Reason A. Heaton, Max E. Hiles,
Donald R. Holloman, Walter A. Kaczor, Edwin B. Long, David K. MacMurray, George L. McCracken, Robert E. Moffitt, Richard H. Mullard,
George Nakano, Clyde L. Nickle, William A. Pettifer, Richard L. Riemer, Arthur F. Roberts, Thomas A. Russell, Mark E. Schrock, Robert K. Slocombe,
Wallace C. Stair, Richard L. Taylor, Edward G. Van Pelt, Timothy C. Wallace,
Norman R. Webb, Elwin A. Wolcott and Glenn D. Woody.
Joseph L. Shell Daylight Lodge U.D., located at San Diego. The Dispensation was granted on April 30, 1985, and the Lodge was instituted on May 7,
1985, Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, Grand Master, presiding. The charter
membership is as follows:
G. Chris Kern (Master), Jesse C. Canale (Senior Warden), Paul I. Greenwood (Junior Warden), Robin Mansfield (Treasurer), Arthur F. Peterson
(Secretary), Elwood G. Baggaley, Connie H. Bawcum, Alfred Beck, Allen S.
Beddoe, George Bergman, Claude H. Bonner, Jose M. Cachuela, James E.
Childs, M. Gerry Cooper, Thomas A. Cumbie, Jack R. Evans, Loland B.
Fowler, Jack N. Geopfarth, Irving A. Goodman, James J. Gordon, Robert D.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Haas, Joseph B. Hanly, David L. Heafner, Everett E. Hortman, John R.
Hughes, Albert J. lckey, Ezra L. Johnson, Henry M. Kirkland, James A.
Lane, Jack R. Levitt, John F. Littel, Henry E. Losch, Walter A. Low, Glenn W.
McDowell, Richard L. Merritt, Jr., Vernon H. M. Miranda, Darel N.
Reynolds, Maynard M. Riggs, Thomas M. Sagar, George C. Schrum, John T.
Simpson, Robert B. Svendsen, Donald R. Taylor, Raymon Tercenio, Donald E.
Thomas, Bertram L. Toor, William M. Trimble, Robert J. Valdisera, Richard
S. Weber and Frederick J. Witek.

DUES AND FEES

84

MEMBERSHIP QUESTIONNAIRE

Included as a part of the Summer issue of the California Freemason
Magazine was a membership survey questionnaire consisting of twenty
questions.
The general membership was asked to participate in this survey by merely
checking the box appropriate to their status and belief. In addition a blank
page was provided for any comments the respondents might care to make. Approximately 7,000 responses were received, most of which contained the sought
for comments. These responses were tabulated by computer and the results will
be published in a future issue of the Freemason Magazine. As to the comments submitted, these have been made available to several of the Grand
Lodge committees and they are currently being analyzed and compiled. The
results of the many ideas, beliefs and thoughts of those who took the time to
express themselves will be made available to your Executive Committee for
their guidance in their future planning.

SPECIAL ELECTIONS

Elsewhere in this report you will find that 59 Lodges requested dispensations
from the Grand Master to hold special elections for Lodge officers at times
other than the annual Stated Meeting of the Lodge. These requests, for the
most part, were occasioned by the resignation of the Master or one or both of
the Wardens. Many of these applications to hold a special election were received in a faulty condition in that they were not presented as a result of Lodge action being taken or they failed to state the reason why the special election was
being requested, or they did not state that the necessary two- thirds of the
members present at the Stated Meeting approved of the application. In addition, many Secretaries neglect to affix their Lodge's seal to the request. These
applications, therefore, had to be returned for appropriate and required information thereby resulting in extra work for all concerned and the resultant loss
of time. It is suggested that the Lodge Secretary make certain that all the required information is contained in the request prior to it being submitted for
approval by the Grand Master.

85

Again this year, as in past years, many Lodges have come to the realization
that they cannot continue to pay their necessary operating expenses based
upon a dues structure which is unrealistic. Consequently Resolutions have been
introduced to increase the dues to afford these Lodges the income which is
needed to allow them to operate on a sound financial basis. In a few Lodges,
fees for the degrees have also been raised to produce additional income.
The raising of fees and dues requires the Lodge to amend the Uniform Code
of By-laws. T~is action necessitates a Resolution to be presented in writing at
a Stated Meetmg and a Lodge vote taken to accept or reject the Resolution at
the very next Stated Meeting. Following the acceptance of the Resolution by at
least two-thirds of. the members present at the Stated Meeting, the Lodge
Secretary must certify under seal that the law has been complied with and the
amendment to the By-laws has received the necessary vote.
Too often, the Secretary's certification indicates that the Lodge vote on the
~mendment was n?t taken at the next Stated Meeting following the presentation of the Resolution, therefore it must be returned and the proper steps again
be taken. It should be noted that any amendment to the Uniform Code of Bylaws must be approved by the Grand Master or his designee before such
amendment can become effective.

APPRECIATION

My sincere appreciation is extended to Grand Master Roy J. Henville for the

tho_ughtf~l ~nd con~iderate m~n~er in which he worked with the Grand Lodge

office. His gentlemanly and dignified approach to those problems which arose
resulted in solutions agreeable to all concerned. My appreciation is also extended to the other members of the Executive Committee, each of whom is
most sincere in his desire to take whatever steps are necessary for the betterment of the Craft in our Jurisdiction. I can assure you that the members of the
Executive Committee work in complete peace and harmony.
To the members of the various Boards and Committees, my gratitude is expressed for the privilege of again having the opportunity to associate with men
and Masons of such a high caliber. Lastly, of course, to all of the Brethren of
our great Masonic Jurisdiction, it is indeed a satisfaction to be able to serve
you as your Grand Secretary, and I thank you for this great honor and
privilege.
Respectfully submitted
/}

~f) . ·~
Secretary

Referred to the Committee on Distribution. The Committee on Distribution
referred the report to the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Committee on
Charters, the Committee on By-Laws and the Committee on Trial Review.

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT A

To change date of Stated Meeting (C.M.C. 1028): Nevada No. 13; Howard
No. 37; Volcano No. 56; Fidelity No. 120; Truckee No. 200; Stanislaus No.
206; Santa Monica No. 307; Pacific Grove No. 331; Buena Park No. 357;
Huntington Beach No. 380; Carpinteria No. 444; Chowchilla No. 485; Ionic
No. 520; Atwater Larchmont No. 614.

DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law (C.M.C. 1004): Gold
Hill No. 32; Howard No. 37; Lexington No. 104; Fidelity No. 120; Lafayette
No. 126; Valley No. 135; Keystone No. 161 (2); San Francisco Educator ~o.
166; Drytown No. 174; Antioch No. 175; Russian .River No. 181; Anaheim
No. 207; Rio Vista No. 208; Inyo No. 221; Bakersfield No. 224; Covelo ~o.
231; Janesville No. 232; Welcome No. 255; Oakdale ~o. 275; San Gabriel:
Southern California No. 278; Mt. Shasta No. 281; Ontano No. 301; Tehachapi
No. 313; Corona No. 324; Consuello No. 325; Pacific Grove ~o.. 331; Frmtvale No. 336; Starr King No. 344; Fountain Valley No. 351; Willits No. 365;
Jewel City No. 368; Clovis No. 417; Florence No. 423 (3); Libertas No. ~66;
Acorn No. 494; Seaside No. 504; Orinda No. 521; Azure No. 533; Searc~hght
Alta Loma No. 567; El Cajon Valley No. 576; Garden Grove No. 586; TuJunga
No. 592; Atwater Larchmont No. 614; Baldwin Park No. 660; Laguna Be~ch
No. 672; Modesto No. 675; Carmel No. 680; Barstow No. 682; San Manno
No. 685 (2); William D. Stephens No. 698; Seafaring No. 708; Belmont Shore
No. 716; Luther Burbank No. 752; Tejon No. 773; Claremont Mesa No. 799;
Conejo Valley No. 807; Triad No. 812; Half Moon Bay No. 835; Orange County Masonic Research U.D..
To open Lodge in other than regular meeting place (C.M.C. 2046~ Supp.!-°
Athens No. 228; West Gate No. 335; Charity No. 362; Le Progress De l Oceame
No. 371; Honolulu No. 409; Capital City No. 499; Pearl Harbor No. 59~;
Peninsula No. 745; American River No. 795; Moreno Valley No. 804 (2); Tustm
No. 828; King Kalakaua Daylight U.D..
To open Lodge and Confer Degrees in other than regular meeting place
(C.M.C.2046f Supp.): Nevada No. 13; Alameda No. 167; Ki~g Solomon's
Seaport No. 260; Alisa! No. 321; San Fernando No. 343; Huntmgton Beach
No. 380 (2); University No. 394; Moneta No. 405; Inglewood-James ~ew No.
421· Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480; Orinda No. 521; Tri- Square No. 551;
At~ater Larchmont No. 614; Menorah No. 623; Saint John's No. 725.
To hold meetings in other than regular meeting place due to Destruction
of Lodge Room (C.M.C. 2102): Athens No. 228 (2); S~sson No. 310 (cont~nua­
tion); Coalinga No. 387 (continuatio n); Chateau Thierry No. 569 (contmuation); Coastside No. 762 (continuatio n).

f

Special Permission for Conferring Outdoor Degrees C.M.C. 2046f Supf!.):
Howard No. 37; Enterprise No. 70; Pajaro No. 110; Antioch No. 175; Readmg
No. 254; Porterville No. 303; Atascadero No. 493; Kern River Valley No. 827;
Half Moon Bay No. 835.

87

Special Permission to participate in a parade (C.MC. 2058c): Jewel City
No. 368; San Dimas No. 428; Carpinteria No. 444; Acalanes-Fellowship No.
480; Grizzly No. 601; Ojai No. 663; Riviera No. 780; Palm Desert No. 826.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees from one not possessing
qualification of residence (C.M.C. 1010): La Mirada No. 778
To reballot on rejected applicant (C.M.C. 1008): Palos Verdes No. 389.
To ballot on applicant without reference to Investigation Committee (C.MC.
1006): Conejo Valley No. 807

LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Fixing Fee (C.M.C. 2804): Lompoc No. 262, at $735.00; Liberty No. 299,
at $882.00; Chowchilla No. 485 at $735.00; Hermosa-M anhattan No. 557,
at $585.00; All States No. 593, at $630.00; Malta No. 661, at $525.00; San
Clemente No. 671, at $1,050.00; Crossroads No. 696, at $500.00; San Ramon
Valley No. 724, at $800.00; Golden Empire No. 733, at $756.00; Luther
Burbank No. 75Z, at $630.00; Sublime No. 831, at $625.00.
Increasing Fee (C.M.C. 2804): Yosemite No. 99, to $625.00; San Mateo No.
226, to $875.00; Hope No. 234, to $500.00; Lodi No. 256, to $625.00; Los
Gatos No. 292, to $730.00; Southgate No. 320, to $670.00; Westgate No. 335,
to $833.33; Las Palmas No. 366, to $756.00; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $750.00;
Mount Oso No. 460, to $1,050.00; Cahuenga-L a Brea No. 513, to $937.50;
East San Diego No. 561, to $835.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to $850.00;
Garden Grove No. 586, to $756.00; Normal Heights No. 632, to $625.00;
Castro Valley No. 713, to $1,041.66; Merced No. 749, to $625.00.
Decreasing Fee (C.M.C. 2804): Granada No. 535, to $583.33
Rescinding (C.M.C. 2804): Jewel City No. 368.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudenc e has reviewed one hundred thirty Dispensations and thirty Resolutions and finds that Grand Master Henville acted

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

properly in granting all Dispensations and approving all Resolutions. The
Dispensations are categorized by subject matter in the Grand Secretary's
Report. The Resolutions all concerned Life Membership fees.
Due to the fact that Grand Secretary Klinger and his staff make available
the Applications for Dispensation and the Life Membership Resolutions as
they are received in the Grand Lodge office, we have been able to review the
documentation on a current basis. This allows us to obtain further information or clarification in those cases requiring further review prior to approval.
There are two particular areas which all too often result in tentative disapproval. The first is the Application for Dispensation to hold Special Elections of officers. In a significant number of cases, the reason necessitating
a Special Election is not stated. As a result, we are unable to determine whether
the Special Election is necessary because of a vacancy occurring in the offices of Master or Warden after an officer has been elected and installed in
that office (thereby making the provisions of C.M.C. Section 2502 applicable)
or if a Lodge has failed to install an officer within a period of 60 days subsequent to the election (thereby making Section 2524 applicable). If the latter
is the case, the Grand Master should previously have had applicaiton made
to him for a Dispensation authorizing additional time for qualification of
the officer, or the Lodge should not have been at Labor. Inspectors, as ~he
direct representatives of the Grand Master, as well as Masters and Secretanes,
should be particularly alert in this area and make certain that application
is timely made for proper Dispensations.
The second largest problem area is the Applications for Dispensation to
participate in a parade. Here, all information concerning the purpose of the
parade, the date, whether or not white aprons are to be worn, the manner
of participation such as a float or otherwise, what Masoni~ emblem ?r ot~er
designation is to be used, the source of funds for expenses m connection with
the Masonic participation in the parade and all other facts upon which the
Grand Master may make his determination should be furnished. On several
occasions, these applications have been made upon short notice. In order to
avoid disapproval by the Grand Master, the Lodges should be certain to provide in their applications all pertinent information.
Again we appreciate the assistance of the Grand Secretary and his staff
for their cooperation, particularly in assisting in those cases requiring further review.

EXHIBIT B

88

Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Chairman
RICHARD L. RIEMER
RICHARD B. EATON
ALLEN B. GRESHAM
BRUCE L. CONROY
JOHN C. SNELL
DONALD J. DREW
ROBERT L. SILLS
DONALD B. MCCAW

Adopted.

89

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

Adopting Uniform Code of By-laws (C.M.C. 2082 through 2086): Howard
No. 37; Oakland Durant Rockridge No. 188; Montebello No. 451; Granada
No. 535; Meudell-Oildale No. 695; Joseph L. Shell Daylight U.D.
Stated Meetings (C.M.C. Sect. 2086, Article Ill):
Changing Date: St. Helena No. 93; Vacaville No. 134; Tyrian No. 439;
Guardian No. 596; Camellia No. 612; Golden Empire No. 733; Northern
California Research.
Changing Time: Russian River No. 181; Fruitvale No. 336; America No.
475; Westminster Fairview No. 629; The Gabilan No. 803.
Fees for Degrees (C.MC. Sect 2086, Article VIII):
Increasing: Martinez No. 41, to $111.00; Taft-Midway No. 426, to $101.00;
San Clemente No. 671, to $161.00; San Ramon Valley No. 724, to $111.00;
Golden Empire No. 733, to $136.00.
Decreasing: Buena Park No. 357, to $135.00; Holtville No. 425, to $75.00.
Fees for Affiliation (C.MC. Sect. 2086, Article VIII):
Increasing: Martinez No. 41, to $50.00; Palos Verdes No. 389, to $25.00;
Golden Empire No. 733, to $25.00.
Decreasing: King Solomon's Seaport No. 260, to $5.00.

.

Dues (C.MC. Sect. 2086, Article IX):
Increasing: Los Angeles No. 42, to $36.00; Crescent No. 45, to $36.00;
North Star No. 91, to $40.00; Yosemite No. 99, to $30.00; Petaluma No.
180, to $36.00; San Mateo No. 226, to $42.00; Hope No. 234, to $24.00;
Colusa No. 240, to $36.00; Eucalyptus No. 243, to $36.00; Olive Branch
No. 269, to $42.00; Los Gatos No. 292, to $35.00; Clarence L. Fraser No.
294, to $30.00; Delano No. 309, to $36.00; Sanger No. 316, to $30.00;
Westgate No. 335, to $40.00; Las Palmas No. 366, to $36.00; Fraternity
No. 399, to $36.00; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $35.00; Mount Diablo No.
448, to $48.00; Mount Oso No. 460, to $50.00; Mount Olive No. 506,
to $45.00; Cupertino No. 510, to $40.00; Cahuenga-La Brea No. 513, to
$45.00; East San Diego No. 561, to $40.00; Chateau Thierry No. 569, to
$40.00; Ft. Crook No. 575, to $25.00; Garden Grove No. 586, to $36.00;
Tujunga No. 592, to $35.00; All States No. 593, to $36.00; Guardian No.
596, to $30.00; Grizzly No. 601, to $24.00; Normal Heights No. 632, to
$30.00; Lorenzo No. 709, to $40.00; Los Altos No. 712, to $25.00; Castro
Valley No. 713, to $50.00; Home No. 721, to $40.00; San Juan No. 732,
to $40.00; Golden Empire No. 733, to $36.00; Merced No. 749, to $30.00;
Lawndale No. 753, to $25.00; El Rancho No. 759, to $35.00; Scepter No.
808, to $34.00; Half Moon Bay No. 835, to $36.00.

90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decreasing: Hermann No. 127, to $30.00; Phoenix No. 178, to $27.00.
Charity Committee (C.M.C. Sect. 2086, Article X):
Increasing: Washington No. 20, to $250.00; Elk Grove No. 173, to $100.00;
Blackmer No. 442, to $250.00; Culver City-Foshay No. 467, to $100.00;
East San Diego No. 561, to $150.00; Warren G. Harding No. 579, to
$100.00; Garden Grove No. 586, to $100.00; Crossroads No. 696, to
$100.00; Oak Plains No. 789, to $250.00.
RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place (C.M.C. 2098 and 2100): Athens No. 228;
Reedley No. 304; Vallee de France No. 329; Fruitvale No. 336;
Westminster Fairview No. 629; Belmont Shore No. 716; Polaris No. 730;
San Juan No. 732; Claude H. Morrison No. 747.

91

6 . Charity Committee:
Increasing .............................................. 9
Decreas1ng
. ............................................. O
7 . Resolution:
Change of Meeting Place ................................ 9
Respectfully submitted,
MELVYN B. STEIN, Chairman
TILLMAN DALEY
WILLIAM E. LINGO, JR.
RICHARD C. HART
WILLIAM T. CHANTLER
TIMOTHY WALLACE

Most Worshipful, I move that this Grand Lodge approve the amendments
and resolutions listed in Exhibit "B" to the Grand Secretary's Report with
the additions and exceptions previously stated and this Report of the Committee on By-Laws be received and filed.
Adopted.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on By-Laws:
Your Grand Lodge Committee on By-Laws held their Annual Meeting on
Monday, October 14, 1985 to review the various Amendments and Reso.lutions proposed by Constituent Lodges to their By-Laws during the ensuing
year.
.
The Committee wishes to commend our Grand Secretary and his staff for
the July review with your Chairman, of all proposed Amendments. and Reso_Iutions. As a result, no errors or omissions were found by the Comm1ttc:e meetmg
as a whole during the Annual Communication. All matters submitted were
adopted in compliance with the California Masonic Code:
Your Committee examined 86 Amendments and Resolutions and the following is a recapitulation thereof:
l. Adoption of Uniform Code of By-Laws ....................... 6
2 . Stated Meetings:
Change of Date ........................................ 7
Change of Time ........................................ 5
3 . Fees for Degrees:
Increasing ...................................... · · . · · · · · 5
Decreasing ......................................... · · . · 2
4 . Fees for Affiliation:
Increasing ...................................... · · . · · · · · 3
Decreasing ......................................... · · . · l
5. Dues:
Increasing ....................................... · .. · · . 43
Decreasing ...................................... · . · · · · · 2

EXHIBIT C
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1810-Petition for restoration. A member of Mount Shasta Lodge
No. 281. Expelled September 5, 1963.
No. 2198-PetitioQ for restoration. A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled February 6, 1984.
No. 2199-Petition for restoration. A member of Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469.
Expelled October 6, 1983.
No. 2200-Petition for restoration. A member of Meridian Lodge No. 105,
Montana. Trial by Coachella Lodge No. 476, California. Expelled
by Grand Lodge of California October 8, 1984.
No. 2211-A member of East San Diego Lodge No. 561. Expelled October
4, 1984.
No. 2212-A member of Oroville Lodge No. 103: Expelled December 4, 1984.
No. 2213-A member of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8. Expelled December 11, 1984.
No. 2214-A member of Temescal Lodge No. 314. Expelled January 3, 1985.
No. 2215-A member of Altadena-Mt. Wilson Lodge No. 678. Reprimand
February 5, 1985.
No. 2216-A member of El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576. Reprimand
September 6, 1984.
No. 2217-A member of El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576. Reprimand
September 6, 1984.
No. 2218-A member of Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389. Expelled April 5, 1985.
No. 2219-A member of Vitruvius Lodge No. 145. Suspended April 10, 1985.
No. 2220-A member of Square and Compass Lodge No. 834. Reprimand
April 8, 1985.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 2221-A member of Trana Lodge No. 684. Tried by San Bernardino Lodge
No. 348. Suspended June 6, 1985.
No. 2222-A member of Palmdale Lodge No. 769. Expelled July 11, 1985
No. 2223-A member of La Puente Lodge No. 446. Expelled July 8, 1985.
No. 2224-A member of Los Alamitos Lodge No. 809. Expelled August 12,
1985.
No. 2225-A member of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8. Expelled August 13, 1985.
No. 2226-A member of Fresno Lodge No. 247. Expelled July 5, 1985.
No. 2227-A member of Hanford Lodge No. 279. Expelled September 4, 1985.
No. 2228-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled September
5, 1985.
No. 2229-A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Suspended September 5,
1985.
No. 2230-A member of Clay Lodge No. 101. Expelled September 14, 1985.

In 1984 a Lodge in California, exercising jurisdiction over the accused
because he resides in this state, instituted a trial charging him with unmasonic
conduct as evidenced by the conviction of the accused in the California State
Courts for embezzlement from his employer.
Upon recommendation of the Trial Review Committee, which recommendation was based on the record in the Masonic trial proceedings, this Grand
Lodge at its 1984 Annual Communication reversed the findings of the Trial
Commission, found the accused guilty, and fixed the penalty at expulsion.
This application for restoration, like the preceding trial, has received more
notoriety than usual by reason of the extensive interest displayed by members
of the Coachella Valley Masonic organizations in which the accused and his
wife were very active.
The record, however, reveals that the accused is on probation by the California State Court until May 1986 for the crimes of which he was convicted.
The crimes of which he was convicted were of a serious nature and involved
moral turpitude.
Thus, while we appreciate the interest of each and every person involved
in urging restoration, we find no evidence in the application by the accused,
in any letter urging restoration, or otherwise, of any feelings of remorse or
acts of atonement on the part of the accused.
Your Committee therefore submits the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the Petition for Restoration in Trial Record No. 2200
be denied.

92

ACTION BY GRAND WDGE
The ComlJlitlee on Trial Review:
There have been referred to your Committee on Trial Review since the 1984
Communication of this Grand Lodge twenty-four (24) Trial Records of which
three (3) are Applications for Restoration.
Your Committee has reviewed each of Trial Records numbered 2211, 2212,
2214, 2218, 2222, 2223, 2224, 2225, 2226, 2228, 2230 and finds that in each
case there was substantial compliance with the procedural requirements of
our Constitution and Ordinances, that the result is supported by the evidence
in the records of each case and that there are no miscarriages of justice;
Your Committee therefore submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that in each of the above numbered Trial Records the judgment and penalty imposed be and are ratified, affirmed and approved.
TRIAL RECORD NO. 1810

Your Committee has considered a Petition for Restoration in Trial Record
Numbered 1810, in which a former member of Mt. Shasta Lodge No. 281
has shown sufficient evidence of his realization of the circumstances leading
to his expulsion, his change of outlook and his rehabilitation, and acceptance
of him by his Lodge and his community. Sufficient time has elapsed since
the expulsion in each case to indicate that these positive factors are not mere
temporary changes.
Your Committee therefore submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the Petition for Restoration in Trial Record 1810 be
approved.
TRIAL RECORD NO. 2200

Trial Record No. 2200 involves an application for restoration by a sojourner
who is a member of Meridian Lodge No. 105 of the Grand Lodge of Montana, ~esiding in the Coachella Valley area of California.

93

TRIAL RECORD No. 2229

In Trial Record No. 2229, a member of Menorah Lodge No. 623 was charged
with unmasonic.conduct on the grounds that he, without authorization, took
checks from a Brother Master Mason with whom he was living, utilized these
checks to transfer funds from the Brother Master Mason's bank account to
his own, and applied the unlawfully obtained funds for his own personal use.
The accused did not formally respond to or defend against the charges and
the Trial Master found him guilty of unmasonic conduct and fixed the penalty
at suspension.
Your Committee on Trial Review believes that the acts of the accused are
of sufficient severity that the penalty should be raised from suspension to
expulsion.
We therefore submit the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the findings of the Trial Master in Trial Record No. 2229
be affirmed, but the penalty be raised to Expulsion.
TRIAL RECORD NO. 2199

In this case a member of Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469 was charged with
three specifications of unmasonic conduct.
Charge 1) He smuggled high technology electronics overseas.
Charge 2) He falsified documents.
Charge 3) He conspired, aided and abetted to violate federal export laws.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Upon Trial by Commission, the accused was found not guilty of specification one, and guilty of specifications two and three. The Trial Commission
determined that the accused should be expelled.
The Trial Review Committee found that the Trial Record as submitted to
Grand Lodge did not contain the court documents to sustain the charges as
relied on by the Commission. After careful review, your Committee was unable
to sustain the findings of the Trial Commission based upon the partial record.
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of guilty of unmasonic conduct in Trial
Record No. 2199 be reversed and that the matter be remanded to Yorba Linda
Lodge No. 469 to provide Grand Lodge with a record containing sufficient
evidence to sustain their findings.

in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The court approved a debt re-organization plan.
The Brother Master Mason was awarded ten percent (10%) recovery along
with other unsecured creditors.
The Committee is of the opinion that the loan was a personal business contract between two parties which might have been enforced by legal action prior
to the filing of bankruptcy. The Committee found that the filing for bankruptcy was a personal right authorized under the law, therefore, did not involve
moral turpitude. While the Committee was not unsympathetic to the Brother
who sustained the loss, we do not believe that the failure to repay a debt was
unmasonic conduct in these circumstances. Your Committee therefore submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the findings and penalty in Trial Record No. 2220 be
reversed and a not guilty verdict entered.

94

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2220

This Trial Record involves a member of Square and Compass Lodge No.
834, who was charged with three counts of unmasonic conduct.
SPECIFICATION 1) He demonstrated an intention to attempt to cheat
two of his Lodge Brothers, when he filed a statement with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in which he
disputed just debts secured by his promissory notes
to these creditors.
SPECIFICATION 2) He swore, under oath, before a U.S. Bankruptcy
Trustee, to a falsehood, regarding the extent of his
debts when asked by the Trustee if they were all
listed; thereby denying his legal and moral obligation not to cheat or wrong his Brother Masons,
holders of his promissory notes.
SPECIFICATION 3) He deliberately lied and misled, for the purpose of
deceiving a Brother Master Mason, to avoid attempts to resolve debts owed by him, over a period
of two and one-half years by stating that the debt
would be paid when his home was sold, knowing
full well that it was already over-encumbered and
was in danger of foreclosure.
The accused did not respond to the charges. The Trial Master found the
accused not guilty of Specifications one and two; and guilty of Specification
three. The Trial Master fixed the penalty at reprimand in open Lodge.
The Committee finds no fault with the Trial Master's decision regarding
Specifications one and two.
The Committee further believes that the findings regarding Specification
three should be reversed and the accused should be found not guilty. Based
on the facts in the Trial Record, the Committee finds that Specification three
does not involve moral turpitude, therefore, there is no unmasonic conduct.
The Trial Master's report regarding Specification three indicates that on
November 6, 1981, the accused borrowed $10,000 from a Brother Master
Mason. The accused on numerous occasions promised that he would repay
the debt. On July 3, 1984, the accused filed a petition for debt re-organization

95

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2213

Trial Record No. 2213 came to your Trial Review Committee as a result
of charges filed against a member of Tuolumne Lodge No. 8. The allegations
of unmasonic conduct were based on alleged violations of California Penal
Code, Section 647A, that is, wilfully and unlawfully annoying and molesting
a minor. Although originally pleading "not guiltY,' the Brother withdrew that
plea. The result was a finding by the Trial Master, without commission, of
guilty, fixing the penalty at expulsion.
In considering this matter, your Committee found two possible, and likely, failings. First, it appeared that many of the available records and documents
were not, despite their availability, before the Trial Master. They were not,
as a result, before your Committee. Underlining our concern is the well known
fact that these particular charges are, especially in marital dissolution proceedings, easily brought and difficult to disprove. Second, it is evident from
what is before us, that the decision by the accused to withdraw his not guilty
plea was made only after several conversations with the Lodge Secretary. This
Secretary later became the Trial Master. We find this a substantive violation
of equity and due process, as these conversations may have been material in
the Brother's conviction and sentence. Your Committee requires additional
confirmation that a just ruling exists.
Your Committee submits the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the Trial Master's verdict of guilty and the penalty of
expulsion in Trial Record No. 2213 be reversed, and that this matter be remanded for further investigation, findings, and verdict by a different Trial
Master.
TRIAL RECORD NO. 2227

Trial Record No. 2227 involves a member of Hanford Lodge No. 279.
Charges of unmasonic conduct consisting of trespass, drunk in public, driving under the influence, and the use of foul and abusive language to another
Mason's wife were brought. The Trial Master, acting alone, returned a finding
of Guilty as to all charges, fixing the penalty at Expulsion.

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In considering this matter, your Committee noted that the first two charges
were based on alleged conduct occurring approximately one year prior to the
third charge, the one of using foul and abusive language. No facts were
presented, nor foundation laid, for the Guilty finding on those first two
charges, except a brief heresay statement to the effect that they were a matter
of public record. We respectfully state that more evidence and substantiation
is required if, in fact, they do amount to unmasonic conduct.
The third charge, foul and abusive language to a Brother Mason's wife,
if true, is deplorable. It is questionable, however, that it is of the gravity contemplated in the California Masonic Code as constituting unmasonic conduct. Additionally, the Trial Master's findings seem completely founded on
a third party's oral statements, allegedly, but not in writing or completely,
confirmed by the lady at whom the allegedly foul and abusive remarks were
directed. The facts presented to your Committee do not support the findings.
Your Committee submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the verdict and penalty submitted in the Trial Master's
Report in Trial Record No. 2227 be reversed and that the accused stand
acquitted.

The Committee on Trial Review deems the penalty as inadequate. The actions of the accused constitute, in our view, betrayals of the trust confided
in him. As Secretary of his Lodge he owed a fiduciary duty to it specifically
and to Masonry in general. We, therefore, offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that in Trial Record No. 2219 the finding of guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed but that the penalty be raised to Expulsion.

TRIAL RECORD No. 2215

This proceeding was against a member of Altadena-Mt. Wilson Lodge No.
678. He was found guilty of having accepted money for the purpose of influencing his actions in voting upon a matter then pending before him in his
official capacity as a Pasadena City Building Inspector.
He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of bribery in Los Angeles
Municipal Court, was placed on summary probation for 36 months, fined
and ordered to donate 240 hours of volunteer work to the United States
Forestry Service.
The criminal conviction formed the basis for the charges of unmasonic
conduct in this Trial Record. The accused did not respond to the accusation.
The Trial Master fixed the penalty at Reprimand in open Lodge.
Upon review of the record, your Committee on Trial Review concludes that
the severity of the charges and the finding of unmasonic conduct is inconsistent with the penalty assessed and therefore, offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED that in Trial Record No. 2215 the finding of guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed but that the penalty be raised to Expulsion.
TRIAL RECORD No. 2219
In this case, the accused was charged with unmasonic conduct based on
allegations that, while serving as Secretary of Vitruvius Lodge No. 145, he
issued nine unauthorized Lodge checks for his own personal and business
use totalling $5,100.00. The Trial Master's findings include references to the
accused's personal and financial reverses and that he had made restitution
to the extent of $4,000.00.
The accused did not enter a plea in response to the accusation. The Trial
Master fixed the penalty at suspension based in part on the above referred
to findings.

97

TRIAL RECORD No. 2216

In Trial Record No. 2216, a member of El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
was charged with unmasonic conduct in that he did conspire to defraud the
United States by making and using false documents at various times while
performing welding services on ship repair contracts for the United States
Navy. He was found GUILTY on all twenty-two (22) charges in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of California and was ordered
to pay a fine of $15,000, be imprisoned for a period of eighteen (18) months
and placed on probation for five (5) years. On appeal, the United States Court
of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the conviction and penalty. In
response to the notice that unmasonic charges were being preferred, the accused responded by letter denying each and every charge. The Masonic Trial
by Commission resulted in a verdict of guilty and imposed a penalty of
reprimand.
Your Committee feels that offenses of this kind are such serious violations
as to merit a greater penalty than Reprimand.
RESOLVED, that the finding of Guilty of unmasonic conduct be affirmed,
and that the penalty be raised to Expulsion.
TRIAL RECORD No. 2217

In Trial Record No. 2217, as in No. 2216, a member of El Cajon Valley
Lodge No. 576 \\:'as charged with unmasonic conduct in that he did conspire
to defraud the United States by making and using false documents at various
times while performing welding services on ship repair contracts for the United
States Navy. He was found GUILTY on all twenty-two (22) charges in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of California and was
ordered to pay a fine of $16,000, be imprisoned for a period of one (1) year
and one (1) day, and placed on supervised probation for a period of three
(3) years. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeal for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the conviction and penalty. In response to the notice of unmasonic charges which were being preferred, the accused responded by letter
denying each and every charge. The Masonic Trial by Commission resulted
in a verdict of guilty and imposed a penalty of Reprimand.
Your Committee feels that offenses of this kind are such serious violations
as to merit a greater penalty than Reprimand.
Your Committee submits the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of Guilty of unmasonic conduct in Trial
Record No. 2217 be affirmed, and that the penalty be raised to Expulsion.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I move the adoption of the resolution.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2221

EXHIBIT D

In this case, a member of Trana Lodge No. 684, was charged with four
specifications of unmasonic conduct relating to improper sexual conduct. The
accused being a young Methodist minister in a small community, and because
of its possible repercussions to the church, the Lodge and the community,
our Committee recommended to the Grand Master, E. Arthur Haglund that
the matter be transferred to San Bernardino for trial with a "neutral" Trial
Master and Commission.
After Trial by Commission, the accused was found guilty of two specifications and in part of a third. Suspension was determined as the penalty by
vote of 8-1.
The accused has been reassigned by his presiding Bishop to Arizona and
most probably will not return to this Jurisdiction. If he did return it is doubtful
that Trana Lodge, under the circumstances, would ever reinstate him. The
penalty imposed therefore, that of suspension by the Lodge, thereby permitting
the Lodge, at its option, to reinstate the Brother, in essence is an expulsion.
We believe that the offense charged justified the penalty of expulsion and
that the penalty therefore be raised to Expulsion.
We therefore submit the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that the finding of guilty in Trial Record No. 2221 be affirmed
but that the penalty be raised to Expulsion.

GOLDEN VETERANS' Aw ARDS

98

TRIAL RECORD NO. 2198

Your Committee has considered a Petition for Restoration in Trial Record
2198 by a former member of Solano Lodge No. 229 who was expelled by this
Grand Lodge at our last Annual Communication after pleading guilty to insurance fraud.
Membership in our Fraternity must be jealously guarded and once membership is lost by an act of unmasonic conduct, restoration for the rights and
privileges of Freemasons should be granted only on clear and convincing
evidence of atonement and rehabilitation.
The former member has expression of support from his former Lodge and
from members of the community. However, your Committee does not feel
that sufficient time has elapsed to allow for the required showing.
Your Committee therefore submits the following Resolution:
RESOLVED, that in Trial Record 2198 the Petition for Restoration be
denied.
Respectfully submitted,
MELVILLE H. NAHIN, Chairman
WARREN L. SANBORN
MICHAEL A. LADNIER
BARRY LEVITT
HERBERT ZINMAN
WILLIAM R. WILLIS
LESTER W. MILLER

By separate action of Grand Lodge, each of the foregoing Resolutions were
Adopted.

99

ISSUED SEPTEMBE~ I, 1984 TO SEPTEMBER 1, 1985 - 585
TOTAL SO YEAR BUTTONS ISSUED TO DATE - 34,085
TOTAL 75 YEAR BUTTONS ISSUED TO DATE - 39

Name and Lodge No.
Date of Raising
Africa, James A. (369) ........... 10-23·34
Allyn, Joseph F. (8) ............... 7-9-35
Alvers, Lawrence H. (188) ......... 8-11-34
Alves, Thomas (370) .............. 3-27-35
Anderson, Harold G. (187) ........ 3-13-35
Arveson, Ronald M. (61) ......... 11-21-30
Baccardo, James F. (479) .......... 4-22-35
Backstrand, John H. (259) ......... 7-29-35
Bacon, Walter G. (604) .......... 11-22-34
Bailey, James H. (506) ............ 5-14-35
Ball, John E. (445) ............... 6-24-35
Ballard, John A. (588) ........... 11-21-33
Ballinger, Wayne L. (528) ........ 10-14-26
Barclay, Alexander J. (188) ....... 11-13-34
Barnes, Everett G. (322) ........... 6-24-35
Barry, Walter D. (64) ............. 6-11-32
Banholomew, John L. (431) ...... 12-20-34
Basham, Garlyn A. (242) ......... 11-28-34
Batty, Frank B. (695) ............ 10-16-34
Bauer, Wilhelm H. (435) .......... 3-20-34
Beal, Lloyd E. (300) .............. 12-8-33
Bealey, Bert A. (317) ............. 4-25-35
Beaver, Darrell E. (732) ........... 5-29-34
Beck, Joseph W., Jr .• (813) ........ 9-27-34
Beeson, Ellis B. (338) ............. 5-10-35
Bell, Charles L. (332) ............. 2-25-32
Bell, Monimer E. (260) ........... 1-21-35
Bennett, Fred J. (454) ............ 11-27-34
Bennett, Gordon R. (206) ......... 1-17-35
Benzie, Roben W. (598) ........... S-23-35
Berry, Beryl B. (569) ............. 10-18-34
Berry, William C. (612) .......... 12-14-32
Berven, Harold (403) ............ 11-15-34
Beskos, George G. (198) ........... 2-26-35
Besser, Samuel (30) ............... 10-8-21
Bier, Dave (366) .................. 3-19-35
Bingham, Ralph A. (366) .......... 1-31-35
Birkenbeul, Clarence E. (375) ...... 9-24-34
Birnbaum, Louis I. (520) ......... 10-24-34
Bloom, Lloyd M. (120) ............ 3-28-35
Bodden, Willie A. (332) ........... 2-26-31
Boyle, William M. (40) ........... 12-14-34
Bradford, Floyd S. (332) ......... 12-31-34
Bradley, Jesse J. (445) ............ 6-27-35
Brandenburg, Erle (363) ........... 9-27-34
Brazee, Albert J., Jr. (462) ......... 9-1-34
Brecto, Clifford (380) ............. 3-11-35
Breech, Alvin E. (45) ............. I0-2-34
Briggs, Loren G. (379) ............ 7-26-34
Brodine, Alben V., Jr. (627) ....... 7-18-35

Name and Lodge No.
Date of Raising
Brown, Anhur B. (431) ........... 4-21-27
Brown, George E. (300) .......... 12-27-34
Broyles, Marvyn D. (220) .......... 4-25-35
Bryant, Claire 0. (347) ............ 6-27-35
Bryant, John H. (475) ............ 7-29-35
Buckner, James F. (407) .......... 11-22-34
Bucks, Paul W. (423) ............. 2-28-35
Burdick, John H. (447) ........... 2-15-35
Burmester, Edwin F. (14) .......... 4-20-35
Bussey, Wesley T. (301) ........... 5-17-35
Buston, William G. (429) ......... 12-28-34
Campbell, Fred C. (494) ........... 1-17-35
Campbell, Virgil H. (510) ........ 10-11-34
Cardwell, William A. (274) ........ 9-13-20
Carlo, James (30) ................ 1-30-34
Carlson, Lenus D. (406) ........... 1-17-35
Carpenter, Raymond (384) ......... 1-17-35
Carrell, Charles N. (832) .......... 2-26-32
Cecil, Warren W. (430) ........... 8-25-34
Chesney, Harry E. (493) .......... 12-14-34
Chrisman, Ira J. (128) ............ 12-7-33
Clar, Willie (623) ................ 10-16-34
Clark, Elmer D. (634) ............ 11-21-34
Colby, Ullyn S. (246) ............. 4-14-34
Collins, George W. (461) ........... 9-1-34
Congdon, Jack N. (445) ........... 6-25-34
Cooksey, Earl N.(538) ........... . S-lS-35
Coontz, Paul A. (1) ............. 10-22-34
Cooper, Joseph L. (274) ............ 3-4-13
Cormack, William F. (1) .......... 3-18-35
Cornwell, Fred (675) .............. 2-13-35
Corsen, Harry A. (494) .......... 10-25-34
Corwin, Frank E. (581) ........... 5-16-35
Costa, Alfred L. (480) ........... 10-16-34
Couchman, Robert (10) ........... 7-11-35
Cowie, Peter M. (378) ............ S-20-35
Cramer, Wallace (377) ........... . S-28-35
Craner, Arthur H. (454) ........... 2-14-34
Creamer, Robert N. (57) .......... 4-18-35
Cruzan, John W. (274) ............. 3-9-34
Curnow, Jack G. (23) ............ 10-23-34
Curnow, Lellis A. (224) .......... 10-18-34
Dahl, Roy W. (396) ............... 8-21-34
Dailey, Gerald E. (321) ............ . S-9-35
Dale, Albert E. (60) .............. 1-21-35
Daugherty, Clyde (633) ............ 4-25-35
Davidson, John D. (614) .......... 9-24-34
Davies, Harold J. (10) ........... 10-15-34
Davies, John (663) ................ 7-27-34
Davis, Darrell D. (35) ............. 4-23-35

100
Name and Lodge No .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Date of Raising

Davis, Darrol E. (80) . .. .. .. .. . ... S-2S-3S
Dederian, Sauren L. (24) . . . . ...... 4-18-3S
DeMartini , Clifford E. (19) ... .... 12-17-34
Demuth, Lewis A. (346) . . .... .. .. 11-21-27
Denison, Edmund L. (480) .... ... . S-IS-3S
Deraimer, George W. (226) . . . .... . S-16-3S
DeVean, Ross R. (612) ... .... . .... S-21-3S
Dietschy, Otto J. (461) ...... .. .. . 11-16-34
Dillinger, Philipp (4S2) ... ... ..... 10-31-34
Dillion, Thomas E. (332) .......... 4-19-34
Don Carlos, John E. (620) ........ 9-18-34
Dorshkind, David (639) ... . ...... . 4-29-3S
Dorshkind, Hyman, (639) .... .. . . . 4-29-3S
Douglas, Howard S. (38) . ....... . .. S-S-34
Drew, Leland 0. (ISS) ... ...... .. . I 1-S-32
Eagan, Charles E., Jr. (166) . ..... . S-29-3S
Eaton, Frank S. (188) .. . ...... .. . 11-17-34
Eberhart, Loyl G. (S72) ... . .... .. 12-12-34
Eby, Paul V. (61S) ........ ..... .. 3-26-3S
Eckert, Walter L., Jr. (47S) .. ..... ll-IS-34
Eckman, Ernest W. (671) ........... 9-2-23
Edwards, Edward T. (SS!) ..... ... ll -19-2S
Edwards, Hyson (62S) .. . . . .. . .. . 12-14-29
Eide, Leroy E. (226) ............... 4-6-3S
Elder, Joe W. (16) ..... .. ......... 9-27-33
Elder, Ray (633) ... . ..... ... .... .. 7-27-3S
Elliot, Lloyd 0. (SS2) .. . ... .. ..... 9-2S-34
Elliot, Ralph W. (139) .......... .. S-29-3S
Elliott, Kenneth P. (327) .... . . . .. .4-l 9-3S
Ellis, Rae R. (426) .... .. .. ... .. . .. 9-2S-33
Ericson, Arthur F. (264) ........... 4-29-3S
Ernest, Frederick W. (41) ... .. ... . . 8-14-34
Ezzell, Marvin A. (S06) ... ... ..... S-2S-3S
Factor, Davis (44S) ..... .. ....... . 10-9-24
Falconer, John (166) ... . . . ... ... .. 3-27-3S
Fapp, Daniel L. (S06) .. ... .... . .. . 7-31-3S
Farnsworth, Otis S. (14) .... ... ... . 4-27-3S
Fendrick, John E. (226) ... . ....... 3-22-3S
Fenton, Jay R. (S60) . . .. . . . .. .... 11-18-33
Ferro, Antonio (30) .. ..... .. . . .. . 12-IS-34
Ferro, Giobatta (30) .. . ..... . .. . . 12-IS-34
Fibush, Donald H. (480) . . .... . ... 3-26-3S
Finch, Eugene E. (371) ... .. ...... 10-26-34
Fish, Kent A. (304) ... . ...... .. .. . S-29-3S
Fitzgerald, Enos J . (487) ... . ...... 4-24-3S
Flanders, Raymond J. (626) . . ..... 9-27-34
Foto, Anthony M. (7S8) .... .. ... . 10-24-34
Fournier, Andrew L. (164) .. ........ l-9-3S
Francis, Webster (332) .. . ........ 11 -30-32
Franklin, James W. (S28) .. .... .... 7-16-29
Frederickson, Albert H. (S06) . ..... . 4-2-3S
Freeman, Neil W. (178) . .. . ...... 11-13-26
Frenz, Frederick J. (472) .. ... . .... 7-26-33
Fugit, Kenneth J . (206) ...... .. .. . 12-20-34
Fullerton, Earl W. (146) ........... S-I0-3S
Fulster, Chris (613) .. ..... .. ..... . 11 -2-34
Gabrielson, Louis R. (S61) . ....... 1l-IS-3S

Name and Lodge No.

Date of Raising

Gardner, John (674) ............. . S-14-3S
Gehr, George A. (788) . .. ..... ... . 9-27-34
Giesler, Robert H. (10) . ... .. . ... . . S-27-3S
German, William T. (323) ......... 6-18-3S
Gibbs, Alfred 0 . (349) .... .... ... . 4-23-3S
Glenn, Charles R. (SS) ... ..... .... 3-27-3S
Glenn, George R. (406) . .. .. . . . . . . 6-11-3S
Glenn, Terrill 0. (417) ..... . ..... 12-20-34
Glover, Howard B. (388) . . .... . .. . 4-16-3S
Golletz, Rudolph (61S) .. . ..... ... 12-19-34
Goodman, Ernest D. (380) ........ 11 -21-34
Gordon, Harry V. (486) . .. .. . . ... . 3-19-34
Gore, Lawrence L. (367) .. .... . . . 11-16-21
Gorham, Henry D. (461) . . . ....... S-16-3S
Gramkan, Merton H. (349) . . . ..... 3-26-3S
Grandstaff, Cecil W. (10) . .... ... 10-26-34
Greenblatt, Charles (721) .. ... ... . .. 4-9-34
Grosser, Alfred A. (S3S) . . . .. . .... . S-6-3S
Guarneri, Carmelo (403) ...... .... S-2S-3S
Haag, Karl W. (381) ... ... .. ...... 4-17-33
Haddad, Amean G. (290) .......... 3-28-3S
Haden, Elmo E. (38) . .. ... ..... .. 11-16-33
Hagood, Victor D. (448) .. ... ..... 2-19-3S
Hajicek, Henry (260) . .. . .. .. ..... 1-22-34
Hamilton, Clarence E. (632) . ...... l-24-3S
Hamilton, Clyde C. (691) . ...... . .. 9-2S-3 I
Hamilton, John J. (202) . .. .. ..... 10-2S-32
Hammer, Monte M. K. (614) ... . . 10-28-34
Hand, William P. (348) .... .. ..... S-16-34
Hanson, Earl M. (87) . .... .... .... 3-28-3S
Hanson, Gustave A. (32S) . . ....... l-28-3S
Harms, Lloyd M. (346) . ... . . .. .. 11-30-34
Harris, Arthur L. (472) .. ..... .. ... 8-2-33
Harris, Martin G . (62S) ... . ... . ... . S-l-3S
Harshaw, Harold L. (S6 l) . ..... .. . . 9-9-27
Harshbarger, Horce B. (708) ... .... 6-28-34
Hartley, Robert A. (332) . . ... .... 12-11-24
Hartzell, Du Wayne H . (633) ...... S-28-34
Harvey, George W. (291) .. ... ..... 8-26-3S
Haskell, James D. (S96) . . . ..... ... 7-31-28
Haugrud, Johannes (30) . . . .. ...... 1-30-34
Hawthorne, Stanley B. (129) ...... 11-22-34
Head, Ralph H. (3S2) . .. ...... .. . . 2-26-3S
Heblack, George H. (61) .. ... ..... l-2S-3S
Hein, George C. (346) ....... . .. . . 6-27-33
Heinsen, Paul E. (347) .... .... . . .. S-22-24
Held, Anton L. (3Sl) .. .. .... ..... 3-28-3S
Heley, Arthur S. (229) ...... . .. .. . 4-29-3S
Hellin, Raymond (166) ............ 9-24-34
Helvie, Warren L. (384) .. ..... .. . . 3-26-3S
Hemstreet, Elmo S. (288) ... . ... ... 3-16-3S
Hendershot, Francis C. (613) . . .. . . S-17-3S
Hendrixon, Robert J. (41S) .. ...... 4-17-3S
Henig, Reuben (721) . . .... .... . . . . 3-28-33
Henry, George A. (486) ........... 3-27-3S
Hieb, Otto H. (403) .. ... .... .. . . 10-2S-34
Higginbotham, J. Nichol (384) .. . . . . 6-4-34

Name and Lodge No.

Date of Raising

Hill, Herbert H . (S3S) .......... . .. S-23-3S
Hill, Lee R. (397) .... ... ..... .. .. 11-2-28
Hill, Thomas I. (818) . ... ..... .. . 11-12-34
Hillis, Charles R. (479) ..... .. .... . 4-IS-3S
Holcolm, Fred R. (297) ... .... .... 4-26-3S
Holcomb, Harvey D. (370) .... .. .. 9-24-34
Holmquist, Harry W. (242) . . .. .. . 12-14-32
Hopkins, Jack B. (221) ... . ... . .. . . S-13-3S
Horn, Henry H . (99) ... .. .... .... . 2-21-28
Hovey, Charles R. (Sl2) . ... . .... . . l-23-3S
Howard, John F. (134) ...... . .. . . 10-27-27
Howell, George E. (778) . . . .. . . .... S-24-3S
Howells, Mathew E. (362) ..... ... . 3-17-34
Hoyle, Harold S. (3S) .. . ... . .... . . S-21-34
Hughes, Leonard E. (832) .. ..... .. 8-13-34
Hughes, Melvin D. (280) ..... .. . . . S-29-3S
Hughie, Joseph P . (S78) .. . ...... .. 8-17-33
Huntington, Lucius A. (420) ... . .... 2- l-3S
Hurlburt, Eugene E. (2SS) ..... ... . 6-17-3S
Hursh, Jack E. (169) ... .. . . .... .. . 8-29-34
Hurst, James S. (22S) ... .... . ..... 9-11-34
Huseboe, Omar A. (183) .. .... . . .. 8-21-22
Irish, Clarence (126) ... .. .... ..... 9-12-34
lvancovich, Stephen P. (279) .. .... . S-18-34
Iversen, Leland Y. (366) ..... . .. .. . S-22-3S
Jackson, Robert L. (614) ....... .. . 9-27-34
Jackson, Sam M. (323) .... . ...... . 8-23-34
Jacobs, George L. (344) ....... . .. . 2-18-3S
Jacobs, George W. (392) . .... ..... 1-22-34
Jacobs, Harris (S29) .... ... .... ... 9-2S-34
Jacobs, Henry (21S) • ............. S-16-3S
Jacques, Richard E. (14) ........ .. . 7-2-28
Jennings, John B. (206) ... .... .... 3-28-3S
Jensen, Earl A. (487) . ..... .. .... 10-17-34
Jensen, Walter L. (676) .... .. . . .. . 10-8-34
Jockers, Irvin R. (SS!) . . .. . . ... ... 6-22-33
Johansen, Frederick C. (204) .... .. 10-27-33
Johnson, Carl A. (186) . . .......... 1-10-30
Johnson, Edmond F. (S9S) . . .... . . 9-24-34
Johnson, Harmon A. (S79) . ... ... 10-18-34
Johnson, Horace R. (746) .. ... .... 7-23-3S
Johnson, Leonard W. (13) .. .. .... . 4-27-3S
Johnson, Rolla N. (23) . .. . . ..... . 11-20-34
Johnstone, Richard H. (388) . .. .... S-14-3S
Jonathan, Julian H. (788) ......... 4-1S-3S
Jones, Charles C. (399) ... ... ..... 6-12-3S
Jones, Charles L. (369) . . .... ... .. 11-27-34
Jones, Gomer V. (290) . .... . ... . . 11 -22-34
Jones, Roy J . (379) . ... . . . .. ..... 12-19-34
Jorgensen, Eigil (147) .. ... .... .... 9-14-34
Julian, Charles W. (12) ... . . . . . .. . l-22-3S
Kalan, Morris (42) ... . ...... . .... 11-19-34
Karbe, Herman W. (S7) . ... .... ... S-18-3S
Katz, Paul (S20) .... .. ..... ... .. . . l-28-3S
Kaylor, Arthur F. (486) . ......... 12-IS-34
Keir, Howard V. (214) ... .. .. ... . . 9-19-34
Kennedy, Ernest W. (262) .... ..... 6-18-3S

Name and Lodge No .

101

Date of Raising

Killman, George D. (S33) .. ...... .. S-22-34
King, Charles R. (126) .. ... .. .... . 9-12-34
King, Charles S. (286) . .... ... . . . . .. 6-8-23
King, Donald V. (3S2) .... . .. . .... 4-22-24
Kinkade, Hershel L. (483) . ...... .. 6-IS-3S
Kinnaird, Eugene T. (6SS) . . . ...... 8-12-3S
Kishbaugh, Theodore L. (4S2) ..... 2-20-3S
Kissam, Clarence W. (273) .... . . .. . 6-21-29
Klein, David E. (S20) .... ..... .... S-22-3S
Knippel, James P. (328) ... .... . ... . S-9-3S
Koethen, Otto W. (209) ............ 8-8-34
Kofahl, Clyde W. (426) ... . . . .. ... 6-28-34
Koll, Lawrence C. (6S) . .... ... .... 12-3-34
Lairmore, Roy E. (S61) ... . ...... . 3-IS-34
Lamberston, Max C. (S43) . ... . . . .. 9-21-34
Lammert, Roland W. (40S) .. . .... . 6-2S-3S
Landman, Fred W. (260) .... ... .. . 2-23-2S
Langenberger, Floyd E. (368) .. . .. 11-26-34
Langfelder, Frank (344) . .. ..... ... 6-10-3S
Lanting, Fred L. (380) .. . .. .. ... . .. 3-2-3S
Largent, Charles W. (300) ........ IO-IS-34
Largent, Lawrence W. (627) . . .... 10-IS-34
Larson, Evert B. (22S) ... .. . .... . 11 -20-34
Lasley, Everett H. (394) ...... . . .. . S-28-34
Lassalle, Leo (166) . . .. .. . ... . .... 8-27-34
Laughlin, Arthur (366) . ... .... .... 6-16-24
Lawler, Philip W. (634) .. ...... . .. 3-21-34
Lawrence, William D. (403) ...... . l l-IS-34
Learner, Paul W. (497) ... .... . .. .. 6-12-3S
Le Baron, Edward W. (27S) . . .. . .. 6-26-3S
Leddel, Harry I. (674) ........... . S-21-3S
Leineke, John H. (117) ..... . . . . ... 6-28-33
Leininger, Ralph W. (294) . .. ...... 10-4-34
LeMaire, Theodore G. (4S7) ... . . .. 7-22-24
Levensaler, James. L. (613) ... . .... S-I0-3S
Levine, Sid B. (33S) .... .. .... ... 11-26-34
Levinson, Herbert L. (120) . .. .. ... 6-13-3S
Levy, Morris (42) ............. . ... 9-24-34
Lewis, Clarence E. (2SS) . ... . ... . . S-16-3S
Lietzau, Louis V. (832) . ..... .. . . . . S-2S-34
Liff, Raymond (S72) ..... ... . . .. . . 2-21-3S
Lindsey, Spurgeon C. (644) .... ... . S-17-3S
Link, Harry W. (33S) . .. ... .... . . . 6-2S-34
Link, Joseph F. (128) .. . .. . ..... .. 11-1-34
List, Jan (400) .. . ...... . .... . ... 10-23-34
Little, Edward W. (Sl3) ... . ... . . . . 4-IS-3S
Livingston, Chester S. (19) . ... .. . . 9-24-34
Lofman, Lawrence (332) ... ....... 3-28-34
Lohmeyer, Edward C. (I) .. ..... . . 6-13-3S
Lord, Guy R. (30) ... ... .... .. .... S-22-34
Losey, Arthur (S06) .. . . . . . . . . ... . 10-17-34
Luce, Lester 0. (421) ... .. .... .. .. 9-19-34
Luke, William E. (40S) . ... .. ... ... . S-8-3S
Lyle, Charles K. (301) . .. . . .... . ... 1-21-27
Lynn, Cecil C. (686) .. .. .......... 8-18-34
Lyne, Charles (191) . . ... ... .... . . 12-21-34
Mace, Calvin W. (201) ....... ... .. 3-27-3S

102

Name and Lodge No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Date of Raising

MacKenzie, Harold E. (348) ...... 11-17-21
MacKintosh, Frederick L. (30) .... 10-23-33
MacWhinney, Lawrence E. (110) ... 9-26-34
Mann, Sydney I. (520) ............ 3-20-35
Marsden, George (828) ............ 5-28-24
Martens, William F. (169) ......... 6-11-35
Martin,Clayton W. (188) ......... 12-11-34
Martin, Oliver L. (300) ........... 11-26-34
Maschke, Alfred B. (35) ............ 7-1-31
Massick, Frank L. (596) .......... 10-23-34
Mattox, Cleo H. (465) ........... 10-27-34
Maxwell, William D. (699) .......... 1-3-22
Mayberry, Verble J. (261) ........ .4-16-31
Meramble, Earl D. (592) ......... .4-25-35
Merry, J.R. (194) ................. 5-28-35
Merwin, Henry A. (143) ........... 12-4-34
Middleton, Charlie W. (328) ....... 3-29-28
Miller, Harry A. (564) ............ 8-16-34
Miller, Robert A. (57) ............. 5-23-35
Milligan, William R. (463) ......... 10-4-34
Millner, Samuel (520) ............ .4-30-34
Mills, William W. (149) ........... 5-28-34
Misita, Peter L. (139) ............. 6-12-35
Moe, Ernest G. (618) ............. 2-21-35
Mohr, George H. (820) ........... 11-22-34
Mohr, William H. (307) ........... 5-21-35
Montgomery, Winfield S., Jr. (131) .. 7-6-35
Monkarsh, William (520) ........... 1-3-35
Moore, Harold F. (281) ........... 2-16-28
Moore, Herbert P. (336) .......... 5-25-35
Moothart, Perry W. (403) ......... 5-15-31
Morgan, Charles L. (205) ......... 12-18-34
Morris, Nathaniel P. (19) ......... 10-22-34
Munz, Harry P. (135) ............. 7-22-35
Munz, Raymond E. (70) ............ 5-6-35
Murchison, Robert B. (392) ....... .4-22-35
Murphy, Richard A. (191) ......... 12-8-34
McArthur, Anson (535) .......... 11-22-34
McBee, Leroy H. (383) ............ 11-7-34
Mccann, Roy E. (685) .......... ·.11-14-33
McCoy, Glenn C. (362) ........... 3-11-35
McCoy, Lewis H. (752) ........... 10-8-24
McNeil, Henry I. (548) ........... 11-20-34
McShane, Maurice J. (178) ......... 6-8-14
McVey, James (30) .............. 10-31-33
Mc Vicker, Chester W. (306) ........ 5-6-35
McWilliams, Raymond I. (430) ..... 8-11-34
Nelson, Richard H. (247) ......... .4-19-35
Neyman, Ray M. (68) ............. 5-16-35
Nicholas, Jesse T. (443) ........... 1-17-19
Nicolai, Alfred U. (264) ........... 2-25-35
Nielsen, Anders H. (530) ......... 12-20-34
Nisewaner, Walter N. (596) ......... 8-1-34
Nixon, Harvey (761) .............. 3-20-35
Nixon, Julius H. (652) ............ 10-3-34
Nordlie, James A. (564) ........... 5-27-31
North, Oakley D., Sr. (296) ...... 11-19-34

Name and Lodge No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Date of Raising

Northrup, Hobart E. (191) ........ 3-23-34
Oakley Amasa G. (191) ............ 6-5-35
O'Bryan, James W. (451) .......... 6-20-33
Olsen, Arnold L. (87) ............. 4-25-35
Olsson, Hugo T. A. (393) ........ 11-23-34
Ostens, Bernard (35) .............. 4-30-35
Page, Gerald W. (445) ............ 1-28-35
Palmleaf, Herbert (443) .......... 11-26-34
Pantell, George N. (175) .......... 3-15-35
Pappageorge, William (229) ....... 11-26-34
Pardoe, Herbert L. (209) .......... 3-18-35
Passmore, Lester B. (113) ........ 11-25-33
Paullus, Karl D. (579) ............ 12-18-34
Peacock, Mervyn A. (521) ........ 10-23-34
Peardon, Walter J. (499) .......... 9-28-34
Peart, Gilbert M. (719) ............ 5-14-35
Pemberton, Ross L. (278) ......... 3-28-35
Penley, Joseph (389) ............... 7-8-35
Perkis, Bill T. (506) ............... 5-14-35
Perry, Doyle R. (483) ............. 1-24-35
Perzik, Samuel L. (315) ........... 6-27-35
Peters, Henry F. (461) ............ 2-21-35
Peterson, Elmer A. (633) ......... .4-25-35
Peterson, Glenn E. (12) ........... 6-18-35
Peterson, Oden S. (530) ........... 2-21-35
Petroff, Walter R. (315) ........... 6-18-35
Petty, Donald E. (445) ........... 10-24-34
Pheifle, Richard S. (544) ......... 12-20-34
Phillipson, George (721) ........... 6-18-29
Pickford, Cecil N. (551) ........... 4-19-34
Plomgren, Arthur I. (403) ........ 10-30-30
Plummer, Walter B. (436) ........ 11-28-32
Pontow, Ralston E. (758) .......... 3-14-35
Porteous, William W. (290) ........ 6-13-35
Porter, John M. (325) ............ 10-16-34
Powell, Norman (20) .............. 2-21-35
Power, Henry (30) ................ 8-23-33
Pray, Royal H. (682) ............. 11-7-34
Price, Glenn W. (451) ............. 7-17-35
Price, Merrill E. (325) .............. 6-4-35
Pridham, Charles R. (352) ......... 1-17-35
Prunty, John W. (431) ........... 11-21-34
Purdy, Raymond (675) ........... .4-27-35
Purvine, Albert S., Jr. (392) ...... 12-12-34
Purvis, William J. (388) ........... 6-26-35
Pyburn, Charles E. (106) .......... 6-14-35
Pylant, Johnny 0. (450) ........... 6-26-35
Rampey, Phillip H., Sr. (423) ...... 1-24-35
Reed, Eugene C. (728) ............ 2-27-35
Reese, Curtis C. (147) ............ 10-30-34
Reese, Melvin J. (147) ........... 10-30-34
Reynolds, Henry R. (131) .......... 6-1-35
Reynolds, Ralph H. (247) ......... 12-7-34
Richardson, Charles T. (246) ....... 6-11-35
Rifkind, Edward I. (415) .......... 5-22-35
Rifkind, Ely C. (415) ............. 6-17-25
Rixey, Fred T. (18) ................ 8-4-35

Name and Lodge No.

Date of Raising

Robanser, Fred (139) ............ 11-23-33
Roberts, Dale L. (655) ............ 5-14-35
Roberts, Ernest V. (467) ........... 5-14-35
Roberts, Orrin A. (113) ........... 5-17-34
Ronan, John T. (363) ............. 5-16-35
Ropes, Edwin J. (665) ............. 3-4-35
Rosenwein, Louis (623) .......... 11-20-34
Ross, Laurence A. (683) ........... 3-19-29
Roughton, Duncan E. (530) ....... 11-22-34
Rundio, Leland H. (352) .......... 2-15-35
Ruppel, Clifford E. (447) .......... 1-25-35
Russell, George L. (471) .......... 11-24-33
Rutherford, James M. (380) ...... 12-27-34
Sackley, Robert I. (335) ........... 1-28-35
Samuel, Grantly A. (735) .......... 2-26-34
Sanders, Herschel E. (675) ......... 6-26-35
Sangster, Duncan S. (542) ......... 9-10-34
Sartain, Elmer C. (551) ........... 6-13-35
Sawyers, James H. (365) .......... 9-15-34
Schade, William J. (376) .......... 6-28-35
Schefsky, Morris J. (461) .......... 6-27-35
Schivo, Walter (388) .............. 6-28-34
Schlageter, Leonard R. (134) ....... 9-19-34
Schmidt, Frank (447) .............. 3-8-35
Schoenfeld, Barney (721) .......... 6-14-34
Schonwetter, Sol (136) ............ 6-11-35
Schott, Clarence R. (60) ........... 2-11-35
Scott, Daniel W. (450) ........... 11-28-33
Seal, Thomas (14) ................. 1-7-30
Seiner, Felix L. (529) ............. 7-24-34
Shepherd, James F. {316) .......... 3-26-35
Siebenthal, Loyal 0. (392) .......... 6-8-35
Siegel, Morris (42) ............... 10-29-34
Silva, Edward (290) ............... 3-26-34
Simon, Richard (365) ............. 7-23-34
Simpson, Arthur E. (349) .......... 6-18-35
Simpson, Walter F. (461) .......... 4-18-35
Skipworth, Leonard D. (206) ..... .4-24-26
Slobig, Raymond (164) ............ 7-18-34
Smart, Elwin H. (76) ............. 2-25-35
Smith, Benjamin F. (324) .......... 9-20-34
Smith, Deforrest 0. (246) ........ .4-30-35
Smith, John L. (166) ............. 11-21-34
Smith, John N. (330) ............. 12-8-34
Smith, Lloyd E. (110) ............ 11-29-22
Smith, Raymond R. (186) ........ 10-20-34
Smith, Robert W. (576) ........... 6-16-33
Snyder, Hyman (178) ............. 6-10-35
Snyder, Philip S. (457) ............. 6-7-35
Sobrero, Monte B. (502) .......... 9-24-34
Spencer, Frank C. (507) ........... 2-19-32
Spencer, Harold B. (615) .......... 10-7-34
Spinning, Howard M. (16) ......... 1-26-35
Spitz, William L. (659) ............ 5-29-30
Spooner, Leslie (352) ............ 12-13-34
Springer, Ralph A. (454) .......... 2-26-35
Stangenberger, George B. (248) ... 10-26-34

Name and Lodge No.

103

Date of Raising

Starke, John N. (655) ............. 4-16-34
Starr, Jack W. (30) ............... 6-27-33
Steen, Vernon F. (542) ............ 11-8-34
Stephan, Morris J. (264) .......... 7-15-35
Stephanson, Leslie (635) .......... .4-12-35
Stern, Jack (512) ................. 3-28-35
Stevens, Thomas H. (506) ......... 6-26-35
Stohler, Rudolf (431) ............. 5-16-34
Strohn, William M. (110) .......... 3-21-35
Stupin, James (595) ............... 3-26-35
Sturdyvin, Russell J. (343) ......... 7-24-34
Sunr, Thomas A. (292) ............. 5-3-35
Sullivan, Mark T. (143) ........... 8-31-34
Sundquist, Lester C. (106) ......... 5-27-35
Swertelle, George A. (676) ......... 9-19-34
Taylor, Cleveland C. (348) ........ .4-29-35
Thim, Charles M. (445) ........... 6-21-35
Thomas, Leo E. (314) ............ .4-16-35
Thomas, Leroy (612) .............. 9-20-26
Thomas, Morton F. (370) ......... 9-28-26
Thomas, William A. (20) .......... 1-19-33
Thompson, Raymond B. (61) ..... 11-25-32
Thompson, Willard J. (368) ....... 6-18-34
Thomson, Edward (796) .......... .4-19-33
Threlkeld, Byron M. (371) .......... 7-5-35
Tillman, Charles E. (332) .......... 6-20-34
Tipples, Arthur E. (806) .......... .4-24-35
Torley, Ray E. (590) ............. 10-20-33
Trefts, Kenneth E. (264) ............ I-7-35
Trombetta, Charles G. (30) ........ 9-27-34
Tucker, Hubert L. (378) .......... 11-26-34
Turriff, Arthur L. (315) ........... 5-21-35
Van de Geer, Adrianus J. (444) .... 9-26-34
Van Gorder, Harry M. (768) ....... 3-21-35
Vann, Roy I. (199) ............... 3-16-35
Van Nuys, Vernon P. (111) ........ .4-2-35
Varnado, Jule (615) ............... 1-25-35
Vasques, Jess L. (394) ............ 6-17-35
Vejby, Fred L. (243) .............. 9-20-33
Vellis, Gis D. (392) ................ 9-6-34
Vine, William C. (332) ........... 12-21-32
Voight, Charles S. (371) ........... 5-28-35
Waag, Ralph B. (243) ............ .4-20-33
Walden, Jesse E. (518) ........... .4-15-35
Walker, Robert J. (129) ........... 5-27-35
Wallace, Clarence F. (389) ........ 10-18-34
Wallace, Don K. (375) ............ 2-11-35
Wallace, Harold E. (530) ........... 5-3-34
Walter, Jack (332) ................ 6-24-32
Warden, William K. (103) ......... 9-27-34
Weisenberg, Abraham (623) ....... 3-26-35
Weiss, Frederick G. (188) .......... 6-19-34
Wessels, George A. (760) ......... .4-27-35
West, Lawrence E. (104) .......... 1-29-35
Wetter, Lawrence A. (180) ........ 12-20-34
Whitby, Roland 0. (366) .......... 2-14-35
White, Carleton A. (204) ......... 12-14-34

104

Name and Lodge No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Date of Raising

White, Charles A. (296) ........... 3-26-20
Wickersham, Arthur F. (454) ...... 6-13-35
Wickman, Emil E. (663) ........... 12-6-34
Wickwire, William D. (139) ........ 9-20-34
Widdowson, Maxwell S. (833) ...... 6-24-24
Wilbur, Milton J. (758) ............ 3-4-35
Wilkins, John R. (25) ............. 5-11-35
Wilkinson, Edgar A. (41) .......... 5-11-35
Wilson, Clarence J. (431) ......... 11-28-34
Wilson, George (146) ............ 12-15-34
Wilson, Joseph W. (396) .......... 2-26-35
Wilson, Robert C. (577) .......... 11-12-34
Wilson, Russell H. (429) .......... 7-12-34
Wing, Kenneth S. (543) ............ 6-9-26
Winsor, Kenneth (196) ........... 10-30-34
Wirt, Stanley W. (361) ............. 3-5-35
Withrow, Troy Sr. (618) ............ 3-2-35
Wixom, Jack A. (348) ............ 5-15-35

Name and Lodge No.

Date of Raising

Wolford, J. Ben, Jr. (676) ......... 9-21-34
Wollam, Daniel W. (429) ......... 12-15-33
Wood, Charles R. (226) .......... 10-25-34
Wood, Robert A. (423) ........... 6-13-35
Woods, Merrell E .. (422) ........... 1-21-35
Wreede, Forest E. (332) .......... 11-17-32
Wride, Clifford L. (367) .......... 12-18-24
Wright, Gordon R. (276) .......... 2-27-22
Yarrow, Garland I. (637) .......... 9-13-34
Yourieff, Wladimir G. (346) ....... 10-9-34
Zimmann, Joseph E. (708) .......... 7-7-34
75 Year Pins Presented
Bauer, Adolph G. (403) ........... 8-11-10
Bothe, Reinhold (212) ............ 12-16-09
Cornwell, Albert G. (368) ......... 6-14-10
Woodworth, Leslie E. (349) ........ 3-22-10

105

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
As the sands of time sift their way through the hourglass of life, so, too,
has another year carved its niche upon the annals of Freemasonry in this
Jurisdiction and I herewith submit my report on the labors of the year just
past in compliance with those areas of the California Masonic Code.
While this report should speak only to those areas with respect to ritual
because of the minor word changes in the C.M.C. relative to the Grand Lecturer's duties in 1981, I beg to inform you that it is entirely impossible to
separate those areas of ritual and administration if I am to comply with my
duty as Grand Lecturer.
As I pointed out in my report of 1982, the action of Grand Lodge left a
void of responsibility regarding the reporting to this Grand Lodge on the condition of the Lodges in regard to administration. This information is received
both by the Grand Master and the Grand Lecturer, but our Code fails to
delegate the responsibility of this report to the Grand Lodge. This legislation
has not provided or assigned responsibility for the guidance and counseling
of our Inspectors in areas of administration. The preparation of questionnaires for Officers of Lodges in order to qualify in administration for advancement has not been addressed and is apparently no longer the responsibility of the Grand Lecturer and his assistants.
It is the duty of each Assistant Grand Lecturer to assist the Grand Lecturer in the discharge of his duties; to examine and instruct the Inspectors
within his Division in the performance of their respective duties with respect
to ritual. My question is, who now should assist the Grand Lecturer in those
areas of "administmtive" instruction, which all Inspectors and Lodge Officers
must have? My duties speak to qualifying the Assistant Grand Lecturers and
Inspectors and to assist them in the discharge of their duties. I cannot do
this alone, but I merely point this out to you to show the mistaken action
of this Grand Lodge in 1981 when they added these simple words to two sections of the Code, "with respect to ritual."
The writing of this report is not ritual. Approval and segregation of expense claims for Inspectors and Assistant Grand Lecturers is not ritual. The
preparation of an annual budget for the Grand Lecturer, the Assistant Grand
Lecturers and Inspectors is not ritual. The long range planning and preparing
for Grand Lodge Ceremonies, Receptions for the Grand Master, Anniversaries of Lodges, room accomodations, meals and transportation for traveling
Grand Lodge Officers is not directly related to ritual. Those areas I previously spoke to are not ritual.
Your Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers have continued
to work with the Inspectors and Officers of the constituent Lodges in areas
of administration, even though the Code indicates it is no longer our responsibility. I recommended at the 1982 Annual Communication that the 1981
legislation did not address and did not specify as to where these responsibilities
lie and that the matter be referred to the incoming Grand Master for clarifica-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion. This matter continues to be an area of consternation and concern with
the Ritual Committee and at times with the Executive Committee.
I therefore make the following recommendation:
That the two areas of the California Masonic Code relating to the Grand
Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers which were changed at the 1981
Annual Comunication be rescinded, removing the words "with respect to
ritual" from Section 1114. 4th. and Section 1116.

Vacancies in this five-man line amount to four percent and will continue
to plague some of our Lodges for a considerable length of time. A vacancy
can be caused by many things - a person having a job transfer, a death, a
person not qualified to perform, plain old drop-out, and many, many other
reasons. Vacancies cause some officers to advance too fast. Skipping a portion of the line moves a person through in a very short time. However, for
the most part, it moves an inadequate officer into a place or station without
proper preparation. In almost all cases, this officer is not prepared for the
position or the responsibility applied to that position within the Lodge. The
officer suffers and, so, too, my Brethren, does the Lodge.
Past Masters filling a vacancy to alleviate the acceleration of an officer's
advancement is sometimes the only answer. When a Past Master accedes to
the request of the members of his Lodge to fill a vacancy, he is saying, "I
have done this before, but you need my help and I am willing." Many of these
Past Masters do a very good job the second time through. My admiration
and respect goes out to those Brothers who unselfishly offer themselves that
second, third or fourth time around. This is true dedication. However, quite
a number are not willing to dedicate themselves as much the second or third
time as they were the first. This is unfortunate, for any Brother that accepts
an office in any of our Lodges should be willing and able to give the best
he has to offer, not just a token involvement.
Again this year the total number of Funeral Certificate holders has declined.
What I personally believe has happened, is that we are now receiving a better, or more true and proper count of those Brethren qualified to do the service. The numbers are near 1800 which amounts to almost three for every Lodge
within the Jurisdiction. The action taken by this Grand Lodge to approve
the certification P.rocedure and the printing of the new book, which outlines
the various ceremonies in 1983, is doing the job and will result in more truly
qualified Funeral Service officiants, within the Jurisdiction, even with the
declining number of Lodges and membership.

106

CONFERENCES, COMMITIEE MEETINGS, SEMINARS

Ritual Committee meetings were necessary on a number of occasions to
discuss and take action on the many inquiries placed with the Grand Lecturer. These questions relate to ritual, protocol and administration.
Early in the year it was pointed out to our Committee that the Grand Lodge
Supply Room was running short of printed Monitors. We reviewed the book,
made the necessary corrections and it has been available for a number of
months now in its new blue cover. The Inspectors Manual has been a major
topic of discussion and the Ritual Committee's number one desire for update. This will be accomplished in the not too distant future.
Ritual Committee meetings were also called in conjunction with the six
Annual Spring Conferences as follow:
Division VI - January 18-20, 1985 in Ontario conducted by the
Worshipful James A. Boyle.
Division V - February 8-10, 1985 in Lancaster conducted by the
Worshipful Philip I. Hylton.
Division III - March 15-17, 1985 in Los Gatos conducted by
& VII
the Worshipful Ulysses G. Patropulos and the
Worshipful Oswald J.B. Lau.
Division II - April 19-21, 1985 in Sacramento conducted by the
Worshipful Louis A. Lasell, Sr.
Division IV - May 17-19, 1985 in Bakersfield conducted by the
Worshipful William J. Thylor, Jr.
Division I - June 14-16, 1985 in Oakland conducted by the
Worshipful Donald E. Weisse.
Seminars for the purpose of exemplifying the ritual to all those members
and officers interested were held on a number of occasions throughout this
Jurisdiction. These seminars are always well received and attended which indicates a continued desire on the part of many to perfect their ritual and improve the uniformity of the adopted work throughout this Jurisdiction.

LODGES

Information disseminated from the Inspectors' reports inform us that sixteen percent of our present officers serving in the 5 position line, Junior
Deacon to Master, are Past Masters.

107

RITUAL

Requests do come to the Ritual Committee, from time to time, to allow
or permit various changes in the conferring of degrees - requests such as permitting twelve Fellowcrafts in the third degree and costumes for degree participants. Reasons given for the requests are that it would create more interest
and attract more members to our meetings.
We can easily understand how such innovations might create a temporary
interest and for a time increase attendance, but fortunately for the ritual, no
one person or persons have the authority to sanction such changes and the
ritual must remain as it is until such time as this Grand Lodge recognizes
the need for change.
To all of these requests we have replied that we have no authority in the
matter, except to see that the ritual adopted by Grand Lodge be adhered to
by all Lodges and officers in the Jurisdiction.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To those who may disagree with this I offer the following quote from a
previous Grand Lecturer, "We do not think that its most important work the preservation of its Ritual in its integrity - should be neglected in any event
for upon that depends its honor and reputation."

of instruction in the ritual and administration of Lodges is continuing, those
of us who are charged with these responsibilities are being prudent and are
trying to cope within our limitations. Due to a one day reduction in this Annual Communication we will be able to stay under last fiscal year's final figure.
In accordance with procedures followed previously, I have submitted formal
requests to Committee on Finance for your consideration.

108

HAWAIIAN MASONRY

It was again my privilege to visit our fiftieth State in early July. My primary
purpose for the visit was to conduct a School of Instruction for all Lodges
in the Hawaiian Islands. This was accomplished and I am proud to announce
that the Officers, Officers Coaches and Inspectors of the eleven Island Lodges
displayed a great desire and eagerness to perform the ritual in a most creditable
and efficient manner.
The secondary purpose for my visit was to assist the Grand Master in the
Mortgage Burning Ceremony of Schofield Lodge and the Institution of our
newest Lodge, King Kalakaua Daylight Lodge U.D.
A practice was held for those Past Masters of Schofield Lodge filling places
that were not occupied by our Grand Lodge Officers for both the opening
of Grand Lodge and the Mortgage Burning Ceremony. This was accomplished
one week previous to the actual ceremony and resulted in near perfection for
both the opening and the ceremony. I am most pleased with those fourteen
Past Masters for filling these vacancies and also for an almost flawless
performance.
Many thanks are extended to my Hawaiian Brothers for their efforts and
the many kindnesses shown to me on my visit to that beautiful paradise in
the Pacific.
INSPEClORAL CORPS

Section 1122 of the California Masonic Code sets forth the many required
duties of the Inspector. Over the years many additional burdens and duties
have been added to their responsiblilties even though they are not listed in
the Code. Words alone cannot express the gratitude that the Grand Jurisdiction owes to these great performers. Their diligence to duty and the thousands
of hours put forth for the betterment of our Fraternity should bring them
our highest praise and respect for their limitless devotion to duty.
Turnover is at or near an all time high. Thirty out of the 165 Inspectors
have chosen retirement for one reason or another. Nineteen percent have
chosen other areas of responsibility. My sincere thanks, on behalf of the Grand
Lodge and the Ritual Committee, to those who have sought retirement for
their untiring efforts and undaunted love of our order.
To those newly appointed Inspectors, it is a distinct honor and pleasure
to welcome you to the team and I will be looking forward with great enthusiasm to working with each of you.
BUDGET

I am pleased to report that the Ritual Budget totals have remained within
those dollars allocated. Although the inflationary trends for the continuance

109

CONCLUSION

As I conclude this report I do so with mixed feelings about the accomplishments and differences of the year just past. The Grand Lodge year
preceding this one was one with a number of frustrations of which no benefit
will be derived by dwelling upon those uncertainties, insecurities, and lack
of assurances that existed during that period of time. However, a great deal
of credit needs to be given Grand Master Henville for the re-establishment
of understanding and the return to fraternalism that has developed. There
are many ways in which to accomplish good under a declining membership
and uncertain future. Regardless of which path we choose, the survival of
our Fraternity and our fraternal ideals are of utmost concern.
To the 1984-85 Grand Lodge Officers for their great friendship and efforts
put forth in the performance of their respective duties at all Grand Lodge
openings and Ceremonies, my sincere thanks.
To Robert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary, and his very able staff in the Grand
Lodge office, thanks for your ready assistance to help in any situation.
In closing, I must express my gratitude to those seven Assistant Grand Lecturers for their strength, support, and warm bond of friendship provided
during our year. of. service together. If it were not for that closeness that
develops between a group of people working together, the burdens and responsibilities would be most difficult to deal with. I am sincerely and deeply
obligated to each of them. And to you, my Brethren, my humble thanks for
affording me the opportunity to offer another year of service to this great
Fraternity of ours.
Respectfully submitted,
JOE HAMMOND, Grand Lecturer

I move the adoption of this report and that the recommendation included
therein be considered by this Grand Lodge as an emergent resolution.
The Grand Lecturer's Report was referred to the Committee on Distribution, which committee referred appropriate parts to the Committees on
Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes and Finance.
As to the Grand Lecturer's recommendation included in his report be considered as an emergent matter, this was not Adopted by Grand Lodge.
Report Adopted.

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Sue Collins Dean and Brother James C. Blaine (104). our Homes
Representatives, interview applicants for admission to our Homes and for
outside assistance.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, a charitable
corporation organized under the laws of the State of California, respectfully
presents its ninety-third annual report on the Masonic Homes of California
for the fiscal year July 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.
ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD
The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco, California, on October 12,
1984, for the purpose of organization. The election of John W. Driskell (499),
Deputy Grand Master; Jack R. Levitt (35), Senior Grand Warden and Leo
B. Mark (10), Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board and,
pursuant to the provision of the California Masonic Code, they became
members of the Board ex-officio. In addition to the Grand Lodge Officers,
the Board was composed of the following Trustees for terms as of the close
of the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge in the years indicated:
1985 . . . . . . . . . . Ralph M. Hinds
Raymond A. Ebbage, P.G.M.
Ronald A. Sherod
1986 . . . . . . . . . . John M. Palmer, Jr.
Chester R. MacPhee, P.G.M.
Hambleton F. Leas
1987 . . . . . . . . . . Jack R. Vickers
Stanley L. Channon
Kermit A. Jacobson, P.G.M.

(122)
(499)
(699)
(809)
(169)
(366)
(518)
(259)
(627)

John W. Driskell (499), Jack R. Levitt (35), and Leo B. Mark (10), respectively the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens,
are the remaining three Trustees.
Kermit A. Jacobson, P.G.M., was elected President of the Board; John
W. Driskell was elected Vice President; and by virtue of their offices as Grand
Treasurer and Grand Secretary, John A. Sickenberger (392) was elected
Treasurer and Robert A. Klinger (120) was elected Secretary.

ORGANIZATION OF STAFF
Brother J. Burton Brown (334) has completed his ninth year as
Administrator of the Masonic Home for the Elderly at Union City.
Philip Nichols, Assistant Administrator, has completed his second year.
Brother John A. Rose (324) has completed his fourth year as Administrator
of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina.

111

MEETINGS
The Board of Trustees meets on a monthly basis at the Masonic Homes,
alternating between the North and the South. Meeting at the Homes provides a closer look at and better understanding of the operations of each
Home.
This is a working Board dedicated to providing the facilities, staff and
environment essential to the security and happiness of our elderly at Union
City and to the health, education and development of our children at Covina.
Many hours are spent in Committee meetings on rehabilitation, long range
planning, scholarship grants, special projects, budget and finance. lfustees
and Administrators present special reports on operations of the Homes,
resulting in a broader understanding of these complex units and improved
guidance and management of the Homes.
Representatives from the Masonic Homes Endowment Board are invited
to attend the monthly Board meetings. This interchange of information is
invaluable in communicating our needs to the Brethren through this important
Board charged with the responsibility of raising funds for our Homes.
You will note that the Administrators and members of the Board of Trustees
have been given the opportunity to participate in the preparation of this
Annual Report as follows:

UNION CITY STATISTICS
by J. Burton Brown, Administrator
As the fiscal year ended, our population totaled 378 which consisted of
133 men and 245 women. These figures include 40 couples. The monthly
averages consisted of 131 men and 238 women for a total of 369.
During the year, 23 men entered the Home with the average age being 83.4
years; there were 39 new ladies with an average age of 82.5 years.
The number of deaths came close to the number of entries: twenty-eight
men with an average age of 87.4 years and an average period of residency
of 3 years and 5 months, and thirty women with an average age of 87. 7 years
and an average period of residency of 6 years 6 months. One of our oldest
residents, a lady who had reached her 102nd birthday, died on April 16, 1985.
One of the ladies had resided at the Home since 1965 or a period of 20 years.
The three levels of care of the Home and their respective populations were
as follows:
RESIDENTIAL CARE has 49 men and 82 women, with
only five rooms unassigned.
PERSONAL CARE lists 37 men and 75 women and there
were 7 rooms unassigned.

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SKILLED NURSING CARE had 47 men and 88 women
being cared for on an Extended Care basis, plus an average
of 16 temporary patients who retained their assigned rooms
in the Residential or Personal Care section during this short
term stay in the Nursing section.

of residents and a considerable amount of inconvenience. With the residents
adjusting to those items quite readily and accepting the delays and disruptions satisfactorily, it was decided to schedule the South Elevator for an
overhaul within this year. This is in process now, and it is expected to be back
in service by Christmas when we will welcome the gift in the same way we
did last year with the North Elevator.
The heating system was converted from steam radiators to a circulating
hot water system with individually controlled heat convectors. A number of
residents participated in "musical chairs (rooms)" as some of them had to
be relocated during the operation as the workmen converted 8 - 12 rooms
at a time. This work was scheduled during the warmer months to lessen the
inconvenience for the residents.
A welcome addition was received this year in the form of a piece of rolling
stock. Money authorized in the budget allowed us to purchase a GMC 39
passenger bus equipped with recliner seats, air conditioning, and rest rooms.
It is greatly appreciated by the residents and has proved to be extremely
beneficial for trips and transporting The Hilltoppers to their off grounds
performances.
Another additional feature which adds to the attractiveness of the Home
appeared near the South Wing of the Main building. It is a landscaped and
paved area that can be used for picnics or barbeques by the residents, visitors,
Lodges and/or groups from the community.

Although our capacity of 433 appears to offer a large number of unassigned
rooms for approved applicants, we must maintain a certain number of
rooms/beds in reserve for flexibility of assignments and for restricted uses.
These reserve figures total 25 from the three sections, and when added to our
population plus the number of beds in the Nursing Section that are needed
for temporary patients, our capacity of 433 is seriously threatened.
As of June 30, there were 37 approved applicants on the Waiting List, some
of whom are couples who have been unable to enter since their approval in
the last part of 1983.
UNION CITY OPERATIONS
by J. Burton Brown, Administrator
Emphasis during this past year has centered upon the continuing work on
the Acacias project. Due to some delays in construction, they will be completed within the next sixty days. These additional accommodations for
couples will be occupied as soon as the department of Social Services of the
State approves them and increases our license from 142 to 190 for the
Residential Section. Our overall capacity will then be 481 which includes the
Personal Care Section and the Skilled Nursing Facility.
Consequently, some of our plans regarding an increase in population have
not materialized. There are several couples on the approved list who have been
patiently waiting for as long as eighteen months. Currently, all approved applicants are assigned to a Waiting List, and those who are determined to have
the greatest need, are given priority in consideration for entry to the Home.
For some of these applicants there may be an interim period of 60 to 90 days
due to certain sections of the facility not having vacancies or being close to
capacity; and it is not unusual for some approved non-married applicants
to have their entry delayed for 8 to 10 months.
As we continue to draw closer to our capacity in the Skilled Nursing Facility
and Residential section, the Trustees are ever mindful of the potential needs
and are exploring various alternatives to what appears to be both short range
and long range concerns.
UNION CITY - SPECIAL PROJECTS
by J. Burton Brown, Administrator
Two mechanical improvements at the Home provide the residents with much
more reliable services than before. The North Elevator was completely
renovated and the revision of the heating system in the Residential Section
was realized during the year. Each of these projects took approximately three
months to complete. Each was also accompanied by temporary relocation

113

UNION CITY FACILITIES
by Stanley L. Channon, Chairman Facilities Committee
The conversion of two former dormitory buildings, apartments for
ambulatory residents, are expected to be completed ready for occupancy in
October. The apartment complex, known as the Acacias, will accommodate
up to 24 couples. Each apartment contains a bedroom, sitting room,
kitchenette and bathroom. Common lounge areas and activity rooms are also
provided in each building. Residents will have access to the main dining room
and other buildings at the Home via a covered walkway and elevator. The
apartments are a welcome addition to our facilities and willreduce the waiting
list of applicants considerably.
The Board is continually reviewing the facilities required to satisfy the needs
of our members and spouses, and has engaged an architect to prepare a master
plan which will consider the various options for future facilities' requirements.
During the past year, many improvements have been made for increased
operating efficiency, for the safety and security of the residents, and for the
overall appearance and enjoyment of the Home. A barbecue and picnic area
has been provided in front of the South wing of the main building and an
access pathway has been paved and landscaped. This attractive setting may
be enjoyed by visitors, staff and residents in future years. The 33 year old
elevators in the main building are being replaced with more modern, faster
and more reliable cars and controls. The antiquated nurses' call system in
the Skilled Nursing Facility is being replaced with a modern two-way communication system; three of the four floors have now been converted to this

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

system. The Home has purchased its own telephone system which can be expanded as needed by adding additional modules. The new telephone system
has many advantages for the staff and will reduce the cost of telephone service considerably in future years. New blue and white street signs have been
erected at various locations around the Home and a building directory has
been designed for future installation. Instrumentation of the boilers and other
physical plants have been completed so that equipment performance can be
accurately monitored. A new commercial dishwasher was recently installed
in the kitchen. Studies on the use of wind energy as a source of power for
the Homes are being continued; at present, the wind velocity at the Home
is lower than required for efficient generation of wind power with available
technology.

COVINA OPERATIONS
by John A. Rose, Administrator
The population of our Masonic Home for Children at fiscal year end is
55. Four children have graduated and are now living independently. Three
of these young adults are attending college. One has joined the United States
Navy. Nine children have been able to return to their natural families as their
respective family situations improved.
In reviewing and evaluating our goals set for the past fiscal year, we see
significant improvement in each area. (1) Our academic and tutorial program
has significantly improved the overall school grade point averages of the
children in our care. (2) The staff of our Masonic Home has submitted to
your Board a draft of our proposed discipline policy, procedures and
methodolgy. Our early review of this valuable material suggests that our standards of discipline could well be a model system for other group homes .as
well. (3) Our staff continues to attend to the "whole" child. The same tenets
and virtues of this Masonic Fraternity are the same basics of our child care
program in guiding the physical, emotional and spiritual development of
children. (4) In an effort to teach the "whole" child, attention is given not
only to the physical health, but the mental health of each child; (5) more and
more, qualified volunteers have been most useful in areas such as tutoring,
big brother and sisterprograms, choir and equestrian instruction. We envision even a more comprehensive program in the coming years.
As a result of your Trustees' continued inspections, and as reported by your
Administrator, we continue to provide a quality environment in which children
thrive and develop. The management of our personnel, property and finances
is professional and sound.
We are most appreciative of our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Roy J.
Henville, who has encouraged donations toward special projects at Covina,
rather than accepting personal gifts for himself. This source of funds has
resulted in the purchase of two educational Apple Ile computers and learning
software. College bound students are expected to be computer literate. We
are now able to provide assistance to their studies and in learning about computer science. The Grand Master's special project fund also provided for the
purchase of sidewalk benches soon to be placed on the grounds.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

115

COVINA FACILITIES
by Stanley L. Channon, Chairman Facilities Committee
As part of the on-going maintenance program at Covina, new standard
drapes were installed to replace the worn and various colored materials in
all of the residential cottages and in the parlor. Vertical blinds were also
installed in the library and dining rooms. Painting of the exterior of the
Administration building and Central Services building, as well as the interior
and exterior of two cottages have been accomplished. In subsequent years,
two cottages will be painted each year on a continuing basis. The previously
inadequate leased telephone system has been replaced with a new purchased
system which provides improved service and efficiency as well as greatly
reduced cost in future years. The new system enables direct calls to be made
and received by house-parents and children in each cottage, with appropriate
controls on toll calls. This feature is especially convenient in handling emergencies and also provides a more traditional home environment for the
children. Other benefits include the ability to make conference calls and to
transfer calls.
Much effort has been devoted to landscaping improvements. Concrete mow
strips have been poured around all of the cottages, and plans have been made
for the replacement or addition of shrubs. The hillside areas have been cleared
and planted with trees and the development of Rainbow Park has been
continued.
The Knights Templar Hospital, the only remaining building of the 1920
era, has been out of service for several years and has been deteriorating rapidly.
Various uses for the building were considered but the cost of renovation would
have exceeded the cost of more suitable new construction. Consequently, the
Board has decidep to demolish this building.
In conjunction with the development of a master plan for Union City, a
similar master plan is being prepared for possible future development of
facilities at Covina. The present facilities are well maintained and are a credit
to "the Fraternity. Improvements are continually being made for operational
efficiency as well as for the enjoyment of the residents and staff.

COVINA FACILITIES EXPANSION
By Kermit A. Jacobson, President
Our printed annual report pertains to work carried out during the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1985. However, in line with our desire to keep you informed, I give you this up-date on our present plans.
In addition to our recent renovation of two existing dormitories at Union
City named the Acacias, we have been studying the projected growth needs
for additional apartments and nursing facilities for our adults. Our needs
are reflected by our long waiting list and the increasing number of applications we continue to receive each month. We are at the point when we must
place approved applicants on a long waiting list due to the lack of available
space in our Residential and Skilled Nursing Areas.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Even though our Masonic membership continues to decline, our membership also continues to grow older. Thus as responsible Trustees, we must plan
for the anticipated increased need for housing for our adults. We carefully
monitor admissions to our Homes to insure that only those truly in need are
admitted.
Our Trustees have analyzed our projected needs for each level of care and
have determined that first we should expand our present level of skilled nursing
at Union City by another 120 beds. We are now working with our architect
to develop suitable plans for this expansion. At our request our architect has
also developed Master Plans for both Union City and Covina.
In our deliberations, we have concluded that at Covina where we have so
much undeveloped land we should consider reasonable use of that land. It
is our judgment that it would be desirable to have a facility strictly for ambulatory Adults in Southern California. There is no thought of duplicating
skilled nursing facilities at Covina. Furthermore, it is our opinion that to continue to use the Covina property to the exclusive use of our children is far
too expensive and not an efficient use of staff and facilities. Realizing that
children and the elderly easily develop an affinity for each other once they
are broughttogether, we are considering the use of the East half of the property at Covina for the development of adult housing. This plan is to provide, in several phases, the use of this unused land for our adults and still
protect the continued and uninterrupted program for our children. In so doing, we will be extending the use of this raw land to its best and most
economical use for both our children and our adults.
Currently, we are in the midst of this detailed Long Range planning. Part
of that study is to insure the availability of the funds for these expansions
as well as the availability of revenue to operate the expanded facilities at both
Homes. Assisting in these fiscal studies are the Investment Committee and
the Grand Treasurer. Detailed operating pro formas are being prepared based on the data provided by the several sources. With such data we will know,
with a reasonable degree of assurance, what our cash flow needs will be to
support these anticipated expansions.
The time between a decision to expand and the date of opening another
skilled nursing facility at Union City, or to commence building for our adults
at Covina, is approximately 30 to 36 months.

A program has been initiated at the Home to provide counselling and
guidance to high school juniors and seniors in preparation for their future
careers. It is recognized that students have varied interests and aptitudes; every
effort is being made to assist them in deciding upon an appropriate course
of action before they enter college or choose a vocation.
The staff of the Home is also placing additional emphasis on scholastic
achievement at all levels as part of a program to improve the educational accomplishments of the children.
·

116

COVINA SCHOLARSHIPS
by Stanley L. Channon, Chairman Scholarship Committee
During the past school year, ten alumni of the Masonic Home for Children
received financial support for their continued education. Several of these
students have been granted further scholarships this year, and one new
applicant was also awarded a scholarship. Since there were no high school
seniors graduating from the Home this year, the number of scholarship
applicants was reduced to six. Awards totalling $19,500 were made to these
applicants for studies which include law, business administration, chemistry
and economics. Three of the recipients will receive their degrees in the coming
year.

117

ADMISSIONS TO HOMES
by Jack R. Vickers and Ralph M Hinds,
Co-Chairmen Admissions Committee
The Admissions Committee was established in order to maximize efficiency in operations of the Board of Trustees. The Board meets monthly, alter-

nating in the North at the Union City Home and in the South at the Children's
Home in Covina. The Admissions Committee has co-chairmen: Ralph M.
Hinds from the North and Jack R. Vickers from the South. Five other
Trustees, selected from the North and South, comprise the balance of the
Committee.
During the last year and one-half it became necessary to establish a waiting
list for admission to Union City. In order to insure that those applicants with
the most need would be provided for first, the Board instituted a new concept. This concept, a point rating system, is used to rank the applicants and
provides the Board with a positive means to recognize the most needy and
place them in their proper place on the waiting list, regardless of when they
have been approved for admission. The system being used recognizes the three
levels of care; Residential, Personal Care and Skilled Nursing, and automatically positions the most needy in each category as space becomes available in
our Union City Home.
The rating system now being used is automatically reviewed every six months
and improvements are considered by the Board of Trustees. This process allows
the Board of Trustees to devote its attention to other critical matters involving the Homes Properties and their operations.
It has not been necessary to institute the rating system for our Covina Home
for Children since we are not operating near capacity. Each child's application is given comparable attention as that given to our adults in Union City.
PERSONNEL
by Ronald A. Sherod, Chairman Personnel Committee
This past Masonic year has seen little or no major changes in staffing at
either the Union City or the Covina Homes.
The annual performance, wage and salary reviews were conducted and
increases were granted on merit alone. All increases were in accordance with
the approved operating budgets for the fiscal year.
The Employee's Handbook was completely revised. Appropriate changes
were made to reflect all governmental guidelines, as well as updated policies
of the Board, regarding personnel management.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LONG RANGE PLANNING
by Jack R. Vickers, Chairman Long Range Planning Committee
As a part of a continuing effort to insure care for our needy members and
their wives or widows, the Committee has continued its study of future needs.
This study began several years ago and continues as an active segment of the
Board of Trustees' effort.
This past year an in-depth look at our general membership was completed
and projections to the year 2000 were made. In 1973, Brother Bob Klinger
(now Grand Secretary) conducted a survey of the Lodges in this Jurisdiction.
Lodge Secretaries provided information on the general membership for the
fiscal year ending June 30, 1972. Data was obtained on 91.207o of the membership with respect to membership average age and age distribution.
As a part of the study, additional data with respect to deaths, dimits, suspensions, affiliations, reinstatements and candidates-raised was compiled. Computations were made and sensitivity analyses were conducted and an average
age of membership was established. This was then used as a baseline, and
projections (based upon trends during the last twenty-one years) were made
yearly up to the year 2000. These projections, supported by sensitivity analyses,
show that by the year 2000 our general membership will be approximately
45"7o of that for the fiscal year just ended and the average age of our membership will be 73 years. The study shows that our membership is declining at
an alarming rate. The study also shows that although the average age of
members is increasing, the number of members in the upper age brackets is
declining due to deaths and dimits which are not being replaced with
candidates and affiliations.
In summary, the study shows that an immediate requirement exists for additional facilities to provide for our needy members.

Real Estate Committee and in almost all instances the work for other
beneficiaries is done by the Masonic Homes.
Instances of minor lot value are from time to time recommended for nonpayment of taxes because of little value, if any.
All actions taken by the Real Estate Committee of the Masonic Homes
are first approved by the Board of Trustees.

118

REAL ESTATE
by Chester R. MacPhee, Chairman Real Estate Committee
Real property is made available to the Masonic Homes of California by
direct grant; from admission to the Home; from life estates; from Wills, and
other sources.
During the period October 15, 1984 to September 15, 1985 the Real Estate
Committee disposed of fifteen parcels of real estate valued at $1,170,850.00,
and authorized probate sales on six additional properties valued from
$10,000.00 to $350,000.00. In addition the Committee arranged for appraisals
to satisfy Pooled Income inquiries and other legal inquiries. Deeds of Trusts
and Mortgages assigned to the Masonic Homes are properly evaluated and
turned over to the Crocker National Bank for collection. In instances of delinquent payments of rent or loan payments the Crocker National Bank notifies
the Real Estate Committee who at once moves to have the delinquency cured
and, if not possible, it is referred for legal action.
In many instances the Masonic Homes of California is not the full
beneficiary of an estate or gift; however, all information is checked by the

119

FINANCIAL PLANNING AND BUDGET
by John M. Palmer, Jr., Chairman Financial Planning Committee
The Masonic Homes of California has not been immune from the
staggering increased cost of care. Over the past five years our costs have
increased at a compound rate of almost 13 percent per year. Your Board
members are acutely aware of these rising costs and are employing cost control measures in a prudent manner to assure the highest possible level of care
consistent with good financial practices.
The budgets (including funding for depreciation) approved by the Board
of Trustees for Fiscal Year 1985-1986 are as follows:
Budget Category

Union City

Covina

San Francisco

Operating
Capital
Totals
Grand Total

$8,876,400
$ 133,000
$9,009,400

$1,776,995
$ 40,500
$1,817,495

$ 1,384,000
$ 1,384,000
$12,210,895

With the continued expansion of the use of computers, the Grand Treasurer
and the Controller's staff are able to analyze more thoroughly the various
cost elements of the Masonic Homes. This process is being used in conjunction with the planning assumptions from the Long Range Planning Committee
to generate the budget data for the next fiscal year.

MAJOR GIFT PROGRAMS-POOLED INCOME FUND, WILLS,
BEQUESTS AND TRUSTS
by Adrian C. West, Director of Charitable Gifts
Through our Major Gifts Program many of our Brethren, their wives and
widows, have been assisted in preparing wills and bequests, establishing
charitable remainder trusts, and in various aspects of their estate planning.
While it is difficult to assess in advance the amount of such gifts, they are,
nevertheless, an important source of funds each year for Masonic Homes.
The Pooled Income Fund provides an attractive means of making a major
gift to Masonic Homes while still retaining a lifetime income benefit for the
donor. Due to the favorable treatment provided such gifts by present income
tax laws, it is often possible to increase current income for a donor through
a properly structured major gift to the Homes. Contributions of property
and cash added to the Pooled Income Fund during the past year amounted
to $548,486.47, which is the largest amount added to the Fund in a single
year since it was established in 1975.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Director of Charitable Gifts has made a number of presentations at
various Lodge meetings, widow's nights, and other Masonic programs. Such
talks have provided valuable assistance to Brethren and widows in their
investment and estate planning. To arrange for such a presentation or for
further information on our major gifts program, contact the Director of
Charitable Gifts at the office of Masonic Homes of California, 1111 California
Street, SanFrancisco, California 94108 or by telephone at (415) 776-7000.

Thanks to Administrator J. Burton Brown and his staff for providing the
love, care and security for our elderly at Union City.
Thanks to Administrator John A. Rose and his staff for providing the love,
patience and understanding for the care of our children at Covina.
As President of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California,
I thank the members of the Endowment Board for their outstanding efforts.
In addition, I also thank each member of the Board of Trustees for his complete loyalty and dedication. We have never been blessed with finer talent and
each one can be proud of his contribution to the total effort on behalf of
the Masonic Homes and the Brethren of this Jurisdiction.
Finally, the Trustees pay the highest tribute to the Masons of California
and Hawaii for their continued support and confidence.

120

SUMMARY
Your Board of Trustees is ever grateful to Grand Master Roy J. Henville
for his inspiring leadership and dedicated support throughout the year.
John A. Sickenberger, Grand Treasurer, has provided invaluable accounting
and financial services.
Varnum Paul, Legal Counsel to the Board, continues to keep close watch
on the many areas where legal advice is so essential to sound management.
Chester R. MacPhee and Hambleton F. Leas provide professional services
in the sale and management of real estate for the Homes.
Ronald A. Sherod, a professional in the management of hospitals and
residential properties, lends his good counsel, etc. to aid in the making of
Board decisions.
Jack R. Vickers adds his expertise in analyzing complex situations and reporting his findings.
Raymond A. Ebbage helps us to keep a good sense of balance and a clear
perspective.
Ralph M. Hinds has had excellent training and experience which is most
useful in solving complex problems.
John M. Palmer, Jr. continues to improve our budget process and our financial controls.
Stanley L. Channon has assumed every assignment with confidence. He
is a valuable member of the Board.
John W. Driskell, Jack R. Levitt and Leo B. Mark, in spite of their heavy
assignments as members of the Grand Lodge Elective Line, have done their
share within the limits of their schedules. The Board has been enriched by
their dedication and varied talents.
Robert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary, and his staff have given superb service to the Board of Trustees and to our two Homes.
Hugo Z. Delfin and his accounting staff in the office of the Grand Lodge
provide accurate and timely financial reports for the guidance of our
Administrators of the Homes and members of the Board of Trustees.
Irene Harrigan and Corinne Conlon who handle property transactions,
deserve our special commendations for their work.
Sue Dean and James C. Blaine, Homes Representatives, interview the applicants and prepare the information for consideration by the Board. Their
work requires care, patience and understanding. We appreciate these
professionals.

121

Respectfully submitted,
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, P.G.M., President
JOHN w. DRISKELL, Vice President
JACK R. VICKERS
JOHN M. PALMER, JR.
STANLEY L. CHANNON
HAMBLETON F. LEAS
RAYMOND A. EBBAGEP.G.M.
RALPH M. HINDS
JACK R. LEVITT
RONALD A. SHEROD
LEO B. MARK
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, P.G.M.
Report Adopted.
Referred to the.Committee on Distribution. The Committee on
Distribution referred the entire report to the Committee on Finance.

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE ADMINISTR ATOR
MASONIC HOME, UNION CITY

and non-Masonic groups. They are in continuous demand and have dates
already booked as far in advance as December, 1986.
Invitations from local community groups were accepted by many residents
as they joined in such activities as: the 15th annual Aahmes Shrine Church
Service, the 25th Anniversary of the founding of Union City, the observance
by Alameda Lodge No. 167 of Public School Week, and a dinner program
for Constitution Month.
On March 26, 1985 a very special ceremony was attended by many of the
residents in Oakland. Sequoia-St. Elmo Lodge No. 349 honored resident Leslie
Woodworth for his seventy-five years as a Master Mason. The Veterans Award
was presented by Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, Grand Master, who was
accompanied by many Grand Lodge officers, members and officers from
several Lodges and a large number of friends. Brother Woodworth has been
a resident of the Home since August 30, 1969 and will reach another special
milestone on February 12, 1986 when he celebrates his lOOth birthday.
Other special occasions during this year included the Dedication Ceremonies
for the Acacias (renovated dormitories), on September 29, 1984. Most
Worshipful E. Arthur Haglund (Grand Master at that time) opened Grand
Lodge in the Lodge Room after which full dedication ceremonies were held
outdoors at a spot overlooking the buildings which will eventually offer apartment living for twenty-four couples. The following month, many of the
residents attended the Grand Lodge activities and thoroughly enjoyed the
Grand Master's Ball and the "Vaudeville on Parade" presentation. The other
very special event is traditional for many Blue Lodges, and the Masonic Home
is just as proud as every group is to honor the Grand Master at a formal reception. On April 3rd, Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville and the first lady Elinor,
accompanied by a)arge number of Grand Lodge officers, gave our residents
the opportunity to meet most of the Grand Lodge Family and hear an inspiring
message from the Grand Master.
1Wo other events that directly involve the men and women at the Home
occur each year and are noteworthy. One is in conjunction with Grand Lodge
Visitation Day in October when our Annual Art Show is on display in the
auditorium. Several different categories such as ceramics, painting,
photography, handcrafts, and flower arrangements always have items entered
by many residents. This year's "Best of the Show" award went to Carl Thompson for a handmade table. Cash awards and ribbons plus a trophy as top prize
are presented.
The other event is a recognition dinner held in February to honor all of
the resident volunteers for their service to the Home. This year we acknowledged approximately one hundred men and women. Some of the volunteer
work performed involves: tour-guiding, ushers at social events and church
services, choir members, flag raisers, coffee shop and canteen attendants,
newspapers and mail delivery, and members of the Hilltoppers.
As I mention service to the Home, I wish to acknowledge the number of
employees who have been at the Home for ten years or more. 1Wenty are in
the 10-15 years range and sixteen have 16 or more years of service. Of the
latter, five women in the Nursing Unit collectively represent 126 years of
employment. There is one nursing assistant who started her work here in 1957.

1984-1985
Elsewhere in this report, you can read the statistics pertaining to the population at the Masonic Home. A narrative report is hereby presented to provide
you with a capsule of three hundred and sixty-five days of events. Many of
them are repetitions of activities which occur each year, but none of them
are ever monotonous because the cast of characters in our daily life-dramas
often change.
We are always grateful for the many Masonic-affiliated groups who put
forth the effort to visit the Home for a variety of reasons. Included among
those who participated this year in our church services were thirty Bethels
of Job's Daughters, several Assemblies of Rainbow Girls and one Chapter
of DeMolay. Degrees were conferred on eleven candidates by their Lodges,
plus a DeMolay and a Rainbow Degree. Fifteen Eastern Star Chapters combined to hold eight meetings in our Lodge Room. A group of DeMolay boys
from the Fresno area deserve special recognition as they spent one Saturday
cleaning the grounds surrounding the renovated Acacias of debris left from
the construction workers.
In addition, there were twenty-four other groups who came for tours and/or
visitations. Various types of entertainers shared their talents with us on twentyeight occasions including piano concerts, dance recitals, carolers, Shrine Bands
and Chanters, a Rhythm Band, singing groups, square dancers and an accordian band.
Just as some of the groups mentioned above are repeaters, so is the report
of the traditional visit by the East Bay Past Matron's Association on the third
Saturday of August. This year marked the 7lst time they have shared "Jam
and Jelly Day" with the Home.
Our residents were also offered a variety of entertainment through activities
at the Home. Among these were the several Theme parties presented by our
Department of Social Services, plus a "Country Faire", Hawaiian Day,
Octoberfest, Holiday Dances, and a "Spring Fling" Fashion show with
residents and employees as models. We also show a major movie on Friday
and Saturday nights through our closed-circuit television system. They also
had opportunity to participate in thirty-nine trips away from the Home where
they enjoyed such events as little theater productions, community college
drama and musical shows, lunch trips, the circus, Monterey's 17-mile drive,
Ice Capades, Pier 39, and two Oakland .Ns baseball games. 1Wenty brave souls
earned their San Francisco Giants Croix de Candlestick pins as they weathered
the winds to watch the Giants and the Dodgers.
Our own group of entertainers, "The Hilltoppers:• presented their program
at the Home for six groups who arranged visitations; one performance was
in honor of Older Americans Month and three local convalescent homes
brought some of their residents to our facility. Additionally, The Hilltoppers
traveled (in our recently acquired 39 passenger bus) to thirteen different locations in the Bay area to share their talents and happy feelings with Masonic

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We had two employees retire after many years of service: Mrs. Cozie Martin
with 23 years, and Mrs. Sophie Jones who had been here 22 years. All of
these employees symbolize the commitment to exceptional care and concern
that is provided to the residents. Another significant accomplishment this year
has transpired through the cooperation of the Red Cross, and one of our
department heads who is a certified instructor in cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Beyond the thirty licensed nurses on staff who are required to be certified,
we now have nineteen other employees who have received CPR Certificates.
In last year's report our oldest resident, Mrs. Margaret Peterson, was 102
years old as of July 1, 1984. Due to her death on April 16, 1985, our senior
member of the ladies at the Home is now Mrs. Nona Hambley, Park Crockett
Lodge No. 139, who was 101 on July 4, 1985. Mrs. Hambley entered the Home
on July 17, 1970 at the age of 86 years and currently resides in the Skilled
Nursing Facility.
One of our Brothers became a centenarian on January 7, 1985. Stanley
Creelman of Calaveras Lodge No. 178 lives in the Personal Care section at
the Home and despite his longevity is relatively self-sufficient. He, too, arrived
at the Home in the year 1970 on December 17th. Coincidentally, neither Mrs.
Hambley nor Mr. Creelman have ever been away from the Home on pass.
T\vo of our residents decided to marry last year. Brother Carl Thompson,
Blue Lakes Lodge No. 714, married Mrs. Helene Fox of Mountain View Lodge
No. 194. Both residents had lost their previous marriage partners here at the
Home. In May of this year, we were able to relocate them together in the
North Wing when an apartment became available. Brother Thompson keeps
busy in the "Do-it-Yourself Shop" and Mrs. Thompson works in the nic- nae
shop.
The Home is proud to announce Wedding Anniversaries worth special
attention for four of our couples. Brother and Mrs. Allen S. Cherry have been
married 69 years. They are sponsored by Mariposa Lodge No. 24. Brother
and Mrs. Albert Mattson, John P. Jarmon Lodge No. 669, have been together
65 years. Brother and Mrs. Nathan Wotman, Lebanon Pacific Lodge No. 136,
have been together 64 years (this is one of of our newest couples). Brother
and Mrs. Duke Dykes, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206, have been married 63 years.
Once again it is impossible to express our gratitude sufficiently to everyone
who deserves it. There are special feelings for the approximately 279 employees
who care for and become part of our Masonic Home family. Without their
efforts and loving concern it would not be possible to receive the many compliments we do from visitors, families of the residents, Lodges, and representatives of the Grand Lodge. The generous support generated by members of
the Endowment Board and all those with whom they come in contact is
measured successfully by the monetary gain of the Endowment Fund. Their
work exemplifies all the donations of both money and material items that
are contributed to the Home.
I personally thank the members of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees
for their dedication and seemingly endless hours of concentrated time spent
on behalf of our Home for Adults. I am grateful for the direction, support,
confidence and brotherly love extended to me by them singly and collectively.
It is with the greatest sense of pride that I am able to compose these annual

reports and be on the cutting edge of a Fraternity that truly fulfills its obligations of "Caring for our Own." On behalf of the entire Masonic Home Family,
THANK YOU FOR YOUR LOVE!

124

Respectfully submitted

J. BURTON BROWN, Administrator

125

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

126

MASONIC HOME FOR ADULTS AT UNION CITY
ANNUAL REPORT JULY 1, 1984 TO JUNE 30, 1985

NAME

ADMIJTED

WDGE
NO.
Oakland Durant
Rockridge .............. 188
Azusa ................ . 30S

WCAT/ON
AGE
Oakland ........... 96

Dalrymple, Edward ........... June 18, 1980
Damner, Phillip .............. Oct. 20, 1983
Dauphine, Paul+• ........... June 13, 198S
Davies, George ............... Dec. 12, 1983
Davis, Cecil L. .•............. Jan. 31, 1984
Deming, CharlesO............. Apr. 9, 1981
Dotson, Murray .............. Jan. 19, 1982
Duke, Carl+ ....•........... Mar. 16, 1967
Duthie, James T............... Mar. 29,1981
Dutton, Robert T.+ ........... Jan. IS, 1980
Dykes, Duke+ ............... Nov. 17, 1978

Columbia .............. 461
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
South West. ............ 283
Hawthorne ............. 647
Norwalk ............... 31S
Atwater Larchmont. ..... 614
San Joaquin •....•....... 19
Santa Maria ............ S80
McKinley .............. 347
Brotherhood ........... 37S
Naval ...............•.. 87

San Francisco ...... 87
San Francisco ...... 8S
National City ...... 88
Hawthorne ........ 8S
Norwalk ...•....... 89
Los Angeles ........ 78
Stockton .......... 7 S
Ramona ........•.. 89
Richmond ......... 8S
San Francisco ...... 84
Vallejo ............ 90

Eggert, William ............... Oct. 6, 1983
Elliott, W. Clayton ........... Aug. 26, 1982

San Mateo ............. 226
Crocker .............. .4S4

Redwood City .....• 77
Daly City .......... 84

Falk, Jack ................... Jan. II, 197S

William Rhodes
Hervey ................ 767
Seafaring .............. 708
Burbank ............•.. 406
Inyo .................. 221
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
La Cumbre ............. 642
Pajaro ..........•...... 110
Columbia ............. .461
Fresno ................ 247
Fallbrook .............. 317
Fellowship ............. 290
George Washington .... . 43S
West Los Angeles ....... 373

Los Angeles ........ 94

Fay, Richard+ ................ Sept. I, 1983
Ferrarra, Frank+ ............. Dec. 13, 1982
Ferren, Jesse M ................ Jan. 4, 1980
Finger, Irving ..............•. Mar. 30, 1983
Fink, Arno F. ...•.••......... Jan. 17, 1980
Finney, Herbert• ............. July 27, 1984
Fischer, William .............. Jan. 16, 1984
Fisher, Dugald ............... Apr. 19, 1979
Fisher, Edgar J •............... Oct. 23,1980
Frank, Carl S................ Mar. 23, 1981
Fraser, Clarence+ ............. Jan. 9, 1974
Frush, Paul ................. Aug. 14, 1973

Newport Beach ..... 86
Burbank ........... 7S
Independence ...... 68
San Francisco ...... 82
Santa Barbara ...... 98
Watsonville ...••.. . 6S
San Francisco ...... 8S
Fresno ............ 90
Fallbrook .......... 8S
Los Angeles ........ 94
San Francisco ...... 83
Los Angeles ........ 79

Gaskins, Paul ............... Mar. 22, 1983
Gerdes, Harry .......•....... June 23, 1983
Gingery, Lawrence• ............ Dec. I, 1984
Gonzo, Odo .................. Mar. 8, 1984
Goodall, Perry+ ............. Apr. 2S, 197S
Groom, Glen L. + ............ Nov. 24, 1980
Gutcher, Charles+ .....•...... Dec. 7, 1982

General H.H.Arnold ..... 791
Lemon Grove ........... 736
Downey .........•..... 220
Consuelo .............. 32S
Santa Rosa .............. S7
Foothill .............. . S64
Covelo ................ 231

Rosamond ......... 90
Lemon Grove ....... 89
Downey ..•.....•.. 87
Escondido ......... 84
Santa Rosa ......... 86
Oakland ....•...... 83
Covelo ............ 84

Harwood, Morris ............ June 26, 1981
Havens, Terry ................ Jan. I0, 1977
Heuring, Francis+ ........... Apr. 27, 1983
Hines, Justin ................. Jan. 31, 1983
Hoffman, Adolph ............. Feb. 8, 1983
Horgan, William .............. Feb. 3, 1981

San Francisco ...... 91
North Hollywood ... 76
San Francisco ...... 86
Truckee ........... 90
San Diego ......... 90
Oakland .........•. 94

Howell, Thomas .............. Feb. 14, 197S

George Washington .... . 43S
North Hollywood ....... S42
Oriental ............... 144
Thlckee ................ 200
Blackmer .............. 442
Oakland Durant
Rockridge .............. 188
Cahuenga-LaBrea •...... Sl3

Janny, Alfred ................ May 13, 198S
Jared, Claude H •............. June 27,1973
Jochimsen, Edmond .......... Sept. 12, 197S
Johnson, Milton .............. Apr. 1, 1983
Johnson, Paul+ ............. Nov. 22, 1982
Johnston, Bennett ............ June 14, 1984
Jordan, William ............. June22, 1983

Golden Gavel. .......•.. 44S
Coalinga .............. 387
Golden Gavel. ......... . 44S
San Marino ............ 68S
Lodi ..•............•. . 2S6
Temple ................. 14
Salinas ................ 204

Los Angeles ........ 8S
Coalinga .......... 86
Los Angeles ........ 81
San Marino ........ 7S
Lodi ..•..••.....•. 89
Sonoma ........... 87
Salinas ............ 7S

C~e, Milton ................ May 19, 1972

Curry, William ................ May S, 1982

POPULATION CHANGES DURING THE FISCAL YEAR
Totals

Average Age

Population July 1, 1984
Admissions
Deceased
Withdrawn

375
+62
-58
- 1

84.7 Years
85.7 Years
89.1 Years
93.0 Years

Total Residents as of June 30, 1985

378

84.3 Years

POPULATION AS OF JUNE 30, 1985
Age Groups
60-69 Years
70-79 Years
80-89 Years
90-99 Years
100 and Over
TOTAL RESIDENTS

Men

Women

Total

4
30
68
30

2
53
130
59

--I

I

6
83
198
89
2

133

245

378

MEN RESIDENTS (133) AVERAGE AGE 84.2
*Indicates admission during current year
+Indicates Couple
ADMIJTED
NAME
Agnew, Daymond ............. Oct. 13, 1974
Akerly, George P............... Nov. 9,1978
Akridge, Edward• .............. May l,198S
Allan, Kenneth ............... June 20,1983
Antona, NicholasG........... Aug. 27, 1980
Atkinson, William• ........... May 31, 198S

WDGE
NO.
Sequoia-St.Elmo ........ 349
Vacaville ............... 134
Sunnyvale .............. SII
Burlingame ............ 400
Tri-Square ............. SSI
Yount .................. 12

WCATION
AGE
Alameda .......... 80
Vacaville ........... 81
Sunnyvale ......... 8S
Burlingame ........ 87
Hayward .......... 87
Napa ............. 82

Bagby, Everett+• ............. Mar. 19,198S
Becker, Herbert .............. Mar. 19, 1984
Bishop, Frank ............... June 23, 1979
Blechschmidt, Hugo ............ Dec. 6,1983
Boyd, Elmer G ................ Oct. 19, 1980
Branstetter, Walter B. ......... Sept. II, 1980
Bryant, Thomas ............... Feb. 2, 1982
Buyaert, Benoit .............. Feb. 27, 1984
Buzolich, Joseph ............. Oct. 24, 1978
Byars, Gilbert+• ............. May 21, 198S

Mariposa ............... 24
Redondo .............. 328
Magnolia .............. 242
Pasadena .............. 272
Golden Gate Speranza .... 30
Redlands .............. 300
Catalina Island ......... S24
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Oak Grove ............. 21S
Fresno ................ 247

Mariposa .......... 86
Redondo Beach ..... 73
Santa Barbara ...... 94
Pasadena .......... 86
SanFrancisco ....... 94
Redlands .......... 80
Avalon ............ 84
Daly City .......... 93
Alameda .......... 91
Fresno ............ 71

Calhoun, Roy• ................ Jan. 4, 198S
Cheeney, Burton H ............. Nov. 6,1980
Cherry, Allen S. + ............. Dec. 2, 1982
Chertein, Sol• ................ Oct. 12, 1984
Cohen, Marcus H ............ Aug. 29, 1978
Cotton, Earl L. ............... Aug. I, 1978
Creelman, Stanley ............ Dec. 17, 1970

Malta ................. 661
Calistoga .............. 233
Mariposa ............... 24
Ionic ................. . S20
San Diego .............. 3S
Yucca Valley ............ 802
Calaveras ............... 78

Los Angeles ........ 77
Calistoga .......... 74
Mariposa .......... 90
Los Angeles ........ 76
San Diego ......... 89
Yucca Valley ....... 9S
San Andreas ...... 100

127

Azusa ............. 89

Hollywood ........ 73

Koehler, Jack V.+ ............ Jan. 10, 1979

Lorenzo ............... 709

San Lorenzo ....... 79

Loftis, Andrew .............. Aug. 22, 1983
Lohmeyer, Edward+ ........... Nov. 9, 1981
Luttrell, George M ............. June 9, 1981

Coalinga .............. 387
Occidental-California ...... I
Santa Rosa .............. S7

Coalinga .......... 92
San Francisco ...... 78
Santa Rosa ......... 78

Mattson, Albert+ ............ June 10, 1980
Mattson, William+ .......... Mar. 29, 1982
Maxwell, William+• ......... June 17, 198S
McClung, Paul ............... Jan. 12, 1984
McConnell, Russell ........... Nov. 22, 1983
McClean, Frederick ........... Oct. 18, 1983
Meinzer, Elmer .............. Mar. 12, 1984
Miller, Guy ................. Aug. 29, 1974

John P. Jarmon ......... 669
Van Nuys .............. 4SO
Bixby Knolls Neptune ... 699
Trona ................. 684
Crescenta Valley ........ 6S2
Mountain View ......... 194
Oriental ............... 144
George Washington .... . 43S

San Jose ........... 87
Los Angeles ........ 79
Long Beach ........ 8S
Trona ............. 74
LaCrescenta ....... 79
Mountain View ..... 76
San Francisco ...... 64
San Francisco ...... 8S

128

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ADMITTED
NAME
Miller, Harold ............... Sept. 23, 1981
Murphy, Herbert R.+ ........ Aug. 26, 1980

LODGE
NO.
Van Nuys ............. .450
Riviera ................ 780

Norton, Karl ................. June 2, 1982

Vista ........•......... 687

Vista .............. 90

Golden Empire ......... 733

Sacramento ........ 80

Parker, John W. + ............ May 29, 1981
Persson, Martin .............. Feb. 23, 1982
Pocock, Harold+ ............ Aug. 28, 1980
Podd, George ................ Apr. 24, 1984
Pomeroy, Carl ............... Aug. 25, 1979
Potvin, Clyde ................. Apr. 8, 1975
Prestidge, William• ........... May 30, 1985
Purcell, Ernest• .............. Mar. 19, 1985

San Leandro-Brooklyn ... 225
Poinsettia .............. 633
Lompoc ............... 262
United ................ 374
Fountain Valley ......... 351
Alisa! ................. 321
Martinez ................ 41
Menlo Park ............ 651

San Leandro ....... 78
Ventura ........... 89
Lompoc ........... 74
San Francisco ...... 90
Los Angeles .•...... 92
Pleasanton ......... 85
Martinez .......... 85
Menlo Park ........ 79

Rassmussen, Andrew .......... Nov. 21, 1983
Richardson, Rice• ............ Jan. 29, 1985
Richmond, Ralph ............. June 6, 1983
Roberson, Eugene S............ Apr. 8, 197 5
Rose, Walter A. . ............. May 10, 1982
Roth, Henry ................. Mar. 16, 1981
Russ, Marion~ •............ Dec. II, 1984

Chateau Thierry ........ 569
Poinsettia .............. 633
Golden Rule ........... 479
Menlo Park ............ 651
Fruitvale ............... 336
Bell ................... 483
Warren G. Harding ...... 579

Hayward .......... 83
Ventura ........... 84
San Jose ........... 91
Menlo Park ........ 76
Oakland ........... 81
Bell ............... 84
Sacramento ........ 84

Sallaba, John* ............... May 28, 1985
Sarbo, Glenn+ .............. Nov. 22, 1983
Schweer, John ........•....... Oct. 19, 1983
Scott, Henry ................ Sept. 25, 1981
Seeba, John H~ .............. Nov. 20, 1984
Sidley, John+ ............... Apr. 18, 1983
Sligar, Alva+ ............... Sept. 12, 1983
Snodgrass, Melvin ............ June 14, 1984
Street, Clarence+ ............. Jan. 17, 1980

Martinez ............... .41
Penninsula ............. 745
Service ................ 594
El Cerrito-Albany ....... 686
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Reseda ................ 666
Columbia .............. 461
Palos Verdes ........... 389
Saint John's ............ 725

Martinez .•........ 85
Belmont. .......... 74
Long Beach ........ 90
El Cerrito .......... 68
Daly City .......... 81
Reseda ............ 86
San Francisco ...... 90
Long Beach ........ 83
Concord ........... 93

Taylor, Delbert ............... Feb. 13, 1984
Thau, Carl ....... ·~- ......... Feb. 16, 1983
Thompson, Carl O.+ ......... Sept. 10, 1980
Thompson, James N .......... Apr. 18, 1983

MEN DECEASED (27) WITHDRAWN (0)
JULY 1, 1984.JUNE 30,1985
AVERAGE AGE 87.4 YEARS

LOCATION
AGE
Van Nuys .......... 75
Pacific Palisades .... 79

Olson, Marvin+ ............. June 30, 1980

Lemoor ........... 84
Alameda .......... 87
San Bruno ......... 84
Oakland ........... 86

Tucker, Robert ................ Dec. 8, 1983
Turk, Mahlon ................ May 28, 1976
Turner, Lloyd ................ Aug. 19, 1983

Welcome .............. 255
Apollo-Woodstock ...... 396
Blue Lakes ............. 714
Oakland Durant
Rockridge .............. 188
Monte Vista ............ 655
Magnolia .............. 242
Poinsettia .............. 633

Long Beach ........ 82
Santa Barbara ...... 91
Ventura ........... 78

Utley, William ............... Dec. 29, 1981

Westchester-United ...... 572

Playa Del Rey ...... 73

Watkins, Ernest+ ............. Mar. 9, 1981
Watson, Mahlon ............. Oct. 26, 1983
Welborn, Otis ................. Dec. 2, 1982
Wenner, Henry ............... May 15, 1969
West, Charles+• ............. June 13, 1985
Weston, Claude L. ........... June 30, 1982
Williams, Nelson ............. Jan. 23, 1984
Woods, Gene B.+ ............ Dec. 15, 1981
Woodworth, Leslie ........... Aug. 30, 1969
Wolman, Nathan+• ........... Apr. 4, 1985
Wright, Floyd ................ Mar. 26, 1981
Wright, Loyal+* •............. May. I, 1985

Berkeley ............... 363
Pasadena .............. 272
Mariposa ............... 24
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Friendship ............. 210
Lakeside ............... 760
Oak Grove ............. 215
San Joaquin ............. 19
Naval .................. 87
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
Catalina Island ......... 524
Garden Grove .......... 586

Berkeley ........... 85
Pasadena .......... 88
Mariposa .......... 84
Daly City .......... 86
San Jose ........... 87
Lakeside ........... 91
Alameda .......... 83
Stockton .......... 87
Vallejo ............ 99
San Francisco ...... 87
Avalon ............ 95
Garden Grove ...... 81

Ziegler, Clifford I. ............ Apr. 27, 1981

Santa Barbara .......... 192

Santa Barbara ...... 95

129

NAME

DECEASED
Abel, Alexander .............. Apr. 29, 1985

WDGE

NO.
Corona ................ 324

LOCATION
AGE
Pasadena .......... 92

Babcock, Allan .............. Jan. 23, 1985
Bearse, Andrew B.............. Jan. 2, 1985
Booth, Joseph ............... Oct. 24, 1984
Brightup, RoscoeC ............ Aug. 6, 1984
Brown, Delos ................ May 14, 1985

Granada Hills .......... 790
R. E. Dolley ............ 616
Pinole-Carquinez ....... 337
Dos Palos .............. 681
Warren G. Harding ...... 579

GranadaHills ...... 83
Seal Beach ......... 86
Hercules ........... 83
Dos Palos ......... 88
Sacramento ........ 85

Chapman, Lester ............. Nov. 30, 1984
Collier, John ................. Sept. 7, 1984
Croutch, Lewis ............... Mar. 7, 1985

ll:mple ................. 14
San Fernando .......... 343
Menorah .............. 623

Sonoma ........... 91
San Fernando ...... 94
Los Angeles ........ 86

Degener, Louis P.............. Jan. 16, 1985

Marin ................. 191

San Rafael ......... 94

Everett, Charles W.............. Mar. 7,1985

Naval .................. 87

Vallejo ............ 81

Francis, Charles .............. Feb. 10, 1985

The Gardens ........... 621

Montebello ........ 87

Georges, Emanuel ............ Dec. 26, 1984

Occidental-California ...... I

San Francisco .•.... 93

Hansen, Charles .............. Mar. 6, 1985
Hensley, Earl L. ............... Aug. 7, 1984
Hines, William E .............. July 15, 1984

Visalia ................ 128
Crocker ............... 454
Henry Knox-Westlake .... 392

Visalia ............ 87
Daly City .......... 82
Los Angeles ........ 94

Jackson, Burnice "Jack" ...... Jan. 13, 1985

Madison ................ 23

Grass Valley ........ 80

Kinnicutt, Harry .............. Feb. 8, 1985

Evergreen .............. 259

Riverside .......... 94

Ladd, Wayne ................. Apr. 7, 1985
Lagrutta, Guiseppe ............ Sept. 3, 1984
Lange, William ............... May 22, 1985

Friendship ............. 210
Golden Gate Speranza .... 30
Tri-Square ............. 551

San Jose ........... 87
San Francisco ...... 90
Hayward .......... 89

Raudenbush, Albert ........... Feb. 13, 1985

Atascadero ............. 493

Atascadero ........ 83

Snygg, Clarence ............... Jan. 7, 1985
Swanson, Charles ............. Mar. 6, 1985

Petaluma .............. 180
San Leandro-Brooklyn ... 225

Petaluma .......... 88
San Leandro ....... 89

Waggoner, Melville ............ Oct. 7, 1984
Walter, Philip ............... Mar. 27, 1985
Williams, Edgar ............. Sept. 26, 1984

Santa Barbara .......... 192
Columbia .............. 461
Columbia .............. 461

Santa Barbara ...... 92
San Francisco ...... 78
San Francisco ...... 92

MEN ADMITTED JULY 1, 1984-JUNE 30, 1985 (23)
AVERAGE AGE 83.4 YEARS
NAME

ADMITTED
Akridge, Edward .............. May I, 1985
Abel, Alexander+ ............ Dec. 17, 1984
Atkinson, William R .......... May 31, 1985

WDGE

NO.
Sunnyvale ..........•... 511
Corona ................ 324
Yount .................. 12

WCATJON
AGE
Sunnyvale ..•...... 85
Pasadena .......... 92
Napa ............. 82

Bagby, Everett+ ............. Mar. 19, 1985
Byers, Gilbert+ .............. May 21, 1985

Mariposa ............... 24
Fresno ................ 247

Mariposa .......... 86
Fresno ............ 71

Calhoun, Roy ................. Feb. 4, 1985
Chertein, Sol. ................ Oct. 12, 1984

Malta ................. 661
Ionic .................. 520

Los Angeles ........ 77
Los Angeles ........ 76

Dauphine, Paul+ ............ June 13, 1985

South West. ............ 283

National City ...... 88

Finney, Herbert .............. July 27, 1984

Pajaro ................. 110

Watsonville ........ 65

Gingery, Lawrence ............. Dec. 3, 1984

Downey ............... 220

Downey ........... 87

130
NAME

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ADMITTED

WDGE

NO.

WCATION

AGE

Hansen, Charles .............. Feb. II, 1985

Visalia .•..........•... 128

Visalia ............ 87

Janny, Alfred ................ May 13, 1985

Golden Gavel .....•..•.. 445

Los Angeles ........ 95

Maxwell, William+ .......... June 17, 1985

Bixby Knolls Neptune ... 699

Long Beach ........ 85

Prestidge, William ............ May 31, 1985
Purcell, Ernest E ............. Mar. 19, 1985

Martinez ................ 41
Menlo Park ............ 651

Martinez .......... 85
Menlo Park ........ 79

Richardson, Rice ............. Jan. 29, 1985
Russ, Marion ................ Dec. II, 1984

Poinsettia .............. 633
Warren G. Harding ...... 579

Ventura ........... 80
Sacramento ........ 80

Sallaba, John ................ May 28, 1985
Seeba, John ................. Nov. 19, 1984
Swanson, Charles ............. Dec. 19, 1984

Martinez ................ 41
San Francisco Educator .. 166
San l.nndro-Brooklyn ... 225

Martinez .......... 85
Daly City .......... 91
San Leandro ....... 89

West, Charles+ ..........•... June 10, 1985
Wotman, Nathan+ ............ Apr. 4, 1985
Wright, Loyal+ ............... May I, 1985

Friendship ............. 210
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
Garden Grove .......... 586

San Jose ........... 87
San Francisco ...... 87
Garden Grove ...... 81

WOMEN RESIDENTS (245) AVERAGE AGE 83.9
*Indicates admission during current year
+Indicates Couple
NAME

ADMITTED

WDGE

NO.

WCATION

AGE

Abel, Jessie* ................. Dec. 17, 1984
Akers, Edith .............•... Mar. 31, 1982
Alpert, Ida .................. July 16, 1975
Amick, Mary A ............ . . June 19, 1974
Anderson, Ebba• ...... • ..•.. Aug. 16, 1984
Andrew, Bella F. •.........•.•. Apr. 24, 1980
Antona, Loretta+ ............ Aug. 27, 1980
Apostel, Charlotte ............. Feb. 8, 1973
Armstrong, Grace ............ Oct. 30, 1975

Corona ................ 324
Atascadero ..•......... .493
United ................ 374
Burlingame ............ 400
Menlo Park ............ 651
Benicia .................. 5
Tri-Square ............. 551
King Solomon's Seaport .. 260
George Washington ..... 435

Pasadena .......... 84
Atascadero ........ 75
San Francisco ...... 84
Burlingame ........ 80
Menlo Park ........ 82
Benicia ............ 86
Hayward .......... 89
San Francisco ...... 70
San Francisco ...... 83

Bagby, Rhesa+• ...........•. Mar. 19, 1985
Baker, D'Orella .............. Apr. 22, 1971
Baldwin, Lela G.............. Oct. 28, 1980
Barnett, Marie ............... Mar. 21, 1963
Bates, Helen E................ July 25, 1973
Baxter, Grace L. ............. Mar. 26, 1980
Beatty, Mildred W............. May 22, 1978
Bennett, Sara ................ Nov. 27, 1979
Bentley, Mary F. ...•......•... Nov. 19, 1964
Berger, Edna• .•.............. Nov. 19, 1984
Berke, Florence M.............. Feb. 9, 1979
Bjerrum, Hanna .............. Feb. 12, 1972
Bode, Fay ................... July 19, 1983
Booth, Mary• ................ Jan. 14, 1985
Bosworth, Lenore ............ Apr. 26, 1977
Bouton, Edna ............... Sept. 18, 1980
Bowers, Amelia ............... Nov. 9, 1983
Boyd, Isabella ................ Dec. 15, 1982
Boyd, Nancy A•............... May 6, 1974
Bradbury, Eleanor ............ Dec. 29, 1983
Branstetter, Louise+ ......... Sept. II, 1980
Braun, Loretta• .............. Feb. 13, 1985
Brinkman, Florence M......... Jan. 21, 1981
Brooks, Ruth M.............. June 14, 1974
Brown, Elizabeth ............. Oct. 26, 1983
Brown, Paulina A............. Jan. 19, 1973
Browne, Rachel R............. May 21, 1954
Burns, Margaret .............. May 14, 1971
Buscaino, Alice .............. Mar. 14, 1984
Butterfield, Nellie ............ Sept. 13, 1979
Byars, Betty+ * ............... May 21, 1985
Camp, Georgia• ............•.. Nov. I, 1984

Mariposa .............. 324
Columbia .............. 461
Glendale ............... 544
Acorn ..............•.. 494
Parnassus-Presidio ...... 388
Moneta ................ 405
Sojourner. ............. 607
Hollywood ............. 355
Sanger ................. 316
Clovis ......•.......... 416
Burbank ............... 406
Parnassus-Presidio ...... 388
Lassen ..•............. 149
Foothill ....•.......... 564
Live Oak ............... 61
Modesto ..........•.... 675
Friendship ............. 210
Parnassus-Presidio ...... 388
Foothill ............... 564
Acalanes-Fellowship ..... 480
Redlands .............. 300
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Willow Glen ........... 676
Altadena-Mt. Wilson .... 678
Warren G. Harding ...... 579
Vacaville ............... 134
Las Palmas ............ 366
Metropolitan ........... 352
Mission Golden West .... 169
San Leandro-Brooklyn ... 225
Fresno ................ 247
Palo Alto .............. 346

Mariposa .......... 84
San Francisco ...... 79
Glendale .......... 85
Oakland ........... 96
San Francisco ...... 89
Gardena ........... 94
Duarte ............ 82
VanNuys .......... 71
Sanger ............ 82
Clovis .•........... 81
Burbank ........... 80
San Francisco ...... 97
Susanville ......... 78
Hayward .......... 74
Oakland ........... 90
Modesto ........... 88
San Jose ........... 90
San Francisco ...... 91
Hayward .......... 96
Lafayette .......... 70
Redlands .......... 68
Daly City .......... 87
San Jose ........... 86
Altadena .......... 80
Sacramento ........ 87
Vacaville .......... 90
Fresno ............ 96
Los Angeles ........ 86
San Francisco ...... 86
San I.nndro ....... 85
Fresno ............ 67
Palo Alto .......... 75

NAME

ADMITTED

WDGE

NQ

131
WCATION

AGE

Campbell, Alice K............ Oct. 25, 1963
Cannon, Florence ............ May 26, 1975
Carlisle, Mae E................ Feb. II, 1971
Carlson, Louise* ............. Jan. 23, 1985
Carpenter, Minnie ............ Nov. 10, 1981
Chapman, Halcyon ........... Dec. 15, 1981
Chase, Ruth ................. Dec. 15, 1982
Cheney, Georgia M............ May 30, 1980
Cherry, Marie+ ............... Dec. 2, 1982
Chester, Geraldine• ........... Sept. 4, 1984
Clancy, Dorothy ............. June 29, 1981
Coffey, Mildred .............. July 15, 1981
Cole, Louise* ................ Mar. 25, 1985
Cole, Christina• .............. July 19, 1984
Coleman, Alma M............. Dec. 9, 1980
Collins, Ethel S. . ............. July 28, 1982
Colville, Anna I. ............. Aug. 29, 1980
Cook, Rose* ................. Nov. 28, 1984
Copenhaver, Thelma .......... Jan. 23, 1984
Cottom, Zoe A............... July 22, 1982
Cummings, Althea ............ Jan. 14, 1976

Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
Penryhn ............... 258
Mount Shasta .......... 281
Balder ................. 393
Mariposa ............... 24
Fruitvale ............... 338
Oceanside .............. 381
Martinez ................ 41
Mariposa ............... 24
Alamo ................ 122
Standard .............. 440
Amity ................. 370
George Washington ..... 435
Willow Glen ........... 676
Golden Rule ........... 479
Berkeley ............... 363
Laurel. ................ 245
Keith .................. 187
Coachella .............. 476
Magnolia .............. 242
George Washington ..... 435

So. San Francisco ... 98
Penryhn ........... 88
Anderson .......... 86
San Francisco ...... 77
Mariposa .......... 92
Oakland ........... 93
Oceanside ......... 81
Martinez .......... 7 4
Mariposa .......... 88
Lafayette .......... 83
San Lorenzo . . . ... 77
San Francisco .•.... 80
San Francisco ...... 77
San Jose ........... 79
San Jose .•......... 91
Berkeley ........... 79
Willows ........... 85
Gilroy ............. 81
Coachella .......... 74
Santa Barbara ...... 76
San Francisco ...... 89

Dalmas, Norma A............. Jan. 9, 1978
Dauchy, Katherine ............ Dec. 14, 1983
Dauphine, Eva+• ............ June 13, 1985
Dawkins, Lillie ............... May 25, 1982
Dell, Alice .................... Oct. 5, 1982
Delon, Nora .................. Oct. 6, 1977
Del Ponte, Valerie ............ May 15, 1972
Denhardt, Ann ................ Oct. 2, 1983
Devalan, Bernice ............. June 17, 1982
Didier, Ada .................. Jan. 30, 1984
Dorman, Marian• ............ Feb. 25, 1985
Douglass, Ada• ............... Jan. 8, 1985
Duke, Ann E.+ .............. Mar. 16, 1976
Dutton, Lucille+ ............ Sept. 18, 1976
Dykes, Mathilda+ ............ Nov. 7, 1981

Brotherhood ........... 375
Gemini ................ 825
South West. ............ 283
Athens ............•... 228
Three Pillars ........... 163
La Parfait Union ......... 17
Santa Lucia ............ 302
Arbuckle .............. 182
Tehama .................. 3
Golden Gate Speranza .... 30
Pentalpha .............. 202
'fyrian ................. 439
Santa Maria ............ 580
Brotherhood ........... 375
Stanislaus .............. 206

San Francisco ...... 90
Fremont ........... 83
National City ...... 86
Davis ............. 82
Sacramento ........ 7 5
San Francisco ...... 85
King City .......... 76
Arbuckle .......... 91
Sacramento ........ 77
San Francisco ...... 87
Los Angeles ........ 78
Manteca ........... 89
Ramona ........... 87
San Francisco ...... 80
Modesto ........... 85

Earl, Lillian M................ Feb. 19, 1975
Edwards, Jean E .............. Nov. 29, 1982
Emerson, Hazel V.....•....... Jan. 29, 1979
Emerson, Susannah ........... Dec. 15, 1983
Ernst, Eula .................. Mar. 24, 1983

Santa Lucia ............ 302
Palo Alto .............. 346
Fresno ................ 247
Park-Crockett .......... 139
Yucaipa ............... 726

King City .......... 78
Palo Alto .......... 76
Fresno ............ 90
San Francisco ...... 92
Yucaipa ........... 73

Farinacci, Marie .............. Oct. 19, 1974
Fay, Gloden+ ................. Dec. I, 1983
Ferrera, Evelyn+ ............. Dec. 13, 1982
Feuker, Eunice A ............. Mar. 15, 1978
Fischer, Kathryn .............. Jan. 10, 1978
Flackus, Fannie .............. Feb. 14, 1980
Fraser, Rose+ ................ Jan. 9, 1974
Freyschlag, Elizabeth• ......... Dec. 12, 1984

Mount Olive ........... 506
Seafaring .............. 708
Burbank ............... 406
Berkeley ............... 363
Western Star ............. 2
Sequoia-St.Elmo ........ 349
George Washington ..... 435
Mariposa ............... 24

Los Angeles ........ 86
Newport Beach ..... 81
Burbank ...•....... 71
Berkeley ........... 87
Shasta ............ 85
Oakland ...•....... 90
San Francisco ...... 93
Mariposa .......... 86

Gaggs, Margarite ............. Feb. 10, 1982
Gentry, Ethel ................ Nov. 30, 1982
Gilbert, Blanche* ............ Sept. 25, 1984
Glass, Alva ................... Aug. 7, 1975
Goodall, Brooksie+ .......... Apr. 25, 1975
Groom, LillyM.+ ............ Nov. 24, 1980
Gutcher, Marie+ .............. Dec. 7, 1982

Lompoc ............... 262
Brentwood ............. 345
Fidelity ................ 120
Fremont ............... 497
Santa Rosa .............. 57
Foot hill ............... 564
Covelo ................ 231

Lompoc ........... 89
Brentwood ......... 87
San Francisco ...... 77
Oakland ..•........ 87
Santa Rosa ......... 85
Hayward .......... 82
Covelo ............ 79

Hambley, Nona M............ July 22, 1970
Hammond, Lulu ............. Dec. 21, 1982
Hanson, Virginia ............. Dec. 12, 1983
Harding, Lulu ............... June 24, 1970
Harmon, Julie D............. Mar. 29, 1978
Harper, Elsie C. ............. Sept. 25, 1980
Hastings, Alice ............... Feb. 16, 1973
Hayes, Catherine S............ Nov. 13, 1975
Head, Maria A ............... May 31, 1978
Hermans, Ada ................ Feb. 7, 1963
Heuring, Dorothea+ ......... Apr. 27, 1983
Hines, May E................. July 12, 1978

Park-Crockett .......... 139
Needles ................ 326
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Stockton ............... 598
Berkeley ............... 363
Mission Golden West .•.. 169
Monte Vista ............ 655
McKinley ...... , ....... 347
Sunnyvale .............. 511
Redondo .............. 328
Oriental ............... 144
Henry Knox-Westlake .... 392

San Francisco ..... I0 I
Needles ........... 83
Daly City .......... 87
Stockton .......... 95
Berkeley ........... 86
San Francisco ....•. 95
Long Beach ........ 83
Richmond ......... 92
Sunnyvale ......... 89
Redondo Beach ..... 96
San Francisco ...... 80
Los Angeles ........ 91

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME

ADM/1TED
Housel, Lillian• .............. Nov. 29, 19S4
Hummer, Matilda S............ July 3, 1979
Hunsicker, Eloise ............. Nov. 16, 19Sl
Hunton, Ethel ............... Sept. 26, 19S3

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WDGE
NO.
Park.Crockett ......•... 139
Yount .................. 12
Van Nuys .............. 4SO
Mariposa ............... 24

WCATION
AGE
San Francisco •.•... S6
Napa .........•... 97
Van Nuys .......... SI
Mariposa ........•. S6

Ireland, Lillian B............. Aug. 10, 1961

Parnassus-Presidio ...... 3SS

San Francisco ...... S9

Jacobs, Gertrude .............. Dec. S, 19S3
Jacobson, Marjorie ............ June 7, 19S4
Jessup, Marie H .............. Oct. 19, 197S
Johnson, Anna+ ...........•. Sept. 9, 19Sl
Johnson, Mary •........ • ..... Apr. 19, 19S2
Jones, Cora A ..............•. Mar. 10, 19SO
Jones, Lucille .............•.. Mar. 14, 19S3
Jorgenson, Gerdy ............. Sept. 7, 1973

United ................ 374
Occidental-California ...... I
Santa Ynez ............. 701
Lodi .................. 2S6
Verba Buena ........... 403
Hollywood ............ . 3SS
Palo Alto .............. 346
Eden .................. 113

San Francisco ...... S2
San Francisco .....• S3
Solvang ........... S4
Lodi .............. S2
Oakland ........... 74
Van Nuys .......... 97
Palo Alto .......... SS
San Leandro .....•. 94

Keifer, Clara .................. Mar. 7, l 9S4
Keller, Esther ................ May 21, 196S
Kendall, Anna W.............. May 31, 1972
Kermode, Margaret .........•.. May9, 1969
Kesman, Charlotte ..•......... Oct. 27, 19SO
Ketcham, Lillie Mae• .......... Jan. 25, 19SS
Kiley, Berrie C ............... Sept. 28, 1977
Kinnicutt, Bertha ............. Oct. 19, 19Sl
King, Minerva• ..•............ Dec. 14, 1984
Kirschner, Mae* ....•.......... Apr. I, 19SS
Knapp, Edna F. ••........••.. Mar. 2S, 19SI
Koch, Idella ................. Dec. 29, 1971
Koehler, Eunice+ ............ Jan. 10, 1979

North Butte ............ 230
Le Progress De I.:Oceanie . 371
San Pasqual. .....•..•.. 4S2
Apollo-Woodstock ...••. 396
Redlands .............. 300
Silver Gate ............. 296
Orland ................ 36S
Evergreen ........... , .. 2S9
Burlingame ............ 400
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
Liberal Arts ............ 677
Atascadero ............. 493
Lorenzo ............... 709

Gridley ....•....... 91
Honolulu ........•. 90
Pasadena .......... 96
Alameda .......... 96
Redlands .......... SS
San Diego ......... 71
Orland ............ 91
Riverside .......... 79
Burlingame ........ SI
So. San Francisco ..• S4
Los Angeles ........ SO
Atascadero ........ 96
Lorenzo ........... 77

Lachman, Louise •............ Feb. 22, 197S
LaClotte, Grace I. ............ June 26, 1979
Ladd, Lillian .................. Jan. S, l 9S2
Lane, Edith V................. Dec. 16, 1969
Lee, Myrtle .................. Nov. 21, 1977
Lewis, Inez ................... Nov. S, 1971
Lohmeyer, Dorothy+ .......... Nov. 9, 19Sl
Longatti, Viola• ........ • ..... Dec. IS, 19S4

George Washington •... . 43S
Valle de France ......... 329
Friendship ............. 210
Mill Valley ............. 3S6
Standard .............. 440
San Gabriel ............ 27S
Occidental-California ...... I
Lassen ................ 149

San Francisco .....• 92
Pasadena .......... SS
San Jose ........... 79
Mill Valley ......... SS
San Lorenzo ....... S9
San Gabriel ........ SS
San Francisco ...... 79
Susanville .......... SI

Mabry, Estelle ................ Jan. 6, 197S
Marshall, Amy ............••. July IS, 197S
Martin, Aorence •...•........ Apr. 30, 1984
Mason, Evelyn ...•.......... Sept. 29, 19S3
Mattson, Evelyn+ ........... June 10, 19SO
Mattson, Ruth+ ..........•.. Mar. 29, 19S2
Maxwell, Cassie+• ........... June 17, 19SS
McClean, Ingeborg .........•. July 13, 19Sl
McPhereson, Edyth R.......... Jan. 19, 19Sl
Meyer, Helen .....•........... Mar. 6, l 9S4
Miller, Helen ................. Nov. S, 19S2
Miller, Jessie* •............... May 24, I9SS
Miller, Rebecca ...........•... Feb. 2S, l 9S3
Moore, Millie ................. Nov. 3, 1971
Morris, Eda V................. Sept. 4, 19Sl
Moschella, Sally •............ Sept. 10, 1976
Motley, Nevada A ............ Sept. 21, 1977
Mullins, Amy E ...........•.. Aug. 10, 19Sl
Murphy, Helene+ .........•.. Aug. 26, 19SO
Murphy, Jessie R ..........•.. Sept. 27, 1979

Oceanside ..•.....•.••.. 3Sl
Service ............... . S94
Fremont ............... 497
Tehema •.............•... 3
John P. Jarmon ......... 669
Van Nuys ............. .4SO
Bixby Knolls Neptune ... 699
Glassell Park ...••...•.. 60S
Live Oak ............... 61
Golden Gate Speranza .... 30
Eucalyptus ............. 243
Alisal ................. 321
Fellowship ............. 290
Oak Grove ............. 21S
Mount Jackson ....•.... 29S
Golden Gate Speranza .... 30
Claiborne ...•.......... ISS
Vista .................. 6S7
Riviera ................ 7SO
Santa Rosa .............. S7

Oceanside ......... SS
Long Beach ........ 7S
Oakland .•......... S6
Sacramento ........ 73
SanJose ........... SS
Van Nuys .......... 90
Long Beach •....... SS
Los Angeles ......•. S2
Oakland ........... S6
San Francisco ...... 79
Hayward .......... SS
Pleasanton ......... 92
Los Angeles ........ S2
Alameda .......... 91
Guerneville ..•..... 9S
San Francisco ...... SS
Point Arena .•....•. S7
Vista .............. S7
Pacific Palisades .... 77
SantaRosa ......... S4

Newman, Blanche ............. Nov. S, 197S

Normal Heights ........ 632

San Diego ......... SO

O'Connor, "Johnnie'' Mae ...... Oct. 9, 19SO
Oliveras, Frances ...........•. May 10, 19S2
Olson, Hilda+ .............. June30, 19SO
Oman, Marianne• ............. Mar. 7, 19SS
O'Neale, Florence ............. May 11, 1972

Willow Glen ........... 676
La Parfait Union ......•.. 17
Golden Empire ......... 733
Eucalyptus ............. 243
Golden Rule ........... 479

San Jose .......... . SS
San Francisco ...... S3
Sacramento ........ SS
Hayward .......... 79
San Jose ....•...... SS

Packard, Rose ............•.. May 24, l 9S4
Paine, Marie M. . ............. Aug. 3, 197S
Parker, Mildred+ ............ May 29, 19Sl
Paroth, Harriett R ............ Sept. 22, l 9SO
Parr, Georgina ............... Jari. 31, 1973

Los Gatos .............. 292
Sequoia-St.Elmo ........ 349
San Leandro-Brooklyn •.. 22S
Lassen ....•.•......•.. 149
Westwood .............. SOI

Los Gatos ......... S7
Oakland ........... 97
San Leandro ....... 79
Susanville ......... 92
Westwood ..•.•.... 91

133

ADM/1TED
NAME
Parsons, Florence V~ .......•.•. Dec. 4, 19S4
Peterson, Irene ................ June S, 19S4
Pocock, Vivian M ............ Aug. 2S, 19SO
Pond, Catherine H ............ Oct. 31, 19S3
Prestidge, Cora .............. June 12, 1967

NO.
WDGE
Amity ............•.... 370
Amity ................. 370
Lompoc ............... 262
Fraternity .............. 399
Visalia ................ 12S

WCATION
AGE
San Francisco ...... S3
San Francisco .....• 9S
Lompoc ........... S4
San Jose ........... 79
Visalia ............ 92

Raudenbush, Grace ............ Dec. I, 19S3
Rawson, Eleanor P ............ July26, 1979
Reid, Mary .................. May 19, 1979
Reiman, Elsa ................ Mar. 22, 19S3
Rice, Helen C ................. Oct. 13, 19S2
Rockwood, Sadie ............. Mar. 3, 1979
Ross, Grace W................. Oct. 3, 19SO
Rule, Jeanette• ............... Aug. 31, l 9S4

Atascadero ............. 493
Atwater Larchmont. ..... 614
Luther Burbank ........ 7S2
Hermann .............. 127
Orinda ................ S21
Hemet ................. 61S
Eden .................. 113
Anchor ...•.......•..•. 273

Atascadero ........ 77
Los Angeles ........ 92
Santa Rosa ......... S4
San Bruno ......... S2
Orinda ............ SI
Hemet ............ 91
San Leandro ....... 90
Anaheim .......... 77

Salter, Catherine• ............ Aug. 23, 19S4
Sarbo, Elizabeth+ ............. Oct. 7, 19S2
Schaldach, Rosamond ......... Oct. 13, 197S
Schilling, Effie ............... Oct. 12, 1972
Schott, Erma ................ Sept. 2S, 19Sl
Schunk, May E ............... Jan. 26, 19Sl
Schwartz, Viva E ............... May I, 19SO
Schwartz, Zenora ........ . .... July 30, 19Sl
Sharp, Theresa ................ May 7, l 9S4
Sherman, Vera G .............. Jan. 21, 1976
Shields, Lillian .•............. Apr. 30, 1979
Shurtz, Clara ................ May 24, 1976
Sidley, Helen+ ............... Apr. IS, 19S3
Siegert, Rose ................. Mar. S, 1974
Sims, Mattie ................. Mar. 21, 19S4
Skelton, Ruth ................. Jan. 9, 1976
Sligar, Irma+ ............... Sept. 21, 19S3
Snygg, Audrey ...... • ........ Mar. IS, 19S2
Spero, Elvira ................. Apr. 29, 1976
Stedman, Lena ............... Oct. 11, 19S3
Steiling, Iva .................. Nov. S, 19S3
Straughan, Dassie ............. Feb. 9, l 9S3
Street, Clare+ ............... Jan. 17, 19SO
Swerrie, Olive• ............... Aug. 20, l 9S4

The Gardens ........... 621
Peninsula .............. 74S
Occidental-California ...... I
Lexington .............. 104
San Joaquin ............. 19
Tri ................. ... S9S
Fraternity .............. 399
Martinez ................ 41
Modesto ............... 67S
Columbia .............. 461
Metropolitan ........... 3S2
Alamo ......•.....•... 122
Reseda ................ 666
Service ................ S94
Enterprise .............. 70
San Clemente ........... 671
Columbia .............. 461
Petaluma .............. ISO
Brotherhood ...... . .... 37S
Needles ................ 326
Fraternity .............. 399
Arcata .....•........... 106
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Parnassus-Presidio ...... 3SS

Montebello ........ SO
Belmont ........... SO
San Francisco ..•... SS
El Monte ......... . 9S
Stockton ....•..... 7S
Los Angeles .....•.. S6
San Jose ........... S6
Martinez .......... 7S
Modesto ........... 77
San Francisco ...... SS
Los Angeles ........ 7 S
Lafayette .......... 93
Reseda ............ 97
Long Beach ........ SS
Yuba City .......... SO
San Clemente •...•. 93
San Francisco .•.... SS
Petaluma .......... S6
San Francisco ...... 90
Needles ........... S3
San Jose .......... . SS
Arcata ............ S2
Daly City .......... 79
San Francisco ...... SO

Terry, Katherine .......•...... May 30, 19SO
Tholke, Della F!' ...•.••.•..•. June 19, 19SS
Thompson, Helene+ .......... Nov. 7, 1969
Thompson, Lois .............. Nov. 29,1972
Thompson, Rose ..... : ........ Nov. I, 1974
Thurston, Helen L. ........... Sept. IS, 19SO
Thurston, Marie H .•.......... Feb. IS, 197S
Tippin, Thelma .............. Jan. 24, 1976
Towndrow, Anise L. .......... Sept. 29, 19SO
TYrell, Mary F. ............... Dec. 11, 1979

Moneta ............... . 40S
Tuolumne ................ S
Blue Lakes ............. 714
Eucalyptus ............. 243
Marin ................. 191
Huntington Beach ...... 3SO
North Butte ............ 230
Saint John's ............ 72S
Mariposa ............... 24
Porterville ............. 303

Gardena ........... SI
Sonora ............ SS
San Bruno ......... 90
Hayward .......... SS
San Rafael ......... S6
Huntington Beach .. 73
Gridley ............ 7S
Concord .......... . SS
Mariposa .......... S6
Porterville ......... 93

Voight, Helen ................ Feb. IS, 19S4
Von Glahn, Mary ............ Aug. 24, 197S

Park-Crockett ...•...... 139
Oak Grove ............. 21S

San Francisco ...... 72
Alameda .......... 94

Waggoner, Phyllis ............ Sept. 27, 19S3
Wainscott, Violet• ............. Feb. 2, 19SS
Walsh, Nan R ................ Nov. 23, 1977
Ware, Lidella R ............... Feb. 2S, l 9SO
Waterland, Wilma ............. Nov. 7, 19S3
Watkins, Isabella+ ..... • ..... Mar. 19, 19Sl
Webb, Eleanor ............... Feb. 17, 19Sl
Wei borne, Nellie+ ............. Dec. 2, l 9S2
Welch, Elsie C. . ........ • ..... Aug. S, l 9S3
West, Vivian+• .............. June 13, 19SS
Whiteman, Malvina• .......... Jan. 17, 19SS
Williams, Edith+ ............ Jan. 23, 19S4
Williams, Lillian .............. July 31, 197S
Wilson, Florence ............. July 21, 19S3
Wilson, Margaret ............. Feb. 17, 19S3
Wimer, Violet ............... Mar. 11, 19SO
Winder, Clare ................ Nov. 10, l 9Sl

Santa Barbara .......... 192
Washington ............. 20
Tuolumne ................ S
Pacific Grove ........... 331
Eucalyptus ............. 243
Berkeley ............... 363
Marin ................. 191
Mariposa ............... 24
Cupertino .............. SIO
Friendship ............. 210
Columbia ...... .. ...... 461
Oak Grove ............. 21S
Yucaipa ............... 726
Los Banos ............. 312
Brotherhood ........... 37S
Las Palmas ............ 366
Oakland Durant
Rockridge .............. I SS
Washington ............. 20

Santa Barbara ...... 91
Sacramento ........ 7S
Sonora ........... . 9S
Pacific Grove ....... 97
Hayward .......... SO
Berkeley ........... SO
San Rafael ......... S6
Mariposa .......... S2
Cupertino ......... S4
San Jose ........... S4
San Francisco ...... S3
Alameda .......... SO
Yucaipa ........... S9
Los Banos ......... 90
San Francisco ...... SS
Fresno ............ S3
Oakland ........... 79

Winslow, Anna• .............. May 16, 19SS

Sacramento ........ SO

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
LOCATION

AGE

ADMl1TED
NAME
Woods, Elizabeth+ ........... Dec. IS, 1981
Wolman, Gertrude+• .......... Apr. 4, 198S
Wright, Bonnie E. + • .......... May I, 198S

WDGE
NO.
San Joaquin ............. 19
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
Garden Grove .......... S86

Stockton .......... 79
So. San Francisco ... 87
Garden Grove ...... 79

:loellner, Grace .............. June 20, 1979

Vacaville ..............• 134

Vacaville ........... 91

WOMEN DECEASED (30) WITHDRAWN (1)
JULY 1, 1984-JUNE 30, 1985
AVERAGE AGE 87.7 YEARS
NAME
DECEASED
Beseman, Rose S............... Feb. S, 198S
Boge, Rose ................... May S, 198S
Bredlow, Pauline ............. Mar. 17, 198S
Brinkworth, Sally ............ Nov. 10, 1984
Buzolich, Rose ............... Jan. 13, 198S

NO.
WDGE
Park-Crockett .......... 139
Park Crockett .......... 139
George Washington .... . 43S
Pajaro ................. 110
Oak Grove ......•...... 21S

San Francisco ...... 98
San Francisco ...... 88
San Francisco ...... 83
Watsonville ........ 96
Alameda .......... 89

LOCATION

AGE

Caputo, Mable ............... July 13, 1984
Carr, Ethel .................. Jan. 14, 198S
Clark, Alta ................... Dec. 6, 1984
Craig, Marie ................. Oct. 19, 1984
Croutch, Mathilda ............. Apr. 7, 198S

Cahuenga-La Brea ...... Sl3
Franklin ............... 143
Union .................. SS
Friendship ..•.......... 210
Menorah .............. 623

Los Angeles ........ 73
Courtland ......... 93
Sacramento ........ 93
San Jose ........... 86
Los Angeles ........ 78

135

WOMEN ADMITTED JULY 1, 1984-JUNE 30, 1985 (39)
AVERAGE AGE 82.5 YEARS
NAME
ADMl1TED
Abel, Jessie+ ................ Dec. 17, 1984
Anderson, Ebba ............. Aug. 16, 1984

WDGE
NO.
Corona ................ 324
Menlo Park ............ 6SI

LOCATION
AGE
Pasadena .......... 94
Menlo Park ........ 92

Bagby, Rhesa+ .............. Mar. 19, 198S
Berger, Edna ................ Nov. 19, 1984
Booth, Mary ................. Jan. 14, 198S
Braun, Loretta ............... Feb. 13, 198S
Byars, Betty+ ...•............ May 21, 198S

Mariposa ............... 24
Clovis ................. 416
Foothill .............. . S64
San Francisco Educator .. 166
Fresno ..........•..... 247

Mariposa .......... 80
Clovis ......•...... 81
Hayward .......... 77
Daly City .......... 87
Fresno •........... 67

Camp, Georgia ................ Nov. I, 1984
Carlson, Louise .............. Jan. 23, 198S
Chester, Geraldine ............. Sept. 4,1984
Cole, Louise ................. Mar. 2S, 198S
Cole, Christina E .............. July 19, 1974
Cook, Rose .................. Nov. 28, 1984

Palo Alto .............. 346
Balder. ................ 393
Alamo ................ 122
George Washington .... . 43S
Willow Glen ........... 676
Keith .................. 187

Palo Alto .......... 74
San Francisco ...... 87
Lafayette .......... 82
San Francisco ...... 77
SanJose ........... 78
Gilroy ............. 81

Dauphine, Eva+ ............. June 13, 198S
Dorman, Marion ............. Feb. 2S, 198S
Douglas, Ada ................. Jan. 8, 198S

South West. ............ 283
Pentalpha .............. 202
l}'rian ................. 439

NationalCity ....... 86
Los Angeles ........ 78
Manteca ........... 89

Fisher, Vera M. . .............. July 2S,1984
Freyschlag, Elizabeth W........ Dec. 12,1984

Fresno ................ 247
Mariposa ............•.. 24

Fresno ............ 89
Mariposa .......... 86

Gilbert, Blanche ............. Sept. 2S, 1984

Fidelity ................ 120

San Francisco .....• 77

Housel, Lillian ............... Nov. 29, 1984

Park-Crockett .......... 139

San Francisco ...... 86

Ketcham, Lillie ............... Jan. 2S, 198S
King, Minerva ................ Dec. 14,1984
Kirschner, Mae ............... April I, 198S

Silver Gate ............. 296
Burlingame ............ 400
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136

San Diego ......... 71
Burlingame ........ 80
San Francisco ...... 84

Longatti, Viola ............... Dec. 18,1984

Lassen ................ 149

Susanville .......... 91

Dowler, Ada M ............... July 20, 1984
Duffey, Lucy A ............... May 28, 1985

Mission Golden West .... 169
Fort Bragg ............. 361

San Francisco ...... 9g
Fort Bragg ......... 97

Fisher, Vera M ................. Dec. 8, 1984

Fresno ................ 247

Fresno ............ 90

Hanson, Isabella ............. Nov. 23, 1984
Hayes, Elva M ................ Nov. 23, 1984
Hillary, Beatrice .............. Feb. 10, 198S

Fountain Valley ......... 3SI
Mendocino ............. 179
Tuft-Midway ........... 426

Garden Grove ...... 86
Mendocino ........ 90
Taft. .............. 91

MacDonald, Wilhelminia ...... July II, 1984
Morgan, Florence ............. Jan. 13, 198S
Munson, Ethel L .............. Dec. 2S, 1984

So. San Francisco ....... 212
San Ramon Valley ....... 724
Yount .................. 12

Daly City .......... 99
Danville ...•....... 81
Napa ............. 86

Maxwell, Cassie+ ............ June 17, 1985
Miller, Jessie ................. May 24, 1985

Bixby KnollsNeptune .... 699
Alisa! ................. 321

Long Beach ........ 88
Pleasanton ......... 92

Oman, Marianne ..... .'........ Mar. 7,198S

Eucalyptus ............. 243

Hayward .......... 78

Ogg, Helen ................... July I, 1984

Tuft-Midway ........... 426

Taft. .............. 87

Parsons, Vea F................. Dec. 4, 1984
Phipps, Marie ................. Jan. 7, 198S

Amity ................. 370
Franklin ............... 143

San Francisco ...... 83
Courtland ......... 79

Parks, Florence ................ July I, 1984
Pearce, Bertha ................ Feb. 21, 1985

Sotoyome .............. 123
Oakland Durant
Rockridge .............. 188
Malta ................. 661
Le Progres de L 0 0ceanie . 371
Franklin ............... 143
Fountain Valley ......... 3SI

Healdsburg ........ 99
Oakland ........... 87

Penrose, Laura ............... July 18, 1984
Peterson, Margaret ........... Apr. 16, 198S
Phipps, Marie E .............. June 17, 198S
Pomeroy, Isabel M. . ........... Feb. 6, I 98S

Los Angeles ........ 70
Honolulu ......... 102
Courtland ......... 79
Garden Grove ...... 80

Skeen, Emma ................ July II, 1984
Sperry, Selma L. ............... Feb. 4, 198S

Antioch ............... 17S
United ................ 374

Antioch ........... 90
Sacramento ........ 82

Wilks, Emma .•...........•.. July 14, 1984

Redlands .............. 300

Redlands .......... 81

Ybarretta, Mignon ........... Nov. 30, 1984

Redwood City .......... 168

Redwood City ...... 76

WITHDRAWN
ADMl1TED
NAME
nick, Ruth .................. Apr. 27, 1985

NO.
WDGE
Metropolitan ........... 352

LOCATION

AGE

Los Angeles ........ 93

Rule, Jeanette ................ Aug. 31,1984

Anchor ................ 273

Anaheim .......... 76

Salter, Catherine ............. Aug. 2S, 1984
Swerrie, Olive ................ Aug. 20, 1984

TheGardens ............ 621
Parnassus-Presidio ...... 388

Montebello ........ 84
San Fransicso ...... 79

Tholke, Della F. .....•.•...... June 19,198S

Tuolumne ................ 8

Sonora ............ 88

Wainscott, Violet ............... Feb. 2,198S
West, Vivian+ ............... June 10, 198S
Whiteman, Malvina ........... Jan. 17, 198S
Winslow, Anna ............... May 16,198S
Wotman, Gertrude+ .......... April 4, 198S
Wright, Emma+ .............. May I, 1985

Washington ............. 20
Friendship ............. 210
Columbia .............. 461
Washington ............. 20
Lebanon-Pacific ........ 136
Garden Grove .......... S86

Sacramento ........ SS
San Jose ........... 84
San Francisco ...... 82
Sacramento ........ 80
San Francisco ...... 87
Garden Grove ...... 79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

136

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATOR
COVINA HOME

1984-1985
It is with continued pleasure that I submit this, my fifth, annual report to
the Grand Lodge.
This past fiscal year we have implemented, to full scale, the organizational
improvements recommended by and to your Trustees. Through these hard
working and dedicated Trustees, the Masonic Fraternity in this Jurisdiction
has provided the necessary working tools to manage this Home for Children,
a fine example of a pure Masonic philanthropy.
Space and time prevent me from listing the names of those special
individuals, Lodges, and Masonic bodies who have been especially supportive
of our Home for Children. Each of you know what special contribution you
have made which will go on forever in the lives of our children.
Through our Most Worshipful Grand Master, Roy J. Henville's special project fund, the Children's Home was able to purchase two Apple Ile educational computers with a printer. The children are not only learning to be computer proficient, but are enjoying this wonderful gift. Also, through this fund,
a number of attractive benches have been ordered. These benches will be
placed in various areas of the Masonic Home and Rainbow Park.
By and through your generosity we have served the following children:

OUR CURRENT RESIDENTS
Boys
Watson, James
Watson, Dustin
Spangler, Colin
Whaley, Steven
Suarez, Bryan
Kelley, Sean
Bernstein, Michael
Mullaney, Shane
Whaley, Carl
Thomas, Jason
Mcconchie, Brian
Feeney, Jason
Rasmussen, Bill
Jacobs, Arri
Mullaney, Paul
Mullaney, Robert
Vaughn, Charles
Cirner, Lawrence
McCabe, Steve
Gooch, Jamie
Whaley, Jerry
Martin, Pat
Elmore, Jason
Exner, David
Burge, Mike

Age
4

5.5
6
6.5
7

9.5
9.5
11.5
12
12
12.5
12.5
12.5
13
13

13
13
13
13.5
13.5
14
14
14
14.5
14.5

Lodge and Number
La Puente No. 446
La Puente No. 446
Alameda No. 167
Fountain Valley No. 351
San Marino No. 685
Los Alamitos No. 809
Garden Grove No. 586
Phoenix No. 178
Fountain Valley No. 351
University No. 394
San Juan No. 732
West Los Angeles No. 373
Nevada No. 13
Los Cerritos No. 674
Phoenix No. 178
Phoenix No 178
Guadalupe No. 237
Palo Alto No. 346
Lakewood No. 728
Huntington Beach No. 380
Fountain Valley No. 351
Eagle Rock No. 422
Baldwin Park No. 660
Lexington No. 104
Lemon Grove No. 736

Birthdate
6/1181
12115179

7125179
2125179
6/14/78
2/23/76
1/15/76
4/18/74
8/18/73
6/27/73
4/24/73
4/12/73
10/28/72

917172
914172
914172
712172
5123172
4/15/72
12/1/71
917171
7/13171
517/71
3/31171/
2/20/71

Grade
Pre-school
K
1
1
2
4
4
6
6
6
6
6
7
8
7
7
7
7
7
8
8
9
9
9
9

Boys
Knight, Randy
Amaya, John
Abbott, Joe
Smale, Rick
Williams, David
Anderson, Cap
Breeding, Daniel
Rook, Larry
McCullough, Mark
Reyes, Michael

137

Age
15
15
15
15.5
15.5
16.5
17
17
17
17

Lodge and Number
Metropolitan No. 352
Hollywood No. 355
Anaheim No. 207
Hollywood No. 355
South West No. 283
Oroville No. 103
Turlock No. 395
The Gardens No. 621
Glendale No. 554
Palm Springs No. 693

Birthdate
8/14/70
417/70
11/12/69
12/12/68
9/8/68
8/31/68
8/27/68
6/1168

Grade
10
9
10
10
10
11
12
12
12
12

5

San Marino No. 685
Palisades No. 637
Alameda No. 167
Guadalupe No. 237
Canoga No. 611
Garden Grove No. 586
Seafaring No. 708
Hollywood No. 355
West Los Angeles No. 373
Menorah No. 623
Hollywood No. 355
Mount Olive No. 506
La Mirada No. 778
Eagle Rock No. 422
Baldwin Park No. 660
Lemon Grove No. 736
San Gabriel No. 278
Hollywood No. 355
La Mirada No. 778
Eagle Rock No. 422

8/31/80
3/20/78
12/10/77
7/27/76
12/27/75
8/4/74
12/4/73
9/4/71
9/1/71
4/18/71
3/27/71
3/15/71
7/8/70
2/17170
11/8/69
7/7/69
8/19/68
7/1/68
4/6/68
2/25/68

K
2
2
4
4
6
6
8
8
9
9
9
10
10
11
11
12
12
12
12

South West No. 283
Hollywood No. 355
San Gabriel No. 278
Palisades No. 637

12/22/65
7/3/66
4/26/66
12/31/66

REUNITED WITH THEIR FAMILY
Quintanilla, Oskar
6
Hollywood No. 355
Rock, Gary
14
La Mirada No. 778
Dort, Chris
15
East Whittier No. 776
Knighten, David
16.5
Seafaring No. 708
Wenschel, Jennifer
7
East Whittier No. 776
Dort, Sheryl
13
East Whittier No. 776
Riggs, Helene
15
Fullerton No. 339

1/15/79
6/21/71
3/21/70
9/18/68
6/ 13/78
6/23/72

Girls
Suarez, Heather
Ogren, Melissa
Spangler, Nichole
Vaughn, Michele
Westra, Brandy
Bernstein, Nicole
Bowen, Jeneise
Amaya, Rosemary
Feeney, Katrina
Arnold, Tobie
Smale, Marla
Gallucci, Brandi
Rock, Deanna
Martin, Cassie
Elmore, Vicky
Burge, Michelle
Kettenhofen, Jessica
Smale, Audra
Rock, Edna
Martin, Cheryl

7.5
7.5
9

9.5
11
11.5
14
14
14.5
14.5
14.5
15
15.5
15.5
16
17
17
17.5
• 17.5

REACHED MATURITY
Williams, Don
19.5
Smale, Eric
18.5
Kettenhofen, Robert
18.5
Balsamo, Flora
18.5

5128170
518170

215170

Our current population consists of 35 boys and 20 girls, for a total of 55.
Our youngest child is four years of age and the oldest is seventeen. We'll have
12 elementary school students, 18 junior high students and 25 high school
students. Our children attend the public schools in the Charter Oak School
District.
I anticipate that applications for admission to the Masonic Home for
Children will increase. There must be more than the 55 children now at the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home, in dire need of care. Your Home is prepared to seve children who need
our Home.
I encourage you to read the annual report of our ltustees which will provide
more detailed information about our operations in Covina. Your trustees also
encourage you to personally visit your Masonic Homes. The following groups
within the Masonic family have visited the Masonic Home for Children this
past fiscal year:

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

138

Visitations
Lodges
Job's Daughters
Rainbow Assemblies
DeMolay
Shrine
Order of Eastern Star
Respectfully Submitted
JOHN A. ROSE, Administrator

52
8
8
4
2
2

139

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board is pleased to submit its 53rd
Annual Report covering the fiscal year ending June 30, 1985. Through the
enthusiasm and dedication of the Board Members and the continued commitment of the Brethren of this great Fraternity to the residents of our two
Homes, contributions to the Endowment Fund have well exceeded one and
one quarter million dollars.
INCOME FROM THE PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

Income from the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund amounted to
$5,074,389.34 which was transferred to the operating account of our two
Homes. This income is an extremely and vitally important factor in providing
the Homes' ltustees with the funds necessary to maintain the exceptionally
high quality of care and services afforded to the residents of both of our
Homes.
BEQUESTS, GIFTS AND MEMORIALS

$14,366.60 Bequest through Lamanda Park Carmelita No. 627
14,370.19 Bequest through Pasadena No. 272
10,715.22 Bequest through R. E. Dolley No. 616
40,000.00 Bequest through Amity No. 370
5,159.20 Bequest through Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392
3,561.71 Bequest through Clovis No. 417
1,438,314.,84 Other bequests directly to the Endowment Fund
12,289.03 Gifts from organizations and individuals
9,190.50 Memorial Contributions not credited to Lodges
$1,547,967.29 TITTAL
INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES
FOR HONOR ROLL ACHIEVEMENT

$1,422,367.64 Total Contributions
15.97 Average contribution per contributor
51.07 Percentage of members contributing
89,072 Members contributing
NITTE: We are pleased to report that, once again, over 51% of our membership chose to participate in this program. During the past year, the members of
the Endowment Board presented programs regarding our Homes and the services supported by our contributions to over 260 Lodges and other groups.
The film, "The Best Kept Secret:' has been viewed by over 7500 people. It is
hoped that more and more Brethren and Lodges will make MEMORIAL
CONTRIBUTIONS to the Endowment Fund as a way of paying tribute to a
special person.

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LODGES WITH LARGEST DOLLAR CONTRIBUTION

LODGES WITH GREATEST MEMBER PARTICIPATION

No. Lodge
Amount
35 San Diego ................. $13,221.38
1 Occidental-California ........ 11,431.80
348 San Bernardino ............. 11,006.13
623 Menorah .................. 10,630.00
594 Service .................... 10,064.35
403 Yerba Buena ................ 8,575.00
392 Henry Knox-Westlake ......... 7,881.00
520 Ionic ....................... 7,735.81
450 Van Nuys ................... 7,716.06

No. Lodge
Amount
139 Park-Crockett ............... 7,573.75
615 Hemet ..................... 7,428.25
442 Blackmer ...-................ 7,290.86
352 Metropolitan ................ 7.157.83
368 Jewel City .................. 7,122.00
349 Sequoia-St. Elmo ............ 7,079.97
293 Orange Grove ............... 7,076.51
366 Las Palmas ................. 7,029.00
444 Carpinteria ................. 7,002.00

LODGES WITH LARGEST AVERAGE CoNTRIBUTION

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
444 Carpinteria ................... $38.69
780 Riviera ....................... 34.21
179 Mendocino .................... 21.66
538 Ascot ........................ 20.86
616 R.E. Dolley ................... 20.07
127 Hermann ..................... 19.86
498 Stockton ...................... 18.92
778 La Mirada ..................... 18.87
594 Service ....................... 18.53
476 Coachella ..................... 18.13
472 Lodge Maui ................... 17.06
625 Angeles Mesa .................. 16.60
776 East Whittier .................. 16.50
440 Standard ...................... 16.20
462 Paul Revere .................... 16.09
567 Searchlight Alta Loma .......... 16.08
835 Half Moon Bay ................ 15.98
293 Orange Grove .................. 15.94
540 Queen Beach .................. 15.69
422 Eagle Rock .................... 15.68
798 Ashland ...................... 15.32
813 Old West ...................... 14.90
637 Palisades ...................... 14.79
191 Marin ........................ 14.59
441 Coronado ..................... 14.55
273 Anchor ....................... 14.41
379 Fillmore ...................... 14.40
300 Redlands ...................... 14.36
247 Fresno ........................ 14.35
376 Francis Drake .................. 14.34
367 South Pasadena ................ 14.30
139 Park-Crockett ................. 14.26
378 Mizpah ....•.................. 14.21
512 Palms-Adams .................. 14.06
663 Ojai .......................... 13.84
392 Henry Knox-Westlake ........... 13.68

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
403 Yerba Buena ................... 13.61
548 1\"iangle ....................... 13.60
828 Tustin ........................ 13.60
578 Progressive .................... 13 .56
621 The Gardens ................... 13.53
806 Simi Valley .................... 13.49
307 Santa Monica .................. 13.48
589 Kauai. ........................ 13.47
452 San Pasqual ................... 13.31
419 Upland ....................... 13.27
820 Mar Vista ..................... 13.13
580 Santa Maria ................... 13.10
327 Long Beach ................... 12.90
543 Signal ........................ I2.75
1 Occidental-California ........... 12.69
768 l.enith ........................ 12.67
394 University ..................... 12.63
352 Metropolitan .................. 12.54
348 San Bernardino ................ 12.48
194 Mountain View ................ 12.46
322 Alhambra ..................... 12.38
627 Lamanda Park Carmelita ........ 12.28
824 Camarillo ..................... 12.28
467 Culver City-Foshay ............. 12.21
192 Santa Barbara ................. 12.17
383 Orosi ......................... 12.15
717 Wayfarer ...................... 12.11
506 Mount Olive ................... 12.11
645 A.F.E. Irwin ................... 12.11
735 Oasis of Mara .................. 12.10
614 Atwater Larchmont ............. 12.20
202 Pentalpha ..................... 12.09
825 Gemini ....................•.. 12.07
557 Hermosa-Manhattan ........... 12.05
699 Bixby Knolls Neptune ........... 12.05
801 Koolau ....................... 12.04

Percentage
of Members
No. Lodge
Contributing
230 North Butte .................. 100.00
313 Tehachapi .................... 100.00
247 Fresno ....................... 100.00
123 Sotoyome .................... 100.00
379 Fillmore ..................... 100.00
741 l}'re ......................... 100.00
825 Gemini ...................... 100.00
625 Angeles Mesa ................. 100.00
127 Hermann .................... 100.00
763 Arabic ....................... 100.00
424 Exeter ....................... 100.00
476 Coachella .................... 100.00
780 Riviera ...................... 100.00
776 East Whittier ................. 100.00
472 Lodge Maui ................... 97.08
317 Fallbrook ..................... %.80
609 Provident ..................... 95.18
658 Livingston .................... 94.48
57 Santa Rosa .................... 91.62
236 Hills Ferry ..................... 91.23
286 Paso Robles ................... 90.00
771 Mission Bay ................... 89.96
233 Calistoga ..................... 89.89
273 Anchor ....................... 89.11
144 Oriental ...................... 87.77
594 Service ....................... 87.48
396 Apollo-Woodstock ............. 86.64
729 Centennial .................... 86.21
778 La Mirada ... ~- ................ 85.10
65 Amador ...................... 84.91
295 Mount Jackson ................ 84.69
801 Koolau ....................... 84.02

141

Percentage
of Members
No. Lodge
Contributing
lll Chico ........................ 83.46
41 Martinez ...................... 83.43
6% Crossroads .................... 83 .11
164 Harmony ..................... 82.22
557 Hermosa-Manhattan ............ 81.87
51 Illinoistown .................... 81.16
135 Valley ........................ 80.95
181 Russian River .................. 80.65
344 Starr King ..................... 80.54
579 Warren G. Harding ............. 79.61
80 Ione .......................... 79.07
695 Meudell-Oildale ................ 79.05
463 Morgan Hill ................... 79.04
368 Jewel City ..................... 78.75
784 Leland Stanford ................ 78.53
538 Ascot •....................... 78.53
444 Carpinteria .................... 77 .90
279 Hanford ...................... 77.84
590 Compass ...................... 77.78
186 Evening Star ................... 77 .36
3 Tehama ....................... 77 .20
799 Clairmont Mesa ................ 76.61
404 Glendora ..................... 76.34
504 Seaside ....................... 75.99
209 King David's .................. 75.79
95 Henry Clay .................... 75.53
411 Perris ........................ 75.50
748 Highland ..................... 75.31
195 Landmark-Buckeye ............. 75.30
248 Alturas ....................... 75.22
147 Eel River ...................... 75.00
161 Keystone ...................... 75.00

LODGES WITH LARGEST AVERAGE CONTRIBUTION PER MEMBER
1980 THROUGH 1985

Year
No.
Lodge
1985
444
Carpinteria ......................................... .
1984
444
Carpinteria ......................................... .
1983
392
Henry Knox-Westlake ................................ .
1982
369
Ocean Park ......................................... .
1981
625
Angeles Mesa ....................................... .
1980
307
Santa Monica ....................................... .
•Includes bequest to Lodge of $67,938.15 in 1983.

Average
Contribution
$38.69
40.36
111.87•
25.53
35.39
29.01

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

142

The following Districts averaged $11.00 through $14.99 per member:

COMPARISON OF CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LODGES
1980 THROUGH 1985

Year
1985
1984
1983
1982
1981
1980

l..<Jdge's Yearly
Contributions
$1,422,367 .64
1,500,203.10
1,489,266.82
1,303,006.52
1,259,370.86
1,200,827 .35

Contributing
Members
89,072
92,355
90,341
92,046
92,482
92,939

Average
Contribution
Per Contributor
$15.97
16.24
16.48
14.16
13.62
12.92

Percentage of Total
Membership
Total
Membership Contributing
51.07
174,423
51.43
179,575
49.02
184,300
48.82
188,533
47.89
193,134
197,874
46.96

RECOGNITION OF INSPECTORAL CORPS
Our thanks to the Grand Lecturer, the Assistant Grand Lecturers and to the
Inspectors for their continuing support of the Homes Endowment Program.

DISTRICTS ACHIEVING 60% OR GREATER
MEMBER PARTICIPATION AND THEIR INSPECTORS
Percentage
District Inspector
100.00
Rudolf T. Christians
378
89.40
Garvin E. Montgomery
431
76.72
Richard J. Bingle
610
Frederick Tillmannshofer 75.24
107
74.03
Edward P. Margherio
116
73 .17
Harold E. Fisher
438
70.58
Wade C. Burchell
694
Benjamin B. Hagans
68.60
426
67.33
William Monroe
609
67.11
Louie C. Ondo
712
George W. Pike
66.34
572
65.96
Jean L. Iribarren
376
65 .75
Sam Jaber, Jr.
224
65.40
James E. Smith
216
65.14
Roy E. Roswurm
626

District Inspector
Floyd B. Robertson
532
Melvin K. Tallon
605
Harold L. Swank
220
HalG. Scott
639
Rodger J. Page
166
James R. Davis
340
Howard E. Moore
210
Rodney H . Davis
624
John H. Spittler
101
James A. Boland
108
Camil Lewis
688
CarlC . Lau
524
Carl M. Wilensky
636
Donald D. Updegraff
215
Dan H. Wasson
320

HONOR DISTRICTS AND THEIR INSPECTORS
The following Districts averaged $15.00 or more per member:
District
378

Inspector
Rudolf T . Christians

District
572

Inspector
George W. Pike

Percentage
64.96
64.89
64.67
64.57
64.24
64.09
63.58
62.66
62.46
62.42
62.37
62.36
61.82
61.37
60.86

District Inspector
Roy E. Roswurm
626
Robert M. Davenport
508
Samuel E. Harris
534
Adam Armstrong
574
607
Derrick E. Kleiman

District Inspector
532
Floyd B. Robertson
625
John R. Nelson
624
Rodney H. Davis
634
Robert L. Young
688
Camil Lewis

The following Districts averaged $9.00 through $10.99:
District
524
161
530
168
546
680
605
622
114
368
152
512
639
608
632
606
554
338

Inspector
Carle. Lau
Walter A. Thompson
Vernon M. Dandridge
Earl Williams
Jacques C. Bourguignon
Richard B. Woods
Melvin K. Tallon
William F. Stovall, Jr.
W. Frank Postmus
J. W. Carl
Loyal L. Stark
Francis A. Russell, Jr.
Hal G. Scott
Donald D. Jones
David R. Oltman
Arthur R. Lockhart
David R. Patterson
George P. Leung

.

District
542
333
629
120
642
640
592
716
167
364
694
564
438
602
216
370
334
320

Inspector
Ralph M. Fellows
Louis Becker
Edward F. Roberts
James D. Hansen
William Murdoch
Henry M. Kirkland
Malcolm D. Maccallum
RoyT. Ota
Paul F. Leong
Paul D. Hennig
Wade C. Burchell
Charles K. Schertle
Harold E. Fisher
John W. Ditto, Jr.
James E. Smith
Arthur A. Pasquinelli
John D. Santisteven
Dan H. Wasson

The following Districts averaged $7.00 through $8.99 per member:
District Inspector
Allen L. Ellithorpe
633
Robert C. Byer
686
Rodger J . Page
166
Benjamin B. Hagans
426
John H. Vanden Bos
158
Samuel Rosen
544
Terence K. Rhind
616
Carl R. Krohn
518
Harold A. Macy
504
August D. Collier
372
536
Warren T. Buschmann
Bertha) J . Hartman
330
Donald W. Maltby
520
Richard Vickers
620
528
Lester R. Carlston
594
Walter R. Bergener, Jr.
500
Wilfred W. Partridge
Delbert N. Wade
102
118
Donald F. Darrow
James R. Davis
340

District
646
630
704
603
637
708
ISO
516
568
220
712
540
392
107
215
636
218
224
374
570

Inspector
John S. Felt
Roy W. Behnke
William K. McKee
David G. Parmelee
John P . Gibson
Albert S. Farias
Jack R. Forseth
William W. Dickson
George E. Harrison
Harold L. Swank
Louie C. Ondo
Arthur Hernandez
James F. Myron
Frederick Tillmannshofer
Donald D. Updegraff
Carl M. Wilensky
Parise Voudouris
Sam Jaber, Jr.
Thomas P. Chamberlain
Gaylord V. Roten

143

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

144
District Inspector
William Monroe
609
John B. Bennett, Jr.
684
John W. Paulson, Jr.
306
Edwin A. Robinson
614
Robert N. Rouch
424
Clinton 0. Dillon
538
Dick I. Bega
576
Albert F. Koula
365
Donald E. Strand
344

District Inspector
Ian D. Atkinson
510
Robert L. Henson
212
Richard J. Bingle
610
Arthur Porter
110
John H. Spittler
IOI
Stanley J. Salter
696
Nathan Landsberg
566
Doyal G. Steel
628

The following Districts averaged $5.00 to 6.99 per member:

District Inspector
William H . Murphy
418
Paul T. Hodiak
638
Edward P. Margherio
116
Robert D. Gallareto
621
Raymond E. Dias
422
Richard B. Carter
550
James R. Vaughan
522
Thomas G. McKinney
502
Charles S. Bersani
416
John C. Carpenter, Jr.
430
Arthur E. Weir
222
Maurice J . Norton
558
David H. Elder
219
James A. Boland
108
William S. Van DeWeghe
590
William C. Armstrong
404
Charles G. Knight, Jr.
644
Alvin N. Schmitz
612
Kenneth 0. Leverton
390
Fred Roel, Jr.
394
Stanley E. Jacobs
436

District Inspector
James E. Vance
169
Kenneth W. Gledhill
388
Howard E. Moore
210
James D. Milliken
601
Josh D. Hacker
208
RalphE. Enz
635
Garvin E. Montgomery
431
Harold D. Norton
247
Robert S. Watanabe
217
Mervin R. Moe
JOO
Gene R. Lazard
244
Jean L. Iribarren
376
Marion H. Hickey
104
Robert L. Bright
402
Richrd B. Weringer
428
Charles H. Alexander
246
Carroll J . Davis
214
412
TommyD. Cox
John T. Kelley
437
Louis W. Jelinek, Jr.
414
William 0 . Rose
211

HONOR ROLL TABS AND CERTIFICATES
For those Lodges which have attained Honor Roll status of $5.00 or more
average per member, tabs will be presented to the Lodge following the Annual
Communication, by a member of the Endowment Board. For those Lodges
which have attained Honor Roll status for the first time, certificates and tabs
will be presented in like manner.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

145

MASONIC LODGE HONOR ROLL
The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by average member
contributions of $15.00 or more per member:

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
444 Carpinteria .. . . . ..... .. .. ..... $38.69
780 Riviera ....... .... . . . . ... . .... 34.21
179 Mendocino .. . ......... .. . ... . . 21.66
538 Ascot .. ........... . . . ....... . 20.86
616 R.E. Dolley . . .............. . .. 20.07
127 Hermann ....... . . ..... .... . . . 19.86
498 Stockton ........... . . .. .. . .. . . 18.92
778 La Mirada ................ . .... 18.87
594 Service ....................... 18.53
476 Coachella . .. . . . . . .. . .. . ..... .. 18.13
472 Lodge Maui . ............. . . ... 17.06

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
625 Angeles Mesa ............. . ... . 16.60
776 East Whittier ............ ... . .. 16.50
440 Standard ... . . . ... . . .... . .. . . .. 16.20
462 Paul Revere . .. . . .. . ..... . .. . . .. 16.09
567 Searchlight Alta Loma ..... .. . . . 16.08
835 Half Moon Bay . .. . .. . . ........ 15.98
293 Orange Grove . . . .. ............. 15.94
540 Queen Beach ...... . ........... 15.69
422 Eagle Rock ............. . ... ... 15.68
798 Ashland . .. .. . .......... . . .. .. 15.32

The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by average member
contributions of $11.00 through $14.99 per member:

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
813 Old West ... . . .... . . ...... . . . . $14.90
637 Palisades . . . . . . . ... . .......... . 14.79
191 Marin . .. ....... . ..... . . . ... . . 14.59
441 Coronado ........... . ... . .... . 14.55
273 Anchor ... ... ........ . ........ 14.41
379 Fillmore .. . .. .. . .. .... .. . ... . . 14.40
300 Redlands . . .. .. . . . ... .. .. ..... . 14.36
247 Fresno .. . . .... ~ ..... .. . ....... 14.35
376 Francis Drake ........... . .. .... 14.34
367 South Pasadena.... . .. ..... . .... 14.30
139 Park-Crockett .... . .. .. . ....... 14.26
378 Mizpah . . ... .. . ... .. . .. ... .... 14.21
512 Palms-Adams ........ .. .. ...... 14.06
663 Ojai .. .. .. .. . . . ... ... . ....... . 13.84
392 Henry Knox-Westlake . . . . . . .. . . . 13.68
403 Yerba Buena . ...... .. .. . ....... 13.61
548 Triangle ............ . . . ........ 13.60
828 Tustin ............... . ..... .. . 13.60
578 Progressive .. . . ...... .. . . ..... . 13.56
621 The Gardens .... . .... . ..... .... 13.53
806 Simi Valley ........... .... . .... 13.49
307 Santa Monica .... . ....... ...... 13.48
589 Kauai .... .. ........ ........... 13.47
452 San Pasqual . ........ . . ........ 13.31
419 Upland . .. ...... . .. . ... ....... 13.27
820 Mar Vista ....... . . . ... . ... .... 13.13
580 Santa Maria . . ............ ..... 13.10
327 Long Beach . . . . .. . .. .. . .. . ... . 12.90
543 Signal ..................... . .. 12.75
1 Occidental-California . . ...... . .. 12.69
768 Zenith ............... . . . .... . . 12.67
394 University ..................... 12.63
352 Metropolitan ... ..... .. . . .. .... 12.54

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
348 San Bernardino .... . . ... . . .. . . . 12.48
194 Mountain View .. .. .. . .. . ... . . . 12.46
322 Alhambra ..................... 12.38
627 Lamanda Park Carmelita ....... . 12.28
824 Camarillo ...... .. ....... . ..... 12.28
467 Culver City-Foshay .... .. .. . . ... 12.21
192 Santa Barbara . . ... . ........ .. . 12.17
383 Orosi ........ .. . .. . ... .. ... . .. 12.15
717 Wayfarer . . .... .......... . . . .. . 12.11
506 Mount Olive ................. . . 12.11
645 A.F.E. Irwin . ............ . .... . 12.11
735 Oasis of Mara ... . ....... . ..... . 12.10
614 Atwater Larchmont .. . . . .. .. .... 12.10
202 Pentalpha . . ..... .. . . . ..... .. . . 12.09
825 Gemini . .. . . . . . . .. . .. . ...... . . 12.07
557 Hermosa-Manhattan .. . ........ 12.05
699 Bixby Knolls Neptune .......... . 12.05
801 Koolau ....... . ........ . .. . ... 12.04
615 Hemet .... . ..... . . . . . . . ....... 11.98
224 Bakersfield ... . . . .. . . .... .. ... . 11.95
461 Columbia . . . . . ......... . ... .. . 11.92
504 Seaside .. . .... .. . . . ......... . . 11.89
259 Evergreen . . ................... 11.86
423 Florence .. . ................ ... 11.82
719 Estero ... .... . ........... .. ... 11.71
612 Camellia .... . .... . . ... . . . . . . .. 11.66
218 Mosaic . . .. . . . . . .. . ... . . ...... 11.64
593 All States . ....... ... . .... .. . . . . 11.63
351 Fountain Valley . .. . .. .......... 11.59
618 Southland Heritage .. ....... . . . . 11.54
406 Burbank .. .. .................. 11.52
483 Bell ........ . . . .... . ....... .. . ll.48
818 Great Lights .... . . ... . ......... 11.45

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. Lodge

Average
Contribution

3 Tehama ........ ... ....... ... .. ll.4S
574 S.W. Hackett ... .. . . ..... ..... .. 11.40
13S Valley ... .. ... ..... .. ........ . . 11.37
120 Fidelity .. .. . . . . ... . ... . ..... . . I l.3S
349 Sequoia-St. Elmo . . . .. . ..... .... 11.26
720 Mineral King ..... . ........ .. .. 11.24
272 Pasadena . ...... ... ........ .... 11.21
3S San Diego .... . ..... . ...... . .. . 11 .20
SIO Cupertino .. . ... . . . .. . ... . . .... 11.19
9S Henry Clay .... . . .... ..... . . .. . 11.16

No. Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Average
Contribution

S02 Harbor ...... .... ...... .... . . . 11.16
397 Rising Light ... . . .. .... . .. .... . 11.12
S33 Azure .. ~ . . .. .. . .. .. . .. ..... . .. 11.12
814 Plaza De Los Angeles ......... . . 11.09
710 Anacapa . . ... .... . . .... .... ... II.OS
676 Willow Glen ... . ......... . ..... 11.04
480 Acalanes-Fellowship .... . . ..... . 11.00
S44 Glendale . ... . . . ... . ..... . ..... 11.00
122 Alamo ... ...... . . . ... .. . . . .. . . 11.00
37S Brotherhood .. ..... . . .... .... .. 11.00

The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by average member
contributions of $9.00 through $10.99 per member:
No. Lodge

Average
Contribution

380 Huntington Beach ... .. .. . . .... $10.97
674 Los Cerritos .. . . .... . . . . .. . . . . . 10.93
40S Moneta . . ...... . . . ........ .. .. 10.89
696 Crossroads . . . . ....... .... ..... 10.87
807 Conejo Valley . . ........ . ...... . 10.82
448 Mount Diablo .. . . . .. ..... .. . . . 10.82
S77 Sunnyside . . .... ..... ...... ... . 10.82
7S8 West Covina .. .... ...... ....• .. 10.7S
542 North Hollywood ..... ... . . .... I0.7S
72S Saint John's .... . .. .. ... .. ..... 10.73
373 West Los Angeles ... . . .. ... . .. . . 10.71
S28 Beverly Hills ...... .• ........ ... 10.68
42S Holtville ..... ..... ..... ..... .. 10.63
244 Alcatraz . . ....... . . . ......... . IO.S6
324 Corona . ..... . . . . ..... .. . . .... IO.S3
329 Vallee de France .. . . ....... ... .. IO.S2
607 Sojourner ... . .. .... ...... . . .. . IO.SO
S88 El Sereno .. ... ...... .. ..... . .. 10.47
442 Blackmer ............. .. ...... 10.40
287 Winnedumah .. . .. . .. . ... .. . ... I0.3S
3S6 Mill Valley ... . . .. ........ .. ... 10.34
283 South West ..... ..... .. ....... . 10.32
790 Granada Hills ...... .... .. . .... 10.20
400 Burlingame .... . . . ....... . .. . .. 10.18
S8 Union . .. .... .... . . ....... .... 10.17
678 Altadena-Mt. Wilson ..... . . .. .. IO.IS
22S San Leandro-Brooklyn .. . . . . .. . . IO.IS
701 Santa Ynez Valley .. . . . ... . ...... IO.IS
278 San Gabriel-Southern Cal .. . .. . .. 10.14
S60 Plymouth .... ..... ....... ..... IO.II
691 Indian Wells Valley . ..... . . ... .. IO.II
Sll Sunnyvale . .. . .. . . . ............ 10.09
323 Whittier . .... ... .... .. . . .... .. 10.08
399 Fraternity . ...... . .. . ..... . . .. . 10.01
436 Claremont ..... ... ........ .. .. 10.00
411 Perris . . ... ... . ... .. .... . .. . .. . 10.00
209 King David's ...... .. .... . ..• . .. 9.99
47S America ... . . . ........ ... .... .. 9.98
428 San Dimas ....... . . . ...... .. . . . 9.97

No. Lodge

Average
Contribution

233 Calistoga .. . . . . . . . .... . . . ..... . 9.94
296 Silver Gate . . .. ... ........ .. .. . . 9.94
437 Lancaster ... . . ... ., ..... . .. .. . . . 9.90
368 Jewel City .... . . .... .. .. . . ... . .. 9.89
317 Fallbrook ...................... 9.89
632 Normal Heights .. . .. .. . . . . . . .. .. 9.88
362 Charity .. . .. . . ..... .... ..... . .. 9.88
128 Visalia . ... .......... ... .... .... 9.81
346 Palo Alto .. .. . . .... .. . . ..... ... 9.7S
746 Soquel. . . . . . . ............ . .. . .. 9.74
S21 Orinda .. .... ... . . . . .. ....... . . 9.74
767 William Rhodes Hervey .. . . . . . ... 9.73
198 Wilmington . ... ... ..... ..... ... 9.72
331 Pacific Grove ... . . . ... . ...... . .. 9.72
431 Alpha Shattuck-Stephens ......... 9.66
604 Jubilee . ..... .... . . ..... .... . . . 9.62
369 Ocean Park . . . ...... ....... . ... 9.60
6SS Monte Vista .. . .... .. .. ....... .. 9.S8
60S Glassell Park ........... . ..... . . 9.S6
308 Monrovia .... . . .... ... ....... .. 9.S4
740 Opportunity . . .. ..... ..... . ..... 9.S4
402 Brawley . ..... . ... .. .. . . . . ..... . 9.S2
799 Clairmont Mesa . .. . ... .. ...... . . 9.S2
728 Lakewood . .. . ........ .. . . .. . . .. 9.SO
800 Rio Hondo ... . .. .. .. .. .. ...... . 9.49
623 Menorah .... . . ... . . ..... . ...... 9.48
712 Los Altos .. . . ... . . . ... .. .. .. .. . 9.47
396 Apollo-Woodstock ..... .. ....... 9.47
112 Summit. ... . .... . . .. .. ........ . 9.46
804 Moreno Valley ... . ..... . . .... .. . 9.43
418 Elysian ... . . . . .... . .. .... ... ... 9.39
181 Russian River . . . . . . . . .. .. . ..... . 9.37
371 Le Progres de COceanie ... ... ... . 9.3S
4SI Montebello ..... . . .. ... . . ....... 9.32
301 Ontario ...... . . .... ...... . ..... 9.29
222 Roseville .. ... .... . . .. . . ..... ... 9.28
302 Santa Lucia . .. ..... . ........... 9.25
446 West Covina-La Puente .. . . ... ... 9.20
226 San Mateo .... .... .... . .. .... .. 9 .19

No. Lodge

Average
Contribution

S79 Warren G. Harding . . . .. . . ... . . .. 9.16
61 Live Oak . ..... .... . . .. . ... .. ... 9.IS

No. Lodge

147
Average
Contribution

702 Rosemead .... ... .. . .. . .. ... .... 9.03

The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by average member
contributions of $7 .00 through $8.99 per member:
No. Lodge

Average
Contribution

243 Eucalyptus .... ... . . ....... . .... 8.99
761 Josiah W. Roller ... ... . ... .... . . 8.98
12 Yount . . . .. . ...... . . . ... ... .. . . 8.9S
617 Big Bear .. .. .. . .... ...... .. ... . 8.94
724 San Ramon Valley ... ...... .. .... 8.94
427 Chino Valley .. . . ... ..... . . ..... . 8.93
6SI Menlo Park ... . . . . .. ..... . . ... . 8.91
299 Liberty . . .............. .. ..... . 8.91
S03 Point ...... .. . . ..... ... .... . . .. 8.89
78 Calaveras ... ...... . . ...... .. ... 8.89
236 Hills Ferry .... ... .. . .... ..... .. 8.86
334 Covina . .. .. .......... ... . . . ... 8.84
443 Schofield . .... . ......... .. . . ... 8.79
134 Vacaville .. . . ... .. . .. . ... ..... .. 8. 79
421 Inglewood-James Kew ...... . . .. .. 8. 79
648 Damascus . . . . . . . ..... .. .. . .... . 8.78
347 McKinley •......... . .......•..• 8.77
384 El Centro ... ... . . . .. .... .. . .. .. 8. 76
68S San Marino .... ... ..... .. . .... . 8.7S
447 Torrance . . ..... ... ...... .... . .. 8.74
714 Blue Lakes .... . ... . .. .. .... .. .. 8. 74
626 Chula Vista . ... : . ......... . .... 8.74
6S4 Jordan-Golden Bowl. . .. .. .... . .. 8. 72
212 South San Francisco . ..... . . .. ... 8. 70
680 Carmel .. . .. ... ... ..... ........ 8.64
789 Oak Plains . . ............ . ... .. . 8.60
169 Mission-Golden West . . ... ...... . 8.60
370 Amity . . .... .. ... .. ...... ..... . 8.S9
10 San Jose ..... ........ .... .... .. 8.S8
748 Highland . .... .. .. . .. ... ..... . . 8.S6
1S3 Lawndale ... . .... . ...... . ..... . 8.SI
SO Forbestown .... . .... ...... .. . . .. 8.49
666 Reseda ........ ... . . ...... ... .. 8.48
242 Magnolia . ... ... .... .... ..... .. 8.47
U.D. Joseph L. Shell Daylight .. .. .... . 8.45
826 Palm Desert ....... . .. .. .. . ..... 8.44
366 Las Palmas .... .. . . ..... .. . ... . 8.41
71S Magnolia Park ...... ....... .. .. 8.39
677 Liberal Arts .. ..... .. . .. ..... . .. 8.39
372 Gardena ....... . ......... . ..... 8.34
33 Ophir .... ..... ..... ..... ... . .. 8.29
200 Truckee ........ ... ....... .. . . . 8.28
214 San Buenaventura .. . .. ... .... . . . 8.2S
SOS Silver Cord ...... . ....... . .... . . 8.19
144 Oriental .. ... ..... .. ........... 8.19
S8S Manchester ... ....... .... .... .. 8.14

No. Lodge

Average
Contribution

S98 Pearl Harbor .... . ...... . . .... .. 8.14
13 Nevada ....... . . . . . . ... .... . . .. 8.13
264 Hesperian .. ........... .. ....... 8. 10
497 Fremont . .. ... . ... . . .. .... .. . . . 8.0S
424 Exeter .. ...... .. .. . .... .. . . .... 8.03
143 Franklin .... . .. . . .. .... ..•.. ... 8.02
613 Three Pillars .. .... ... ....... . .. 8.02
713 Castro Valley ............ . ..... . 7.99
7S2 Luther Burbank .. . . ....... . .... 7.98
S47 Arcadia ...... ... ....... ...... . 7 .97
220 Downey .. . . . .... . . ... . . .. ... . . 7 .96
290 Fellowship . . ...... . . ... .... .. .. 7.9S
SS2 Semper Virens ... . .. . .......... . 7 .9S
393 Balder .... .... ... ... .. ... ... ... 7. 9S
64 Natoma ...... ..... .... ... . ... . 7.94
690 San Carlos .. ...... .... .. . . ... .. 7.93
131 Woodbridge ...•.. . ....... . ..... 7.93
3SS Hollywood .... .. .. . . ...... . . . .. 7.90
123 Sotoyome ... . .. . . ... .. . . ... . . .. 7. 90
6S9 La Habra ... ..... ...... ..... .. . 7 .88
321 Alisal .. ...... . .......... . ... .. 7.88
647 Hawthorne . ....... .. ..... . ..... 7 .86
87 Naval . .. ..... .... .. .. .. .. . .. .. 7 .8S
SS Suisun . .. ..... .... ...... ... . . .. 7.84
709 Lorenzo . .... . . .. . . . .. . ... . .... 7 .83
629 Westminster Fairview ............ 7.82
286 Paso Robles .. ...... .... .. . . .. .. 7.81
4SO Van Nuys ...... .... .... .. . ... .. 7.81
494 Acorn .. . . . . . . . ... . . ...... .. .. . 7.81
193 Ferndale ...... .... . ... .. .. .... . 7.80
80 Ione .... . ............. . ... . . . . 7.78
739 La Canada-Oakwood ... . ... . .. .. 7. 78
167 Alameda ....... .. ........ ... ... 7.77
30 Golden Gate Speranza . .. ... . .. .. 7. 77
186 Evening Star .......... .. ....... 7.7S
7S9 El Rancho . ...... . .. ... .... . ... 7.7S
609 Provident. .... .... ..... . . .. .... 7. 73
44S Golden Gavel. .... . . . . .. . . . . . .. . 7. 72
779 Five Points . . . . . .... . . . .. . ..... . 7.71
668 San Gorgonio .... . .. . . . .... .. .. 7. 70
294 Clarence L. Fraser . . . . . ........ . 7. 70
237 Guadalupe .... ..... ..... ... .... 7.70
672 Laguna Beach ........ .. .. .. ... . 7. 70
93 St. Helena ....... .. ........ ... . 7. 70
221 Inyo . ......... .. ... . .. .. ... ... 7.64
166 San Francisco Educator . .. .. .. . . . 7 .63

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
493 Atascadero ..................... 7.61
161 Keystone ....................... 7.61
56 Volcano ........................ 7.60
229 Solano ........................ 7.60
469 Yorba Linda .................... 7.58
771 Mission Bay .................... 7.57
523 Bellflower-Paramount ........... 7.56
40 Sacramento .................... 7.55
556 Fairfax ........................ 7.55
381 Oceanside ...................... 7.54
180 Petaluma ...................... 7.53
279 Hanford ....................... 7.53
661 Malta .......................... 7.51
401 Bay View ....................... 7.51
716 Belmont Shore .................. 7.50
590 Compass ................ , ...... 7.47
711 Rim of the World ............... 7.47
791 General Henry H. Arnold ........ 7.44
810 Victoria Palms .................. 7.43
576 El Cajon Valley ................. 7.43
409 Honolulu ...................... 7.43
786 Rio Linda ...................... 7.42
325 Consuelo ...................... 7.42
635 Riverside ....................... 7.40

Average
Contribution
No. Lodge
769 Palmdale ...................... 7.38
686 El Cerrito-Albany ............... 7.38
457 Monteray Park .................. 7.35
811 Woodland Hills ................. 7.31
687 Vista .......................... 7.30
267 Galt. .......................... 7.27
520 Ionic .......................... 7.24
407 La Mesa ....................... 7.24
757 Channel ....................... 7.24
19 San Joaquin .................... 7.21
644 Lomita ........................ 7.20
751 Hamilton ...................... 7.17
337 Pinole-Carquinez ................ 7.15
38 Santa Cruz ..................... 7.11
404 Glendora ....................... 7.11
57 Santa Rosa ..................... 7.09
726 Yucaipa ........................ 7.08
435 George Washington .............. 7.08
815 Mount Baldy ................... 7.07
551 Tri Square ...................... 7.06
652 Crescenta Valley ................. 7.04
113 Eden .......................... 7.03
387 Coalinga ....................... 7.03
391 East Belt ....................... 7.01

The following Lodges have attained Honor Roll status by average member
contributions of $5.00 through $6.99:
Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
201 Silveyville ..................... $6.97
756 Clayton Valley .................. 6.97
20 Washington .................... 6.95
463 Morgan Hill .................... 6.93
729 Centennial ..................... 6.92
282 Callayomi ...................... 6.92
147 Eel River. ...................... 6.91
693 Palm Springs ................... 6.89
344 Starr King ...................... 6.88
76 Bear Mountain ................. 6.88
682 Barstow ........................ 6.87
388 Parnassus-Presidio .•............ 6.83
796 Golden Valley ................... 6.83
260 King Solomon's Seaport .......... 6.81
656 Citrol ......................... 6.79
733 Golden Empire ................. 6.77
830 Bicenntennial Daylight ........... 6.77
535 Granada ....................... 6.76
208 Rio Vista ...................... 6.75
486 Caledonia ................•..... 6.74
173 Elk Grove ...................... 6.74
583 Wasco ......................... 6.70
228 Athens ........................ 6.69
586 Garden Grove .................. 6.69
146 Abell .......................... 6.66

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
140 Curtis ......................... 6.64
292 Los Gatos ...................... 6.64
326 Needles ........................ 6.64
582 Rialto ......................... 6.63
185 Claiborne ...................... 6.63
569 Chateau Thierry ................ 6.62
473 Blythe ......................... 6.59
188 Oakland-Durant-Rockridge ....... 6.58
210 Friendship ..................... 6.57
736 Lemon Grove ................... 6.57
482 Clarence F. Smith ............... 6.57
297 Dunsmuir ...................... 6.55
639 Composite ..................... 6.54
43 Hiram ......................... 6.53
670 Greenleaf ...................... 6.52
265 Orland ........................ 6.51
745 Peninsula ...................... 6.51
692 Travelers ....................... 6.50
754 San Pablo ...................... 6.49
211 San Benito ..................... 6.49
312 Los Banos ...................... 6.49
106 Arcata ......................... 6.47
246 Pomona ....................... 6.46
657 John D. Spreckles ............... 6.43
600 Lynwood ....................... 6.41

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
204 Salinas ............ . ........... 6.38
41 Martinez ....................... 6.36
722 George E. Tutt .................. 6.36
730 Polaris ........................ 6.35
81 Woodland ...................... 6.29
487 Vallejo ......................... 6.29
827 Kern River Valley ................ 6.29
305 Azusa ......................... 6.27
248 Alturas ........................ 6.25
529 Loyalty ........................ 6.23
377 Artesia ........................ 6.21
763 Arabic ......................... 6.20
389 Palos Verdes .................... 6.20
150 Molino ........................ 6.20
295 Mount Jackson ................. 6.18
466 Libertas ........................ 6.16
620 Point Loma .................... 6.15
262 Lompoc ........................ 6.14
187 Keith .......................... 6.14
485 Chowchilla ..................... 6.13
217 Monterey ....................... 6.12
207 Anaheim ....................... 6.12
518 La Jolla ........................ 6.11
314 Temescal ....................... 6.09
747 Claude H. Morrison ............. 6.08
26 El Dorado ...................... 6.08
103 Oroville ........................ 6.06
168 Redwood City .................. 6.06
408 Sierra Madre ................... 6.05
330 Kilauea ........................ 6.03
98 Hornitos ........................ 6.01
255 Welcome ....................... 6.01
572 Westchester United ............. . 5.99
280 Madera-Joppa .................. 5.99
415 Silver Trowel. ................... 5.98
51 Illinoistown .................... 5.96
718 San Lorenzo Valley ............. . 5.95
145 Vitruvius ...................... 5.93
5 Benicia ........................ 5.91
775 San Dieguito ................... 5.91
595 Tri . . . ........................ 5.90
16 Eureka ........................ 5.87
196 San Simeon .................... 5.86
256 Lodi .......................... 5.83
205 Olivet ......................... 5.81
732 San Juan ....................... 5.81
611 Canoga ........................ 5.80
333 Alta ........................... 5.76
653 Fontana ....................... 5.76
812 Triad .......................... 5.74
774 Waikiki ........................ 5.72
765 Dana R. Weller ................. 5.70
669 John P. Jarmon ................. 5.69
339 Fullerton ....................... 5.68

149

Average
No. Lodge
Contribution
230 North Butte .................... 5.68
254 Reading ....................... 5.64
46 Texas .......................... 5.64
269 Olive Branch ................... 5.63
65 Amador ....................... 5.62
332 Los Angeles Harbor ............. 5.62
760 Lakeside ....................... 5.61
795 American River ................ . 5.59
642 La Cumbre ..................... 5.58
592 Tujunga ....................... 5.53
195 Landmark-Buckeye ............. . 5.53
8 Tuolumne ...................... 5.53
507 El Segundo ..................... 5.53
454 Crocker ........................ 5.52
274 Arroyo ........................ 5.51
241 Santa Ana ..................... 5.50
429 Pittsburg ....................... 5.50
561 East San Diego ................. 5.44
203 Confidence ..................... 5.43
762 Coastside ...................... 5.43
328 Redondo ....................... 5.43
17 La Parfaite Union ............... 5.43
700 Ponderosa ...................... 5.41
IOI Clay ........................... 5.39
433 Hammonton ................... 5.37
417 Clovis ........................ . 5.35
277 Selma ........ . ............... . 5.35
Ill Chico ......................... 5.32
199 Hartley ........................ 5.30
479 Golden Rule .................... 5.28
679 Canby Cross .................... 5.25
178 Phoenix ....................... 5.24
524 Catalina Island ................. 5.24
499 Capital City .................... 5.24
591 Escalon ........................ 5.22
341 Oxnard ........................ 5.22
501 Westwood ...................... 5.18
596 Guardian ....................... 5.18
25 Georgetown .................... 5.17
808 Scepter ........................ 5.16
45 Crescent ....................... 5.14
335 West Gate ...................... 5.14
289 Elsinore ........................ 5.12
68 Morning Star ................... 5.12
683 Redwood Empire ................ 5.11
37 Howard ....................... . 5.09
365 Willits ......................... 5.08
802 Yucca Valley .................... 5.07
773 Tejon .......................... 5.07
660 Baldwin Park ................... 5.07
782 Silverado ....................... 5.06
459 Riverbank ...................... 5.05
695 Meudell-Oildale ................. 5.03

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

151

REPORT OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENDOWMENT FUND

No.
I
2
3

s
8
9
IO
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
23
24

2S
26
27
30
32
33

3S
37
38
40
41
42
43

4S
46
so
SI
SS
S6
S7
S8
S9
60
61
64
6S
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87

*Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
1985 Participation
Lodge Name
Membership Contrib. Contrib.
Members%
12,140.SO
Occidental-California ........ 901
11,431.80*
482
S3.SO
Western Star ................ 269
l,18S.OO
1,163.00
IS6
S8.00
77.20
Tehama .................... S22
S,764.2S
S,974.SO•
403
Benicia .................... 202
1,327.36
1,194.50*
94
46.SO
Tuolumne .................. 301
l,638.3S
48.20
1,664.00*
14S
Corinthian ................. 262
1,292.00
942.00
S4 20.60
San Jose ................... 392
3,4S8.00
178 4S.40
3,362.0S*
Yount ..................... 400
3,SI2.20
3,S78.SO*
243
60.80
2,301.66
Nevada .................... 339
2,7S7.32*
61.90
2IO
Temple .................... 27S
1,414.SO
1,361.00
46.SO
128
Eureka ..................... 413
2,S70.00
2,42s.oo•
191
46.20
La Parfait Union ............. 94
S03.SO
66.00
SI0.00*
62
Mountain Shade ............. 3S
128.00
170.SO
12
34.30
3,Sl7.60
47.40
San Joaquin ............... .470
223
3,390.SO•
6,376.93
Washington ................ 60S
4,206.7S*
2SO
41.30
Hawaiian .................. 34S
2,232.00
l,S49.76
160 46.40
727.00
949.00
87
33.70
Madison ................... 2S8
Mariposa .................. 231
1,074.00
1,123.00
117
S0.60
Georgetown ................ IOI
7Sl.OO
s22.so•
S7
S6.40
El Dorado .................. 336
1,736.00
2,042.50*
162
48.20
Trinity ..................... 203
819.00
727.00
31.50
64
Golden Gate Speranza ....... 673
3,892.SO
S,226.00*
42.20
284
474.00
Gold Hill .................. 109
S4.IO
S9
S22.00
1,062.00 . 1,128.00*
Ophir ........... : ......... 136
S8.IO
79
San Diego ................. 1180 14,048.61
S6.20
13,221.38*
663
Howard .................... 232
1,064.SO
1,182.00*
I02
44.00
Santa Cruz ................ .401
3,730.00
2,8s3.oo•
208
1.90
Sacramento ................. S19
4,2S0.80
3,921.00*
299
S7.60
Martinez ................... 344
2,2S3.00
2,181.so•
287
83.40
Los Angeles ................ 926
4,037.00
4,331.00
42.10
390
Hiram ..................... 199
1,147.SO
1,298.so•
68.30
136
l,33S.OO
Crescent ................... 182
41.20
936.00*
7S
430.80
S7.SO
Texas ....................... 80
46
4S0.80*
Forbestown ................. 131
1,160.00
1,112.00•
93
71.00
lllinoistown ................. 69
402.50
411.09*
81.20
S6
Sl.70
Suisun ..................... 346
2,SS4.24
2,713.8S*
179
Volcano .................... 172
l,OIS.00
Sl.70
89
1,308.00*
Santa Rosa ................. S2S
3,6S7.00
3,723.6S*
91.60
481
Union ..................... 372
3,399.2S
3,783.7S*
22S
60.SO
Gravel Range ................ 97
242.SO
37S.2S
32.00
31
318.00
Plumas .................... 123
44
3S.80
446.00
4,77S.oo•
S6.70
296
Live Oak ................... S22
4,7SO.OO
247
Natoma .................... 416
2,SS9.6S
3,302.70*
S9.40
Amador ................... 106
S96.00*
84.90
9SS.OO
90
2,247.00*
317
Morning Star ............... 439
2,IS6.SO
72.20
Enterprise .................. 300
1,299.44
967.SO
81
27.00
Bear Mountain ............... 80
sso.oo•
43
S3.80
S68.00
9St.OO•
1,244.00
68
63.60
Calaveras .................. I07
Humboldt .................. 314
1,679.00
l,S6S.OO
128
40.80
669.so•
79.10
lone ........................ 86
S44.00
68
Woodland .................. 309
1,944.SO*
IS7
0.00
S0.80
1,204.88
1,246.00
I07
42.80
Vesper ..................... 2SO
Naval. ..................... 666
S,119.98
s,221.so•
394
S9.20

Avg.
Gift
12.69
4.32
Il.4S
S.91

S.53
3.60

8.S8
8.9S
8.13
4.9S
S.87
S.43
4.87
7.21
6.9S
4.49
3.68
4.86
S.17
6.08
3.S8
7.77
4.79
8.29
11.21
S.10
7.12
7.56
6.36
4.68
6.53
S.14
S.64
8.49
S.96
7.84
7.61
7.09
I0.17
3.87
3.63
9.IS
7.94
S.62
S.12
3.23
6.88
8.89
4.98
7.79
6.29
4.98
7.8S

No.
89
91
93
9S
98
99
IOI
I03
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
13S
136
139
140
141
143
144
14S
146
147
149
ISO
IS6
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
17S
178
179
180
181
182
183

*Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
1985 Participation Avg.
Lodge Name
Membership Contrib. Cont rib.
Members%
Gift
Rose's Bar ................... 97
407.00
S7
388.00
S8.80
4.00
North Star .................. 92
177.00
2SI.OO
26
28.30
2.73
St. Helena .................. 106
668.00
816.00*
76
71.70
7.70
Henry Clay .................. 94
964.00
1,049.so•
71
7S.SO
11.17
Hornitos ................... I09
S60.00
6ss.so•
61
S6.00
6.01
Yosemite ................... 368
l,S90.00
l,6S2.2S
142
38.60
4.32
Clay ........................ 84
S07.00
4S3.oo•
49
S8.30
S.39
Oroville ................... .437
1,882.SO
2,6SO.oo•
2S7
S8.80
6.06
Lexington ................. .479
2,949.48
l,S93.30
67
14.00
3.33
Arcata ..................... 2S4
l,SS8.00
1,643.64*
117
46.10
6.47
Pajaro ..................... 261
l,030.8S
6S4.16
92
3S.20
2.SI
Chico ..................... S20
2,870.00
2,766.00*
434
83.SO
S.32
Summit .................... 104
899.00
984.00•
69
66.30
9.46
Eden ...................... 270
1,461.00
1,898.so•
148
S4.80
7.03
Concord ................... 227
1,036.00
IOI
1,062.48
44.SO
4.68
Fidelity ................... .472
4,912.38
S,3S6.so•
306 64.80
ll.3S
Alamo ..................... Sil
S,426.89
S,619.00*
303
S9.30
11.00
Sotoyome .................. 203
S30.00
1,603.50*
243 100.00
7.90
Table Mountain ............. SOI
2,126.86
2,361.7S
374 74.70
4.71
La Fayette .................. 173
780.00
737.00
S6
32.40
4.26
Hermann ................... 73
1,347.SO
l,4SO.oo•
78 100.00
19.86
Visalia .................... . 40S
4,IS2.39
3,973.02*
190 46.90
9.81
Nicholaus .................. 120
471.00
40S.OO
SI
42.SO
3.38
Woodbridge ................ 190
1,393.SO
l,S06.00*
71.60
136
7.93
Sincerity .................... S8
IS2.00
IS3.00
19
32.80
2.64
Vacaville ................... 339
4,190.00
2,979.so•
196
S7.80
8.79
Valley ...................... 84
9Ss.oo•
481.96
68
81.00
11.37
Lebanon-Pacific ............ 483
2,SS3.00
1,694.00
120 24.80
3.SI
Park-Crockett .•............ S31
S,848.00
7,S73.7S
398
7S.OO
14.26
Curtis ...................... 84
S77.SO
ss8.oo•
31
36.90
6.64
Grafton ..................... 68
0.00
0.00
0
0.00
0.00
Franklin .................... 92
SS9.00
738.oo•
so S4.30
8.02
Oriental ................... 278
2,42S.SO
2,211.so•
87.80
244
8.19
Vitruvius ................... I02
606.00
604.so•
64
62.70
S.93
Abell ...................... 264
l,8SI.OO
l,7S8.7S*
142
S3.80
6.66
Eel River ................... 200
1,177.SO
1,382.SO•
ISO
7S.00
6.91
Lassen ..................... 149
142.00
187.00
14
9.40
1.26
Molino .................... 120
408.00
744.00*
64
S3.30
6.20
Woodland .................... 0
1,088.SO
Consolidated with No. 81
Keystone .................... S6
426.IO•
3S9.SO
7S.OO
42
7.61
Harmony .................. .4S
206.00
17S.OO
37
82.20
3.89
San Francisco Educator ...... S39
3,849.7S
4,112.so•
221
41.00
7.63
Alameda ................... 368
2,106.12
2,860.00•
200 S4.30
7.77
Redwood City ............. .4SO
4,I08.00
2,726.00•
179
39.80
6.06
Mission-Golden West ....... .478
4,03S.OO
4,111.19*
238
49.80
8.60
Elk Grove .................. 186
1,846.00
I,2S3.30*
74
39.80
6.74
Drytown .................... 64
260.00
317.44
24
37.SO
4.96
Antioch .................... 329
1,286.00
1,068.33
94
28.60
3.2S
Phoenix .................. .429
3,S47.62
2,2so.oo•
136
31.70
S.2S
Mendocino .................. 72
791.82
l,SS9.44*
73.60
S3
21.66
Petaluma .................. 270
l,S88.00
2,034.00*
170 63.00
7.S3
Russian River ................ 93
871.00*
836.SO
7S
80.60
9.37
Arbuckle ................... .49
190.00
I0.00
I
2.00
.20
Clear Lake ................. 213
313.00
llS.00
21
9.90
.S4

152

No.
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
19S
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
20S
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
214
215
217
218
220
221
222
224
22S
226
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
23S
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985 Participation Avg.
1985
Lodge Name
Membership Contrib. Con/rib.
Members o/o
Gift
Sierra Valley ...... ........ ... 58
0.00
13.00
0.00
0.00
0
Claiborne ........... .. . ..... 67
444.oo•
27
40.30
538.00
6.63
Evening Star ......... . . •..... 53
77.40
275.00
7.76
411.00•
41
Keith ...................... 159
27.70
844.00
976.oo•
44
6.14
Oakland Durant Rockridge ... 604
3,478.00
3,974.00•
188
31.10
6.58
Northern Light ... ... . ... . ... 141
753.00
0
0.00
0.00
0.00
Marin ............... ...... 322
8,629.50
4,698.oo•
73.00
14.59
235
Santa Barbara ..... .. .. ..... 269
3,960.00
3,274.oo•
12.17
172 63.90
Ferndale . . ....... .. ..... .. .. 70
546.00•
49
70.00
394.00
7.80
Mountain View .... . ........ 307
2,839.32
3,82s.so•
12.46
216 70.40
Landmark-Buckeye .. .. . ..... 166
447.00
918.00•
7S.30
S.S3
12S
San Simeon . .... . .......... . 93
837.00
s4s.oo•
S.86
46 49.50
Wilmington ... ...... . .. . ... 391
4,377.04
50.60
9.72
3,800.8o•
198
Hartley ...... ... ...... ..... 189
642.00
l,OOJ.50•
38.10
S.30
72
Truckee ..................... 93
8SO.OO
770.00•
47
so.so
8.28
Silveyville ............. ..... 10S
731.00
6.97
132.00•
77
73.30
Pentalpha ........... ... .... 224
2,92S.OO
12.09
2,709.oo•
116
Sl.80
Confidence .......... . ... .. .. 76
S7.90
44
6SO.OO
S.43
413.00•
Salinas ................. ... 442
S7.70
2,8Sl.2S
2,821.00•
2SS
6.38
Olivet. ................. . ... 119
691.SO•
70
S8.80
639.00
S.81
Stanislaus ........ .. .. ...... 368
2,762.70
67
18.20
3.28
1,206.00
Anaheim ................. . .429
3,249.20
2,624.87•
14S
33.80
6.12
Rio Vista ................... 126
S2.40
774.00
6.7S
8SJ.OO•
66
King David's .. .. . .. . .. .... . 347
3,744.72
7S.80
9.99
3,46S.74•
263
Friendship . . ............... 428
3,546.70
6.S7
2,813.20•
141
32.90
San Benito . ..... . ..... ..... 106
60.40
8SO.OO
6.49
688.oo•
64
South San Francisco ...... ... IS8
1,800.SO
l,37S.OO•
62
39.20
8.70
San Buenaventura . . . .... .... 398
46.00
3,148.30
8.2S
3,283 .so•
183
Oak Grove ..... . ...... ..... 318
2,07S.OO
33.00
4.81
l,S29.00
105
Monterey .......... .. . ..... 221
2,67S.OO
97
43.90
6.12
l,3S3.00•
Mosaic ................ .... 276
4,008.00
3,211.80•
204
73.90
11.64
Downey ................ . ... 464
12S
26.90
S,43S.46
7.96
3,694.17•
Inyo ............ . ... ....... 104
0.00
79s.oo•
61.SO
7.64
64
Roseville ........... ... ... .. S99
4,372.50
420
70.10
9.28
S,S60.oo•
Bakersfield ...... ... ...... .. 398
S,706.00
4,7S6.ss•
184 46.20
ll.9S
San Leandro-Brooklyn . ... ... 389
3,019.37
3,948.60•
202
Sl.90
10.IS
San Mateo .... ............. 344
39.20
4,023.00
3,160.00•
13S
9.19
Athens ........... . ....... . 183
1,087.00
l,22s.oo•
91
49.70
6.69
Solano . .. ....... .. ......... 241
1,491.00
1,830.SO•
125
51.90
7.60
North Butte ................ 233
594.00
1,324.oo•
394 100.00
S.68
Covelo ......... ....... .. ... . S3
S0.00
0
0.00
0.00
0.00
Janesville ................... 96
242.SO
25
26.00
2.61
2SO.SO
Calistoga ................ ... 89
80
89.90
669.50
9.94
88s.oo•
Hope ....................... 87
52
S9.80
411.00
4.77
41S.OO
Suprise Valley ........... ..... S9
65.00
40.00
6
10.20
.68
Hills Ferry .......... . .. .... . 114
1,010.00•
104
91.20
800.00
8.86
Guadalupe ................. 247
2,261.01
7.70
1,902.00•
116 47.00
Colusa .................. , .. 136
13.20
424.00
1.08
147.00
18
Santa Ana ........ . .. .. . . .. . 361 12,764.00
92
2S.SO
1,986.08•
s.so
Magnolia ... ...... ... .. . .. .416
3,792.00
3,s2s.so•
198 47.60
8.48
Eucalyptus .. . .. . . . . . ...... .492
4,S64.80
4,422.33•
230 46.70
8.99
Alcatraz ...... . ............ 216
2,280.17•
112
2,102.50
10.56
51.90
Laurel . . .. .. ... ...... . .. .. . ISi
29.80
4.18
45
853.00
631.00
Pomona ... .... ....... . .... 317
2,IS8.00
114 36.00
6.46
2,048.so•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
247
248
250
254
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264
26S
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
27S
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
29S
296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313

153

•Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
1985 Participation Avg.
Lodge Name
Membership Con/rib. Cont rib.
Members%
Gift
Fresno ...... ...... . . ....... 448
1,654.00
6,428.00•
540 100.00
14.35
Alturas . ............ ....... 113
0.00
706.00·
75.20
85
6.25
Adin ... ....... . ... ......... 70
191.00
0.00
0
0.00
0.00
Reading ..... ........ ....... 295
1,380.50
1,664.00•
37.60
Ill
S.64
Welcome ... ..... . .. ........ 215
895.00
1,292.75•
106 49.30
6.01
Lodi ....................... 310
1,885.00
1,806.00•
5.83
116 37.40
Penryhn .... ........ ....... 132
514.52
628.50
70 53.00
4.76
Evergreen . . . . ... . .......... 525
5,054.17
6,228.17•
11.86
311 59.20
King Solomon's Seaport .. .... 269
1,983.20
1,833.00•
91
33.80
6.81
Tuscan . .. . . . ...... ....... ... 67
182.00
207.00
28
41.80
3.09
Lompoc .. ....... ......... . 3S6
2,811.16
2,187.00•
139 39.00
6.14
Hesperian . ............. .. . . 397
3,S39.00
3,21s.oo•
223
S6.20
8.10
Orland . . . . . . .... . . . . ...... IS6
1,01s.oo•
1,023.00
91
S8.30
6.51
Galt ....................... . 9S
728.00
691.00•
49
SJ.60
7.27
Durant ...................... 0
796.00
Consolidated with No. 188
Olive Branch ..... .. . ....... 163
869.00
918.oo•
S2
31.90
S.63
Snow Mountain ..... ..... .... 31
68.00
S2.00
9
29.00
1.68
Pasadena ...... . ........... 209
l,81S.OO
2,342.00•
119
S6.90
11.21
Anchor .................... 303
4,863.33
4,367.48•
270
89.10
14.41
Arroyo ... . ........ .. . ..... 236
2,467.00
1,300.00•
70 29.70
S.SI
Oakdale . ... .... .... . ... .. . 196
788.SO
700.SO
64
32.70
3.S7
Selma ..................... lS8
84S.oo•
900.00
62
39.20
S.3S
San Gabriel-Southern Cal. .. . . S03
S,099.70•
S,261.26
202
40.20
10.14
Hanford . . . . . . ... ... ....... 194
1,262.00
1,460.oo•
ISi
77.80
7.S3
Madera-Joppa .......... .... 282
2,004.SO
1,689.00·
140 49.60
S.99
Mount Shasta .. . . ........... 196
510.00
511.00
23.SO
46
2.61
Callayomi .......... ..... . ... 71
49J.OO•
3SO.OO
II
IS.SO
6.92
South West .. . ... . .. ....... .461
4,757.oo•
3,289.27
2S6 SS.SO
10.32
Paso Robles ... r. ....... .... 240
1,937.SO
l,87S.2s•
216
90.00
7.81
Winnedumah ........ . ..... . 211
2,097.SO
2,184.SO•
13S 64.00
10.3S
Maxwell . . ... ..... .......... 36
133.00
6S.OO
II
30.60
1.81
Elsinore .... .......... ...... 141
722.00•
807.SO
SI
36.20
S.12
Fellowship .. . . . .... ........ S69
6,312.24
4,S23.88•
208
36.60
7.9S
Santa Paula .............. .. 313
1,639.00
1,196.00
8S 27.20
3.82
Los Gatos ................. .413
2,688.00
2,741.50•
189 4S.80
6.64
Orange Grove . .. ... ... .. .... 444
7,076.SI•
S,261.00
277
62.40
IS.94
Clarence L. Fraser .......... . 237
l,82S.34•
2,093.23
12S
S2.70
7.70
Mount Jackson .... .......... 98
606.00•
84.70
SSS.SO
83
6.18
Silver Gate .... ...... .. .... . 594
S,901.SS•
3,737.00
227
38.20
9.94
Dunsmuir ..... . ............ 143
8S2.00
937.oo•
62 43.40
6.SS
Liberty ... .... ..... ..... . .. 299
2,663.oo•
2,406.6S
IS3
Sl.20
8.91
Redlands ................... 390
S,448.00
S,601.00·
230
S9.00
14.36
Ontario ... . .... ...... . . .... 329
2,80S.OO
3,0s8.oo•
17S
S3.20
9.30
Santa Lucia ..... .... .. . .... 143
1,323.00•
l,IS3.00
93
6S.OO
9.2S
Porterville ..... ..... ....... .412
1,003.70
1,318.00
92 22.30
3.20
Reedley .................... 146
408.00
380.00
62 42.SO
2.60
Azusa .. . . . .. .............. 271
1,910.00
1,698.00•
116 42.80
6.27
Ashlar .. .. ................. 224
1,232.SO
1,081.11
94 42.00
4.83
Santa Monica ............... 276
4,695.50
3,720.7S•
167 60.SO
13.48
Monrovia ..... ...... ... .... 138
1,317.00•
972.00
60 43.SO
9.S4
Delano .... ... ...... . ...... 169
1,076.00
531.00
40 23.70
3.14
Sisson ....... .. ...... .. .. ... 76
227.00
253.50
35
46.10
3.34
Los Banos . . .... . . . .. ....... 142
910.00
921.00°
96
67.60
6.49
Tehachapi .. . ...... ...... .. . 189
947.00
800.00
288 100.00
4.23

154

No.
314
31S
316
317
320
321
322
323
324

32S
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334

33S
336
337
338
339
341
343
344

34S
346
347
348
349
3SI
3S2

3SS
3S6
3S7
361
362
363
36S
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
37S
376
377
378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•Denotes Honor Roll
1985 Participation
1985
1984
1985
Members%
Membership Contrib. Cont rib.
Lodge Name
3S.20
100
l,730.00•
1,973.00
Temescal .. . .. .. . .. .. . ...... 284
39.80
282
4,280.SO*
S,8Sl.1S
Norwalk . ... ... ..... . ... .. . 709
46.00
93
S20.00
720.00
Sanger . . ........... . ....... 202
96.80
212
2,166.00*
2,S41.00
Fall brook .... .. ........ .... 219
.so
I
10.00
1,212.00
South Gate .. .. .... .. ...... . 196
lOS 40.SO
2,040.00*
2,066.00
Alisa!. .............. ...... . 2S9
61.50
206
4,147.00•
4,9S4.93
Alhambra ... . .... .... .... . . 33S
37.60
166
4,4S4.12*
6,S04.74
Whittier ..... . .... .. ....... 442
192 66.90
3,022.00*
3,007.28
Corona . .. ..... ... ... .. .... 287
276 46.00
4,449.oo•
S,766.01
Consuelo . .... ... ..... . .... 600
SS.00
1,447.00•
120
1,226.00
Needles .... ... .. . .. . .... .. . 218
46.60
232
6,423.66*
8,888.96
Long Beach ..... .. ... . .. .. .498
31.00
200
3,S07.S6*
3,8Sl.67
Redondo .............. ..... 646
S2.80
47
936.oo•
767.00
Vallee de France ..... . .... .. .. 89
S2.00
91
l,OS6.00*
1,466.00
Kilauea ... . ....... ... . ..... 17S
64.90
176
2,633.34*
3,161.3S
Pacific Grove .............. . 271
32.30
197
3,428.47*
3,3S4.00
Los Angeles Harbor ......... 610
3S.SO
39
634.00*
696.00
Alta .. .... .. .. .... .. ..... . . 110
43.40
2SI
s,121.20•
S,087.12
Covina ..... . ..... . ..... . . . S19
23.80
174
3,1S4.SO*
4,711.00
West Gate . ....... ..... ..... 731
3S.IO
138
2,74s.oo•
2,8Sl.00
Fruitvale .............. . .... 393
49.60
124
1,787.00*
2,064.00
Pinole-Carquin ez .. . ..... .. . 2SO
S4 S0.00
43S.00
478.00
San Jacinto ............. . .. . 108
30.60
104
1,932.28•
2,001.SO
Fullerton .............. ..... 340
22.10
84
1,983.00*
3,762.SO
Oxnard .... .. .......... ... . 380
47.SO
228
l,S38.l I
2,342.82
San Fernando .... . ..... .. .. . 480
80.SO
4SI
3,8Sl.IS*
4,367.2S
Starr King ... . .......... . . .. S60
IS.20
2S
SS9.99
648.00
Brentwood .............. ... 164
70.60
266
3,676.00·
3,997.SO
Palo Alto ... . .. . .. .... .. . .. 377
34.20
88
2,2S4.SO*
2,839.20
McKinley .. .. .... . ......... 2S7
66.00
S82
11,006.13*
San Bernardino ... .. . .. ..... 882 10,704.62
SS.80
3SI
7,079.97•
7,260.00
Sequoia-St. Elmo .. .... .. . .. 629
237
69.90
3,930.00*
4,714.29
Fountain Valley .... .. ..... . . 339
S8.00
331
7,IS7.83*
7,023.SO
Metropolitan ... . ... . ...... . S11
47.40
314
S,240.00•
S,946.80
Hollywood . .. ......... . .... 663
110 44.40
2,S63.90*
1,SS7.00
Mill Valley . .. .... ... .. ... .. 248
2S.SO
149
2,SOl.60
3,08S.OO
Buena Park .. . . .. .... .. ... . S8S
10.30
II
80.00
sso.oo
Fort Bragg ... ......... .... . 107
46.60
117
2,480.00•
2,4S8.00
Charity . .. .. . .. . ... ....... . 2SI
.30
2
IS4.00
S,186.SO
Berkeley . .. . . .... .. ........ 620
34.60
778.oo•
S3
80S.00
Willits .............. ....... IS3
48.90
409
7,029.00*
6,426.SO
Las Palmas .. . . .... .. . ..... . 836
274 72.SO
S,404.IS*
3,19S.82
South Pasadena ............. 378
78.80
S67
7,122.00•
6,648.18
Jewel City . ... .... .. ........ 720
37.70
9S
2,419.82*
2,789.16
Ocean Park ....... ... ...... 2S2
S3.40
230
3,102.00•
4,IS8.00
Amity .... .. .... .... ... ... . 431
SS.20
309
S,23S.00*
S,404.00
Le Progress De I..:Oceanie .. . .. S60
49.40
221
3,728.38*
4,S72.04
Gardena .............. ... . . 447
S0.40
134
2,848.76*
2,362.60
West Los Angeles ........... 266
40.80
21S
2,284.8S
l,908.3S
United . .. ... .... ... .. ..... . S27
69.SO
230
3,639.SO*
S,016.60
Brotherhood ... ... ... . ... . . . 331
62.SO
163
3,743.SO*
3,9S6.SO
Francis Drake .... .. ......... 261
39.90
8S
1,321.98*
1,914.80
Artesia ......... ... .. .. ... .. 213
40.30
71
2,soo.2s•
2,462.00
Mizpah ... . .... .. ..... . .... 176

Avg.
Gift
6.09
6.04
2.S7
9.89

.OS
7.88
12.38
10.08
10.S3
7.42
6.64
12.90
S.43
10.S2
6.03
9.72
S.62
S.76
8.8S
S.14
6.99
7.IS
4.03
S.68

S.22
3.20
6.88
3.42

9.1S
8.77
12.48
11.26
11.59
12.S4
7.90
10.34
4.28

.1S
9.88

.2S
S.09
8.41
14.30
9.89
9.60
8.S9

9.3S
8.34
10.71
4.34
11 .00
14.34
6.21
14.21

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

155

*Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
Lodge Name
No.
Membership Contrib. Cont rib.
379 Fillmore . ... .... .. ... . .. . .. 171
48.00
2,462.2s•
380 Huntington Beach . .......... SOS
4,S30.60
S,S31.S7•
Oceanside ...... . .... ... ... . 440
381
2,766.7S
3,317.00•
Orosi .. .. ... ..... . ....... . . 124
383
1,388.00
l,S07.00•
384 El Centro .............. .... 309
2,286.SO
2,708.00•
387 Coalinga . .... ... .... . ..... . 27S
1,727.24
t,933.so•
Parnassus-Presi dio ........ . .432
388
4,202.00
2,9so.so•
389 Palos Verdes .............. .. S94
6,393.SO
3,683.00•
390 Imperial .. ... ... ... .... ... . I SO
896.00
684.00
East Belt ........ .. . . .... ... 146
391
763.SO
1,023.oo•
392 Henry Knox-Westlake . ... .... S76
7,109.00
7,881.00•
Balder .. .... . .... .. ... ... . . 2S8
393
1,714.83
2,oso.00•
394 University . . .. . ........ . .. . . 234
2,S64.12
2,9S6.SO•
39S Turlock .. ..... ... ... ... ... . 384
2,0SO.SO
1,834.00
396 Apollo-Woodst ock ... . ..... . 494
6,322.12
4,677.72•
Rising Light .. ... ... ... ..... 417
397
3,281.00
4,638.S4•
399 Fraternity .............. .... 3S2 13,187.SO
3,S24.00•
Burlingame . . ...... . . . .. ... .491
400
6,SS3.7S
4,996.7S•
Bay View .. .... ... ... ... ... . 310
401
2,S87.00
2,327.00•
Brawley ............. .... ... 176
402
1,696.SO
l,67S.30•
Verba Buena . ... .. .... .. .... 630
403
7,484.00
8,s1s.oo•
404 Glendora . .... .. .... ... .... 224
l,S29.34
l,S93.00•
40S Moneta . ........ . ......... . 3SS
4,093.SO
3,86S.SO•
406 Burbank ... ... .. . ...... .. .. S97
6,IS9.28
6,877.20•
407 La Mesa .. .... .. .... ... .. . . 44S
3,022.00
3,222.so•
408 Sierra Madre ....... .. ...... 100
0.00
604.so•
409 Honolulu .............. .... 338
2,762.00
2,SlO.OO•
Perris ... ... ... .. ... ... .... .404
411
3,786.SO
4,038.9S•
41S Silver Trowel ... ~ . . ......... . 337
1,920.00
2,01s.so•
416 Lindsay .... .. ... .... . ..... . 130
913.00
S76.00
417 Clovis .............. ....... S80
3,883.00
3,10s.2s•
418 Elysian ... . ............ .. .. 210
1,941.40
1,972.00•
419 Upland . ...... ... ... ... ... . 220
l,200.8S
2,918.34•
420 Kerman .... .............. .. 123
360.00
386.00
Inglewood-Jam es Kew ... . .. .. S2S
421
4,4SS.9S
4,612.82*
422 Eagle Rock .... .... ......... 227
2,080.00
3,SS8.32•
423
Florence ..... . .. ........... 290
2,843 .02
3,427.t8•
424 . Exeter ... . .......... .. .... . 178
l,4S9.SO
1,430.00*
42S Holtville ... .. .... .. . . ...... 102
0.00
t,084.oo•
426 Taft-Midway .......... . ..... 472
1,632.00
1,883.SO
427 Chino Valley .............. .. 170
1,112.00
l,S18.21•
428 San Dimas . ... ...... . . .... . 189
1,987.00
l,88S.oo•
429 Pittsburg .............. ..... 196
l,264.8S
1,078.17•
430 McCloud .. ... . .... ... .... .. 60
360.00
270.00
431
Alpha Shattuck-Steph ens ..... SOS
S,427.70
4,877.so•
433
Hammonton .... . ........... 142
668.00
763.oo•
43S George Washington ... . ...... 463
4,269.32
3,276.00·
436 Claremont .... . ............ 199
2,346.00
1,990.08•
437
Lancaster . .............. ... 462
9,270.00
4,S72.00•
439 'fyrian .............. ....... 21 S
91.SO
4SO.OO
440 Standard ..... ... . ... . ...... 194
2,384.00
3,t42.oo•
441
Coronado . .......... . ...... 2SO
4,SOl.2S
3,638.00•
442
Blackmer .. . . . . .... .. ...... 701
6,390.93
7,290.86•
443
Schofield .. . .. . .. ... .. ... .. 294
2,771.2S
2,S84.00•

1985 Participation Avg.
Members%
Gift
197 100.00
14.40
S2.30
264
10.97
232
S2.70
7.S4
66.10
82
12.IS
142
46.00
8.76
42.20
116
7.03
3S.90
ISS
6.83
222
37.40
6.20
S2 34.70
4.S6
89
61.00
7.01
292
S0.70
13.68
42.20
109
7.9S
169
72.20
12.64
38.SO
148
4.78
428
86.60
9.47
22S S4.00
11.12
Sl.40
181
10.01
64.20
31S
10.18
ISO 48.40
7.SI
117 66.SO
9.S2
319
S0.60
13.61
171
76.30
7.11
64.80
230
10.89
S4.40
32S
ll.S2
227
Sl.00
7.24
so S0.00
6.0S
190
S6.20
7.43
30S 7S.SO
10.00
120 3S.60
S.98
44
33.80
4.43
2SO 43.10
S.3S
108
Sl.40
9.39
88
40.00
13.27
26.80
33
3.14
279
S3.10
8.79
134
S9.00
IS.68
63.80
18S
11.82
180 100.00
8.03
74
72.SO
10.63
24.40
11S
3.99
40.00
68
8.93
12S
66.10
9.97
79 40.30
s.so
27
4S.OO
4.SO
277
S4.90
9.66
74
S2.IO
S.37
S7.20
26S
7.08
72
10.00
36.20
2S7
SS .60
9.90
32
14.90
2.09
73
37.60
16.20
182
72.80
14.SS
3SS S0.60
10.40
16S
S6.IO
8.79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

156

No.

Lodge Name

•Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
Membership Contrib. Cont rib.

444 Carpinteria ... ... ... ...... .. 181
445
Golden Gavel . . .. .. .... ... . . 641
West Covina-La Puente ...... 187
446
447 Torrance . .. ..... .. . .. .. . . .. 644
Mount Diab lo ..... . . . . , . . . . 349
448
Van Nuys .......... . ....... 988
450
451
Montebello .. .... . . .. ... ... .423
452 San Pasqual . .. . . .... ... . . .. 252
454 Crocker ..... . .............. 337
Monterey Park . . . ... . . ... ... 529
457
Riverbank .. . . ..... .. ..... .. 132
459
460 Mount Oso .. . .............. 238
Columbia .. . . . . ..... .... . . . 466
461
Paul Revere .. .... ..... .. . . .. 285
462
463
Morgan Hill . . . .. .... ..... . . 167
465 Center ... . .. . ...... . ..... . . 323
466 Libertas . .... . .. . ... . . . .... 495
467 Culver City-Foshay . . . . . . . . .. 288
Yorba Linda . . .............. 204
469
Delta .. ....... . . .. . . .. . .... 281
471
472 Lodge Maui . .... . . .. ..... . . 137
Blythe . . .. .... .. ... . ....... 192
473
America ................. .. 200
475
476 Coachella .. ... . .. ... ...... . 230
479 Golden Rule . .. ..... . . .. . . .. 583
480 Acalanes-Fellowshi p . .. ...... 528
482 Clarence F. Smith ..... ... ... 140
Bell . ..... .. ...... .. ...... .424
483
Chowchilla . .. . ...... . .. . .. . 164
485
486 Caledonia . .......... .. . . . . . 477
487
Vallejo .... . . . .. . .. .. .... . . . 203
Patterson ...... . . . ... . . . ... 134
488
490 Corcoran .... . . . . . .. . . . ..... 110
Atascadero . .. . . .... .... .... 117
493
Acorn .. .... ...... . ..... .. . 332
494
Fremont ......... . ......... 251
497
Stockton ..... . ............. 132
498
499 Capital City . .... ... ...... . . 501
Westwood ..... . ...... .. .... 178
SOI
Harbor . . . ............ .. ... 341
502
Point . .. .... ... ..... ... .... 245
503
504 Seaside ... . .. .... .. ..... .. 329
Silver Cord . ............ .. .. 406
505
506 Mount Olive . .. ....... ... ... 499
El Segundo .. ..... .. ....... . 276
507
510 Cupertino . ... . ............. 172
Sunnyvale . . . . .. .. . . . .. . .... 354
Sil
512 Palms-Adams ..... .. .. . .. ... 309
Cahuenga-La Brea .... ..... . . 316
513
La Jolla .............. . ..... 243
518
Ionic .... . . ... ... ... .... .. 1068
520
Orinda .... . . . .. . . .. .. . .. ... 321
521
Bellflower Paramount ... . . . .. 561
523
524 Catalina Island . ... ... . . ..... 94

7,345.00
S,766.66
1,732.64
S,780.00
5,181.21
6,991.10
3,642.11
3,817.00
2,002.60
3,771.84
493.00
779.00
5,335.00
4,364.35
1,140.00
1,340.12
2,494.00
2,124.00
1,744.98
65.00
0.00
1,252.00
2,087.00
2,551.22
4,099.68
7,023.00
1,122.00
5,182.50
969.50
3,249.85
1,170.00
290.00
425.00
855.00
2,624.50
1,747.00
2,364.00
2,483.00
811.50
3,297.20
1,731.00
4,611.96
4,118.84
7,916.SO
1,914.00
1,797.50
3,972.00
2,999.76
1,965.00
1,371.00
6,833.88
3,129.00
4,524.99
240.00

7,002.oo•
4,950.66*
1,720.00·
5,629.20*
3,776.00•
7,716.06*
3,941.33*
3,353.SO*
1,859.SO•
3,889.37•
667.oo•
745.00

5,555.50•
4,586.20•
1,157.00*
1,017.00
3,048.00*
3,516.00*
1,546.55*
852.50
2,337.oo•
1,265.00*
1,996.SO•
4,169.00·
3,078.97*
5,809.95*
920.00•
4,867.65•
1,006.00·
3,214.84*
1,277.00*
295.00
421.50
890.25•
2,592.50*
2,021.00•
2,498.00*
2,623.00·
922.SO*
3,806.50•
2,179.00*
3,912.40*
3,326.62*
6,041.58*
1,525.00*
1,925.00*
3,572.00*
4,344.86*
1,440.00
1,485.oo•
7,735 .81*
3,127.00•
4,243.00*
492.50•

1985 Participation Avg.
Gift
Members%
141
246
63
324
152
401
217
179
118
243
74
72
317
192
132
82
172
138

131
67
133

59
95
232
230
215
58
239
66
228
86
31
37
68
137
152
70
267
105
173

117
250
163
215
116
98
190

171
141
79
611
149
224
37

77.90
38.40
33.70
50.30
43.60
40.60
51.30
71.00
35.00
45.90
56.10
30.30
68.00
67.40
79.00
25.40
34.70
47.90
64.20
23.80
97.10
30.70
47.SO
100.00
39.SO
40.70
41.40
56.40
40.20
47.80
42.40
23.10
33.60
58.10
41.30
60.60
53.00
53.30
59.00
50.70
47.80
76.00
40.10
43.10
42.00
57.00
53.70
55.30
44.60
32.SO
57.20
46.40
39.90
39.40

38.69
7.72
9.20
8.74
10.82
7.81
9.32
13.31

S.52
7.35
5.05
3.13
11.92
16.09
6.93
3.15
6.16
12.21
7.58
3.03
17.06
6.59
9.98
18.13
S.28
11.00
6.57
11.48
6.13
6.74
6.29
2.20
3.83
7.61
7.81
8.05
18.92
S.24
5.18
11.16
8.89
11 .89
8.19
12.11

S.53
11.19
10.09
14.06
4.56
6.11
7.24
9.74
7.56
S.24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

•Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
Membership Contrib. Contrib.

1985 Participation Avg.
Members%
Gift

No.

Lodge Name

528
529
530
532
533
535
538
540
542
543
544
547
548

Beverly Hills .. . . .. ..... .. . .. 285
Loyalty ... . .. . .... . .. .. .. . . 647
Sun Garden . ....... . .. .. .. . 351
Smyrna . .. .... ... ...... .. .. 209
Azure ... . . .. .... . .. . ... . . . 248
Granada ............. .. .... 649
Ascot. ..... ..... .. ..... .. .. 163
Queen Beach .. ...... ... .. . . 134
North Hollywood ........... 568
Signal .... ... .... . . ... ... . . 283
Glendale .. ..... ... ..... .. .. 510
Arcadia ...... . .. .. . . ....... 330
Triangle .... .. ....... .. . . .. . 224
Tri Square .. .... .... .. .... . .416
Semper Virens . .... .... ..... 250
White Pine ............... . .. 83
Fairfax ... ..... .... ... .... . 331
Hermosa-Manhatta n ... ... . . 375
Plymouth .. .. ....... . . . .... 222
East San Diego .... .. . . ..... 667
Foothill ... .... ... . . .... .. . . 558
Searchlight Alta Loma . . .. ... 383
Chateau Thierry ... . ......... 219
Westchester United . . . ... .... 586
S.W. Hackett. . . . ... ... .. . .. .406
Fort Crook ... . ........... . . 166
El Cajon Valley . .... ... . . ... 572
Sunnyside .. ..... .. ..... .. . . 222
Progressive ... . ...•. . ........ 264
Warren G. Harding ........ .. 461
Santa Maria ..... . . .. . . ... .. 158
Security . .. . • ... ... .. . .. ... . 238
Rialto ........ . ..... . . .. ... 351
Wasco . .. . . .... .... .... ... . 165
Manchester ..... .. ..... . .. .. 146
Garden Grove .. . .......... . . 54 7
El Sereno ... . .. . . . . . . . ..... 182
Kauai .. ... .... .... ..... .. . . 86
Compass .... . . . ..... .. ..... 234
Escalon ......... . ...... . . . . 139
Tujunga . .... .... ..... .. ... . 214
All States ... .. ...... . .. . ... 341
Service ..... . ..... . . . ..... . 543
Tri . ... .. . ... . ..... . .. . .... 444
Guardian . . . ... .... .... .... 562
Pearl Harbor .. . ........ . .. . 468
Lynwood . . .. . .. . ........ . .. 322
Grizzly . ..... ... ... . . .. ... .. 81
Jubilee .... .. . . ..... ... .... 264
Glassell Park ... . ..... . ..... 213
Sojourner .... .. . . .... .. .... 204
Granada .. ... ... ... ..... ... .. 0
Provident .... . ..... ... ..... 332
Canoga ....... . ...... . ..... 322

SS1
552
555
556

557
560
561
564
567
569
572
574

575
576
577
578
579
580
581
582
583
585
586
588
589
590
591
592
593
594

595
596
598
600

601
604
605
607
608
609
611

3,666.70
3,369.00
1,416.00
806.00
2,721.00
1,050.88
3,343.10
1,678.75
6,848.00
4,439.07
5,798.50
2,482.00
3,160.00
2,748.00
1,748.SO
186.00
2,679.20
4,350.00
2,491.41
2,661.00
2,078.SO
7,209.94
1,038.00
3,768.00
5,047.00
360.00
3,436.00
3,378.31
2,995.58
3,683.50
1,986.50
1,613.00
1,838.SO
1,072.00
1,184.00
4,601.75
1,771.08
l,244.00
1,954.SO
716.00
1,482.75
6,054.64
11,071.33
4,090.02
5,107.97
3,725.00
2,231.22
256.00
3,010.12
2,306.63
2,736.00
3,883.04
2,062.20
2,252.00

3,044.50*
126
44.20
10.68
4,029.04•
158
24.40
6.23
1,271.00
24.20
85
3.62
668.00
52 24.90
3.20
2,758.50*
53.20
132
11.12
4,387.48*
461
71.00
6.76
3,399.60•
128
78.50
20.86
2,102.26*
75
56.00
15.69
6,106.75*
277
48.80
10.75
3,608.29*
179
63.30
12.75
5,608.17*
306
11.00
60.00
2,630.00*
115
34.80
7.97
3,046.00•
74.10
166
13.60
2,935.50*
176
42.30
7.06
1,987.00*
60.40
151
7.95
188.00
41
49.40
2.27
2,498.65*
114
34.40
7.55
4,518.00*
307
81.90
12.05
2,245.50*
105
47.30
10.12
3,626.94*
245
36.70
5.44
2,689.00
150
26.90
4.82
6,157.76*
194
S0.70
16.08
1,450.00*
95 43.40
6.62
3,512.00*
214
36.50
5.99
4,628.19*
204
50.20
11.40
408.00
57
34.30
2.46
4,248.50*
248
43.40
7.43
2,401.84*
136
61.30
10.82
3,579.24*
169
64.00
13.56
4,221.50*
367
79.60
9.16
2,070.50*
77
48.70
13.10
1,030.00
22.70
54
4.33
2,326.11*
165
47.00
6.63
1,106.00*
69
41.80
6.70
1,189.oo•
71
48.60
8.14
3,657.00•
200
36.60
6.69
1,905.76*
110
60.40
10.47
1,158.00*
61
70.90
13.47
1,748.00*
182
77.80
7.47
726.00*
22.30
31
5.22
1,183.73•
69
32.20
5.53
3,965.63*
177
51.90
11.63
10,064.35*
475
87.50
18.54
2,619.00*
157
35.40
5.90
2,912.00*
42.50
239
5.18
3,807.50*
279
59.60
8.14
2,063 .00*
188
58.40
6.41
263 .50
35
43.20
3.25
2,539.72*
120
45.50
9.62
2,035.31 •
110
Sl.60
9.56
2,141.00*
95 46.60
10.50
Consolidated with No. 535
2,567.oo•
316
95.20
7.73
1,866.00*
122
37.90
5.80

158

No.
612
613
614
61S
616
617
618
620
621
623
62S
626
627
628
629
632
633
634
63S
637
639
642
644
64S
647
648
6SI
6S2
6S3
6S4
6SS
6S6
6S7
6S8
6S9
660
661
663
66S
666
668
669
670
671
672
674
67S
676
677
678
679
680
681
682

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

*Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
1985 Participation Avg.
Lodge Name
Membership Contrib. Contrib.
Members%
Gift
Camellia . . . . .. . ... .. ...... . 379
4,?Sl.SS
S0.70
4,420.00*
192
11.66
Three Pillars ........... .. . . . 283
2,806.64
64.70
8.02
2,269.00*
183
Atwater Larchmont ..... . . ... 384
4,S26.8S
4,64S 36*
S0.80
12.10
19S
Hemet .................. ... 620 14,8Sl.SO
S8.40
7,428.2S*
362
11.98
R.E.Dolley . .......... . . .... 187
2,IS3.00
3,7S2.34*
14.40
20.07
27
Big Bear .......... .... . .... 184
982.24
l,64S.67*
S9.80
8.94
110
Southland Heritage . . . ... . . . . 317
3,S80.SO
62.SO
3,6S9.00•
198
11.54
Point Loma ... . .. ..... . .... S12
3,089.70
3,148.27*
72.10
6.IS
369
The Gardens . ... . ........... 249
2,709.00
S7.80
3,369.SO•
144
13.S3
Menorah ... .. ......... . ... 1121
9.434.00 10,630.00*
487
43.40
9.48
Angeles Mesa ........ .. ..... 368
4,29S.89
6,107.SO•
16.60
399 100.00
Chula Vista . ... .... . .... . ... 731
6,236.00
6,387.so•
SS.JO
8.74
403
Lamanda Park Carmelita . . ... 394
61.40
S,173.02
12.28
4,839.12•
242
Truth .. .. . . .... . .. ... . ..... 172
23.80
964.00
4.22
726.00
41
Westminster Fairview .. . . .. .. 217
S0.20
l,64S.2S
7.82
1,696.00•
109
Normal Heights .. ... .. .. .... 666
60.40
S,?SS.SS
9.88
6,S81.20•
402
Poinsettia ........... .. . ... . 644
8,6S8.SO
4.83
3,112.00
160 24.80
Victorville ......... . .... . .. . 3SS
36.30
729.SO
S.02
1,780.SO*
129
Riverside ............ .. . .... 467
Sl.00
3,634.94
7.40
3,4S7.3S*
238
Palisades .. . . . . . . .. .. . .. .. . . 2S3
66.40
4,IS4.00
14.79
3,743.00•
168
Composite . ..... .. .... ..... S27
2,8S2.00
3,447.oo•
43.SO
6.S4
229
La Cumbre ....... .. ........ 224
33.90
6SO.OO
S.S8
1,2so.so•
76
Lomita ... .... . . .... . . . .... 3S2
2,398.00
7.20
2,s33.oo•
144 40.90
A.F.E. Irwin .. . ...... . . . . .. . 179
2,161.SO
60.30
12.11
2,167.06•
108
Hawthorne ................. 363
3,426.00
7.86
2,8S4.00•
S3.20
193
Damascus .... . .. . ...... . . . . S36
4,072.2S
8.78
4,706.30•
289
S3.90
Menlo Park . . ... .. . . .... . .. 230
1,843.00
2,oso.00•
6S .20
8.91
ISO
Crescenta Valley ... . .. . ..... . 427
3,373.00
174 40.70
7.04
3,00S.39•
Fontana ...... . .. .. . . . ..... 2S6
l,40S.OO
40.60
l,47S.oo•
S.76
104
Jordan-Golden Bowl. . . . ... . . 369
3,40S.SO
S6.IO
3,218.17•
207
8.72
Monte Vista ....... . . . .... .. SlO
6,SS4.00
4,888.00•
S3.90
9.S8
27S
Citrol. .. .......... . .... . .. . 199
Sl.30
l,444.S4
6.79
1,3SJ.OO•
102
John D. Spreckles .. ..... .... 404
2,903.00
2,s98.oo•
162
40.10
6.43
Livingston ....... .. .... .... 163
94.SO
871.00
792.00
IS4
4.86
La Habra ..... . . ... . ....... 3S2
3,099.07
2,773.so•
43.SO
7.88
IS3
Baldwin Park ..... .... .. . .. . 220
1,869.86
l,llS.OO•
20.SO
S.07
4S
Malta . ....... . ...... . .... . . 140
1,287.00
1,os1.oo•
70.70
7.Sl
99
Ojai ... . ................... 16S
2,349.SO
2,283.SO•
S9.40
13.84
98
Kaweah ....... . .... . ... . .. . 102
SS0.77
69
67.60
3.67
373.91
Reseda . . . . .. .. ... . . . ....... 778
6,430.SO
6,601 .00•
487
62.60
8.49
San Gorgonio . .... ..... ..... 209
1,S94.00
l,610.00•
148
70.80
7.70
John P. Jarmon ..... ... . . . .. 248
37.10
1,773.SO
1,411.00•
S.69
92
Greenleaf . ............. . . .. S67
4,188.SO
3,699.()()•
17.SO
6.S2
99
San Clemente ........... . . .. 220
l,791.3S
34.10
4.62
1,017.00
7S
Laguna Beach ......... .. . .. 200
37.SO
1,389.00
l,S40.oo•
7S
7.70
Los Cerritos . ... .. .... .. .. . .434
4,369.00
4,74S.07•
64.70
10.93
281
Modesto . ...... . . .......... 370
1,936.00
1,066.00
61
16.SO
2.88
Willow Glen . . .... . ......... 332
3,1S4.00
3,66s.oo•
71.70
11.04
238
Liberal Arts ...... .. . ... . . . . 281
2,381.00
41.30
2,3S7.oo•
8.39
116
Altadena-Mt. Wilson .. .. .... 309
3,626.00
3,137.oo•
62.10
10.IS
192
Canby Cross ............. .. . . 88
462.JO•
24
27.30
3S3.00
S.2S
Carmel . . ...... . ........... 180
1,876.00
1,SS6.00•
114 63.30
8.64
Dos Palos ............... . . . I09
473.00
33.90
2.38
2S9.00
37
Barstow .... .... . . . ... ...... 390
2,202.00
2,681.00•
3S.60
6.87
139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.
683
684
68S
686
687
688
690
691
692
693
69S
696
698
699
700
701
702
707
708
709
710
711
712
713
714
71S
716
717
718
719
720
721
722
724
72S
726
728
729
730
731
732
733
734
73S
736
739
740
741
74S
746
747
748
749
?SO

159

*Denotes Honor Roll
1985 Participation Avg.
1984
1985
1985
Members%
Gift
Membership Contrib. Contrib.
Lodge Name
44.40
S.11
SSl.42*
48
Redwood Empire ...... . . .. .. 108
S6S.OO
2S
22.30
1.68
188.00
Trona ...... ......... . .. . .. . 112
269.00
8.7S
16S
SS.60
San Marino ... ........ .... . 297
2,717.00
2,S98.00*
7.38
22S
74.SO
2,227.SO*
El Cerrito-Albany . .. . ..... . . 302
2,IS8.39
187
47.10
7.30
Vista ......... ... . .... . . ... 397
2,S92.00
2,899.00*
Consolidated with No. 69S
1,187.SO
Oildale . . .......... .. ........ O
7.93
2,41s .so•
190 60.90
San Carlos . ..... . ... .. . . . .. 312
2,66S.SO
48.40
10.11
3,174.00*
IS2
Indian Wells Valley . .. ....... 314
2,012.00
6.SO
78
S2.70
962.00*
Travelers . . . .. .............. 148
1,084.00
6.89
S7.IO
2,279.00*
189
1,776.10
Palm Springs ...... ... .. .. . . 331
79.00
S.03
2,113.14•
332
Meudell-Oildale ............. 420
1,010.00
187
83.10
10.87
2,444.6S*
2,909.IS
Crossroads ... . . . .... .. .. . .. 22S
4.30
.87
7
140.00
William D. Stephens ..... . .. . 161
1,2S7.00
12.0S
6,781.40•
340 60.40
Bixby Knolls Neptune ........ S63
7,030.S4
40.80
S.42
141
l ,873.S3·
Ponderosa .. ....... .. . . .. .. 346
1,764.96
10.IS
1,12s.oo•
110 64.70
Santa Ynez Valley ..... . ... . .. 170
l,S97.00
9.03
1,706.67•
96 S0.80
Rosemead ....... ..... .... . . 189
2,S88.86
.26
1.00
2S.OO
I
Lake Tahoe ..... .. . .. .. . .. . .. 97
497.00
4.81
142
28.70
2,378.00
Seafaring . .. ........... .... 494
4,944.24
69.20
7.83
2,646.00•
234
2,173.3S
Lorenzo . . ...... . . . ...... . . 338
II.OS
209
74.90
3,083.00•
Anacapa ... . .. . ..... . .. . . . . 279
3,2SS.OO
Sl.40
7.47
93
l,3S2.00•
Rim of the World .... . . . ..... 181
l,SSS.10
S9.90
9.47
2,s9s.oo•
164
2,22S.OO
Los Altos . . .......... .. .... 274
7.99
103
39.80
2,068.44
Castro Valley .. . . ....... . . .. 2S9
1,867.44
8.74
1,617.00•
112 60.SO
1,614.SO
Blue Lakes . . ....... . ....... 18S
8.39
94
40.90
1,930.28•
Magnolia Park .. . ... . . . . .. .. 230
l,7SS.OO
7.SO
2,339.20•
136 43.60
2,S9S.40
Belmont Shore . ...... . .. . ... 312
12.11
1,962.00•
113 69.80
Wayfarer ...... . . .. . . ... . .. . 162
2,268.00
66.40
S.9S
743.96•
83
San Lorenzo Valley ... . .. .... 12S
9S9.84
11.71
13S
73.80
2,143.00•
1,121.SO
Estero . . . .... .. . .. .. . .. . ... 183
S8.70
11.24
1,742.SO•
91
Mineral King . . . .. . .... ..... ISS
2,080.00
4.44
205
30.00
3,029.SO
4,S70.72
Home . .. . . ..... . . . . .. .. . .. 683
S2.IO
6.36
1,233.00•
IOI
George E. Tutt . ...... . . ... . . 194
1,278.SO
8.94
47.60
1,671.00•
89
San Ramon Valley .......... . 187
1,776.00
10.73
2,08).00•
42.80
83
Saint John's ....... . .. ... . .. 194
1,806.00
128
S4.SO
7.08
1,664.SO•
Yucaipa .. . . .. ... . .... . .. .. . 23S
1,968.00
9.SO
141
44.90
2,982.80•
2,446.00
Lakewood ... . . . ..... .. .. ... 314
86.20
6.92
100
803.00·
Centennial ................. 116
1,001.00
6.3S
4S.IO
1,238.00•
88
1,316.00
Polaris ........... . . . . . .. .. . 19S
0.00
0
0.00
0.00
769.00
Two Rivers .... .. ........... 144
S.81
164 44.30
2,149.?S•
2,600.00
San Juan . . . . . . ....... ... . . . 370
S4.70
6.77
1,077.00•
87
Golden Empire ............ . IS9
1,037.00
3S.IO
3.93
67
7SO.OO
1,037.SO
Kit Carson ..... . . .. ..... ... 191
72.90
12.10
1,694.07•
102
Oasis of Mara . ..... . .. . .. .. 140
0.00
49.70
6.S7
234
3,09s.so•
3,426.00
Lemon Grove . . ......... . ... 471
7.78
4S.SO
l,S40.00•
90
La Canada-Oakwood ... . .. .. 198
l,lOS.00
9.S4
93
S9.20
1,497.00•
Opportunity ........ ... . . .. . IS?
3,S89.00
2.91
S37 100.00
1,440.94
l}'re ...... . . . ......... . ... .49S
3,008.60
6.SI
91
S3.20
1,112.so•
1,343.00
Peninsula .. . .. .... . .. . ..... 171
9.74
63.60
l,S78.S3•
103
1,498.60
Soquel ... ..... . . .... . .... .. 162
6.08
1,277.00•
112 S3 .30
1,164.00
Claude H. Morrison .... .. .. . 210
8.S6
122 7S.30
1,387.oo•
1,237 .00
Highland .................. 162
36.90
2.13
414.SO
72
1,307.00
Merced .. . . . . . . ... . . . .. .. . . 19S
l.S6
26
13.80
293.00
Mother Colony . . . .. .... . .. . 188
3S8.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

160

*Denotes Honor Roll
1985
1984
1985
Membership Contrib. Cont rib.

No.

Lodge Name

751
752
753
754
756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
765
767
768
769
771
773
774
775
776
778
779
780
782
784
786
788
789
790
791
793
795
796
797
798
799
800
801
802
803
804
806
807
808
809
810
811
812
813
814
815
818
820

Hamilton . ... . ... ... . ..... . 159
Luther Burbank ........ . .. .. 328
Lawndale . ............. . . .. 184
San Pablo .................. 140
Clayton Valley ............. . 389
Channel ................ ... 134
West Covina ......... . . . . . . . 216
El Rancho .. . .......... .. . .. 169
Lakeside .. . . . . ... ... . .. .. .. 191
Josiah W. Roller .... ... . . . . . 201
Coastside ..... .. ........... 144
Arabic . . . . ....... . ......... 171
Dana R. Weller ............. 143
William Rhodes Hervey .. .... 102
Zenith .. ............... . .. . 275
Palmdale ............ . .. .. . 245
Mission Bay ........ . . .... . . 239
Tejon ................... .. . 222
Waikiki ................. ... 229
San Dieguito ............ .. . 206
East Whittier ... . ....... .... 239
La Mirada ............ .. .. . 255
Five Points . . .. ... . ..... . . . . 122
Riviera ..... .. ..... . . . ... . . . 131
Silverado . ... .. . ... . .. . ..... 181
Leland Stanford . . .. ..... .. .. 191
Rio Linda ... .... . . ... .... .. 186
Sierra .... . . . . . ........ .. . .. 169
Oak Plains ........ .. ..... . .494
Granada Hills ........... .... 241
General Henry H. Arnold . . .. . 119
Maya ................... ... 183
American River ........ . .. . . 164
Golden Valley . . ...... .. ... . . 205
Tila Pass ........ . .... .. . .. . 140
Ashland ..... . .. ... ... . . .. . 128
Clairemont Mesa .... . .. . .... 171
Rio Hondo .......... . ..... . 122
Koolau . ......... . ... . .. . .. 169
Yucca Valley ... . .. . .. . ... . .. 218
The Gabilan .... . .. ..... . . . . 110
Moreno Valley ... . .. . . ... . .. 171
Simi Valley .. . ......... .. . . . 172
Conejo Valley ....... . . .. . ... 256
Scepter .................. .. 180
Los Alamitos .......... . .. . . 163
Victoria Palms ....... .. . .... 133
Woodland Hills ........ . . ... 262
Triad ... . . . ................ 102
Old West. . . .. . ... ... . .. . ... 282
Plaza de Los Angeles . . . .. .... 69
Mount Baldy . .. ...... . .... . 122
Great Lights .... .. . . .. .. ... .429
Mar Vista . . .... . . . . .... . ... 258

1,180.50
2,288.00
3,266.00
1,292.48
2,718.00
1,269.38
2,266.12
1,262.60
1,590.50
1,779.00
813.00
1,440.22
1,078.00
845.00
2,318.28
1,927.66
2,025.00
1,161.00
1,386.00
1,326.41
4,232.48
4,124.52
804.00
4,357.00
1,063.00
868.00
1,482.00
670.00
3,961.00
3,114.52
994.00
485.00
405.00
1,611.90
518.00
1,533.16
1,566.25
2,148.95
1,147 .00
1,420.08
377.00
1,637.86
1,306.08
2,554.61
879.40
990.00
1,101.00
2,133.16
738.69
5,078.00
865.25
852.00
4,350.44
1,947.80

1,139.75*
2,618.50*
1,566.00*
909.20*
2,710.40*
970.30*
2,322.90*
1,309.96*
1,071.50*
1,804.00*
782.00*
1,061.00*
815.00*
992.00*
3,482.92*
1,807.33*
1,808.75*
1,126.00*
1,310.00*
1,218.00*
3,943.84*
4,811.83*
941.00*
4,482.00*
916.50*
927.00
1,381.00*
590.00
4,250.00*
2,459.12*
885.00*
393.00
916.00*
1,400.00*
439.42
1,961.00*
1,627.25*
1,158.00*
2,035.00*
1,106.04*
347.00
1,613.14*
2,320.24*
2,770.03*
928.42*
805.00
988.50*
1,914.00*
585.50*
4,202.50*
765.00*
862.00*
4,911.00*
3,387.30*

1985 Participation Avg.
Gift
Members%
78
178
95
34
143
64
118
57
89
121
80
174
67
44
166
92
215
151
146
74
239
217
58
132
77
150
111
48
233
80
58
36
66
104
33
92

131
63
142
157
45
97
112
140
102
48
65
104
33
174
41
52
271
125

49.10
54.30
51.60
24.30
36.80
47.80
54.60
33.70
46.60
60.20
55.60
100.00
46.90
43.10
60.40
37.60
90.00
68.00
63.80
35 .90
100.00
85.10
47.50
100.00
42.50
78.50
59.70
28.40
47.20
33.20
48.70
19.70
40.20
50.70
23.60
71.90
76.60
51.60
84.00
72.00
40.90
56.70
65.10
54.70
56.70
29.40
48.90
39.70
32.40
61.70
59.40
42.60
63 .20
48.40

7.17
7.98
8.51
6.49
6.97
7.24
10.75
7.75
5.61
8.98
5.43
6.21
5.70
9.73
12.67
7.38
7.57
5.07
5.72
5.91
16.50
18.87
7.71
34.21
5.06
4.85
7.43
3.49
8.60
10.20
7.44
2.15
5.59
6.83
3.14
15.32
9.52
9.49
12.04
5.07
3.16
9.43
13.49
10.82
5.16
4.94
7.43
7.31
5.74
14.90
11.09
7.07
11.45
13.13

*Denotes Honor Roll
1984
1985 Participation Avg.
1985
1985
Gift
Members%
Membership Contrib. Cont rib.

No.

Lodge Name

821
822
824
825
826
827
828
830
831
832
833
834
835
836
U.D.

Gateway . .. ... . . ... . .. . .... . 68
Boron ...... ...... .. ....... . 91
Camarillo ...... . . . . . . . ... . . 325
Gemini ..... . . ...... ....... 164
Palm Desert ... ..... . .. . .. ... 73
Kern River Valley . ... .. ... .. . 237
Tustin ..... .. . ........... . . 139
Bicentennial Daylight ....... . . 92
Sublime ... . .. .. ... . . .. . .. .. 117
Saddleback Valley ........... 142
Orange County Daylight .. . ... 85
Square and Compass . .... ... .48
Half Moon Bay . . ... . ........ 51
Kona . . .. . ..... . . .... . . . ... . 72
Joseph L. Shell Daylight . . . . . . 50
Northern Calif. Researcht .......
Central Calif. Researcht ... . ....
El Camino Researcht . .. . .......
Southern Calif. Researcht .......
Alta Calif. Researcht ..... ......
Orange County Researcht . .... ..
TOTALS

161

257.50
289.00
3,989.50*
1,979.oo•
616.00*
1,490.50*
1,890.00·
623.00·
332.50
700.93
115.00
210.00
815 .00*
305.00
422 .50*
0.00
0 .00
0 .00
543.00
20.00
70.00

46
37
218
178
30
112
82
67
62
43
14
11
33
20
33
0
0
0
76
4

174,423 $1,500,203.10 $1,422,367.64

89,072

190.00
170.00
4,482.40
1,439.75
878.00
2,057.50
1,602.00
687.00
517.50
875.00
379.25
229.00
677.00
175.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
1,376.00
14.00
0.00

67.60
40.70
67.10
100.00
41.10
47.30
59.00
72.80
53.00
30.30
16.50
22.90
64.70
27.80
66.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

3.79
3.18
12.28
12.07
8.44
6.29
13.60
6.77
2.84
4.94
1.35
4.38
15.98
4.24
8.45
0.00
0.00
0.00

55
51.07

OVERALL AVERAGE GIFT . . ..... . ......... . .... . ... .. ........ . ....... ... ... $8.16
AVERAGE CONTRIBUTION PER CONTRIBUTOR ..... ..... ..... . .......... . $15 .97
t Not included in total membership

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

162

163

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND
CONCLUSION

Contributions through the Lodges
For Years Ended on June 30th
$1,500,000 r------- -------- --==::r --,--,

-

1,400,000 i . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - + - - - t - - - ; - - - i

1,300,000

1,200,000

1, 100,000

Our sincere and grateful thank you to Grand Master Roy J. Henville and to
the Grand Lodge Officers and Committeemen , all of whom have been most
supportive of the Endowment Program. We also wish to thank the Masters,
Wardens and Secretaries of the Lodges for their efforts in furthering this
worthy program.
We extend a special thank you to the 89,072 Brothers who, through their
generosity, contributed $1,422,367.64 to the Endowment Fund during the past
year.
We appreciate the splendid assistance we have received from the Grand
Secretary's office under the leadership of Grand Secretary Robert A. Klinger
assisted by Assistant Grand Secretary Clare W. "Bud" Wilson, Jr., Brother
Fran Lewis and the Staff in the Homes Endowment Office at Grand Lodge.
My personal thank you to the members of the Endowment Board for their
dedicated efforts which have made this an outstanding year.

1---=--=--=--=--:.-==l--+--+..;_+--t--r--r----i

1,000,000 1---1---1 --+--4--+ --+---ir-- --t-;---i

Respectively submitted,
ERNEST A. POOLEON, Chairman
ENDOWMENT BOARD MEMBERS
ERNEST A. POOLEON (652) Chairman
WILBER L. MISNER (244)

1976 1977 1978 1979 1980

1981

1982 1983 1984 1985

Division I Coordinator
WILBUR W. HOLTZCLAW (609)

PERCENT MEMBERSHIP CONTRIBUTIO N

Division II Coordinator
THOMAS J. MERAZ (I)

For Years Ending on June 30th

Division III Coordinator
ARTHUR E. Buss (161)

Division IV Coordinator
,...---_

500Jo
,--

-

.....---

SAM CHADNOW (623)

Division V. Coordinator
LARRIE D. AYERS (632)

Division VI Coordinator

~

WILLIAM F. LEE (371)

Division VII Coordinator

400Jo

HERBERT E. NEELY (79)
WILLIAM E. CALDWELL (123)
GLENN C. ANNIS (41)
JAMES S. KEMPER (825)
EMMITT F. HILL (297)
NELSON BARTOO (150)
TOM MASTELLER (103)
M. REED WILSON (20)
GERALD W. BODE (388)

300Jo

200Jo

lOOJo

HAROLD S. HAMRE (13)
EDWIN C. COFFIN, III (331)
STANLEY L. COSART (424)
ORESTES RIGHELLIS (224)
F.J. POTTER (824)
FLOYD L. MERRELL (373)
J. NORMAN ROBERTS (621)
JAMES R. PADEN (685)
BERNHARD D. MORSE (639)
ROY GALLOWAY (652)
M. HAROLD BURKE (544)
PATRICK L. HORN (594)
HENRY E. NOGUCHI (625)
CHARLES A. GROSSMAN (380)
L. LAWRENCE BAIRD (523)
JOHN W. CATHEY (648)
GEORGE C. SCHRUM (381)
JAMES M. RAY (676)
ADRIAN C. WEST (122)

(Consultant)
EVERETT R . PEUGH (312)

(Consultant)

Referred to the Committee on Distribution. The Committee on Distribution
referred the entire report to the Committee on Finance.
1976 1977 1978 1979 1980

1981 1982 1983 1984 1985

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION

GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT
We recommend that this report be referred to Committees as follows:
That portion relating to change of meeting place referred to the Committee on Charters.
That portion relating to Consolidation of Lodges be referred to the Committee on Charters.
That portion relating to the formation of new Lodges referred to the Committee on Charters and the Committee on By-Laws.
Exhibit ''A:.' concerning dispensations issued, referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence.
Exhibit "B" concerning Amendments to By-Laws, referred to the Committee on By- Laws.
Exhibit "C'', Trial Records, referred to the Committee on Trial Review.

164

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Distribution has examined the outstanding Message
of our Grand Master and wishes to commend him on his dedication to the
Craft.
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
The Grand Master's Message contains four Decisions and five Recommendations, and we recommend that the subject matter be referred to the
following Committees:
Decision Number One, relative to restrictive use of Masonic insignia, be
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.
Decision Number Two, relative to York Rite Sovereign College be referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
Decision Number Three, relating to C.M.C. Section 2050, be referred to
the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and the Committee on Temple Properties.
On page 4 of the Grand Master's Message, reference is made to the restoration of recognition of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey. We recommend that
this item be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes and the Committee on Recognition of Foreign
Grand Lodges.
Recommendation Number One, relative to C.M.C. Section 2050, be referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, and the Trustees of the Masonic Homes.
Recommendation Number 1\vo, relative to Pasadena Tournament of Roses,
be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, the Committee on Finance, and the Committee on Film
and Creative Projects.
Recommendation Number Three, relative to admission of children into the
Home at Covina, be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and the Trustees of the Masonic
Homes.
Recommendation Number Four, relative to removal of Lodge Master, be
referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.
Recommendation Number Five, relative to C.M.C. Section 2048 and 2050,
be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
We recommend that this report be referred to the Committee on Finance.

165

GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
The Grand Lecturer's Report recommending delineation of responsibilities,
be referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes, and that part referring to budget be referred to the Committee on
Finance.
MASONIC HOMES TRUSTEES REPORT
We recommend that this beautiful report of Masonic Charity in action be
referred in its entirety to the Committee on Finance.
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
We recommend that this outstanding report of Masonic Benevolene be
referred in its entirety to the Committee on Finance.
Respectfully submitted
LEROY G. CONNELLY, Chairman
VERNE W. HENDRIX
DAVID A. POOLE, JR.

REPORT OF THE CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
PUBLICATION BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:
A Board comprised of the Grand Master, Grand Secretary, such advisors
as may be desirable, and an Editor- in-Chief, appointed by the Grand Master,
administer the quarterly editing and distribution of the California Freemason
the official publication of the Grand Lodge of California.
More that 19 million copies of the magazine have been distributed to the
members of California and Hawaii Lodges, to the Grand Lodges of other
jurisdictions, and to paid subscribers during its 33 year history. The magazine

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

166

is quoted from time to time in the publications of the American and foreign
Grand Lodges.
The primary purpose of the California Freemason is to inform the membe~s
of California and Hawaii Lodges of the activities of Grand Lodge, the Masomc
Homes of California, U.S. Constitution observances, California Masonic
Foundation, Public Schools Week and events within the constituent Lod~es
such as Hiram Awards, Widows' Nights, Layman's Nights, and more. Mamtaining the high principles of Freemasonry is a paramount goal of the
magazine.
.
.
.
.
A two-year subscription fee of only $2.00 will brmg the C,aliforma
Freemason to friends and families of California Masons. Such gift orders
are an excellent way to communicate the goals and purposes of Freemasonry
to the general public.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH H. HEAD, Editor-in-Chief
ROY J. HENVILLE,
ROBERT A. KLINGER,

Grand Master

Grand Secretary

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF THE SOJOURNERS COMMITTEE
To the Most Worship/ul Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:
We of the Sojourners Committee are very enthusiastic and appreciative of
the excellent cooperation we have received from Most Worshipful Roy J.
Henville, the entire Grand Lodge Line, and especially Very Worshipful Robert
A. Klinger and his entire staff. Their effort~, guidance, and help has made
our job much more meaningful and productive. We wo~ld also hke ~o thank
the California High 1\velve Clubs who were very supportive of the S~Journers
program and promoted it in ·each one of the meetings. The Yor~ Rite, Sc.ottish Rite, and all other Concordant Bodies were all very helpful m supplymg
lists of known Sojourners.
This year we have endeavored to gather as many names and addresses of
Sojourners living in our two great States and pass them along to the Lodges
by Zip Code.
.
. .
.
Many Lodges have established Sojourners Committees withm their own
Lodges and some have been very successful. Vacaville Lodge 1':1<?· 134 re~orts
13 petitions, and Orange County Daylight No. 833 reports 9 petitto~s. ~eived.
Many other Lodges have reported significant gains from afflhat1on of
Sojourners.
Thanks to our Grand Secretary and Boulder City Lodge No. 37 in Boulder,
Colorado, we introduced the "Rusty Nail Degree" to the members of the
Sojourners Committee who in turn presented it to the individual Lodges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

Although it did not get to the Lodges until later in the year, some Lodges
have reported outstanding results and new affiliations.
Reports estimate that there are over 70,000 Sojourners living in California
and Hawaii. If these figures are close to being right, you can see each of us
has our work cut out for us. However, if only half of these Sojourners affiliate with California/Hawaii Lodges, we would again enjoy the status of
Number 1.
The Grand Secretary's report will reflect our accomplishments for this year,
but in the words of a song, "WE'VE ONLY JUST BEGUN."
We have cultivated the ground, sown the seed, and with each Mason's help
we look forward to reaping a bountiful harvest of Sojourners. However, this
crop must be handled with much tenderness, compassion, and loving kindness. Just because the "crop" is not harvestable today does not mean it should
be discarded, but continually cultivated until it is ready. This "crop" may take
years to mature, but handled correctly we all will benefit from the abundant
harvest.
Thanks again to all who gave so much to get this program started, and
thanks to those who will keep it going in the future.
Respectfully submitted,
BRUCE CARMITCHEL, Chairman
MILTON T. SIMMONS
MELVAN R. MCSPADDEN HOWARD K. NOBLE
KEITH K. KINNAIRD
JAIME A. ALGALLAR
C. HAROLD UNDERWOOD
HAROLD A. WHITMYER BILL A. JONES
JOHN F. RANKIN
WILLIAM T. JOHNSON
CLAYTON D J\RCY
EARL C. ARBUCKLE
JOHN MCLAUCHLl).N
GUIDO J. BIANCHI
RALPH E. SWANN
ADOLPH L. HAUSAUER THEODORE KETTERER ALBERT M. TODD
HOMER A. STRUTHERS ROBERT A. BURGER
DEMAY H. WHITE
FREDERICK W. ERVAST
JOEL H. SPRINGER III BOB W. KNOBLOCK
JAMES A. CHILTON
ELIO POLETTI
AUBREY E. FRASER
WES WILLOUGHBY
FRANK STIMSON

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:
The Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple hereby
submits its 30th Annual Report.
At the close of the 1984 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, the Board
of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple held its organiza-

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

tion meeting as required by the California Masonic Code, nominating and
electing the following officers for the ensuing year:
STANLEY M . CAZNEAUX President
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER Treasurer
ROBERT 0. WEST, P.G.M. Vice President
ROBERT A. KLINGER Secretary

to donate $30,000.00 to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, in accordance
with our By-Laws.
The Board of Trustees would like to express its appreciation for an excellent
job done by Worshipful Loren Stritenberger, our Executive Vice President
and General Manager of the Temple. Under his direction the daily maintenance
is not only supervised but the entire rental and operation of the auditorium
and exhibit halls is achieved. In addition, he has responsibilities for our Pine
Street Properties and overall supervision of the Library and Museum. The
Trustees would also like to thank both our Grand Secretary and our Grand
Treasurer for their continued good counsel. Their expertise and advice to this
Board of Trustees has led to a very successful year. Your Trustees have
endeavored to discharge their duties, to the best of their ability, so that this
beautiful monument will continue to serve the needs of our great Fraternity
of Masons in the States of California and Hawaii.

168

The California Masonic Memorial Temple serves as a partiotic monument
and memorial, commemorating the members of the Armed Services of the
United States and of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, who gave their lives in battle during World
War II. Our Temple is open to the public and attracts people from all o~er
the world. The Library sign-in sheets show visitors from the followmg
countries:
ARGENTINA, AUSTRALIA, 8ELGIUM,8RAZIL, CANADA, COLUMBIA, ENGLAND,
FINLAND, FRANCE, GREECE, HONG KONG,ICELAND, INDIA, ISRAEL, ITALY,
JAPAN.NEW ZEALAND, NORWAY,PHILIPPINES, SCOTLAND, SINGAPORE,
SO. AFRICA,SPAIN, SWITZERLAND, WEST GERMANY.

It continues to be the policy of the Trustees and of all the employees of
the Temple to maintain this building to the highest possible standards. Because
of our exceptional location and excellent facilities, ~e conti~ue to attract
stockholder meetings, concerts, lectures and graduation exercises. Some of
the large corporations who returned this year were Transamerica, McKesson
Corporation , P.G.& E., Levi Strauss, Bank of America, Che~ron and Crown
Zellerbach. Joining us for the first time were Earthquake Engmeers, San Francisco Life Underwriters, KQED, CBS and Nestle Corporation . Entertainm~nt
included the Berkeley Symphony, Miss Chinatown Pageant, Ebony Fas~1on
Faire, Andres Segovia, and Cary Grant. Using our Temple. for graduations
were the University of the Pacific, University of San Francisco and Golden
Gate University.
At the October 1984 Board of Trustees meeting, your Temple Board voted
to assume the funding of the budget for the Library and Museum C~mmit­
tee. Chairman C. John Bellman of the Library and Museum Committee requested and received a $25,000 budget retroactive to the start of the fiscal
year, July I, 1984. In a subsequent meeting the Library and Museum budget
for the 1985-1986 fiscal year was set at $17,500. Brother Harold R. Ecklund,
a professional librarian, has been hired to bring our records up-to-date and
then maintain this highly specialized Library and Museum for the study,
reference and enjoyment by the members of the Craft as well as our many
visitors to the Temple.
.
The Trustees are pleased to announce the continuation of our p~hcy of
providing free parking to our delegates during the official transactions of
Grand Lodge at the Annual Communica tions. In addition, we have also p~o­
vided decorative plants and additional seating in our Temple lobby durmg
Grand Lodge Week.
.
.
Although the maintenance of our Temple requires a conti~ued expe?d1ture
of monies, your Trustees are pleased to report that we are still able this year

169

Respectfully submitted,
STANLEY M. CAZNEAUX, President
ROBERT 0. WEST, P.G.M.,
JOHN W. DRISKELL,
Vice President
Deputy Grand Master
MARKE. SCHROCK
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER,
ALBERT c. MCGUIRK
Treasurer
DAVID B. LEONARD
ROBERT A. KLINGER,
SAM M. PAVLOVICH
Secretary
Adopted.

REPORT OF CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:

The Trustees of the California Masonic Foundation report as follows:
The work of your Board is current and has been promptly and efficiently
dispatched. Your Trustees have worked diligently and effectively to achieve
the purposes of the Foundation, and to make them known to the Brethren
of this Jurisdiction and to encourage its support by contributions and
donations.
Your Trustees have made, during this reporting period, over 400 appearances
on behalf of the Foundation.
During this reporting period we have received donations and contributions
in the amount of $68,377. Appropriate acknowledgement thereof was made
to the donors, and to the families of those persons in whose memory many
of the contributions were made. Our income from investments was $111,903.
The investments, income, and expenses of the Foundation are set forth in
the report of the Grand Treasurer, and are not, therefore, repeated here. Direct
Trustee expense was 10.8 percent of the total income.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The members of Grand Lodge should be aware that the Foundation has
not received any funds from Grand Lodge by way of per capita tax or assessment. They should also be aware that the Trustees have not expended any
capital funds. All awards, grants and expenses have been paid from the income or from contributions specifically designated for those purposes.
Grants for leadership training were made to the Northern and Southern
Jurisdictions, Order of DeMolay; Order of Job's Daughters; and the Order
of Rainbow, each in the amount of $2,000.00.
During this reporting period, we received 3,350 requests for scholarship
applications. 319 applications were returned for action by the Scholarship
Committee. We granted 183 scholarships in a total amount of $93,000.
In April 1984, the then Grand Master, E. Arthur Haglund, requested that
the Foundation undertake the solicitation of funds for the restoration of the
Statue of Liberty. The original request letter from the Grand Master was sent
in August 1984, and there have been two follow-up request flyers. The logistics
of handling this solicitation have been tremendous. Thousands of man hours
have been expended by your Trustees and a few other interested parties. A
special commendation should go to Sam Sheff, a member of the Grand Lodge
Week Activities Committee, for his unstinting help.
The Statue of Liberty Film has been shown in 77 Lodges with 3,966 in attendance. It has been shown in over 40 of our public schools with attendance
of over 5,500. It was also shown in meetings of Hi-12, York Rite, Scottish
Rite Order of the Eastern Star, and others.
I~dividual contributions have ranged from $1.00 to $1,000.00, with many
coming from our Home at Union City. Total contribution s for the reporting
period was $651,690 from 31,215 contributors.
Total contributions received to this date is $782,000 from 38,081
contributors.
Direct Trustee expense for the reporting period was one-half of 1 percent
of the total contributed.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC SERVICE BUREAUS

170

Respectfully submitted,

c.

LARRY
BASKER, President
BERNARD P. GRAY
ANDREW J. NOCAS
ROBERT J. VALDISERA
THOMAS J. MAY
ROBERT A. KLINGER, Secretary
DONALD
BRIGGS
ARTHUR A. PERRY
ROBERT W. LAVERSIN
J. GLEN GLADSON
GLEN A. WORRELL
JAMES B. BOUICK III
HUGO DELFIN, Advisor
GUYE. REYNOLDS
ROBERT N. DETER
EDGAR L. FRIEDMAN
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER,
EDWARD B.H. YEE
Treasurer

c.

Adopted.

171

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Masonic Service Bureaus is pleased to submit its Annual
Report on the operations and conditions of the eighteen Masonic Service
Bureaus for the year ending June 30, 1985. The Committee is in its 58th year.
The Right Worshipful John W. Driskell, Deputy Grand Master, was appointed liaison officer. We appreciated his support and assistance during the
year.
The Committee is well aware of its responsibility in directing the operation
of the Bureaus in a uniform manner. The Service Bureaus assist the
Sojourners, their widows and orphans, operate blood banks, arrange and conduct funerals for deceased Masons, make investigations, assist in the applications for the Masonic Homes, visit sick and promote fraternal relations with
sojourners.
NEW COMMITTEE MEMBERS

We welcome back to our Committee A. Bruce Ivie, a member of Old West
Lodge No. 813, F. & A. M. after leaving the Committee to serve our Grand
Lodge as Senior Grand Deacon during the previous year. We also welcome
Jesse C. Canale, a member of Blackmer Lodge No. 442, F. & A. M., who
is serving the Committee as Secretary.
Delmar W. May was reappointed Chairman of the Committee by Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, Grand Master.
NEW EXECUTIVE SECRETARIES

We were sorry to lose Paul M. Porter who resigned as Executive Secretary
of the East Bay Masonic Service Bureau after a long and outstanding term
as Executive Secretary. We are pleased that he has offered to stay until another
Secretary is elected with hopes that he will see fit to continue.
We also welcome Jack W. Hughes as Executive Secretary of the Santa Barbara Bureau who replaces Clarence A. Leslie who resigned after many years.
We also welcome John M. Mabel who replaces William H. Osborne as Executive Secretary of the San Francisco Bureau. William H. Osborne passed
away in 1984.
MEETINGS

The Committee held four meetings during the year. One was held during
Grand Lodge week which permitted members of the Bureaus and Lodge Officers to contact the Committee and receive help with their problems which
were applicable to their own areas.
A regional meeting was held in Oakland on February 23, 1985. Twentyeight members and guests of the Bureaus from Central California attended.
Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary, was our speaker. Former
Chairman, Arthur R. Kirk, was our honored guest.

I73

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A regional meeting was held in Los Angeles on April 13, 1985, 33 officers
and members of the Bureaus were present. Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger,
Grand Secretary, was the speaker.
The Committee was honored with the presence of Very Worshipful Ron
Brinkman, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico and President of the Masonic Relief Association of the United States and Canada.
On June 11th, 1985 a meeting of the Committee was held in Pasadena at
the Scottish Rite Temple to review the Bureau's Annual Budget. The Most
Worshipful Roy J. Henville was the Committee's guest. His suggestions were
most helpful and appreciated.
A business meeting was held after all budgets were reviewed.

BLOOD BANKS
Several of our Bureaus operate Blood Banks for the benefit of the Masonic
Lodges' members and Sojourners. During the year 1,547 units of blood were
donated and over 1,706 units of blood were released to provide the important
life support to our members, their families and Sojourners. We compliment
the Bureaus and our members for supporting this worthy activity.
A problem has arisen since some of the Blood Banks have installed computers and so far have been unable to give an accurate count to the individual
Lodges who are members of their local Masonic Blood Bank. We feel this
will soon be worked out.

I72

TAXES
All Bureaus have filed the required information return to the Internal
Revenue Service on Form 990 and the State Franchise Board on either Form
199 or 199B. The Los Angeles Bureau prepares forms other than the 990 and
199. All Bureaus requiring tax returns have filed them on schedule.
BUSH MASONIC RELIEF FUND
Worshipful Ralph H. Head, President of the Bush Relief Fund, and the
Trustees provide the operating funds for the Bureaus located in the greater
Los Angeles area. The contribution from this fund amounts to 52 percent
of the total budget for the eighteen Bureaus. The Masters, officers and the
members of the Lodges join with the members of our Committee in expressing appreciation to the President and the Trustees of the Bush Masonic Relief
Fund for their generous contribution for the operations of the Bureaus in
the greater Los Angeles area.
MASONIC RELIEF ASSOCIATION OF THE U.S. AND CANADA
Our Grand Lodge now holds membership in the Masonic Relief Association of the United States and Canada. The Association has many functions
including the correlation of the various forms of Masonic relief throughout
the United States and Canada. Our California Bureaus are benefitting from
this membership.
We are pleased to report that the Executive Secretary of the Los Angeles
Bureau, Lloyd V. Smith, is a director of the Association.
The Committee had the pleasure of a visit from Very Worshipful Ron
Brinkman, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of New Mexico, who is the President of the Masonic Relief Association of the U.S. and
Canada, during our Los Angeles area meeting.

UNIFORM COMPACTS
New Compacts have been issued to Tri Lodge No. 595 F. & A. M. to join
the Los Angeles Masonic Service Bureau, also to Palms-Adams No. 512 F.
& A. M. to join the Santa Monica Bay Bureau, and to San Leandro-Brooklyn
Lodge No. 225 F. & A. M. to join the South Alameda County Masonic Service Bureau. A compact has been issued to Hermosa-Manhattan Lodge No.
557 F. & A. M. to join the Los Angeles Masonic Service Bureau, also Valle
de France Lodge No. 329 F. & A. M. to join the Pasadena Masonic Service
Bureau and to Conejo Lodge No. 807 F. & A. M. and Lynwood Lodge No.
600 F. & A. M. to join the Los Angeles Masonic Service Bureau. The new
Joseph L. Shell Daylight Lodge No. 837 has joined the San Diego Masonic
Service Bureau.
MASONIC HELP LINE
During the year Most Worshipful E. Arthur Haglund was Grand Master
he received a suggestion from a former Inspector that a Masonic Help Line
be instituted to better help Sojourners and needy Masons. He suggested that
the Committee on Masonic Service Bureaus study the suggestion and come
up with a plan for such a help line if it appeared to be warranted. With the
help of Right Worshipful Roy J. Henville, our liaison officer, and Worshipful Ralph Head a plan was worked out with the Los Angeles Masonic Service
Board to start such a plan under the supervision of the Los Angeles Service
Bureau for a 24 hour Hot Line. Stickers with the Help Line phone number
were handed out to many Masonic Service Bureaus. Although, directly, it has
not appeared to be used as much as we had hoped for, indirectly it has been
used and the Service Bureaus in the Southern California area have received
many calls which were directly related to the Help Line.
The Bay area Bureaus have picked up the idea and in a small way are
working out a way to implement their service by intercoupled phone lines
between Bureaus.
OPERATING EXPENSES
Total cost for operating the eighteen Bureaus for the year ending June 30,
1985 amounted to $144,039. Fixed expenses were $98,096; telephone, printing

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and postage amounted to $11,471; taxes amounted to $8,314. Some of the
Executive Secretaries received a modest salary and four received no salaries.
A few choose to receive mileage only.

§~

u-.:

'<i' "'~ o o o o o o - o - .......... o o o o o o o I '°II
~;;

CONCLUSIONS

a-~

Special appreciation and thanks is expressed to the Grand Master Roy J.
Henville who sat in with us at our budget meeting, to the Grand Secretary
for speaking to our Committee and Bureaus on two different occassions, and
to the Grand Lodge office staff for their support during the year.
Appreciation is expressed to the Presidents, Officers and representatives
of all Bureaus in this Jurisdiction for their interest, leadership and devotion
to the activities of the Bureaus and our Sojourners.
The Executive Secretaries are the men who are on duty every day and every
night of the year. They are the "Back Bone'' of the Bureaus serving Masonry.
To each of them we express deep appreciation for their work. Especially, we
are indebted to Lloyd V. Smith, Executive Secretary of the Los Angeles
Masonic Service Bureau for setting up and answering our 24 hour Help Line
in the greater Los Angeles Area.
The Committee has functioned substantially within its budget this past year
and herewith request the sum of $3,400 to cover its expenses this coming year
which is less than last year's budget.
Respectfully submitted,
DELMAR
WILLIAM W. WIDENHAM
RAY H. ROOKARD

175

w. MAY, Chairman
JESSIE C. CANOLE

A. BRUCE IVIE

Referred to the Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

,.._

.......;"'
~
~

"'~

~·~ 0
~ 0.

a

0

N

NV\ 0

M 0

N

-

N

N

0

-

0

0

-

0

IN II

177

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

176

BUREAU INCOME FOR PERIOD JULY 1, 1984
THROUGH JUNE 30, 1985
and
-~
.!:! ~
0

ti

~~§~~~~;~~g~~~~~~~
....,
~OOf'l"lO\~O\N-O~-Nf'l"l'o:::t'O\

~'o:::t'
fA
..

..

..

..

..

_.,.,

..

f'l"lNO\--

~~

.

..

..

..

,_

..

..

'o:::t'NNNN-

N

'°

..

°'...,'°
N

Cl..,~

l:l

~ l:l ~

~~~~~

0

8"'0

."!~

~

.,.,0

00

~~

~~

~~~
Cl..,

.,.,.,.,0

~
Ci:

~
....,

~
Cl..,

'O
oO

.,.. V) 0 0
-: ~ ~ '<!; '<!;

0

0

~I «""'!-: r--:

...,

"!

~~

:::,

~~

.,.,0

~~

«""'!~

:::,

0
I

~
....,

.,.,00
...., '<!' ,_

6Fi . .

0

"!

ON.,.,00
~ '<!; '<!;

-: r-:

BUREAU
Bakersfield
East Bay
Fresno
Long Beach
Los Angeles
Orange County
Pasadena
Richmond
Sacramento
San Bernardino
San Diego
San Francisco
San Gabriel
San Jose
Santa Barbara
Santa Monica
Southern Alameda County
Stockton
Totals

~
...... Q "'ii"
u~~

TOT AL ASSETS AS OF JUNE 30, 1985

~~=~~
~

PER CAPITA
INCOME

TOTAL
INCOME

TOTAL
ASSETS

$799.75
1,358.05
1,631.00

799.75
1,570.00
1,837.50
17,199.04
73,176.00
2,481.47
1,240.00
207.90
5,704.32
2,278.40
4,146.18
23,785.88
3,289.50
1,573.93
456.00
2,780.00
1,751.00
1,491.00
144,848.00

459.31
2,914.25
2,455.42
21,896.71
62,274.00
317.01
1,045.52
367.03
6,631.29
2,254.29
3,411.60
178,039.16
2,735.38
1,441.54
257.58
5,657.04
5,420.00
989.38
299,647.01

(2)
(1)

(1)
2,081.40
(1)

(2)
(1)

207.90
5,246.13
2,150.80
3,782.40
3,896.80
1,152.35
456.00

(1)

1,705.00
1,491.00
$25,957.83

(1) Bush Relief Fund.
(2) Bureau Funds are with Blood Bank Funds. See San Francisco Report attachments.

~M~O~~~~~~~O~~NOO~V)

MASONIC SERVICE BUREAUS
BLOOD BANK ACTIVITIES REPORTED FOR
PERIOD JULY 1,1984 THROUGH JUNE 30, 1985

N~lr'INf'l"l~Nf'l"l0\00-f'l"l'o:::t'~lrlOON-N
~00\0\~0NNMNlr'IV"IO\N'o:::t'~~~'o:::t'

""~~±~M~

~N~~N~

N~~~

...,

BUREAU

!~ ~:!~~~~:!5~~~~~~~~~gj M
~-,

~~

~-0\lrlOOlrlf'l"l~f'l"l-~f'l"lNf'l"l~O\~~

fAff'}_:~~ff'i_:

..;Nvlt:iff'i'-"'

N_.._.. g

...,

East Bay
Fresno
Long Beach
Pasadena
Richmond
San Bernardino
San Francisco
Santa Monica
Southern Alameda County
Total

DONATIONS

RELEASED

270
38
76
8
28
8
1,085
0
34
1,547

370
41
53
0
25
8
1,027
95
87

--

1,706

--

CASH
DONATIONS
0
0
0
0
0
0
4,731
0
0
$4,731

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

179

REPORT OF INSURA NCE COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
The Insurance Committee met several times during the past year. All policies
were reviewed to be certain that all areas of potential for saving were not
overlooked. As professional Insurance Agents we were certain that the Grand
Lodge of California, the California Memorial Temple Association, and the
Masonic Homes of California would experience substantial increases in
premium costs. Effective July l, 1985 all insurance contracts were renewed
through Thompkins & Company. The premium development is as follows:

Primary Liability ... . ......... . . ... . ......... . ..... .
Property, Inland Marine, Boiler & Machinery ... . ..... .
Automobile ......... ..... . ...... . ... . . . ......... .. .
Crime & Fidelity ......... ...... . ......... ....... . . .
Travel Accident ...... . ....... . ......... ......... ... .
Excess Liability ......... ......... ... . ......... .... .
Malpractice Liability ......... ........ . ......... .... .
Total ......... ......... ......... .. . ......... .... .

$55,866
55,790
23,473
6,487
5,030
38,974
7,032
$192,652

Claims were as follows:
Masonic Homes of California ..... . ....... . ......... .
California Memorial Temple ......... .... . .......... .
Masonic Lodges & Grand Lodge of California . . ..... . .
Total ......... ......... .. . ......... ......... .... .

$253
3,066
304,437
$307,756

The Annual estimated Workers' Compensation premium for California and
Hawaii is projected to be $300,000. The 1985 experience modification is expected to be 87 percent.
The Health Insurance Program has been divided into two groups. The
Grand Lodge office staff, the employees of the California Memorial Temple
and the employees of the Masonic Homes at Covina are now underwritten
by Great West Life Insurance Company. The employees of the Masonic Homes
at Union City now have the option of being insured by either an HMO or
by a program sponsored by the California Association of Homes for the
Aging. By seperately underwriting these two groups we were able to reduce
our annual health premiums by approximately $20,000.
The members of this Committee experienced a deep loss by the passing
of Leland Peterson of Fresno. Lee's contributions were immeasurable. Much
of what was accomplished by this Committee was directly connected to his
hard work and valuable input. We will surely miss him.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our Committee wishes to express our sincerest appreciation to Robert A.
Klinger, Grand Secretary, and his office for their many contributions on our
Committee's behalf.

been presented to the Lodge and before other groups in the area. Membership has increased approximately 40 percent to 67 members and attendance
and interest are maintained at a high level. Meetings are held quarterly, and
the Lodge is financially sound. We believe that this Lodge will be of benefit
to its members and a credit to Masonry in California. We, therefore, recommend that a Charter be granted.
Joseph L. Shell Daylight Masonic Lodge U.D. was granted a dispensation
on April 30, 1985 and was instituted on May 7, 1985 with 50 charter members.
The Lodge meets weekly at 10:00 A.M. for the benefit of those who work
night.s - or for reasons of retirement or age are not likely to attend evening
meetmgs.
From its beginning this Lodge has maintained a high level of attendance
and enthusiasm. Membership has increased by over 20 percent with 12 affiliations and 8 applicants for degrees. The Lodge is free of indebtedness and
has a financial balance of over $7,600.00. They have submitted all their books
and records covering the period of dispensation. We could find no reason
for adverse criticism, and for this we publicly congratulate them. We are
pleased to recommend that a Charter be granted.
We now have before us a petition from King Kalakaua Daylight Masonic
Lodge U.D., requesting that a Charter be granted. This Lodge was instituted
on July 11, 1985 with 45 charter members and has received applications for
five affiliations to date. They also meet in daytime at 11:00 A.M. to accommodate night workers and sojourners visiting in the Islands who wish to
establish Masonic contact. We saw a possibility of financial problems with
a very small net worth, and recommended a higher dues structure to provide
a better cash flow. To counteract this, the Lodge is free of debt and we saw
great enthusiasm and dedication. We felt that the considerable Masonic experience within the'membership could solve the potential financial difficulty. We recommend that the petition for Charter be granted.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I move that Charters be granted and Lodge
numbers be assigned to:
Orange County Research Lodge U.D. in La Habra
Joseph L. Shell Daylight Lodge U.D. in San Diego
King Kalakaua Daylight Lodge U.D. in Honolulu
That portion of the Report of the Grand Secretary dealing with Charter
changes has been referred to this Committee for consideration.
Nine Lodges have applied for change of meeting place:
Athens Lodge No. 228-1655 DaVinci Court, Davis
Reedley Lodge No. 304-760 "F" Street, Reedley
Valley de France Lodge No. 329-200 S. Euclid, Pasadena
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336-4521 Crow Canyon Rd., Castro Valley
Westminster-Fairview Lodge No. 629-14081 Willow Lane, Westminster
Polaris Lodge No. 730-5944 San Juan Ave., Citrus Heights
San Juan Lodge No. 732-5944 San Juan Ave., Citrus Heights
Claude H. Morrison Lodge No. 747-915 19th St., San Diego
Belmont Shore Lodge No. 716-Long Beach to Seal Beach

180

Respectfully submitted,
DENNIS
JOSEPH MARTICH
JAMES E. BLANCHARD

c. SHAFFER, Chairman
RITCHIE WATERHOUSE

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).
Grand Lodge was called off at 5:30 P.M., to be called on again at 9:00 A.M.
on Tuesday, October 15, 1985.

MORNING SESSION-Tuesday, October 15, 1985
At 9:00 A.M. the Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
Grand Lodge was raised by Michael D. Sanders, Master of Reading Lodge
No. 254, using the gavel presented to the Grand Master at an outdoor Third
Degree conferred by the Oklahoma Indian Degree Team in Redding. Other
gavels used by the Grand Master during the Morning Session were presented
to him at the Mortgage Burning Ceremony of San Juan Lodge No. 732 in
Citrus Heights; gavel and sounding block presented to the Grand Master at
a Reception by the Aahmes Shrine Past Masters Unit in Oakland; at a
Breakfast Reception in Oakland by the East Bay Masonic Officers Association; at the Institution Ceremony of Joseph L. Shell Daylight Lodge U.D.
in San Diego; at the outdoor Third Degree conferred by the officers of the
160th Masonic District at the Jack Ladd Ranch in Brentwood; the Cornerstone
Ceremony for the new City Hall in Temple City by Camellia Lodge No. 612
and a gavel presented at the 125th Anniversary of Vitruvius Lodge No. 145
in Petaluma.
The Invocation was delivered by the Very Reverend Wayne B. Williamson,
Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Most Worshipful Grand Master, distinguished guests and Brethren. One
Lodge was carried over under dispensation from the 1984 Communication.
Since then, three Lodges have been instituted and all have petitioned for
Charters.
Orange County Masonic Research Lodge U.D. received its dispensation on
September 20, 1984 and the Lodge was instituted on January 25, 1985 with
48 charter members. The members have prepared several papers which have

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The following Lodges have consolidated during the past year:
Oildale Lodge No. 688 and Meudell Lodge No. 695, effective January 1,
1985, to be known as Meudell-Oildale Lodge No. 695.
Oakland Rockridge No. 188 and Durant Lodge No. 268, effective January
1 1985 to be known as Oakland Durant Rockridge Lodge No. 188.
' Hamilton-Harding Lodge No. 535 and Granada Lodge No. 608, effective
April 1, 1985, to be known as Granada Lodge No. 535.
Woodland Lodge No. 156 and Yolo Lodge No. 81, effective June 1, 1985,
to be known as Woodland Lodge No. 81.
La Puente Lodge No. 446 and West Covina Lodge No. 758, effective July
1, 1985, to be known as West Covina-La Puente Lodge No. 446.
Plymouth Lodge No. 560 and Orinda Lodge No. 521, effective September
1, 1985, to be known as Orinda-Plymouth Lodge No. 521.
Montebello Lodge No. 451 and Triad Lodge No. 812, effective August 1,
1985, to be known as Montebello Lodge No. 451.
Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297 and McCloud Lodge No. 430, effective September
1, 1985, to be known as Dunsmuir-Mccloud Lodge No. 297.
Signal Lodge No. 543 and Five Points Lodge No. 779, effective October
1, 1985, to be known as Signal Five Points Lodge No. 543.
We find that all requirements of our laws have been complied with, and,
therefore, respectfully recommend that the Grand Secretary be authorized to
properly endorse the Charters of these named Lodges. Most Worshipful, I
move the adoption of this recommendation.
On behalf of all the members of the Charters Committee, we thank you
for the privilege and honor of serving our great Fraternity this year. Most
Worshipful, I now move the adoption of the total report as presented.

Those entitled to travel allowances are the Master, or in his absence, the
ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master and Wardens, the duly Elected
Representative in accordance with Section 1148, California Masonic Code.
However, no payment shall be allowed for the officers or representatives of
any Lodge, the dues of which have not been paid in full, or which shall be
reported by the Grand Secretary as having been delinquent in the transmission of Certificates of the Election and installation of officers of their respective Lodges. Past Grand Masters, not on committees, will be reimbursed as
provided in Section 1150, California Masonic Code. In accordance with Section 1148A, California Masonic Code, when a Master and Warden from the
same Lodge are present at an Annual Communication, and one of said officers
serves on a Grand Lodge Committee entitled to travel and expense reimbursement, he shall be reimbursed under Section 1150, California Masonic Code.
The other officer shall receive reimbursement under Section 1148, California
Masonic Code, as the officer representing his Lodge on the floor of Grand
Lodge.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California to San Francisco has been taken from the published records of the California State
Automobile Association. Mileage from points in the State of Hawaii to San
Francisco, has been taken from the published reports of air lines in accordance
with Section 1148, California Masonic Code. No compensation is allowed
to members representing Lodges in San Francisco and the immediate 30 mile
vicinity. Compensation of members from the State of California has been
computed on the basis of eleven (11) cents per mile, the rate fixed by the Committee on Finance. Compensation of members from the State of Hawaii has
been computed on the basis of published class of fare next below first class
round trip air rate of regularly scheduled major air lines, from Honolulu to
San Francisco, plus inter-Island air fare to Honolulu when necessary.
The payroll has been checked with the registration records as submitted
to us by the Committee on Credentials, and the amounts required to meet
the travel allowances costs for the 1985 Annual Communication are as follows:

182

Respectfully submitted,

c.

JOSEPH
FREELAND, Chairman
KEITH JOHNSON
FRANKL. SUTLIFF
VANDELL C. OWEN
ADRIANUS SNEEP
NORBERT E. DRIGGERS
DONALD R. HOON
LEONARD L. TODD, SR.
ROWLAND L. FRENDO
CLYDE M. LOUGHEAD
ARTHUR G. GUNNER
DOUGLAS G. HIVELY

Adopted.
Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TRAVEL ALLOWANCES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Travel Allowances submits the following report covering
the 136th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.

183

Past Grand Masters (Not on Committees) .................. . $ 85.36
Representatives of Lodges .................. ............ $37 ,254.32
Total. .................. .................. .......... $37,339.68
Checks will be ready for distribution at the registration desk on "G" Floor
on Wednesday morning immediately following the election of the Junior
Grand Warden in accordance and as noted in the program for the 136th
Annual Communication. Brethren, if you are the Master or Warden representing your Lodge, or the duly Elected Representative of your Lodge, the
Committee on Travel Allowances urgently requests you to pick up your check.
You must present a properly validated credential.
Arrangements have been made so that those who may wish to cash their
checks, can do so at the Fairmont Hotel Branch of the First Interstate Bank
located at California and Mason Streets. Its entrance is on California Street.
Your Grand Lodge credentials will serve as suitable identification.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The members of the Travel Allowance Committee wish to express their
sincere appreciation to members of the Grand Lodge office staff for their
cooperation throughout the year in assembling, preparing and computing the
detail necessary for the functioning of this Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
LODGE RESOURCES DEVEWPMENT

184

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. JAMES, Chairman
CHARLES B. TILDEN
HENRY J. V. BAXTER
STANFORD C. LEE
ROGER J. UNLAND

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF CREDENTIALS COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
Your Committee on Credentials is pleased to submit this report of the 136th
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
Again we wish to express our thanks to the Grand Secretary and his office
for their help.
Of the 603 chartered Lodges, 557 are represented.
The total registration is as follows:
27
Grand Lodge Officers ............................. .
15
Past Grand Masters ............................... .
2
Past Grand Officers ............................... .
1,194
Officers and Representatives ........................ .
1,226
Past Masters, including the following: ............... .
Inspectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150
Committeemen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244
P.M.-Secretaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 161
8
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions ................ .
Grand Lodge Officers and Past Masters
of other Jurisdictions
25
(including 6 Past Grand Masters) ................. .
2,497
TOTAL ...................................... .
513
Master Masons (including 64 Secretaries) ............. .
3,010
GRAND TOT AL ............................. .
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT
HENDRY CHAN
MAURICE SOURMANY
GILBERT R. LARSEN

vAN HEEKEREN, Chairman
JAMES V. DINGMAN
RICHARD C. RYAN
ROBERT J. ANDERSON

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

185

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The thrust of your Lodge Resources Development Committee this past year
has been two fold. We have worked with several Lodges in this Jurisdiction,
helping them strengthen and improve through program suggestions and officer
development. We have also continued to administer the Grand Master's
Achievement Award.
The major function of the Lodge Resources Development Committee is
to assist Lodges in developing their resources. These resources can range from
new Lodge Officers, program plans, advancement of candidates through the
degrees, to your members. Many Masters find themselves overwhelmed with
too many tasks - 3rd Degree Ritual, planning of programs, follow up to make
sure that they are done right (and of course the only way to be absolutely
sure is to do it yourself) and Stated Meetings just to name a few. Right? Wrong!
To be able to do the job right as Master you have to delegate! Many Masters
don't know how. The Lodge Resources Development Committee can help you
overcome this obstacle. Our committeemen have the background to work with
you, and to help you to develop your own programs and committees. We will
show you how to delegate easily and effectively. There are no overnight solutions, but results can be positive. How about you? Wouldn't you and your
Lodge benefit from some help in learning how to delegate and to revitalize
your programs?
This marks the second year for the Grand Master's Achievement Award.
More than twice as many Lodges participated in the program this year than
last year. The program consists of four basic areas: Lodge Officer Development, Programs, Masonic Responsibility, and Social Responsibility. Receipt
of the Award indicates that a Lodge is healthy and has a well rounded program for its members. Unfortunately, less than 15 percent of the Lodges in
this Jurisdiction have applied for and are qualified to receive the award at
the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge in October.
The Award itself is not the important part of the program; it is only the
frosting on the cake. What is important is that the Lodge establishes a strong,
well rounded program for its members; one that involves the individual
members in their own Lodge activities.
If your Lodge is having trouble obtaining Lodge Officers, new members,
or getting your members to attend Lodge functions, don't overlook the benefits
this program offers. An attempt to comply with the requirements of the Grand
Master's Achievement Award will automatically begin to involve the membership of the Lodge, and start the Lodge on the way to strength and vitality.
The Brethren will find that if they sincerely try to accomplish the tasks outlined
in the application, the Lodge will begin to turn around, attendance will improve and Officers and new members will be easier to find.
Remember, a strong Lodge is an active Lodge, one that involves its members
in its activities. If your Lodge didn't earn, or apply for, the Award this year,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

start working now for next year's Award. You'll find it well worth your while.
We were very saddened to hear of the passing of one of our members,
Brother William C. Leach. Soft and safe to thee, my Brother.
We would like to take this opportunity to thank the Grand Secretary, Very
Worshipful Bob Klinger, and his staff for all of the help that they have given
us this past year. Also, we would like to especially thank all of the many
Inspectors that took the time out of their busy schedules to review the
Applications from the Lodges in their District.
Our hats are off to all of you!

Fixed income securities including government and corporate bonds composed 65 percent of the total portfolio. The remainder consisted of common
stocks and cash equivalents.
Of particular importance to the Masonic Homes is the Pooled Income Fund.
On June 30, 1985, the Fund had a market value of $2,380,222. The cash yield
was 9.2 percent. The Pooled Income Fund enables Masons and others in
California and Hawaii to establish a lifetime income for themselves and for
one-time designated beneficiaries. Certain tax advantages accrue to the
contributor.
The efforts of Masons and their friends have been responsibile for the rewarding accumulation of the assets in the several Grand Lodge funds. The
operations of the Masonic Homes at Union City and Covina are largely
financed through the income from Endowment and General Fund investments.
Other revenues furnish support for the charitable activities and educational
grants of the Grand Lodge of California.
Because the Investment Committee continues to exercise the utmost
prudence and care in the management of the funds, the investments rank
among the highest in quality. Although the investment policy has been conservative, the cash yield has resulted in a satisfactory total return.
During the year the Investment Committee, and indeed the entire Masonic
Fraternity, lost one of its most respected and venerable members, Past Grand
Master Guy Boyd Mize. "In the interchange of duty, honor and responsibility he has not sought the path of comfort, but has humbly faced the spur
of difficulty and challenge."
The Grand Master appointed B. Robert Malouf, Past Master of Henry
Knox-Westlake Lodge No. 392, to fill the unexpired term of Brother Mize.

186

Respectfully submitted,
DAVID H . FARLEE, Chairman
LOUIS R. MITCHELL
JOHN W. BROWN
JAMES 0. FOURR
BURTON 0. YOUNG
GORDON VAUGHAN
VIRGIL L. NEWSOME
ROBERT T. WOODBURN
WILLIAM C. LEACH
DONALD G. SOUZA
W. BLAIR RIXON
DONALD K. BALDWIN
LESLIE J. JACOBSON
BENNETT K. C. ING
KENNETH B. C. MCCUBBINS
ROBERT A. BUSH
MERLE L. COON
Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
It is the responsibility of the Investment Committee to report annually to
Grand Lodge on the financial condition of the funds of Grand Lodge and
its entities.
The Committee meets quarterly during the year with its investment
counselors. An independent investment firm reviews the performance of the
primary funds on a comparative basis with funds of a similar nature in the
United States.
The Committee is basically concerned with the preservation of fund principal and the highest rate of total return commensurate with safety. Three
funds: Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, Masonic Homes General Fund
and the Hugo M. Lorber Union City Home Fund constitute 95 percent of
the total investments.
The Committee also supervises other Grand Lodge funds: Grand Lodge
General Fund, California Masonic Memorial Temple, California Masonic
Foundation and Amaranth Fund, Pooled Income Fund and eighteen restricteduse funds of the Masonic Homes.
The market value of the total portfolio on June 30, 1985, was $148,789,770
compared to $ll4,540,165 a year earlier, an increase of 29.9 percent. The
1984-85 cash yield from the total invested funds was 9.85 percent.

Respectfully submitted,
RALPH H. HEAD, Chairman
JACK F. BOWLEY
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M.
DAVID K. LESH
B. ROBERT MALOUF
HENRY H. P. WILKINS
Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CERTIFICATES,
AWARDS AND SPECIAL PRESENTATIONS

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
COLUMBIA MASONIC TEMPLE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
Development of new ideas to promote fraternal relations in California and
Hawaii continues as talented members of this Committee add years of service.
Included in new assignments during the year were:
-ANNIVERSARY AWARD CERTIFICATES for Lodges celebrating 25,
50, 75, 100, and 125 year "birthdays";

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
The Columbia Temple Committee met three times during the past year with
very good attendance. On each occasion the entire building and its facilities
were inspected and discussions held with respect to proper maintenance. In
addition to routine maintenance during the year, a new roof was installed,
and new lighting was placed in the exhibit room.
Sixteen Lodges and groups visited the Temple, including Rainbow, Shrine
Club, allied Masonic groups and many small groups of wayfaring Masons
viewed the Temple.
The following is the proposed 1985-1986 Budget:
$500.00
Heating Oil .. .... ..... ........ .... ................ .
Fire extinguisher (Re-charging) ......... ........ ..... .
45.00
150.00
Furnace and Air Conditioner Maintenance ........... .
LOO
Rent (California State Park) ....... . ................ .
Columbia Temple Supplies (Cleaning materials, globes,
100.00
stamps, envelopes, towels, etc.) ....... . .............. .
100.00
Tape Recorder Maintenance Service (2 machines) ...... .
Preventive Maintenance (Interior painting, rug cleaning,
etc.) . ... ........................... ........ . ..... .
500.00
150.00
Committee Meetings and Meals ..................... .
Custodian Salary (Maintaining of building and attending
1,500.00
to all Temple Visitations) ........................ . .. .
1,200.00
P.G. & E., Tuolumne Water Co., Taxes and Insurance . . .

188

-CANDIDATES COACH AWARD CERTIFICATES in recognition of
dedicated services to the Craft by hundreds of constituent Lodge members
who labor long hours behind the scenes;
-BRASS MEMORIAL PLAQUE AT PEARL HARBOR by Grand
Lodge and Freemasons in recognition of "those true partiots who lost their
lives defending their country at Pearl Harbor".
Creative designs for a variety of projects are continually "in work" and
developed along timetables required by Grand Lodge schedules.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS J. MCKlMSON, Chairman
KENNETH W. KESSEL
ALBERT G. COWAN
J. KIRBY COGESHALL
EDWARD A. FROMSKY
ED NEFF
WILLIAM A. ANKLAN

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

Total ... :.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

189

$4,246.00

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN D. RICHARDS, Chairman
Ross W. BAKER
JOSPEH H. KOHLER
ROBERT S. RATHBONE
LEWIS MORRIS

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TEMPLE PROPERTIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Temple Properties hereby submits the Annual Report
of its activities for the 1984-1985 Grand Lodge Year.
The year has been a busy one. The Chairman wishes to express his deepest
gratitude for the cooperation he has received from the members of the Committee in replying promptly to the many requests we have had for advice, per

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mission to proceed with projects, and general discussion relating to matters
of concern to Temple Associations of this Jurisdiction during the past year.
On a personal note, he wishes also to extend most heartfelt gratitude to our
Grand Secretary, Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger, whose wise counsel and
assistance was invaluable in helping a new Chairman during the first few weeks
in office.
Your Committee suffered a great loss early in the year in the passing of
our veteran member, Brother Kenneth L. Wylie. His advice and expertise in
regard to the matters which arise in the course of the year have been sorely
missed.
On numerous occasions, individual members of this Committee have met
with various officers and members of Temple Associations and/or Lodges
in an effort to avoid situations which might arise, or solve those which had
arisen in the course of Temple business.
One of the problems with which this Committee is faced too often is the
tardiness of requests for approval of either long term leases, or the expenditure of funds in amounts exceeding the five thousand dollar limitation imposed by our Masonic Code. Section 1208 of the C.M.C. specifically states
that a Temple Association, or other Masonic entity which holds title to a
Masonic Temple Property, must obtain the consent of the Temple Properties
Committee before expending more than $5,000.00 toward the purchase of,
or entering into a contract for the repair or alteration of, or entering into
a lease agreement for over three years of a property belonging to a Masonic
Lodge or its Temple Association. Serious problems could arise for the local
Lodge or Temple Association if permission to proceed in such cases is not
obtained before any such contract is signed.
This Committee wishes to express its deep appreciation to our Grand
Master, Roy J. Henville, for his unflagging interest, cooperation and assistance
at any and all times when requested; to Deputy Grand Master John W.
Driskell, Senior Grand Warden Jack R. Levitt, and Junior Grand Warden
Leo B. Mark, the four members of the Executive Committee, who rendered
us wise and timely assistance whenever called upon; also to the Grand
Secretary, Assistant Grand Secretary and the entire staff of the Grand
Secretary's office, whose support and assistance throughout the year have been
invaluable.

ADDENDUM TO REPORT OF
COMMITTEE ON TEMPLE PROPERTIES

190

Respectfully submitted,
LOUIS I. GOLDKIND, Chairman
LOWELL E. DANIELS
GEORGE C. BARRETT
WILLIAM E. PETTIFER
BARRETT Ross
DAVID B. ANDERSON
JOSEPH R. ASHWILL
JAMES R. KIELY

w.

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

191

C.M.C. Section 1208
AND RELATED SECTION ACTIONS
CONSUELO LODGE No. 325, F. & A. M.
ESCONDIDO MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Final permission, (with Executive Committee acquiescence), given to Escondido Masonic Temple Association to purchase site for new Temple.
LOMPOC LODGE NO. 262, F. & A. M.

Permission granted to reroof Temple building.
ELK GROVE LODGE No. 173, F. & A. M.
ELK GROVE MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Final permission, (with Executive Committee approval), given to Elk Grove
Masonic Temple Association to purchase 11 1/2 acres of land for a Temple site.
TUOLUMNE LODGE No. 8, F. & A. M.

Approved contract submitted by Columbia Temple Committee to reroof
Columbia Temple.

.

MOTHER COLONY LODGE No. 750, F. & A. M.
ANAHEIM LODGE No. 207, F. & A. M.

Advised Anaheim Lodge No. 207 and Mother Colony Lodge No. 750 in
regard to lending money to the Anaheim Temple Association in conformity
with the California Masonic Code.
ALAMO LODGE No. 122, F. & A. M.
WALNUT CREEK MASONIC HALL ASSOCIATION

Attended emergency meeting of Walnut Creek Masonic Hall Association
regarding the sale or other means of disposal of the Bekins Warehouse
property.
LAKE TAHOE LODGE No. 707, F. & A. M.
LAKE TAHOE TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Held telephone conference and correspondence with Lake Tahoe Lodge No.
707 regarding co-tenancy/ownershi p with Lake Tahoe American Legion Post
of Temple Building. Referred same to Most Worshipful Robert 0. West,
P.G.M ..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FRUITVALE LODGE No. 336, F. & A. M.
CASTRO VALLEY MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

CARPINTERIA LODGE NO. 444, F. & A. M.
CARPINTERIA MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved loan of $10,000.00 to Castro Valley Masonic Temple Association in conformity with C.M.C ..

Approved, (with concurrence of Executive Committee), remodeling and
upgrading of Temple.

CHATEAU THIERRY LODGE NO. 569, F. & A. M.
CASTRO VALLEY MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

FRUITVALE LODGE No. 336, F. & A. M.
CASTRO VALLEY TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved investment of $26,000.00 for additional stock in Castro Valley
Masonic Temple Association.

Advised Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 regarding l.R.S. Code regarding tax exempt organizations and loan to Castro Valley Temple Association.

192

CLAUDE H. MORRISON LODGE NO. 747, F. & A. M.
Approved, (with acquiescence of Executive Committee), purchase of
property in San Diego for Masonic Temple site.
WHITTIER LODGE NO. 323, F. & A. M.
WHITTIER MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

193

COALINGA LODGE No. 387, F. & A. M .
COALINGA MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Approved, (with acquiescence of the Executive Committee), the breaking
of ground, and proceeding with construction of Masonic Temple Building
by Coalinga Lodge No. 387.

Answered inquiry regarding employment of non-Mason as Secretary of a
Temple Association

ROSEVILLE LODGE NO. 222, F. & A. M.
ROSEVILLE MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

MOUNT DIABLO LODGE No. 448, F. & A. M.

Approved installation of chair lift in Temple by Roseville Masonic Temple
Association.

Referred Lodge to Jurisprudence Committee regarding the feasibility of
a limited partnership with a developer of a high rise building with a Masonic
Lodge Hall at the top.
JOHN D. SPRECKELS LODGE NO. 657, F. & A. M.
Advised John D. Spreckels Lodge regarding subsidizing, directly or indirectly, adult organizations related to Masonry, in accordance with Section 2316
C.M.C.
SANTA CRUZ LODGE No. 38, F. & A. M.
SANTA CRUZ MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Approval given to Santa Cruz Masonic Temple Association to repair and
repave parking lot.
CATALINA ISLAND LODGE NO. 524, F. & A. M.
CATALINA ISLAND MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Advised Catalina Island Masonic Temple Association regarding investment
of funds.
CULVER CITY-FOSHAY LODGE No. 467, F. & A. M.
Approved contract to reroof Temple Building.

LIBERTY LODGE No. 299, F. & A. M.
Discussion with representative of Liberty Lodge regarding land lease to
developer of property owned by Liberty Temple Association, and prohibitions regarding certain businesses in any building containing a Masonic Lodge
Hall.
EAGLE ROCK LODGE No. 422, F. & A. M.
EAGLE ROCK MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Advised Eagle Rock Lodge No. 422 regarding disposition of funds received from the sale of one of the Temple Buildings of two merged Lodges.
GOLDEN GAVEL LODGE No. 445, F. & A. M.
ELYSIAN MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Approved repaving of parking lot for Elysian Temple Association.
EAST SAN DIEGO LODGE No. 561, F. & A. M.
EAST SAN DIEGO TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Approved lease of parking lot by East San Diego Temple Association to
California Department of Transportation.

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SOUTH GATE LODGE No. 320, F. & A. M.
SOUTH GATE MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALISM

Approval given to proceed with preliminary plans for Phase 2 of earthquake proofing Temple Building to conform with Los Angeles Building
Standards.
MARTINEZ LODGE No. 41, F. & A. M.

Approved request from Martinez Lodge No. 41 to renovate and modernize
their kitchen.
VACAVILLE LODGE NO. 134, F. & A. M.

Approved purchase of one acre site in downtown Vacaville for site for
Masonic Temple.
AZUSA LODGE No. 305, F. & A. M.
AZUSA MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved expenditure of funds to repair, renovate and modernize facilities
of Azusa Temple Building.
NICOLAUS LODGE NO. 129, F. & A. M.
NICOLAUS MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved lease of street level premises for use as a Dental Office.
DELANO LODGE No. 309, F. & A. M.
DELANO MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved commercial lease for street level premises of Delano Masonic
Temple Building.
SANTA MONICA LODGE NO. 307, F. & A. M.
SANTA MONICA MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Approved, (with concurrence of the Executive Committee), a lease for the
street level premises of the Santa Monica Temple Building to the Medical Imaging Center of Southern California, (this lease was never implemented), April
9, 1985.
Approved a plan, drawn up by R. Stephen Doan, Chairman, Taxation Committee, to change the status of the Santa Monica Temple Association from
a "Profit" to a "Non-Profit" Corporation.
MONTEREY PARK LODGE NO. 457, F. & A. M.
MONTEREY PARK TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Authorized Monterey Park Temple Association to proceed with the
upgrading and renovation work on their Temple Building as outlined in the
Garvey-Garfield Revitalization Plan of the City of Monterey Park.

195

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
During the past year, there have been three reported incidents of the usage
of the "Square and Compass" in an unauthorized manner.
The owner of a patrol service in Carson used the emblem in advertising
in the yellow pages. On August 7, 1985, the Committee wrote the owner a
letter advising him that the use of the symbol was a misdemeanor under the
California Corporations Code as well as the Penal Code.
Since the yellow pages have not been published for this year, it is too early
to ascertain if the owner has complied.
In June, the Committee received a business card with the Square and Compass on it. Subsequent investigation revealed the business had ceased
operation.
An organization called the International F. and A. M. Masons, not
associated with our Grand Lodge, was using our emblem. Through correspond~nce, we informed the organization they were in violation of the
California Corporations Code. The Committee has received no response from
the organization.
Since the adoption of the revised Commercialism regulations, the question of what financial ventures Lodges can engage in has reoccurred. C.M.C.
Section 2070 prohibits Lodges from any collateral financial undertaking. In
current vogue are "Home Party Sales" by Lodges. The thrust of the plan
is for a Home Party salesperson to conduct a home party selling specific products. A portion of the commissions earned are guaranteed to the Lodge. On
its part, the Lodge must solicit the membership from the Lodge Roster. This
type of event is cpntrary to the Commercialism Regulations on two counts:
first, the Lodge is using the Roster for a non-Masonic purpose; and secondly, the Lodge is acting as nothing more than a "retail outlet" for a commercial venture.
Contrasted to the above, are the regulations governing Concordant Bodies.
A Concordant Body is not prohibited from engaging in a financial venture.
The only proscription is that the venture not be fraudulent, misleading,
unethical or illegal.
Any group, intending to sponsor any event where a profit potential exists
should discuss the event with its Inspector, well in advance of making any
commitment.
Respectfully submitted,
SHERWOOD C. KINGSLEY, Chairman
HERBERT N.T. BOWDEN, JR.
RAYMOND A. YOUNG
OWEN C. MURRY, JR.
DONALD H. HARGRAVES
ROBERT C. COE
ERNEST Y. YAMANE
JOHN T. WARD

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
U.S. CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE

Respectfully submitted,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your thirty hard working Grand Lodge committee members for the United
States Constitution Observance Committee have continued the excellent programs initiated in previous years. Although many new programs were
implemented, our emphasis this year has been to encourage many more nonMasons to attend our programs.
The year began at the 1984 Annual Grand Lodge Communication with
a most attractive red, white and blue exhibit booth which caught everyone's
attention. This handsome booth, staffed by knowledgeable Committeemen,
provided an excellent opportunity to further explain and promote Constitution Observance programs. Packets containing program formats and guidelines
for setting up local observances were distributed to all Senior Wardens.
Grand Master Roy J. Henville, the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior
Grand Warden, as well as Grand Secretary Robert A. Klinger and.his staff
have been of tremendous assistance to this Committee.
Shortly after our Annual Communication, the Chairman of this Committee, Sherman T. Wicker, entered the Celestial Lodge above, and Arnold C.
Happel was appointed as its Chairman by our Grand Master and, with the
Grand Master's permission, Maurice R. Crosby became Vice Chairman. Due
to the size of the State, this appointment will greatly improve the efficiency
of the Committee as we will now have Northern and Southern representation.
An active year was punctuated by three Committee meetings which were
held in Sacramento, San Jose and Lakewood, and judging from the response,
our booths, which we set up at various workshops, were very successful in
expanding Observance programs. The Committee members feel their efforts
were greatly rewarded. In addition, Grand Master Roy J. Henville proclaimed
the month of September as Constitution Observance Month.
The Observances enjoyed increased attendance this year as there were a
number of very fine programs held throughout the State. Burl Ives was the
Grand Marshal of the very large Sonoma County Lodge's parade and the
featured speaker was Grand Master Roy J. Henville whose subject was "The
Constitution." The San Francisco Masonic Officers Association promoted
an energetic U.S. Constitution Observance program for the San Francisco
School System. Many picnics, family nights, and special programs for Constitutional Observance were held with featured speakers such as Judges,
Generals, State Senators, Assemblymen, United States Congressmen, County
Sheriffs, and City Police Chiefs. Mayors of many cities issued proclamations
supporting the furtherance of Constitution Observance. Scottish Rite Valleys
and the Shrine supported and gave us special assistance which was greatly
appreciated. And of course, the interest generated this past year by our booths
was very rewarding.
We acknowledge with gratitude the generous assistance rendered by the
Grand Lodge Officers Corps and the Grand Lodge staff.

197

ARNOLD c. HAPPEL, Chairman
WILLIAM J. VOERSTER
MAURICE R. CROSBY
WARREN E. CLARK
JOHN F. RATTO
DOYLE C. CURRENT
WILLIAM DOWNIE
ARTHUR SEDDON
STUART E. DAWES
GEORGE W. PETRI
WILEY T. HENDERSON
R. S. ABRAMSON
CLARENCE A. PEARCE
JERRY G. BERNARD
BRAINARD PLATT
FRED COLEMAN
JACK M. BATES
JULAIN H. CAMBRIDGE
III
DALIE,
A.
STEWARD
THOMAS C. HOLM
RON L. POORMAN
GEORGE M. SHATTUCK
CLARK E. SHAVER
RAYMOND R. FRAZIER
M. ALLAN CURRY
S. BEDDOE
ALLEN
COOPER
A.
CHARLES
LAWRENCE HOPPER
MARTIN MICHALEC
SIDNEY APPLEBAUM
HAN WA WAT

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF THE GRAND WDGE
LIBRARY AND MUSEUM COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
It i~ the pleasure.of the Grand Lodge Library and Museum Committee to
subm~t ~he following report for the year July 1, 1984 through June 30, 1985.
Poh~1es a~d proced~res were devised for the government of the Library
Staff, mclud1!1g Committeemen, Volunteers, Library Technician and Typists.
The purpose 1s to run the Library on a businesslike basis and to have displays
that :nost nearly tell the story of Freemasonry, thereby achieving good public
relations. An example of good P.R. was last June when one of our volunteers,
Ironton Daube, conducted an English couple through our building and showed
them our artifacts. Recently we received a note from that couple thanking
us for our courtesies and including a nice donation to the Homes which the
Grand Secretary thought was "generous".
According to our records, the following statistics revealed the number of
visitors to our Libray and Museum:
The total number was 2,244, in these classifications:
Foreign, 189; United States, 168; Grand Lodge
Week, 604; and California, 1,283.
We ~ave received visitors from: Australia, Argentina,
Belgmm, Brazil, Canada, Columbia, Costa Rica, England,
France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Hungary Iceland
'
India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Mal;a,
Islands,
Philippine
Zealand,
New
Mexico, Norway,
Peru, Scotland, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and Tahiti.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Our records also indicated that we purchased 77 books and had donated
to us 53. We acquired 4 sets of slides, one was purchased, and three were
donated. We have lent out 402 books and 396 have been returned. The
Museum had acquired 118 items from 35 donors.
At the 1984 Grand Communication, the Grand Master's Decision No. 4
called for the publication of the "One Hundred Fifty Years of Freemasonry
in California." The Library and Museum Committee, by motion, set up an
Editorial Board to publish the above mentioned work which board will consist of an editor, the Chairmen of the Library and Museum and History Committees, and such other persons as the Editor may see fit to appoint.
According to the Grand Treasurer, the funding for this project of publishing
the "One Hundred Fifty Years of Freemasonry in California" is the responsibility of Grand Lodge. The Chairmen of both the History and Library and
Museum Committees worked together and devised a budget to cover not only
the publication expense of the Book, to have the money when the time comes,
but also to cover the incidentals from year to year.
Early in the year, the Trustees of the Memorial Temple agreed to fund the
Library and Museum budget, thus removing it from the budget of the Grand
Lodge. Accordingly, the Chairman of the Library worked up the budget for
the Library and Museum and met with the Memorial Temple Board t?ree
times - January 22, April 23, and June 26, 1985 - and out of thes~ meetmgs
and presentations of the budget, a satisfactory budget for the Library was
developed that was agreeable to both the Temple Board and the Library.
Appraisals of the Library and Museum's Books, Artifacts and Jewelry as
well as the Grand Lodge Jewels have been completed. William Kludjian appraised the Artifacts, Jewelry and the Grand Lodge Jewels; while the appraisal
of the Library Books was done by John Bellman. Both donated their services, having been paid expenses only. This operation saved quite a bit of money
in fees not charged.
Our Library Technician has been doing an excellent job since October 11,
1984 when he was hired on a regular basis. He has been supervising routine
matt~rs of filing, searching for answers to questions on research, and in general
upgrading the card file and shelf list to make our facility one of the better
ones around. Then we can say that the Library and Museum have reached
a professional state. This good Brother is Brother H. Ecklund.
It is needless to say that the work mentioned above with the good results
accomplished would not have been possible without the help and cooperation of the Grand Secretary, Robert A. Klinger, and his staff; the General
Manager of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, Loren Stritenberger,
and his crew· the Grand Treasurer, John A. Sickenberger; and the California
Masonic M;morial Temple Board of Trustees. We would also like to thank
those loyal and dedicated volunteers, Brothers all, whose work of assisting
the Library Technician and conducting visitors around our beautiful Temple
continues on a daily basis. They are Brothers Larry West, Jack Taylor, George
Walda, Leroy Bilsborough, Thomas Storer, Louis Wells, Ironton Dau~ Bernie
Katz, Joel Yager, David Shull and Harold Ecklund. We, the Committee, are
grateful and give our thanks to all.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

199

Respectfully submitted,
C. JOHN BELLMAN, JR., Chairman
WILLIAM KLESOW
WILLIAM KLUDJIAN
D. LARRY WEST
BERNIE KATZ
VINCENT F. COOPER
DAVID M. SHULL
LOUIS J. WELLS

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

UNFINISHED BUSINESS FROM 1984
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE ORDINANCES
Implementation of
1983 Grand Master Maynard's Recommendation No. 3,
Optional Use of a "Short Form" Closing Ceremony (See 1983 Proceedings,
page 34).
1984 Grand Master Haglund's Recommendation No. 3,
Proficiency for Concordant and Appendant Bodies (See 1984 Proceedings,
page 70 and page 79).
Availability of Widow's Pin to All Widows
(See 1984 Proceedings, page 239).

IMPLEMENTATION OF
.
1983 GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATION NO. 3
OPTIONAL USE OF A
"SHORT FORM" CWSING CEREMONY
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which this "Carry Over" Recommendation has been referred, reports as follows:
The Ritual Committee intends this Recommendation to implement Grand
Master Harry Maynard's Recommendation that an optional "Short Form"
ceremony be available for closing special meetings only of Constituent Lodges.
As this matter relates to ritual only, your Committee finds that no legislation is required.
Since this Recommendation is a "carry over,• a two-thirds affirmative vote
is required for adoption.
As the matter is already before Grand Lodge, no motion is required.

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
At the 1983 Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge it was then Grand
Master Maynard's recommendation that the Ritual Committee develop a
"Short Form" Closing Ceremony to be used by the Constituent Lodges as
an optional method of closing Lodges at Special Meetings.
The Ritual Committee did present such a "Short Form" closing ceremony
at the 1984 Annual Communication. The c;eremony presented for adoption
received a majority vote of the members of Grand Lodge present, but failed
the required five-sixths vote, hence it was carried over to this session.
Section 2690 C.M.C. says in part: "The Grand Lodge alone has power to
authorize any changes in the ritual for the purpose of having it remain as
it was handed down from time immemorial."
Please be advised that there is no authority in our law to change the ritual
other than for the express purpose quoted above: that of having it remain
as it was handed down from time immemorial. Nothing in our history indicates that there ever was an abbreviated form of ritual to be used at the
closing of a Lodge.
That being the case, we have no present authority to make such a change
in ritual until there has been a change in the law pertaining to ritual.
There should be no contention as to the interpretation of the law. The Ritual
Committee itself used the argument that change can be effected only to return
the ritual to its originally adopted form when, in 1983, they recommended
that the First Degree Lecture be returned to its original form.
The Committee on Jurisprudence is on record in past proceedings that
change in the ritual may be made only "for the purpose of having it remain
as it was handed down from time immemorial."
While Grand Masters, in some instances, use a short form of closing Grand
Lodges, their authority probably comes from Section 1032 C.M.C. which
grants discretionary powers to the Grand Master. These discretionary powers
belong solely to the Grand Master and cannot be transmitted to the Master
of a Lodge. Because Grand Masters may make more than one appearance
in a given day to open Grand Lodge and conduct its ceremonies, and ev~n
more frequently must travel considerable distance between events to meet daily
commitments to the Fraternity, it is understandable that they try to conserve
time wherever practical.
Timesaving in this instance, however, would not be nearly as great as the
form of closing used by Grand Masters. It is estimated that only 2 or 3 minutes
would be saved by the proposed "short form" closing ceremony.
Finally, ritual is of prime importance to candidates. It is the formality of
the manner in which we present our degrees at Special Meetings that makes
a lasting impression on most candidates. It is from their observation of closing
as well as opening ceremonies that the significance of our fraternal intentions are impressed upon their minds. We should not deprive them of that
great privilege for the sake of a few minutes. We must remember that the
proposed short form is for Special Meetings only and cannot be used at Stated
Meetings.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

The Committee on Ritual·
At the 1983 Communication, the Grand Lodge adopted Grand Master
Harry L. Maynard's Recommendation No. 3, and I quote from the 1983 Proceedings, page 34 as follows:
"Recognizing as I traveled throughout the Jurisdiction, that our
Fraternity competes for the time of busy people and that some of
our work can become redundant and time consuming, and consequently does not really accomplish its intent, I submit the following:
I have observed the enthusiastic acceptance of the Grand Master's
prerogative to close Grand Lodge "in short form" thereby avoiding
any anticlimax to the ceremony itself. I believe it worthy of consideration that the Grand Lecturer and Ritual Committee develop a "short
form" closing ceremony to be used by Constituent Lodges of this
Jurisdiction as an optional method of closing Lodge at all Special
Meetings only.
The formal closing should still be required at all Stated Meetings.
The recommendation of the Grand Lecturer and Ritual Committee
will be presented to this Grand Lodge in the form of a Resolution
for a vote of the members of Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge."
We will now exemplify this short form closing ceremony for your
consideration.
"EXEMPLIFICATI ON"
We therefore move that the closing ceremony just exemplified be adopted
as an optional closing ceremony for use by the constituent Lodges at Special
Meetings only.
Not approved.

1984 GRAND MASTER HAGLUND'S
RECOMMENDATION NO. 3
"PROFICIENCY FOR
CONCORDANT AND APPENDANT BODIES"
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Grand Master Haglund's Recommendation No. 3, in 1984, concerning the
waiver of the Proficiency Requirement in the Candidate's Lecture of the Master
Mason's Degree after a specified period of time, received a majority vote of
this Grand Lodge and is therefore before you again for your consideration.
Your 1985 Committee on Policy and General Purposes has carefully reviewed
the issue and finds no evidence for cause to deviate from the position taken
by the 1984 Committee. Accordingly, we reiterate the report given by them
at the last Annual Communication.

202

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Since October 1953, a Mason who applied and was elected to receive the
degrees of Masonry in a Lodge of this Jurisdiction first was required to give
satisfactory evidence in open Lodge, that he was proficient and qualified in
the Candidates Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason before he was able
to apply and be elected to a Concordant or Appendant Masonic body; and
then only and until after the lapse of one year from the date he received the
degree of Master Mason.
Grand Master Haglund's Recommendation No. 3 would, in essence, remove
the Proficiency requirement after a period of five years from the date on which
the Candidate received the Degree of Master Mason.
As the foregoing Proficiency requirement did not exist prior to October,
1953, when it was first adopted, Grand Master Haglund's Recommendation
would make our law in this regard, except for the waiting period, the same
as it originally was; for it seeks to allow the Masons, who have not complied
with the present regulations of Section 2635 of the California Masonic Code,
to petition and be elected to a prerequisite Masonic body without restriction
by our Grand Lodge.
Many of our Brethren, for reasons of their own, have failed to comply with
our present law; and if after five years from the date they received the Third
Degree of Freemasonry they have not passed the present required Proficiency in that Degree, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes
that they should no longer be restricted from expanding their Masonic
horizons in a Concordant or Appendant Body if they wish to do so.
We, therefore, recommend a "Yes" vote on Grand Master Haglund's Recommendation No. 3.
Not Approved.

AVAILABILITY OF WIDOW'S PINS TO ALL WIDOWS
(1984 RESOLUTION NO. 3)
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which "Carry-Over" Resolution No.
3 has been referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this Resolution seek also to permit the widows of Master
Masons of other jurisdictions, who presently reside in this Jurisdiction to
wear the Masonic Widow's pin approved by this Grand Lodge.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the Constituent Lodges is adequate.
Since this Resolution is a "carry-over,' a two-thirds affirmative vote is required for adoption.
To place the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 3 proposes to make it legally possible for Lodges to present to Widow's of Masons from other jurisdictions who reside in this Jurisdic-

203

tion, the Widow's Pin issued by the California Grand Lodge. This Resolution received a majority vote at the 1984 Communication but failed to gather
the necessary five-sixths vote for passage.
Our obligation admonishes us to aid and assist the widows of Brother
Masons withersoever dispersed.
It is so easy for many Masonic Widows to fall into the shadows and be
forgotten. Recognizing them with the presentation of the Widow's Pin may
inspire them to join in our Masonic Social Functions.
Costs of the Widow's Pins is borne by the Lodge presenting same and
represents no financial burden to Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote
on this Resolution.
The Masonic Widows Committee has authorized the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes to announce that they concur with the recommendation.
Adopted.

RESOLUTIONS FOR 1985
The Resolutions which were submitted to the Grand Secretary to be considered at the 1985 Annual Communication, in accordance with California
Masonic Code Supplement, Sections 160, 500 and 4000, were referred to
various Committees as indicated by the Grand Master. The reports of these
Committees and the action taken on these Resolutions are shown below.

'HIRAM AWARD MEDALLION
(85-2)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to authorize recipients of a Hiram
Award to wear, on occasions both Masonic and non-Masonic, a distinctive
medallion prescribed by Grand Lodge.

To the Most Worship!ul Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California, through its Film and Creative
Projects Committee, has established a Hiram Award; and
WHEREAS, this award is in the form of a certificate which is usually
framed and displayed in the home of the recipient after it is presented to him;
and
WHEREAS, this is a prestigious award given by the Lodge to one of its
Brothers for meritorious service and devotion to his Lodge; and
WHEREAS, such recognition should be made visible to all members of
the Fraternity, not only on the occasion of the presentation but also on all
Lodge nights and social events.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that "Grand Lodge approve for
recipients of the Hiram Award a suitable medallion, to be worn pendant from

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

a collar, riband or sash, the design thereof to be approved by the Grand Master,
Deputy Grand Master and Grand Lecturer."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that "a recipient of the Hiram Award be
authorized to procure such medallion at cost and to wear it on occasions of
his choice, Masonic or non-Masonic."

prestig~ous award ~as be~n given to some who have already been adequately
recogmzed for theIT service to Freemasonry. It was the original intent for a

204

Respectfully submitted,
JOSEPH MILLER, P.M. No. 513

JAIME OLARTE, P.M. NO. 513

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which Resolution No. 85-2 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to authorize recipients of a Hiram
Award to wear, on occasions both Masonic and non-Masonic, a distinctive
medallion prescribed by Grand Lodge.
To carry out the intent of the proponents, no change in the Constitution
or Ordinances is required. A majority vote only is required for adoption.
To place the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution as distributed by the Grand Secretary to Constituent Lodges.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to authorize recipients of a Hiram
Award to wear, on occasions both Masonic and non-Masonic, a distinctive
medallion prescribed by Grand Lodge.
The Hiram Award program was first held in 1977 at Galt Lodge No. 267
in the community of Galt. In 1978 the program was further developed under
the auspices of the Film and Creative Projects Committee and some forty
Hiram Award Programs were held by Lodges in this Jurisdiction. An attractive Hiram Award certificate was designed and made available for presentation to the recipient.
In his message to the Grand Lodge, October 9, 1978, Grand Master Donald
B. Mccaw noted that "The Hiram Award is designed to be presented to the
'unsung hero' of every Lodge such as the volunteer who makes the coffee
at each meeting, the one who sets the tables or arranges the furniture and
ornaments in the Lodge room, the painter, the gardener, the handyman, the
organist, the program chairman or any number of outstanding Brethren who
consistently donate their time and talents to our beloved Fraternity or who
have brought credit to the Craft by their community activities."
Since its inception in 1977, the Hiram Award program has continued to
grow, but it seems that the original purpose has been largely lost because of
confusion or the lack of specific guidelines. In his annual message to the Grand
Lodge, October 10, 1983, Grand Master Harry L. Maynard stated that, "the
fine Hiram Award Program has been either misunderstood or abused. This

205

Lodge to recognize one Brother each year who has not been Master of his
Lodge, an Inspector, a Grand Lodge Officer and, yes, even a Past Grand
Master. Truly, these Brethren all deserve recognition, but it is my belief, and
others concur, that they have been amply rewarded and the Hiram Award
should be rese~ved for those who have not been so recognized by having been
elected. by their peers but who labor diligently with no hope of tangible
Masomc reward."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes supports the Hiram Award
Program in its original concept and agrees with the proponents of this resolution that it is "a prestigious award given by the Lodge to one of its Brothers
~or meritorious service and devotion to his Lodge." However, since the intent
is to h??or those who. have labored in our Lodges without expectation of
recogmt10~ ~r reward •. It does not seem proper to propose to give, in addition
to. the certificate, a distinctive medallion which would be out of character
with the purpose of the award and the person receiving it.
We ~!so object to that portion of the proposal which would permit the
medallion to be worn on occasions both Masonic and non-Masonic since there
are times when the wearing of an ostentatious emblem might be inappropriate.
We recommend a "No" vote.

The Committee on Finance:
The ~rand. Lodge Committee on Finance notes that the passage of this
Resolution will not cause any additional expense to Grand Lodge.
All costs involved in maintaining the inventories required would be fully
reimbursed by "r~ipient purchases."
No recommendatio n.
Adopted.
Grand Lodge was called off at 12:00 Noon to be called on again at 1:30 P.M.

206

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 15, 1985

than any other. Operative Masonry began to die in the Seventeenth Century
when cathedral building slowed. It was then that men in increasing numbers
were admitted to Masonry to study or speculate on the moral and
philosophical lessons associated with the working tools and techniques of
the operative stonemasons, and our Fraternity expanded once again. Masonry
expanded to this country, arriving with the Colonists. However, in the 1820's,
many blamed the Masons for the disappearance of a William Morgan who
had published an alleged expose regarding the secrets of Freemasonry. The
public's reaction was so severe against Masonry that in New York alone over
a four year period the number of Lodges dropped from five hundred to eightytwo and the number of members from over twenty thousand to fewer than
three thousand. After the Civil War, the growth of Freemasonry was rapid
and permanent with only a temporary setback during the Great Depression
and the hopefully temporary setback which commenced about twenty years
ago. Over many centuries, therefore, the size and vitality of Masonry has been
cyclical.
The second overriding principle of civilization from which we can take comfort and consolation can be summarized as follows: institutions with a message
or a truth on the essence of Man never die. They adapt to changing times
but the truths taught remain the same. Man has certain basic beliefs in common, regardless of background: a belief in a Supreme Being and respect for
Nature and all things beyond his control. These are the only means of make
sense of an often senseless world. Therefore, the greatest and most enduring
ideas of Man are those which use these basic instincts to explain the mysteries
of life.
All great institutions have survived because they address Man's basic instincts with a ti~less message. Christianity began as a small sect of Jews
who believed that the Messiah had come and would return in a few years in
a second coming to save all people. Christianity has developed into a worldwide
religion. Although its adherents cannot agree on the time of the second
coming, they all agree that each person should lead his life as if that second
coming and each individual's personal Judgment Day can come at any
moment. Christianity has survived because its basic truths - faith in a loving
God, hope of personal salvation and commitment to personal inprovement
- transcend all ages and have been interpreted by each age to apply to the
problems of the time.
Consider our American system of government. Our United States Constitution, with a fragile start, has endured, from a rural, homogeneous,
agrarian society of less than four million people in 1790, when communication between Massachusetts and South Carolina could take weeks, to an urban,
diverse, industrial society of 200,000,000 people, with instantaneous communication available to the vast majority. Our system of government has survived because its basic truths - the guarantee of liberty for all; free, public
education which equips people to rule themselves; and, most importantly,
the personal vigilance of every American in preserving our Constitution and
never countenancing any person who would abridge its liberties for anyone

Grand Lodge members assembled at 1:30 P.M. with the Grand Master
presiding. This session was raised by Gary W. Smith, Master of Kauai Lodge
No. 589. The gavel that was selected to raise Grand Lodge was presented to
the Grand Master at a Reception sponsored by the 500th Masonic District.
Other gavels used during the Afternoon Session were presented to the Gr~n?
Master at a Reception for James A. Boyle, Assistant Grand Lecturer of DlVlsion VI at Fountain Valley Lodge No. 351; by King Kalakaua Daylight Lodge
U.D. at their Institution Ceremony in Honolulu; Upland Lodge No. 419 at
their 75th Anniversary; by Roseville Lodge No. 222 at the Cornerstone
Ceremony of the new Rocklin Post Office; by the Southern California DeMolay Conclave held in Santa Barbara; by Kit Carson Lodge No. 734 at the
relaying of the Cornerstone of the Sacramento Scottish Rite Temple's new
Aphasia unit; and by Lindsay Lodge No. 416 at their 75th Anniversary
Celebration.
The Grand Master then called upon the Grand Orator, R. Stephen Doan,
to deliver his Oration.

"MASONRY FOR THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY"
R. STEPHEN DOAN, Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Grand Master, distinguished visitors and Brethren of this
Grand Lodge:
Masons are builders. Legendarily, we built King Solomon's Temple.
Historically, we built the great Gothic cathedrals in Europe during the Middle
Ages. We built our Fraternity from a guild, or a labor union, if you will, of
operative stonemasons to a speculative society of non-operative Masons
accepted to study and put into practice the philosophical principles of the
ancient stonemasons' craft, the moral and philosophical lessons associated
with the working tools and practices of our operative forebearers.
Because Masons have always been builders, some of us are uncertain as
to how we can reverse the recent decline in our Fraternity. Our membership
has eroded steadily since the middle of the 1960's; Lodges consolidate but
still cannot find officers. As builders, we have never been trained to defend
against those forces of our contemporar~ world'. sometimes more interes~ed
in destroying than building on the foundations which have supported Mankmd
for eternity.
We can however find comfort and consolation in two overriding principles
of civiliza~ion. First, as with the tides, all things ebb and flood. Life is cyclical,
moving back and forth, pulsating, in a cycle. It does not necessarily move
on a continuum to one goal.
Consider the vitality of Masonry over the centuries. Our historical beginnings can be traced to the construction of the great Gothic cathedrals in
the late Thirteenth Century. Operative Masonry thrived and expanded as every
population center with a bishop sought to build a cathedral more impressive

207

209

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

- have been embraced by each generation and interpreted as needed to resolve
America's problems at the time.
Masonry likewise possesses timeless truths. They are the truths which
distinguished Masonry as an operative guild during the Middle Ages and
allowed it to transform itself into a speculative society in the Seventeenth and
Eighteenth Centuries. They are the truths by which Masonry survived the
Morgan affair; they are the truths by which Masonry survived the Depression; they are the truths which will permit us to reverse our present decline.
We can reverse this recent decline in membership, this inevitable ebb tide in
the continuing cycle of our Fraternity's existence, by redefining those universal truths about Mankind which Masonry teaches to meet the needs of our
time. We must ready ourselves for the next inevitable flood tide by determining
how Masonry can best exemplify its universal, timeless truths to answer Man's
questions on life in the 1\venty-First Century.
What are the universal truths of Masonry that survive all ages? The answer
is so self-evident that we might otherwise overlook it. They are so fundamental
to Masonry that they were explained to you on the very night that you became
a Mason; they are the principal tenents of Masonry; they are: brotherly love,
relief and truth.

ciple of brotherly love, a member can find friends among strangers wherever
he or she might travel. A member can travel to a new location, without family
or any established friends, and immediately find friends and therefore support in strange surroundings at the local Masonic Temple. But, what are we
doing to encourage this? What activities do we plan so that Masonry's practiced truth of brotherly love can help solve these problems of the TwentyFirst Century?
In order to make Masonry's brotherly love important for the 1\venty-First
Century, we must dispel the myth that Masonry arbitrarily discriminates in
its membership. We rightfully possess and inspire the reputation of being selective in that only good men and true may join us, but this has sometimes been
unfortunately viewed as selection based upon class or particular sectarian
belief. There are no restrictions on membership in our Fraternity other than
a belief in a Supreme Being and an expectation of personal salvation. No
religious or political belief consistent with these two requirements for membership in Masonry bars any man from membership. There are no racial barriers
on membership. There are no barriers based on the countries from which
one's ancestors came.
We must dispel the myth about membership in our Fraternity whenever
the opportunity arises. When someone asks us about Masonry, there is a great
deal that we can tell him and, indeed, there are only a few things about
Masonry which are 'secret': a few of our methods of recognizing one another
and certain of our legends are secret and cannot be disclosed. At the same
time, we should remind the questioner that there is absolutely no religious
nor any other barrier to becoming a Mason, if the applicant believes in God
and a future existence.
More importaptly, we must make Masonry attractive. It should encourage
and inspire men to join and share in its brotherly love and affection once
they know that it is open to them. What can your Lodge do to make Masonry
more attractive? Does your Lodge have a Layman's Night Program at least
annually? There is no better way to acquaint the uninitiated who may have
expressed an interest in Freemasonry with the Principles of our Fraternity
and at the same time increase the knowledge and interest and therefore the
enthusiasm of our present members. Lodges routinely have received from two
to ten petitions as a result of a Layman's Night Program.
What social activities does your Lodge have? Some Lodges have achieved
success as essentially an all-men's organization with minimal involvement of
wives and family. This is certainly the exception and not the rule. For the
most part, Lodges with programs and activities of interest to the Mason, his
wife and children are the Lodges with no membership problems. My own
Lodge has a family potluck dinner at every Stated Meeting. Many Lodges
accompany their Stated Meeting dinners with programs for the wives while
the men are in their meeting. When a man comes home on the night of his
Stated Meeting, his wife will not encourage him to go to Lodge in most
instances if it means that she must stay home alone. However, if going to
a Stated Meeting means that she is going out to dinner and will meet with
her friends while her husband is in the meeting, you can guess where that
Mason will have dinner that night!

208

Brotherly Love

By brotherly love, Masons are taught to regard all human beings as members
of one family, regardless of power or wealth. As we believe that we are all
children of God, we are, by definition, all brothers, obligated to aid, support
and protect one another. Masonry unites people of diverse backgrounds
because, having expressed a belief in God, all of us were brothers even before
initiation into our Fraternity. In the medieval Masonic Lodges of operative
stonemasons, brotherly love was essential to maintain harmony among a large
group of relatively uneducated workers whose political allegiances and struggle
for personal survival might be in conflict. Also, the medieval stonemasons
traveled to whatever political jurisdiction had work available. Because it was
often necessary to travel to strange lands with unfamiliar customs, a
stonemason was expected to commence work immediately in harmony and
concord with people who theretofore might have been complete strangers.
Masonry, of course, in the Twenty-First Century will not build stone
cathedrals in Europe. However, many characteristics of the 1\venty-First
Century will not be unlike the Middle Ages. There is a greater mobility in
society today. Men and women are often transferred several times in their
economic career to different geographical locations as part of their work.
There is also an unfortunate increase in economic inequality among people.
While we in America have historically relied on the family to a certain extent
for economic and psychological support, the family institution has declined
with the increasing number of broken homes as well as the strain on family
ties caused by people moving around the country as part of their work.
Masonry can supply the answer to this problem. Whether by membership
in Masonry, Eastern Star, a Masonic youth group or any of the other Masonicaffiliated organizations, each of which is founded upon the Masonic prin-

210

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

My Lodge has had family activities: picnics, baseball games and the like,
that include children of the members and our local Masonic youth groups.
When I served as Master of the Lodge, at the age of twenty-five, I had more
than a dozen members of my Lodge younger than I was who joined as a result
of those activities involving the members of my Lodge and my DeMolay
Chapter. Some churches say that families that pray together stay together. In
this instance, Masonic families that play together stay together because the
Masonic youth, even if their parents do not belong to Masonic organizations,
through social activities with the members of the Masonic Lodge become their
friends and naturally want to be a part of them when they become eligible.
I have one more thought with respect to the impression which we give to
the uninitiated. Never judge a book by the cover, we may have learned as
a child, but a tattered, dirty cover on a book is much less appealing to the
potential reader than a well-kept and clean cover. What does your Masonic
Temple look like? My brother lives in a town which was a small, rural, farming
community when its Masonic Lodge began. However, it is now a relatively
affluent suburb of a major city. When asked if he had had any success in
attracting his friends in the community to Masonry, my brother logically
responded: these people are successful and live in nice houses. They do not
want to go to a run-down, old Lodge Hall like that. Lodge Halls do not have
to be architectural monuments but even the most modest Masonic Temple
will create a far better impression if maintained clean and in good repair.
Relief

To relieve the distressed is a duty which all men possess, but particularly
Masons because of the indissoluble links between us of brotherly love and
affection. Among our medieval stonemason ancestors, Masonic relief was of
tremendous importance. The Gothic cathedrals constructed by the operative
Masons reached almost forty stories in height, a feat not duplicated before
or in any period afterward until many centuries later. The work was dangerous.
In addition to working at great heights, the workmen were required to cut
stones and move them to the building site. In an era when there was no
workmen's compensation insurance nor public welfare system as we know
it today, there was no established means to assume responsibility for a
stonemason injured on the job or for assistance of his widow and orphans
should he be killed on the job. This responsibility was assumed by the
stonemasons. A man upon becoming a stonemason could rest assured that,
should any calamity befall him, he would be taken care of, as well as those
dependent upon him, by his brother Masons. To aid and assist the distressed,
worthy brother Mason, his widow and orphans thus became one of the first
lessons a man learned upon becoming a stonemason.
As the operative stonemasons' actual building activities declined during
the Seventeenth Century, the need for the relief of an injured brother or the
family of a deceased brother declined also. This did not diminish the Masons'
charitable concerns. So engrained in the philosophy of Masonry was the
teaching of relief that the Masons extended their charitable endeavors beyond
their own circle of members and families to the public at large. A fundamental

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

211

impetus to the creation of the Grand Lodge of California was the tremendous need for Masonic charity caused by the sudden influx of people at the
time of the Gold Rush in 1850. The crowning glories of California Masonic
charity today are our Masonic Homes.
. With Social Security, welfare, Medicare and Medi-Cal, we sometimes lose
sight of the need for Masonic charity. Unlike governmental programs, however,
Masonry gives charitably with a human face. Our Masonic charities, such
as our Masonic Homes and the Shriners' Hospitals for Crippled Children
and Burns Institutes, just to name a few, admit regardless of economic means
and, in the case of the Shriners' Hospitals and Burns Institutes, regardless
of affiliation with Masonry. Our Masonic charities care in a family environment, with respect and without the impersonal, sometimes uncaring, approach
of many governmental assistance bureaucracies.
How is this relevant for the Twenty- First Century? While the government
assumes a bulk of the social welfare responsibilities in society, we are only
too aware that this is and will continue to be an era of limitations. As life
expectancies increase and as government programs continue to be limited
there will remain a significant proportion of society, particularly the elderly'.
serviced at only a bare minimum by government and then only with an impersonal rather than the personal approach of Masonic charity.
What can your Lodge do? Of course, your Lodge as well as any of the
concordant bodies to which you belong can continue to support the organized charities of the Grand Lodge and of the governing body of your concor~ant orga!1iz~tions. But, eac~ Lodge and concordant body can put charity
mto practice m the commumty on a personal, individual basis. During the
early history of California Freemasonry, it was not uncommon for a Masonic
Lodge to assume all of the responsibilities for the relief of a distressed member
including payment of all food and housing bills and medical expenses. Ther~
are countless examples of this Masonic charity in the early history of our
Jurisdiction, which on many occasions was extended beyond our Masonic
family to tho~e in the community who were in need. We can do that today.
Every Lodge 1s probably near an old folks' home. What is your Lodge doing
for them? While charity clearly begins at home, there are many opportunities
for us to extend charity to the community at large, opportunities to show
those who may not be Masons one of the truths of our Fraternity and to
turn our words into deeds by displaying Masonic Charity in relieving those
who may be less fortunate.
Truth

Truth is a divine attribute and the foundation of every virtue. In this sense,
truth means sincerity, honesty of expression and plain dealing. Our medieval
stonemason ancestors taught their apprentices to be truthful because they
wished to maintain the reputation of their craft and to assure any potential
employer that honest work would be received for wages paid.
Over the centuries, however, this sense of truth has broadened into a wider
meaning. A real objective of Freemasonry today is the search for truth, that
search for perfection of thought and conduct which God had in view when
He originally created us in His image. Clearly, the search for truth will be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as relevant in the Twenty-First Century as it has been in every century before
as Man never has and probably never in this life will achieve perfection; but,
the perhaps impossibility of the goal should not dissuade any of us from the
necessity of the search.
How can we help ourselves and others in the Twenty-First Century in the
search for truth? For those who are Masons, the ritual of our Fraternity is
the foundation for our search. The great philosophers of different ages who
have become Masons have extolled its symbols, allegories and legends as the
means by which any reflective member could discover the pathway to personal perfection. What are you doing as a Mason to discover the pathway
to perfection through our ritual? Do you simply parrot the ritual by rote,
or do you attempt to understand what it means? If you are a Master, what
kind of Masonic education program do you have for your members? During
this year, I have directed my orations to both members and non-members
of the Fraternity in an attempt to help them understand the philosophy of
Masonry and how it may apply in their daily lives. Even some of your Grand
Lodge officers, Inspectors and Committeemen, including myself, have been
surprised by some of the philosophical aspects of our Fraternity which I have
discovered in preparing for these orations.
Do you help your new candidates learn the philosophy of life upon which
they have embarked by becoming Masons? Do you motivate members who
may have belonged for some time to increase their Masonic knowledge and,
therefore, their interest in our Fraternity? Do you have a five to ten minute
talk at every meeting about a subject of interest regarding our teachings? A
member assigned to report on something of interest in Mackey's Revised
Encyclopedia of Freemasonry, still in print and easily available, could report
for several years in such a manner before duplicating any material.
Our search for truth should extend beyond our membership. Masons believe
very strongly that each individual should have the freedom to search for truth
in his or her own way so long as that search does not interfere with the rights
of another to pursue similarly his or her search for truth. Masons therefore
support the United States Constitution and should make the observance of
its anniversary in September of each year a prominent feature of a Lodge's
program because it is our Constitution which is the best guarantee of each
one of our searches for personal truth. In addition, Masons support free public
schools as only an educated citizenry can, through elections and public service, guarantee that our constitutional system of liberties will be preserved and,
therefore, that we and future generations will have our Constitution in a
democratic society available to preserve our search for personal truth.
What is your Lodge doing to support the Constitution and public schools?
Do you have a Constitution and public schools observance? Do you invite
the general public and explain the importance of the Constitution and public
schools and why Masonry does and each citizen should support them? One
Lodge in this Jurisdiction has sponsored an annual public essay contest among
local public school students to increase their awareness of these institutions.
My own Eastern Star Chapter this last year awarded a $400.00 scholarship
to a local high school senior as its contribution to the continuation of an
educated citizenry.

In the Winter 1984 edition of the California Freemason, one of our
Hawaiian Brethren reports a conversation in the late 1960's with an officer
of the Grand Lodge. In response to an inquiry by our Hawaiian Brother as
to what was being done to stem our membership decline, our Hawaiian Brother
was shocked to receive the response: There is no need for concern, since
membership numbers are cyclical in nature and we need only to ride this out.
Our Hawaiian Brother observed: Ride out to what? Oblivion?
Institutions are cyclical and their truths can endure. But, institutions and
their truths do not survive without the active support of each of their
adherents. Masonry will survive and can be an important force in the TwentyFirst Century only if we are committed to those actions necessary to make
its truths relevant for the Twenty-First Century and an important part of the
lives of all people, whether Masons or not. We must do something. I have
given you some thoughts, but how best they can work in your own circumstances can only be determined by you on reflection on what your Lodge
and its community needs.
The social critic Eric Hoffer observed that most of us are frightened by
change: the more dramatic the transition, the more dramatic our reaction.
Uncertainty with respect to the future of our Craft in a rapidly changing world
is particularly troublesome because Masonry's truths have, to date, survived
the test of time. However, as with all institutions, our Fraternity must grow,
adapt to change, or stagnate. We must increase our commitment to
Freemasonry and understand how its truths should be adapted to a changing
world or we will stagnate.
The most important, the fundamental tenents of Freemasonry are brotherly
love, relief and truth, but there will be no Freemasonry if it does not serve
the current needs of Mankind. Freemasonry will survive only if we make its
tenents responsive ·to the needs of the Twenty-First Century. What will you
do to help?

212

213

Following the Grand Oration, discussion on Resolution continued.

STREAMLINING OPENING CEREMONIES CONSTITUENT LODGES
(85-3)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to streamline the opening ceremonies
by eliminating that portion of the ritual which is known as the "jewel march"
and directing the Ritual Committee of the Grand Lodge to adopt a suitable
procedure in lieu thereof.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the ritual of the three degrees of Freemasonry is intended to
impart the lessons of our Craft and focus attention on the building of a
spiritual Temple within the hearts and souls of each Mason; and
WHEREAS, any superfluous action which tends to detract from the real
meaning of the ritual should be avoided; and

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS, the so called "jewel march" in which the officers receive their
jewels and take their stations is time consuming, and regrettably in some instances poorly executed, thereby detracting from the real meaning of the opening ceremonies and setting a poor example as to what is to follow; and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge in its opening ceremonies has no similar
ceremony.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Ritual Committee of
this Grand Lodge propose in place of the ceremony known as the "jewel
march:' a procedure, to be approved by this Grand Lodge, for officers of a
Lodge to take their stations at the opening of the Lodge.

If the "jewel march" is properly executed, which practice and proper rehearsal can assure, the "jewel march" can be very impressive, interesting and highly
important in setting the tone of the meeting which is to follow.
The "jewel march" is a part of the ritual for the opening of a Masonic
Lodge. !his Resolution is another attempt to modify and change our ritual;
and while the Grand Lodge under Section 2690 of the California Masonic
Code has that authority, such change can be made only for the purpose of
having the ritual remain as it was handed down from time immemorial. This
Resolution does not meet that criteria.
Therefore, your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends
a "No" vote on this Resolution.

214

215

Respectfully submitted,

The Committee on Ritual:
PARISE VOUDOURIS, PM NO. 40
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Ritual.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-3 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to have the Ritual Committee propose in place of the Ceremony known as the "jewel march;' a procedure to
be approved by the Grand Lodge for Officers of a Lodge to take their stations at the opening of the Lodge.
As this matter relates to only a direction to the Committee on Ritual, your
Committee on Jurisprudence finds that no legislation is required. A majority vote only is required for adoption. However, should a substitute opening
ceremony be proposed, a five-sixths affirmative vote will be required for
adoption.
To place the Resolution before Grand Lodge, we move its adoption as
distributed by the Grand Secretary to constituent Lodges.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to streamline the opening ceremonies
of a Masonic Lodge by eliminating that portion of the ritual which is commonly known as the "jewel march;' and directing the Ritual Committee of
the Grand Lodge to adopt a suitable procedure in lieu thereof.
While conciseness and dispatch in opening a Masonic Lodge is desirable,
and while the Master at all times should endeavor to make the opening of
the Lodge meaningful to those present and have the opening·ceremony performed in due form, we do not believe that the elimination of the so-called
"jewel march" would materially expedite the completion of the opening Lodge
ceremony. Further, we do believe that the "jewel march" is an important part
of and adds much to the dignity and impressiveness of the ceremony when
a Masonic Lodge is opened in due and ancient form.

Resolution No. 85-3 seeks to streamline the opening ceremonies by
eliminating that portion of the ritual which is known as the "jewel march."
Your Ritual Committee therefore recommends the following procedure and
the necessary change in the wording, should this Resolution be approved.
Aprons and Jewels will be placed at the Officers' places and stations and
will be worn prior to opening.
To implement this resolution the following change in the esoteric work must
be made.
"EXEMPLIFICATION"
If this Resolution is adopted, this is the procedure your Ritual Committee
recommends.
Not Adopted.

ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS - OTHER LOCATIONS
(85-4)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to hold the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California in San Francisco only every fourth
year and at other locations within the State of California in the intervening
years.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, many members believe that the Grand Lodge should be accessible to as many members as possible at one time or another; and
WHEREAS, holding the Annual Communications at areas other than San
Francisco will make it possible for more Masons of those areas to attend the
Annual Communication and create greater attention, recognition and publicity
to Masonry in those areas; and
WHEREAS, there are also other areas of this Jurisdiction that have facilities
capable of accommodating future Annual Communications.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 150 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read:

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Sect. 150. ANNUAL COMMUNICATION. The Grand Lodge shall hold
an Annual Communication for the transaction of its regular business commencing at 9 o'clock A.M. on the second Monday of each October and
commencing with the year 1986 and every fourth year thereafter it shall
be held in the City and County of San Francisco and in the intervening
years at other locations throughout the State of California upon the adoption, by a five-sixths vote, at any previous Annual or Special Communication called for the purpose of a Resolution so providing."

and retype the many committee reports, etc. Perhaps these logistical problems
could be worked out, but there are other and more important and basic reasons
why this Resolution should not be adopted.
Many years ago, in 1947, the Grand Master and other great Masonic leaders
of this Jurisdiction had the wisdom and foresight to consider the building
of a great and beautiful Masonic monument, a new and permanent home
for the Grand Lodge of California.
This magnificent California Masonic Memorial Temple, dedicated to our
Masonic Brethren who died in the cause of freedom, is admired by Masons
throughout the world.
In the 1958 Dedication Issue of the California Freemason, Editor Newcomb
Condee stated, "We must ever keep in mind the simple truth that the magnificent edifice on Nob Hill is only the symbol of Freemasonry in our State. It
is the beacon which symbolizes the truth which must be kept burning in our
hearts and minds. Temples made of stone may be destroyed and devastated,
but the spirit of free men searching for God's truth is indestructible. This
truth will eventually triumph over those forces which seek to enslave the minds
and bodies of men spiritually or politically."
Shouldn't each of us, as members of Grand Lodge, keep the faith with those
dedicated Masonic leaders of years past; those who dreamed the impossible
dream and saw that dream become a reality. Certainly they deserve more than
to have the Annual Communications held in this Temple only once in every
four years.
The requirement of a five-sixths vote to determine the location of the Annual Communication in the intervening years leaves unanswered the following questions:
Who .would present such a Resolution?
Would a Special Communication be called for that purpose?
Who would determine the proposed location?
How far in advance would such legislation be proposed?
If the proposed legislation fails to receive a five-sixths affirmative vote,
where would the Annual Communication be held?
These are only a few of the questions the proponent has not answered and
your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is not able to answer them
for you.
This Temple should be the permanent home for every Annual Communication of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.

216

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. LEONG, PM No. 733

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Finance.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-4 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to hold the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California in San Francisco only every fourth
year, and at other locations within the State of California in the intervening
years.
Your committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.
This Resolution seeks to amend our Constitution and requires a five-sixths
affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-4 proposes to amend Section 150 C.M.C. to provide that
the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California will be held
in the City and County of San Francisco only once in every four years and
at other locations within the State of California in the three intervening years.
Similar legislation was proposed at the 1981 Annual Communication as
Resolution No. 24 and was not adopted.
The proponent of this Resolution believes that the Grand Lodge should
be accessible to as many members as possible at one time or another.
The Grand Master convenes the Grand Lodge throughout the Jurisdiction
for Ceremonial Communications many times during the year. This permits
Master Masons in all areas of California and Hawaii to witness the opening
of Grand Lodge and the various ceremonies.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes foresees a multitude of
logistical problems for the Grand Secretary's office: transporting Grand Lodge
proceedings used by the Committees, records and office personnel to type

217

The Committee on Finance:
The Grand Lodge Committee on Finance cannot at this time comment on
the financial stability of "Other Locations for Annual Communications."
Because no financial data is available at this time, we recommend a "No"
vote.
Not Adopted.

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

VOTING IN GRAND WDGE - WRITTEN BALLOT
(85-5)

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-5 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to require a written ballot for all
votes on legislation, whether an initial vote or a "carry over" vote.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.
The Resolution seeks to amend both the Constitution and an Ordinance
and requires a five-sixths affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

The proponents of this Resolution seek to codify and standardize the manner of voting when considering Resolutions aimed at altering, adding to or
deleting language from sections of the California Masonic Code.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Resolutions seeking to alter, add to or delete language from
sections of the California Masonic Code have been, in the past, subjected
to a written ballot to determine their disposition, at least at the initial consideration; and
WHEREAS, such written ballot has not always been required in subsequent consideration of such Resolutions when carried over to the next following Annual Communication; and
WHEREAS, if such a Resolution warranted a decision by written ballot
at its initial consideration, such written ballot should be taken at subsequent
considerations; and
WHEREAS, the manner of balloting by other methods than written is subject to some interpretation due to the fact that each voice, hand or standing
person is accorded a full vote when, by statute, Past Masters are accorded
only a fractional vote; and
WHEREAS, the use of written ballots is nowhere mandated in the California Masonic Code when considering amendments to the Constitution and/or
Ordinances of this Grand Lodge.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that both Sections 500 and 4000
of the California Masonic Code be amended by striking from each the last
sentence and substituting in their places the words, "When the report of said
Committee is presented, a written vote shall be taken on the amendment."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that both Sections 504 and 4004 of the
California Masonic Code be amended by inserting the word "written" in line
six of each such section immediately preceding the word "votes."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 250 be amended by adding
thereto the words "or amendments to this Code" after the word "officers"
so the beginning of said section shall read, ''All questions of the Grand Lodge,
except election of officers or amendments to this Code, shall be decided ...."
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN W. GEE, PM No. 58
DONALD E. LEGIER, PM No. 58
JOHN SHAUL, PM No. 3
G. W. STEWART, PM No. 499

ROBERT NlCHELLS, JR., PM No. 734
FRANK J. WISEMAN, PM No. 733
FLOYD L. BAKER, PM No. 613
KURT W. MEYSER, PM No. 579

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

219

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-5 seeks to standardize the manner of voting when considering resolutions aimed at altering, adding to or deleting language from
the sections of the California Masonic Code.
The proponents state that initial considerations of any change in the Code
are made by written ballot, but that if that consideration does not receive
the necessary votes and is carried over, a written ballot is not always required,
and argues that the requirement should be the same in both instances - namely,
that the written ballot rule should apply.
They also suggest that a ballot by a method other than written is subject
to interpretation, as opposed to being exact, because of the fact that each
voice, hand or standing person is accorded a full vote, when legally, a Past
Master is entitled to a fractional vote only.
They therefore ~ropose that Sections 500 and 4000, having to do with initial considerations of resolutions, be altered to read in part, ''A written vote
shall be taken:• and that Sections 504 and 4004, having to do with carry-over
voting be likewise altered. Further, to alter Section 250 so that all questions
except election of officers or amendments to this Code shall be decided by
voice, hand, a rising vote or written ballot, thereby eliminating amendments
from being decided by any other method than written.
The overriding objection to this Resolution is that there is a safeguard written into the voting process in that California Masonic Code Section 250 allows
that, even should a ballot other than written be called for, 3 members may
demand, before the announcement of the result, that a written ballot be taken.
This Resolution is attempting to write into the California Masonic Code
a practice which is, in essence, already in existence.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, therefore, recommends
a "No" vote on Resolution No. 85-5.
Not adopted.

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

VOTE REQUIRED - AMENDING
CONSTITUTION AND ORDINANCES
(85-6)

To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

The proponent of this Resolution seeks to change the vote required to amend
the Constitution and Ordinances of Grand Lodge from "five-sixths" to "twothirds majority."

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, R & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the proponent of this Resolution believes that Grand Lodge
is operating under "regulations established in the Seventeen Hundreds", and
California Lodges are restricted from raising funds; and
WHEREAS, the majority rule has in government and business been the
recognized way which votes are decided on issues; and
WHEREAS, the present rule of requiring a "five-sixths vote" makes it difficult to pass needed legislation, and to reduce the vote required to "twothirds" is realistic and closer to the true majority rule.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 502 be amended
to read:
"Sect. 502. VOTE REQUIRED. Upon the report of said committee, if twothirds of the vote shall be in favor of such proposed amendment it shall
be declared adopted; and, from and after the close of that Communication, it shall become a part of the Constitution."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 4002 be amended to read:
"Sect. 4002. VOTE REQUIRED. Upon the report of said committee, if
two-thirds of the vote shall be in favor of such proposed amendment it
shall be declared adopted; and, from and after the close of the Communication, it shall become a part of the Ordinances."
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE W. MORRIS, PM No. 713

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-6 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to change the vote required to amend
our Constitution and Ordinances from "five-sixths" to "two-thirds."
As these amendments would be to both the Constitution and Ordinances,
a five-sixths affirmative vote is required for adoption.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.

221

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponent of Resolution No. 85-6 seeks to reduce the required vote
to effect amendments to our Constitution from five-sixths of the votes cast
in favor to two-thirds of the votes cast.
Similar proposals have been presented to the Grand Lodge with some degree
of regularity during its modern history. Obviously none of these proposals
has been approved by the Grand Lodge. Some of these proponents withdrew
their resolutions before balloting. In some instances the proposed resolutions
received a majority vote and were held over until the next Annual Communication whereupon they failed to attain the required two- thirds vote of passage.
The various proponents of the resolutions to change the required vote have
indicated that our law was virtually unchangeable because of the size of the
majority required to approve change. The many annotations to our Constitution and Ordinances indicate that desired change can be accomplished.
One of the great strengths of our Fraternity is its stability--stability in the
manner in which we conduct our business, receive candidates, present our
ritual, endorse public education, and support our National Constitution to
name only a few.
Traditionally, and by the requirements of law, a unanimous vote is required
in Constituent Lodges to elect candidates for degrees or members for
affiliation.
All of us recognize that a temporary emotional appeal can be felt upon
the presentation of arguments pro or con on any proposal, but adequate time
for reflection giv~ each of us the opportunity to make our determination
upon fact rather than emotion.
The founders of our Fraternity recognized that harmony would be a
necessary requirement to perpetuate our organization. In a great part, harmony comes from unanimity or near-unanimity of opinion. No harm has
ever come to our Fraternity by the exercise of caution. Preserving the fivesixths majority vote is an exercise in caution.
If a given proposal has such appeal to the members of Grand Lodge that
even though it fails the five-sixths majority but exceeds a simple majority,
our law provides that it be held over to the succeeding Annual Communication, at which time the required vote for passage has been reduced to the twothirds proposed in the present resolution.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes favors the preservation
of caution and stability and recommends a "No" vote.
Not adopted.

DUTIES OF GRAND SECRETARY
(85-7)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to delete from the duties of the
Grand Secretary that of being the Grand Librarian.

222

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple, on October 11, 1984, unanimously approved the funding of the budget
for the Grand Lodge Library and Museum; and
WHEREAS, by virtue of such funding by California Masonic Memorial
Temple, the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
have assumed responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the Grand
Lodge Library and Museum; and
WHEREAS, the funding of the budget for the Grand Lodge Library and
Museum by California Masonic Memorial Temple, and the assumption of
the responsibility for the operation and maintenance thereof by the California Masonic Memorial Temple makes it unnecessary for the Grand Lodge
to include in its budget the funding and maintenance of the said Library and
Museum.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 1108 be amended
in the following manner:
Paragraph 14th be deleted.
Paragraphs 15th through 23rd be renumbered 14th through 22nd.
Respectfully submitted,
LOREN M. STRITENBERGER, PM NO. 344
ROBERT A. KLINGER, PM NO. 120
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Temple Board.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution 85-7 has been submitted, reports as follows:
The funding of the budget and the operation and maintenance of the Grand
Lodge Library and Museum is now the responsibility of the Board of Trustees
of the California Masonic Memorial Temple. The proponents of this Resolution desire to delete as a duty of the Grand Secretary the taking charge of
the Library and, also, delete the duty to act as Grand Librarian.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend an ordinance and requires a five-sixths affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-7 will delete from the duties of the Grand Secretary that
of being the Grand Librarian.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

223

The Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple will
provide the money to operate the Library and will operate and maintain it.
The Grand Lodge is thus relieved of the responsibility for funding and
operation.
Essentially this means that things are being transferred from the right hand
to the left hand.
This having been accomplished, the Code should be amended to delete those
things which are no longer the duties of the Grand Secretary. He will still
march in procession at the same place.
The Policy and General Purposes Committee recommends a "Yes" vote.

The California Masonic Memorial Temple Board of Trustees:
Your Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, at
their October 11, 1984 meeting, unanimously approved the assumption of the
responsiblity for the operation and maintenance of the Grand Lodge Library
and Museum. We also assumed full responsibility for the funding of the
Library and Museum budget, which now makes it unnecessary for the Grand
Lodge to include it in its budget.
Therefore, your Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple support the deletion from the duties of the Grand Secretary, that of being the Grand Librarian, and recommend a "Yes" vote.
Adopted.

USE OF PHOTOCOPY OF DUES RECEIPT
(85-8)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow the use of a duly certified
photocopy of a dues receipt, rather than the original, in a petition for dispensation to form a new Lodge.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, our California Masonic Code provides that the dues receipt
of each Brother who signs a petition for dispensation seeking the formation
of a new Lodge, must be submitted to the office of the Grand Secretary for
verification; and
WHEREAS, said requirement was incorporated in our law prior to the common usage of photocopy machines; and
WHEREAS, said members during the time that their dues receipts are in
the possession of the Grand Secretary, are unable to produce the dues receipt
required for a visit to another Lodge; and
WHEREAS, a photocopy of said dues receipt, certified as true by a Lodge
Secretary, will provide all information necessary for verification of the
Brother's Masonic membership.
NOW, THERE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 2001 be added to the
California Masonic Code, to read as follows:
"Sect. 2001. PHOTOCOPY OF DUES RECEIPT. Wherever this Article requires a dues receipt be submitted to the office of the Grand

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

225

Respectfully submitted,

SELLING AND SERVING OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
BY RESTAURANT WCATED IN A
MASONIC MEETING PLACE
(85-9)

LEONARD L. TODD, SR., PM No. 832
DEAN F. BRADLEY, PM No. 778
VINCENT D. ALIANIELLO, PM No. 832
NORMAN P. MURRY, PM No. 832
JOSEPH c. FREELAND, PM No. 776

The proponents of this Resolution seek to permit the selling or serving of
liquor, wine or beer as incidental to the operation of a restaurant located in
a building also housing a Masonic Lodge.

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Charters.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, C.M.C. Sections 2048 and 2050 prohibit Masonic Lodges (or
organizations the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a
Master Mason) from holding Stated or Special Meetings in, or owning or
renting a building, or being a tenant in a building, containing a bar or liquor
store; and
WHEREAS, C.M.C. Section 2048 does permit a tenant in such a building
engaged primarily in the sale of other merchandise, to sell bottled (packaged)
liquors incidental to the sale of such other merchandise, provided that there
shall be no advertising of liquor on the exterior of such building which
dominates the advertising of other business conducted therein, or is in such
location or form as to make such building undesirable for use by a Masonic
Lodge or Masonic related organization; and
WHEREAS, Section 2048 does draw some line of distinction between a
bar, liquor store and a store selling packaged liquor as a secondary item (like
drug stores and grocery stores); and
WHEREAS, Section 2050 permits Masonic Lodges and other Masonic
related organizatidns to hold meetings of a social nature or other social events
at which liquor, wine or beer may be used or served in hotels, restaurants,
dining rooms, clubs, convention halls, picnic areas or other establishments
not a Masonic Temple or building or structure owned or operated by a
Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization; and
WHEREAS, other Masonic jurisdictions permit Masonic Lodges to meet
in mid-rise and high-rise buildings in which liquor is sold such as restaurants
and clubs; and
WHEREAS, a restaurant serving liquor should not be in the same classification as a bar or liquor store.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Sections 2048 and 2050
of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Sect. 2048. MEETING PLACE LIMITATIONS. A Masonic Lodge, or
organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be
a Master Mason, shall not hold a Stated or Special Meeting in, or own
or rent a building, or be a tenant in a building, containing a bar, liquor
store or establishment, except that a tenant in such a building engaged
primarily in the sale of other merchandise and, except that a Masonic Lodge
or prerequisite organization may own or rent a bulding or be a tenant in
a building or have a land-lease agreement in a mid-rise building of three
stories or more, in which a tenant or other occupier in such building engag-

Secretary, a photocopy thereof, duly certified by the Secretary of any
Lodge in this Jurisdiction, may be substituted."

The Committee on Jurisprudence·
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-8 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow the use of a duly certified
copy of a dues receipt, rather than the original, in a petition for a dispensation to form a new Lodge.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
porponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance, and requires a five-sixths
affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this resolution seek to allow the use of a duly certified
photocopy of a dues receipt, rather than the original, in a petition for dispensation to form a new Lodge.
Current technology produces photocopies which are of excellent quality
and clearly legible.
When certified by the Secretary of a Lodge in this Jurisdiction, a photocopy
would serve Grand Lodge's requirements equally well as the original dues
receipt.
As the C.M.C now stands, a member would not be able to visit a Lodge
while his dues receipt is in the possession of Grand Lodge. The use of a
photocopy in this instance would allow a member to retain his dues receipt
necessary for purposes of Lodge visitations.
Your Policy and General Purposes Committee recommends a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Charters:
The Committee on Charters recommends a "Yes" vote.
Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ed primarily in the restaurant business may sell or serve liquor, wine or
beer incidental to the operation of such restaurant business, provided that
such restaurant is not on the same floor as is the Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization meeting place."
"Further, there shall be no advertising of liquor, wine or beer on the
outside of the area occupied by the restaurant or on the exterior of any
such building which dominates the advertising of other business conducted
therein, or which is in such location or form as to make such building
undesirable for use by a Masonic Lodge or Masonic related organization.
It is further provided that this section shall not require a Masonic Lodge
or Masonic related organization to vacate leased premises prior to the expiration of leases made in good faith, or to violate leases, or to refuse to
accept buildings received from an estate or by gift; but such building so
received must be sold or otherwise disposed of, or the offending use must
be terminated, within a reasonable time. Any such building wherein liquor,
wine or beer is sold or served shall not be known by or named with any
Masonic reference. It is further provided that this section shall not prevent a Masonic related organization from holding a meeting in a hotel,
restaurant or club wherein intoxicating liquor is sold."
"Sect. 2050. SERVING OF LIQUOR AT SOCIAL FUNCTIONS. A
Masonic Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein
is that a person by a Master Mason, may hold social gatherings, dinners,
dinner dances, picnics and other meetings of a social nature or other social
events at which liquor, wine or beer may be used or served, in a hotel,
restaurant, dining room, club, convention hall, picnic area, or other
establishment; provided, however, that, except for ritualistic purposes, no
liquor, wine or beer may be served in a Masonic Temple or in any building
or structure owned or operated by a Masonic Lodge or other organization
a prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason,
except that a Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization may own or rent
a building or be a tenant in a building or have a land-lease agreement in
a mid-rise building of three stories or more, in which a tenant or other
occupier in such building engaged primarily in the restaurant business may
sell or serve liquor, wine or beer incidental to the operation of such
restaurant business, provided that such restaurant is not on the same floor
as is the Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization meeting place. It is
further provided that this section shall not require a Masonic Lodge or
a Masonic related organization to vacate leased premises prior to expiration of leases made in good faith, or to violate leases, or to refuse to accept buildings so received from an estate or by gift; but such buildings
received must be sold or otherwise disposed of, or the offending use must
be terminated, within a reasonable time. Any such building wherein liquor
is sold or served shall not be known by or named with any Masonic
reference."
Note: See report on construction, 1974, p. 231.

Respectfully submitted,

226

227

CHRIS R. ZERCHER, PM NO. 299
DOUG CLIFFORD, M No. 299
JAMES O'KADA, PM No. 299
FAY CHAPMAN, PM No. 299

JOHN GIGUERE, SW NO. 299
JAMES HATCHEIT, PM NO. 299
RONALD 8. THORP, P.M. No. 299

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Temple Properties.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-9 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to permit the selling or serving of
liquor, wine or beer as incidental to the operation of a restaurant located in
a mid-rise building of three stories or more also housing a Masonic Lodge.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponents, except that due to clerical oversight, the following interlineations
must be made:
1. On page 2, in the first paragraph of Section 2048, line 8, following the
word "merchandise;' add: "may sell bottled liquors incidental to the
sale of such other merchandise."
2. On page 2, in the second paragraph of Section 2048, the next to last
line, following the word "liquor" add: ", wine or beer."
3. On page 3 in the next to last line, following the word "liquor" also add:
", wine or b'eer."
With the foregoing amendments, the legislation is now in order and requires a 5/6 affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-9 proposes to amend existing law which governs and
places limitations on meeting places of Masonic Lodges and related Masonic
organizations.
The substance of the Resolution is to "permit a Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization to own or rent a building or be a tenant in a building
or have a land-lease agreement in a mid-rise building of three stories or more,
in which a tenant or other occupier in such building engaged primarily in
the restaurant business may sell or serve liquor, wine or beer incidental to
the operation of such restaurant business, provided that such restaurant is
not on the same floor as is the Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization
meeting place."
Section 2048 of the C.M.C. as it is currently written, states in part: "A
Masonic Lodge, or organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is
that a person be a Master Mason, shall not hold a Stated or Special Meeting

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in, or own or rent a building, or be a tenant in a building, containing a bar,
liquor store or establishment, except that a tenant in such a building engaged
primarily in the sale of other merchandise may sell bottled liquors incidental
to the sale of such other merchandise; provided, however, that there shall be
no advertising of liquor on the exterior of such building which dominates
the advertising of other business conducted therein, or is in such location
or form as to make such building undesirable for use by a Masonic Lodge
or Masonic related organization."
The proposers of this Resolution have attempted to include sufficient
safeguards to protect the integrity of California Freemasonry, however, a
thorough analysis of the Resolution, and the possible situations that could
arise, causes serious concern among the members of the Policy and General
Purposes Committee. What will be the criteria used in determining which
is the primary business where both food and liquor are sold? Who will make
the initial judgment? Since only mid-rise buildings are considered, will it be
of general benefit to our Fraternity or is it single interest legislation?
In considering such legislation our first thought is to look at the ideal arrangement, such as, a family type restaurant on the ground floor on one side
of the building, with the Lodge room or meeting place on another level on
the opposite side of the building. This could be the rare exception. The word
"restaurant" could very well be a substitute for "nightclub." Have you ever
been assigned the hotel room immediately above the restaurant and been lulled
to sleep by a jazz band? Picture yourself as Master of your Lodge giving the
third degree lecture accompanied by such dinner music.
The words "or other occupier" used in the Resolution also offer some interesting possibilities. A caterer engaged primarily in the restaurant business
could become the occupier of such building for the purpose of a dinner reception or celebration at which liquor, wine or beer could be sold. This event
could also have a host patron where the liquor, wine or beer would be free
to the guests, further compounding the situation. To carry it one step further, all of this could occur with the Lodge room or meeting place on a
separate floor, as required by the Legislation, with the social hall or banquet
room of the Masonic Lodge or related organization on the same floor and
contiguous to the activity or event.
The challenges to and interpretation of this proposal are as broad as your
own imagination.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has thoroughly examined this Resolution for the broad benefits to the Fraternity. At very best we
find it to be of limited or special interest legislation.
We, therefore, recommend a "No" vote.

The Committee on Temple Properties:
Your Committee on Temple Properties, to which Resolutions No. 85-9 and
85-10 were referred, reports as follows:
Your Committee feels that the proposed Resolutions 85-9 and 85-10 are
both appropriate and progressive to modern-day Lodges and Temple
Associations.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

229

Our Lodges and Temple Associations should be allowed the discretion permitted by this legislation where they deem it necessary or appropriate to their
local conditions or circumstances.
Your Committee further believes that implementations of this legislation
would have no adverse impact on the image of the Craft.
Therefore, your Committee on Temple Properties unanimously recommends
the passage of both Resolutions 85-9 and 85-10 with a "Yes" vote.
Not Adopted.

SERVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
IN MASONIC TEMPLES AT NON-MASONIC FUNCTIONS
(85-10)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to allow liquor, wine or beer to
be served in banquet rooms of Masonic Temples rented to others provided
that no charge be made for such beverages and provided that no Masonic
or Masonic related function is taking place in the building at the time.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, increased costs have made it difficult for Masonic Lodges to
maintain and improve their Temples; and
WHEREAS, many Masonic Temples maintain a banquet room that is
separate and distinct from the Lodge Room; and
WHEREAS, these banquet rooms and facilities represent a potential source
of rental income~ and
WHEREAS, prospective renters for non-Masonic functions seek facilities
which allow the serving of alcoholic beverages with refreshments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT, Sections 2048 and 2050
of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Sect. 2048. MEETING PLACE LIMITATIONS. A Masonic Lodge, or
organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be
a Master Mason, shall not hold a Stated or Special Meeting in, or own
or rent a building, or be a tenant in a building, containing a bar, liquor
store or establishment, except that a tenant in such a building engaged
primarily in the sale of other merchandise may sell bottled liquors incidental
to the sale of such other merchandise. Further, a Masonic Lodge or prerequisite organization may own or lease space in a building and may allow
the serving of liquor, wine or beer in banquet rooms which are separate
and distinct from and not used as Lodge rooms during such time that such
banquet rooms are rented to others for non-Masonic functions; and provided that no separate charge may be made for such liquor, wine or beer;
and provided further that such liquor, wine or beer may only be served
in such banquet rooms during the time that no Masonic or Masonic related
function is taking place within such building.
It is further provided that there shall be no advertising of liquor, wine
or beer on the exterior of such building which dominates the advertising

231

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of other business conducted therein, or is in such location or form as to make
such building undesirable for use by a Masonic Lodge or Masonic related
organization; and provided further that this section shall not require a Masonic
Lodge or Masonic related organization to vacate leased premises prior to expiration of leases made in good faith, or to violate leases, or to refuse to accept buildings received from an estate or by gift; but such building so received must be sold or otherwise disposed of, or the offending use must be terminated, within a reasonable time, and provided further that this section shall
not prevent a Masonic related organization from holding a meeting in a hotel, ·
restaurant or club where intoxicating liquor is sold."
"Sect. 2050. SERVING OF LIQUOR AT SOCIAL FUNCTIONS. A
Masonic Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein
is that a person be a Master Mason, may hold social gatherings, dinners, dinner
dances, picnics and other meetings of a social nature or other social events
at which liquor, wine or beer may be used or served, in a hotel, restaurant,
dining room, club, convention hall, picnic area or other establishment; provided, however, that except for ritualistic purposes, no liquor, wine or beer
may be served in a Masonic Temple or in any building or structure owned
or operated by a Masonic Lodge or any organization a prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason except that a Masonic Lodge
or prerequisite organization may own or lease space in a building and may
allow the serving of liquor, wine or beer in banquet rooms which are separate
and distinct from and not used as Lodge rooms, during such time that such
banquet rooms are rented to others for non-Masonic functions if no separate
charge may be made for such liquor, wine or beer and provided that such
liquor, wine or beer may only be served in such banquet rooms during the
time that no Masonic or Masonic related function is taking place within such
building."

proponents, except that due to clerical oversight, the following corrections
must be made:
I. On page 2, the next to last line of Section 2048 commencing two lines
above "Sect. 2050.", change the word "where" to "wherein;" and
2. On the very next line following the word "Liquor", add: ", wine or beer".
With the foregoing corrections, the legislation is now in order and requires
a five-sixths affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

230

Respectfully submitted,
MERLE RUNOLFSON, PM No. 243
PERRY C. SMITH, PM No. 243
LEON FEATHER, SW No. 243
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Temple Properties.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-10 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this resolution seek to allow liquor, wine or beer to be
served in banquet rooms of Masonic Temples rented to others provided that
no charge be made for such beverages and provided that no Masonic or
Masonic related function is taking place in the building at the time.
Your committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-10 marks the eleventh time in the last 22 years that legislation, in one form or another, regarding the serving of alcoholic beverages
in Masonic social halls or banquet rooms has been presented to this Grand
Lodge. In every case the issue has been either withdrawn or rejected.
This resolution seeks to amend Sections 2048 and 2050 of the C.M.C. by
adding to each the following words: "A Masonic Lodge or prerequisite
organization may own or lease space in a building and may allow the serving
of liquor, wine or beer in banquet rooms which are separate and distinct from
and are not used as Lodge rooms during such times that such banquet rooms
are rented to others for non-Masonic functions; and provided that no separate
charge may be made for such liquor, wine or beer; and provided further that
such liquor, wine or beer may only be served in such banquet rooms during
the time that no Masonic or Masonic related function is taking place within
such building."
The arguments against such proposals have been both eloquent and exhausting. Your CQmmittee on Policy and General Purposes chooses to draw
on those words in responding to this resolution.
It is difficult to perceive any way in which moderation in the use of alcoholic
beverages could be controlled and assured. By providing Masonic facilities
for non- Masonic events at which the stimulus of intoxicants might lead to
some of those in attendance becoming noisy or unruly could certainly result
in the conclusion in the minds of neighboring residents or passers-by that
Masons did not entirely observe the limits of good conduct.
Our present regulations concerning the presence of liquor in our Lodge
halls were made after much careful study and consideration and it is the belief
of this committee that many people, Mason and non-Mason alike, feel that
one of the things that distinguishes Masonry from other fraternal orders is
the abstinence from serving alcoholic beverages in our meeting places. We
believe that distinction to be important.
We believe also that preserving the sanctity of our Lodges, the dignity and
serious purposes of Masonry and the recognized quality of the institution
is of far greater value than the suggested financial and economic gains.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
Not adopted.

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS REQUIRING
MASONIC MEMBERSHIP AS PREREQUISITE
(85-11)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify the provisions of our Code
prohibiting membership in certain organizations whose members must be
Master Masons.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, this Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication in 1957 expressed concern that certain organizations which require directly or indirectly, Masonic affiliation as a condition of membership, were failing to
acknowledge the supremacy of this Grand Lodge; and
WHEREAS, Section 332.1 (now Section 2068) was added to our California Masonic Code precluding a Mason from the jurisdiction from joining
any organization of Masons not existing in this jurisdiction on September
27, 1957; and
WHEREAS, as a result of a decision of our Grand Master in 1958, the
section was amended to specifically exclude clubs organized for the purpose
of instituting new Lodges; and
WHEREAS, the said amendment thus precludes the creation of any other
new Masonic clubs or other new organizations of Masons including Past
Master Associations and Masters and Wardens Associations; and
WHEREAS, the intent of the legislation as disclosed by Section 2068a of
our Code was to preclude the creation of new organizations purporting to
confer degrees or to utilize a ritual other than that adopted by our Grand
Lodge.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 2068 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Section 2068. MEMBERSHIP IN PREREQUISITE BODIES. A Mason
residing within this jurisdiction shall not become a member of any organization, or subdivision thereof, by whatsoever name or character, the prerequisite of which is that a person be a Master Mason, unless such organization existed in this jurisdiction on September 27, 1957. This section shall
not be construed as a recognition of any such pre-existing organization;
nor shall it be construed as prohibiting clubs organized for the purpose
of instituting a new Lodge; nor to organizations or associations of Past
Masters, or Masters and Wardens of a Lodge or Lodges of this jurisdiction; nor to organizations or associations of Masons which do not confer
degrees, and except for ceremonies of installation, do not have a ritual
other than the established ritual of this Grand Lodge."
Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, PM No. 445

RICHARD L. RIEMER, PM No. 778

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

233

The Committee on Jurisprudence·
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-11 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify the provisions of the
California Masonic Code prohibiting membership in certain organizations
whose members must be Master Masons.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of
the proponents.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-11 has been proposed by members of the Jurisprudence
Committee who also were active on the Committee which designed the present California Masonic Code.
The Resolution, if adopted, would clarify those provisions of our Law concerning membership in organizations whose members must be Master Masons
and to the formation of such bodies. A strict interpretation of the Law as
it is now written might, for example, prevent the formation of Past Masters
Associations and membership therein.
The proposed Resolution should be considered as a housekeeping measure
to prevent misinterpretation of the Law.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
Adopted.

ORGANIZATION
OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATIONS
(85-12)
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify the provisions of the
California Masonic Code relating to the investment of Lodge funds in a
Masonic Temple Association and to establish specific regulations dealing with
the formation, organization and operation of Masonic Temple Associations.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Code requires each Lodge to retain
the control of its own funds and property, yet many Masonic Temple Associations are organized such that no such control exists; and
WHEREAS, many Masonic Temple Associations are organized such that
they do not qualify for exemption from Federal and State income taxes on
their net profits.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the authority of each Lodge
in this jurisdiction over the government of any Masonic Temple Association

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

in which it holds an ownership interest be clarified by amending the California Masonic Code as follows:
"Sect. 2304. ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS. A Lodge, after first obtaining the consent of the Grand Lodge Committee on Temple Properties, may
also invest its funds in or maintain an investment in:
1. Memberships or shares, as the case may be, in a Masonic Temple
Association (organized and to be operated in accordance with the provisions of this Code) wherein a Masonic Lodge or Masonic Lodges, collectively, hold a majority of memberships or shares or wherein such a
controlling interest shall be acquired by such investment. Such Masonic
Temple Association shall be one:
a. which owns real estate embracing a building suitable for the occupancy in whole or in part by a Masonic Lodge, or
b . which owns land upon which it is proposed to erect such a building, or
c. which is formed for the purpose of acquiring such real estate and/or
building.
2. A loan evidenced by:
a . A duly executed promissory note amply secured by a first lien against
property of a class described under paragraphs l(a) or l(b) above, or
b. A promissory note duly executed by a Masonic Temple Association
in which the Lodge owns a controlling interest."
A new Section 2305 be added to the California Masonic Code to read
as follows:
"Sect. 2305. MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION. All Masonic Temple
Associations shall be organized and shall operate as follows:
1. A Masonic Temple Association may be organized either as a non-profit
or as a general law corporation under the laws of the state in which
it owns or is to acquire real estate, land or a building.
2. The exclusive purpose for which a Masonic Temple Association may
be organized is to hold title to property, collect income therefrom and
turn over the entire amount thereof, less expenses, to its members or
shareholders, all of whom must be organizations described in Section
50l(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. A Masonic Temple Association shall not engage in any activities or exercise any powers that are
not in furtherance of this exclusive purpose. No part of the net earnings of a Masonic Temple Association shall inure to the benefit of any
member or private shareholder, as defined for purposes of Section
50l(c)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
3. Uniform Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws for Masonic Temple
Associations shall be promulgated from time to time by the Grand Lodge
Committee on Temple Properties, with the approval of the Grand
Master, and shall be adopted for use by each Masonic Temple Association. Any amendments to such uniform articles and/or by-laws, as promulgated from time to time by the Grand Lodge Committee on Temple
Properties, with the approval of the Grand Master, also shall be adopted
for use by each Masonic Temple Association. All such articles, by-laws
and any amendments thereto shall be approved by the Grand Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

235

Committee on Temple Properties and the Grand Master before they shall
become effective. Uniform articles and by-laws shall be promulgated
for a Masonic Temple Association organized as either a non- profit or
as a general law corporation under the laws of the state of its incorporation. Appropriate revisions to the uniform articles and by-laws may
be authorized by the Committee on Temple Properties for Masonic Temple Associations with more than one member or shareholder.
4. A Masonic Lodge shall exercise its rights as a member or shareholder
of a Masonic Temple Association, including its right to elect or remove
directors, pursuant only to the authorization of a majority of members
of the Lodge present at a duly called meeting of the Lodge at which
a quorum is present. Such authorization shall be conclusively presumed
by written instruments, executed by the Worshipful Master or Secretary
of the Lodge, filed with the Secretary of the Masonic Temple Association. In addition, the Worshipful Master of the Lodge, or any person
authorized by proxy or power of attorney duly executed by him, is
authorized to execute any documents and to vote the Lodge's membership or shares at any members' or shareholders' meeting of the Masonic
Temple Association in accordance with the terms of any action previously authorized by the Lodge.
5. Annually on or before the fifteenth day of July, each Masonic Temple
Association shall transmit to the Grand Secretary a full and correct
report of its transactions for the twelve months preceding the first day
of July in such form as may be provided. Such report shall include a
statement of assets, liabilities and net worth as of the end of such twelve
month period. Masonic Temple Associations formed during such twelve
month period shall transmit a report from the date of incorporation."
Respectfully submitted,
R. STEPHEN DOAN, PM NO. 548
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, PM No. 599
VARNUM PAUL, PM No. 169
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes,
Temple Properties, Finance and Taxation.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution 85-12 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify the provisions of the
California Masonic Code relating to the investment of Lodge funds in a
Masonic Temple Association and to establish specific regulations dealing with
the formation, organization and operation of Masonic Temple Associations.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponents.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance and requires a five-sixths
affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before the Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

The Committee on Taxation:
This Committee was active in the preparation of this Resolution. The
reasons for proposing it can be summarized as follows:
I. Control: Adoption of Resolution No. 85-12 would clarify the right of
a Masonic Lodge to elect and remove directors of the Masonic Temple
Association of which it is a member. It would also clarify how a Lodge
may vote its ownership interests.
It has come to the Committee's attention that there are some Masonic Temple Associations in this Jurisdiction whose officers and directors believe that
they are beyond the control of the Masonic Lodge which owns the Temple
Association. Section 2300 of the California Masonic Code already requires
a Masonic Lodge to retain the control of its own funds and properties. This
legislation would reaffirm that control. This legislation would also set forth
how a Lodge exercises that control by the vote of its membership in a Masonic
Temple Association: it would be done pursuant to the authorization of a majority of the members of the Lodge present at a duly called Lodge meeting
at which a quorum is present.
2. Tax-Exempt Status: By adoption of this legislation, Masonic Temple
Associations could become exempt from the payment of federal and
state taxes on their net income. This is accomplished by providing that
the exclusive business of a Masonic Temple Association must be to hold
title to property, collect income from the property and annually turn
over the entire amount of such income, less expenses, to the Masonic
Lodge which owns it. This is the requisite for tax exemption for Masonic
Temple Associations under federal and California law. Internal Revenue
Code Sections 50l(a), 50l(c)(2), (10). California Revenue & Taxation
Code Section 2370lh. By requiring all Masonic Temple Associations in
the Jurisdiction to have uniform articles of incorporation and by-laws,
the Grand Lodge may then apply for and maintain the federal tax-exempt
status for all complying Masonic Temple Associations within the
Jurisdiction, such as Grand Lodge now does for all Masonic Lodges
within the Jurisdiction. Revenue Procedure 80-27, 1980-1 C.B. 677.
There is at least one Masonic Temple Association in this Jurisdiction which
has paid significant sums in taxes to the federal and state governments in recent years because it was not organized as a tax- exempt entity. Also, the
government has been increasingly vigorous in challenging the basis upon which
some Masonic Temple Associations have claimed exemption in prior years.
The adoption of this legislation and operation of the Masonic Temple Association in accordance with its requirements would significantly reduce the risk
that a Masonic Temple Association must pay income tax on its net profits.
3. Limited Liability: There are still some Masonic Temple Associations
in this Jurisdiction which are not separately incorporated from their
Lodges. Thus, any uninsured liability arising with respect to the Temple property could be assessed against each member of the Lodge. This
legislation would require each Masonic Temple Association to incorporate, thereby lessening this risk.

236

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponents of this Resolution seek to clarify the provisions of the
California Masonic Code relating to the investment of Lodge funds in a
Masonic Temple Association and to establish specific regulations dealing with
the formation, organization and operation of Masonic Temple Associations.
Your Policy and General Purposes Committee has reviewed and carefully
considered this proposed Resolution and believes that the provisions thereof,
and the suggested procedures recommended therein, are appropriate and
necessary and will prove of benefit to the Masonic Lodges and Masonic Temple
Associations of our Jurisdiction. This Resolution clarifies and spells out in
detail what should be the investment policy of Masonic Lodges when investing
in Masonic Temple Associations, and it, also , sets forth certain needed limitations, requirements, and action to be taken by both Masonic Lodges ~nd
Masonic Temple Associations when considering the formation, operation,
and management of a Masonic Temple Association.
The primary purpose of this Resolution is to insure that Masonic Temple
Associations are non-profit corporations, so that the tax benefits in regard
thereto will inure to all Masonic Temple Associations. Masonic Temple
Associations already formed may simply amend their Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws in order to obtain that benefit; and Masonic Lodges forming Temple Associations in the future may obtain that benefit by following
the procedure outlined in this Resolution.
The Policy and General Purposes Committee, therefore, recommends a
"Yes" vote on this Resolution.
The Committee on Temple Properties:
Your Committee on Temple Properties to which Resolution No. 85-12 was
referred, reports as follows:
.
This type of legislation is long overdue. For many years the Lodges of this
Jurisdiction have looked to your Committee for assistance in the financial
planning and management of their Temple Associations.
Your Committee fully recognizes that the Sample Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws, attached to the Resolution are not a panacea for every
Lodge. However, the sample forms are a good framework into which modifi~a­
tions can be molded to fit the particular needs and circumstances of the mdividual Lodges.
Your Committee wishes to thank R. Stephen Doan for his unselfish and
timely contribution to this effort. Indeed, all of this Grand Lodge owes Worshipful Doan a debt of gratitude in this regards.
This Resolution is an important step in the right direction and your Committee recommends a "Yes" vote for its passage.

237

238

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

Recognizing that many Lodges may need assistance in implementing this
legislation, this Committee suggests that a special committee of the Gra°:d
Lodge be appointed to assist the Lodges pending compliance by all Masomc
Temple Associations in the Jurisdiction.

The Committee on Finance:
If the Resolution is adopted, the Finance Committee would recommend
a special committee to study this legislation.
Adopted.

AFFILIATION AS A MULTIPLE MEMBER
(85-13)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to eliminate the requirement of
residence in this Jurisdiction for affiliation as a dual member by members
of a Lodge of another Grand Jurisdiction.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there appears to be a conflict between the annotation at Section 2692a and Section 2402, Paragraph 2, regarding the requirements of
residence for affiliation in this Grand Jurisdiction as a dual member; and
WHEREAS, the current practice in this Grand Jurisdiction is that residence
within this Jurisdiction is not a requisite to become a dual member.
NOW, THEREFOR E, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 2402, Paragraph
2 of the California Masonic Code be amended by deleting the phrase, "if
residing in this jurisdiction" so that said paragraph would thus be amended
to read as follows:
"A member of a Lodge of any other Grand Jurisdiction which allows dual
membership may affiliate with one or more Lodges under this Grand Lodge
while retaining his membership in such other jurisdiction. He becomes a
dual member."
Respectfully submitted,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

239

Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance and requires a five-sixth affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to eliminate the requirement of
residence in this Jurisdiction for affiliation as a dual member by members
of a Lodge in another Grand Jurisdiction.
Section 2402, Paragraph 2, of the California Masonic Code, states, "A
member of a Lodge of any other Grand Jurisdiction which allows dual
membership may, if residing in this Jurisdiction, affiliate with one or more
Lodges under this Grand Lodge while retaining his membership in such other
jurisdiction. He becomes a dual member."
Section 2692a states, "The requirements of residence do not apply to applicants for affiliation. Thus a Master Mason residing in and holding membership in another jurisdiction which recognizes dual membership may affiliate
with a Lodge in our Jurisdiction either on a dimit or as a dual member."
Ross, G.M. 1931 pp. 467, 731.
Since there is an obvious conflict in these two Sections it seems necessary
to change one or the other, either to permit dual membership by affiliation
in a California Lodge regardless of place of residence, or to limit affiliation
for dual membership in our Lodges to residents of this Jurisdiction.
The proponent of this Resolution seeks the former course of action and
proposes to amerfd Section 2402, Paragraph 2 by deleting the phrase, "if
residing in this Jurisdiction:• so the paragraph would be amended to read
as follows:
''A member of a Lodge of any other Grand Jurisdiction which allows dual
membership may affiliate with one or more Lodges under this Grand Lodge
while retaining his membership in such other jurisdiction. He becomes a
dual member."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs with the proponent of the Resolution and recommends a "Yes" vote.
Adopted.

JAMES H. LEACH, PM NO. 35

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-13 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to eliminate the requirement of
residence in this Jurisdiction for affiliation as a dual member by members
of a Lodge of another Grand Jurisdiction.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand

MULTIPLE MEMBERS - SUSPENSION OR EXPULSI ON
(85-14)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to provide that suspension or expulsion in another Grand Jurisdiction of a Mason who holds dual membership in this Jurisdiction, shall cause his suspension or expulsion in all Lodges
in this Jurisdiction, in which he holds dual membership.

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, all Masons of this Grand Jurisdiction are obligated to obey
all the laws rules and regulations of this Jurisdiction and of any other Grand
Jurisdictio~ wherein they may reside or hold membership; and
.
WHEREAS, the suspension or expulsion in this Jurisdictio~ of a mu.ltiple
member now provides that such suspension or exp~lsio~ shall'. m. a~d of itself,
suspend or expel his membership in all Lodges m this Junsdictio?; ~n?
WHEREAS the suspension or expulsion in another Grand Jurisdiction
of a Mason ~ho holds membership in this Grand Jurisdiction should,
therefore. in and of itself, cause his suspension or expulsion in this Jurisdiction.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Sectio~ 2402, Paragr~ph
6, of the California Masonic Code be amended by addmg the followmg
paragraph at the end thereof:
. . .
"Suspension by a Lodge in any othe~ Grand Juns~ic~ion for non-p~yme~t
of dues shall forthwith suspend his membership m all Lodges m this
Jurisdiction but shall be handled in the same manner as provided above
in this section for members suspended by a Lodge in this Jurisdiction by
giving sixty days notice, and provided further, t.hat t~e re~toratio~.of such
member shall be in the same manner as provided m this Code.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 2402, Paragraph 10 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"10. Suspension or expulsion by a Lodge in the Jurisdiction of this or ~ny
other Grand Lodge, for other than non-payment of dues, of a multiple
member shall forthwith suspend or expel his membership in all Lodges
in this Jurisdiction, and the Secretary of any Lodge in this Jurisdiction
suspending or expelling such a member shall immediately notify the Grand
Secretary and also every other Lodge in which the multiple member holds
membership. Provided further that any member who has been suspended
or expelled in any other Grand Jurisdiction for other .than n~m-payment
of dues, and who is subsequently restored to membership therem, may als?
be restored to membership in this Jurisdiction in the same manner as _1S
provided in this Code for members suspended or expelled by a Lodge m
this Jurisdiction initially."

Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance and a five-sixths vote is required for adoption.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

240

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES H. LEACH, PM No. 35

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which Resolution 85-14 has been referred, reports as follows:
.
.
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to provide that suspension or expulsion in another Grand Jurisdiction of a Ma~on who hol~s d~al membership in this Jurisdiction, shall cause his suspension or ex~ulsion mall Lodges
in this Jurisdiction, in which he holds dual membership.

241

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to provide that suspension or expulsion in another Grand Jurisdiction of a Mason who holds dual membership in this Jurisdiction, shall cause his suspension or expulsion in all Lodges
in this Jurisdiction, in which he holds dual membership.
Section 2402 of the California Masonic Code provides that, "Suspension
by a Lodge in the Jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge for non-payment of dues
of a multiple member shall immediately and of itself, suspend his membership in all Lodges in this Jurisdiction, and the Secretary of any Lodge suspending such a member shall immediately notify the Grand Secretary and also
every other Lodge in which the multiple member holds membership." Provision is also made for notice of reinstatement, if such should occur, and for
a sixty day prior Notice of Intention to Suspend during which period such
other Lodge may contact the member in an effort to avoid such suspension.
Section 2402 does not provide for automatic suspension of a member of
a Lodge in this Jurisdiction if he is suspended for non-payment of dues in
another Grand Jurisdiction. The proponent intends to correct this by adding
the following paragraph to Section 2402, Paragraph 6:
"Suspension by a Lodge in any other Grand Jurisdiction for non-payment
of dues sh~l forthwith suspend his membership in all Lodges in this
Jurisdiction but shall be handled in the same manner as provided above
in this section for members suspended by a Lodge in this Jurisdiction by
giving sixty days notice, and provided further, that the restoration of such
a member shall be in the same manner as provided in this Code."
To deal with suspension or expulsion of a multiple member for other than
non-payment of dues, the proponent proposes to amend Section 2404,
Paragraph 10, to read as follows:
"Suspension or expulsion by a Lodge in the Jurisdiction of this or any
other Grand Lodge, for other than non-payment of dues, of a multiple
member shall forthwith suspend or expel his membership in all Lodges
in this Jurisdiction, ...."
The amended paragraph goes on to provide that proper notice be given
of such suspension or expulsion as well as in the case of restoration of
membership.
As presently written, Paragraph 10 provides that if a multiple member is
suspended or expelled by a Lodge in another Jurisdiction and notice thereof
is received by a Lodge in this Jurisdiction, the Master of such Lodge shall
cause such action to be taken by that Lodge or charges are to be preferred

242

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

against such multiple member as the facts shall require under the laws of the
Grand Lodge of California.
Adoption of this Resolution would eliminate the necessity for action by
a Lodge in this Jurisdiction other than the automatic suspension or expulsion of the member in accordance with the action taken by a Lodge in another
Jurisdiction.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
Failing a 5/6 affirmative vote, but receiving a majority vote, the Resolution will be held over for consideration at the 1986 Annual Communication.

PAST MASTER S' ASSOCIA TIONS
(85-15)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to modify the Code so individual
Lodges may have Past Masters' Associations and these Associations may accumulate funds and transact appropriate business.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Code Section 2544 recognizes the probable existence of voluntary Past Masters' Associations; and
WHEREAS, Section 2544 does not attempt to define or specify the purpose(s) for which an Association is formed, provided the activities are
amenable to all the laws, rules and regulations of the Fraternity.
NOW, THEREFOR E, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 2544 be amended
to read:
"Past Masters' Associations are voluntary associations of Masons and are
not directly amenable to the supervision of Grand Lodge except through
the power of the Grand Lodge to regulate and govern the activities of each
member as an individual Mason. As such they are amenable to all the laws,
rules and regulations of the Fraternity.
Past Masters from an individual Lodge may form such an Association
for such purposes, consistent with the above, as they determine. The
Association shall be autonomous in character and nature, have the authority
to accumulate funds and transact business appropriate for its established
purposes."
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD ZINKOW, PM No. 721
JOE WINCHELL, PM No. 721
LESTER PRICE, PM No. 721
MEYER S. LEVINE, PM No. 721
MARVIN WINCHELL, PM No. 721
STUART A. GRABOYES, PM NO. 721
ABRAHAM ZIZKIN, PM No. 721
SEYMOUR GLICK, PM No. 721

ABRAHAM J. MARKS, PM No. 721
S. WILLIAM GERSHON, PM No. 721
DANIEL MONSON, PM No. 721
DAVID THORNER, PM No. 721
MEYER M . SWARTZMAN, PM NO. 721
LOUIS WEXLER, PM No. 721
MICHAEL GARNER, PM No. 721
SIDNEY HERMAN, PM No. 721

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A
MURRAY TOBIAS, PM No. 721
DAVID TRIBICH, PM NO. 721

243

JEROME WEINER, PM No. 721
MARVIN LINN, PM No. 721

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
_Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which Resolution 85-15 has been submitted, reports as follows:
The proponents of the Resolution seek to codify the independence of Past
Masters' Associations and to codify their ability to accumulate funds and
transact appropriate business.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponents.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance and a five-sixths affirmative
vote for adoption is required.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-15 proposes permitting the Past Masters of an individual
Lodge to form a Past Masters Association, which shall have the authority
to accumulate funds and transact business appropriate for its established
purposes.
They ask that Section 2544 be amended to allow such Associations, governed by the same rules as are existing ones, in that they are responsible to all
the laws, rules and regulations set forth in the California Masonic Code.
Sue? an Association is suggested as having basically a two-fold purpose
- to a~d those members who are in need of it, and for social reasons.
While this Committee has no objection to Past Masters of a constituent
~odge uniting as an informal group for social purposes, we feel that allowmg su~h an ;\ssociatio~ which has automony and authority to accumulate
fu~ds is not m the best mterest of the Lodge, because it grants duties to them
which are the Lodge's responsibility.
C.M.C. 2904a. states, in part, that control of Lodge funds for charitable
purposes may not be vested elsewhere than in the constituent Lodge.
. C.~.C. 2026a. _states, in part, that the scheme of a club within a Lodge
is agamst Masomc policy.
It is ~lear, ther:fore, that formation of a Past Masters Association as proposed m Resolution No. 85-15 is counter to the California Masonic Code,
and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
Not adopted.

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ELIMINATE ONE YEAR WAITING PERIOD

are far too many examples that will refute this argument. The attitude that
repeal of the one year waiting period would benefit only the Concordant
Bodies is simply a false assumption.
. ','The time required to pa~s the mandatory Third Degree proficiency would,
m itself, prevent a newly raised Mason from immediately joining a Concordant Body. The test of any Masonic Law should be - has it accomplished
the purpose intended since its adoption by Grand Lodge? It is the opinion
of yo~r Committee on Policy and General Purposes that there are many
benefits to Freemasonry and the newly raised Master Mason to be derived
by adoption of this Resolution."
Your pcesent Committee on Policy and General Purposes agrees with the
1982 position and recommends a "Yes" vote.
Not adopted.

(85-16)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to eliminate the one year waiting
period required before joining a prerequisite organization.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 2635 of the California Masonic Code be
amended by deletion of the words, "and until after the lapse of one year from
the date he receives the Degree of Master Mason" from the first sentence.
Respectfully submitted,

245

W. BEN SORRELLS, PM NO. 672

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which this Resolution has been referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks to eliminate the one year waiting
period required before joining a prerequisite organization.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance and requires a five-sixths
affirmative vote for adoption.
To place this matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-16, if adopted, would eliminate the one year waiting
period required before a newly raised Master Mason might apply for membership in a prerequisite organization.
Similar propositions have been presented to this body in recent years, the
most recent one in 1982. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
was in favor of eliminating the waiting period then and remains of that opinion
now. I now quote from that Committee's recommendation at the 1982 Annual Communication:
''Adopted in 1953, this requirement has been in effect for nearly 30 years
in this Jurisdiction."
"After nearly 30 years we should ask ourselves the question - what benefits,
if any, have been derived by the newly raised Master Mason or the Grand
Lodge of California because of the one year waiting period requirement?
"The argument that affiliation with the Scottish Rite, York Rite and Shrine
will preempt a Brother's time to devote to his Lodge is questionable. There

PAST MASTER - BALWT REQUIREMENT
FOR PLURAL MEMBERSHIP
(85-17)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks in the case of an Application submitted by a Past Master of this Grand Lodge for plural membership (in
another Lodge in this Jurisdiction), to modify the requirement of a unanimous
ballot so as to require a 2/3 favorable vote only.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, members of the Grand Lodge consist of the Grand Lodge
Officers, and the-Constituent Lodges' Past Masters, Masters, and Wardens;
and
WHEREAS, the members of the Grand Lodge have studied Masonic Law
and ritual as a requirement for governing a Lodge; and
WHEREAS, the knowledge thus gained can be a valuable asset in assisting
in the government of, not only their own Lodges, but also other Lodges in
this Jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, the desire of a Grand Lodge member to become a plural
member of a Constituent Lodge requires that he meet the same balloting requirements that a non-Mason must meet; and
WHEREAS, this requirement permits an unknown member, for personal
and possible unmasonic reasons, to prevent a qualified, upright and well informed member of Grand Lodge from becoming a plural member of a Constituent Lodge in this Jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, members of Grand Lodge, by virtue of the fact that they are
members of the governing body of the Fraternity, should be shown special
consideration; and
WHEREAS, Grand Lodge has set a precedent by providing for restoration
to membership in a Lodge by other than a unanimous ballot under certain
conditions as shown in Sections 2820 and 3512 of the California Masonic
Code.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 2651 be added to
the California Masonic Code to read as follows:
"Section 2651. BALLOT REQUIRED ON APPLICATION FOR PLURAL
MEMBERSHIP BY A PAST MASTER. In the case of a Past Master of
a Constituent Lodge of this Grand Lodge who submits an application for
affiliation, as a plural member, to another Lodge of this Jurisdiction, upon
a favorable report of the Investigating Committee, a secret ballot shall be
held and an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members voting shall
be required to elect said Past Master for affiliation with the Lodge."

section provides for restoration to membership in the Lodge of which he had
been a member, and not to membership in a different Lodge. There is no
relationship between Sections 2820 and 3512 C.M.C. and the new Section 2651
proposed by the proponent in Resolution No. 85-17.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recognizes the service
rendered by Past Masters. However, it is of the opinion that all applications
for affiliation to membership, whether for plural membership or otherwise,
would be by an unanimous ballot. There should be no distinction for Past
Masters.
The proponent states, "That Past Masters should be shown special consideration." It is the opinion of your Committee that to give special consideration to Past Masters in the voting procedures for election to Plural Membership in a Lodge in this Jurisdiction is contrary to the policy of this Grand
Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
Not Adopted.

246

Respectfully submitted,
NATHAN SHAPHRAN, PM No. 639
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-17 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks, in the case of an App!ic~tion submitted by a Past Master of this Grand Lodge for plural membership m another
Lodge in this Jurisdiction, to modify the requirement of an unanimous ballot
so as to require only a two-thirds favorable vote.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the Constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of
the proponent.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance; a five-sixths vote is required
for approval.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-17 proposes that a new Section 2651 be added to the
C.M.C. to permit an application submitted by a Past Master of this Grand
Lodge for plural membership in another Lodge in this Jurisdiction to be
elected to membership by a two-thirds favorable vote instead of by an
unanimous ballot.
Section 2402-3 C.M.C. states "a member, in good standing, of a Lodge
in this Jurisdiction may retain such membership and affiliate with any one
or more other Lodges under this Grand Lodge, etc. ... Such a member becomes
a plural member."
The proponent states that Grand Lodge has set a precedent ?Y providing
for restoration to membership in a Lodge other than by an unanimous ballot
under Sections 2820 and 3512 C.M.C .. Section 2820 pertains to a member
suspended for non- payment of dues and Section 3512 pertain~ to~ member
who has been sentenced to suspension as a result of a Masomc tnal. Each

247

LE PROGRES DE L'OCEANIE LODGE NO. 371 DEPARTURE FROM UNIFORM RITUAL
(85-19)
The proponent of this Resolution seeks permission to have Le Progres de
I.:Oceanie Lodge No. 371 continue to use the ritual for the second section
of the Master Mason degree as it was performed in that Lodge prior to October 1984.
•

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A . M. of California:
WHEREAS, Lodge Le Progres de I.:Oceanie No. 371 was originally
chartered as "Lodge le Progres de eoceanie" No. 124 in the year A.O. 1843,
A.L. 6843 as a symbolic or Blue Lodge under the Supreme Council of 33rd
degree Masons of France; and
WHEREAS, on October 11, 1904, Brother George E. Howe, P.M. and
Representative to the Annual Communication from Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
presented a petition to the Grand Lodge of California for admission to your
Jurisdiction; and
WHEREAS, said petition of Lodge Le Progres de l?Oceanie No. 124 did
humbly pray to be chartered in due time and by proper process as a symbolic
or Blue Lodge of the Grand Lodge of California under the name and style
of "Lodge Le Progres de eoceanie" No. _ _ F. and A. M. under the Grand
Lodge of California; and
WHEREAS, said petition specifically and clearly expressed the unanimous
request of the members of "Lodge Le Progres de l?Oceanie" No. 124 A. and
A. S. R. that said "Lodge Le Progres de I.:Oceanie" No. ___ F. and A.
M. as a symbolic or Blue Lodge under the Grand Lodge of California be
permitted to continue the use of its forms and ceremonies of the degree of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master Mason, these differing slightly from the ritual of California, but being
well known to the then Inspector in the Territory of Hawaii for the Grand
Lodge of California and the then Worshipful Master of Hawaiian Lodge No.
21, F. & A. M. under the Grand Lodge of California; and
..
WHEREAS the Committee on Jurisprudence expressed an opimon that
the propositio~ to accept a Lodge chartered and constituted under another
Grand Body was a new one and it was doubtful w~eth~r another ':Tlethod
could legally be followed that set forth in the Constitution of the time for
the method by which a Lodge may be organized and the circumsta?ces under
which a dispensation or charter may be granted; also that no acti~n s~ould
be taken until after full investigation as to the origin of the Lodge, its history,
work and membership; also, if twelve or more Master Masons in Honolulu
were to organize a new Lodge therein, under the California Jurisdiction, t~ey
could proceed under the provisions of the Constituti?n and ~pply at a?y tlm_e
to the Grand Master for a dispensation; and that fmal action on said petition be deferred until the next Annual Communication and that in the meantime the Grand Master would make such investigation as he deemed advisable
and that the incoming Committee on Jurisprudence was to report at such
Communication as to the legality of the method proposed; and
WHEREAS, the record of the proceedings at the Annual Communication
describes the thoroughness of the examination into the petition of "Lodge
Le Progres de COceanie'' No. 124 A. and A. S. R. in all of its ramificatio~s,
especially as it relates to the request of the petitions to be allowed to retam
the work of the second section of the Third Degree; and
WHEREAS at the 1905 Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
California up~n recommendation of the Committee on Jurisprudence that
a charter be granted to "Lodge Le Progres de COceanie'' U.D., twelve members
having withdrawn and been granted a dispensation on September 18, 1905,
but with its name changed to "Oceanie Lodge" No. 371 due to the fac~ t~at
the name "Lodge Le Progres de COceanie'' existed in another Grand Jurisdiction; and
.
WHEREAS, "Oceanie Lodge'' No. 371 F. & A. M., after thorough exammation and discussion, was allowed to continue its work as successor to "Lodge
Le Progres de COceanie'' No. 124 A. and A. S. R. unchanged and unchallenged
for 11 years when in the spring of 1916 a letter was received from Gran? Lecturer Thomas J. Baker insisting that Lodge Le Progress de COceame No.
371 change to the approved California rituals in all respects; and
WHEREAS, although Grand Master Albert G. Burnett expressed sympathy
for the Grand Lecturer, he, at the same time in his Annual Addresss to the
67th Annual Communication, which appears on Pages 16 and 17 of the record
of those proceedings, described the situation; and
.
.
WHEREAS the Committee on Jurisprudence after careful consideration
recommended 'that Section 121 of the Constitution (Section 554, California
Masonic Code, Annotated) be amended to read as follows: (California
Masonic Code Section 554); and
WHEREAS, now after an additional 69 years of peaceful practice on its
cherished work in the second section of the Third Degree, the Grand Lee-

turer is demanding that Lodge Le Progress de COceanie No. 371 change to
the California ritual, although three other Lodges, No. 17, No. 127 and No.
329, apparently are being allowed to continue their work unchanged, notwithstanding that the work in the second section of the Third Degree as performed by the Masters and Wardens of Lodge Le Progres de COceanie No.
371 is not only not in violation of the Ancient Landmarks, but it is, according
to the records of the 1905 Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
California, beginning on page 29, "the same as the old work in the California Jurisdiction, with a few additions as to admonition and explanation:• and
therefore could be considered to be traditionally original.
Now , it is our fervent prayer that the work in the second section of the
Third Degree as it was performed by "Lodge Le Progres de COceanie" No.
371, prior to October 1984, which is so impressively associated with its Masonic
history and cherished traditions of the Craft and which has become so firmly embedded in the tradition of our Lodge as to become a very precious
possession of the more than six hundred members thereof, may continue after
having been practiced for over one hundred and forty-four years as a permanent possession of the Lodge.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Note to Section 2688
of the California Masonic Code be amended by adding the words, "Lodge
Le Progres de COceanie No. 371" between "No. 329:' and "Hermann Lodge''
so that the Note will read as follows:
"Note: Parfaite Union No. 17, Vallee de France No. 329, Lodge Le Progres
de COceanie No. 371, and Hermann Lodge no. 127 are the excepted
Lodges."

248

249

Respectfully submitted,
FRANK B. FIEDLER, M NO. 371
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes
and Ritual.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which Resolution No. 85-19 has been
referred, reports as follows:
The proponent of this Resolution seeks permission for Le Progres de
COceanie Lodge No. 371 to continue to use the ritual for the second section
of the Master Mason Degree as it was performed in that Lodge prior to
October 1984.
Your Committee finds that the legislation as distributed by the Grand
Secretary to the constituent Lodges is adequate to carry out the intent of the
proponent.
This Resolution seeks to amend an Ordinance, and requires a five-sixths
affirmative vote for adoption.
To place the matter before Grand Lodge, we move the adoption of the
Resolution.

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 85-19 seeks to have Grand Lodge approve the use of the
Ritual of the second section of the Master Mason Degree used by Le Progres
de I..:Oceanie Lodge No. 371.
This Hawaiian Lodge has a beautiful and impressive history and use of
this Ritual has been a tradition since 1843.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes understands the reasoning
behind the proponent's Resolution.
However, compliance to Section 1114 C.M.C. is necessary for the continuation of the adopted California Ritual in this Jurisdiction.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Ritual:
In October, 1984 it became necessary for your Grand Lecturer to reaffirm
decisions relative to the conformity of the ritual.
It was brought to my attention that one of our Lodges deviated from the
adopted ritual in the second section of the third degree.
Lodge Le Progres de I..:Oceanie was originally under dispensation by the
Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of France in 1843
and received their charter in 1850. After floundering somewhat and being
considered a clandestine Lodge for a period of time, Lodge Le Progres
petitioned the Grand Jurisdiction of California in 1860, but was denied and
remained under the jurisdiction of France and its Scottish Rite heritage until
its acceptance into this Jurisdiction in September, 1905. Lodge Le Progres
was under the control of the Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite of France for a period of 57 years before its affiliation with
this Jurisdiction.
Lodge Le Progres did indeed include in its petition to the Grand Lodge
of California in 1904 a request to retain its work of the second section of
the third degree. However, I must point out to you, my Brethren, that the
Committee on Jurisprudence did not include any reference to the retention
of work that deviated from our adopted ritual in its report and recommendation to this body. Therefore, Lodge Le Progres is in error when they attempt to lead you to believe they were given this permission. They would also
lead you to believe that there are only slight differences in the second section
of the third degree. These differences in the eyes of many Grand Lecturers
and Grand Masters are much more than slight and apparently can be changed
at the whim of the Lodge because there is no control of the chain of instruction as now takes place and has taken place since 1916 through the Ritual
Committee and the Inspectoral Corps.
Grand Masters and Grand Lecturers have wrestled with this problem since
Le Progres first became a chartered California Lodge in 1905.
This Resolution would lead you to believe that it has been allowed 69 years
of peaceful practice of its cherished work without any interference by any
Inspector, Grand Lecturer or Grand Master. These are not the facts. I have
in my possession copies of letters sent between the Lodge and various Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

251

Masters and Grand Lecturers that repudiate the so-called facts. It did indeed
strike an agreement in 1958 with the then Grand Master Leo E. Anderson
and Grand Lecturer Elbert Davis wherein it would conform to our ritual in
its entirety and then following the end of the California work, they would
be able to add a small portion of their own work. Apparently Le Progres
would not accept this agreement and continued to do their work as before
in defiance of this agreement. In 1959 it presented a Resolution to the Grand
Lodge similar to the Resolution before us now, requesting the authority to
continue the "French Scottish Rite" work. Another agreement was struck in
1959 with the then Grand Master Phil N. Myers and Grand Lecturer Elbert
Davis whereupon it would conform and be allowed to add its portion at the
end of the California work. It withdrew the Resolution and again did not
conform, but continued to do the work as it had in the past.
The work does not resemble that which has been adopted by this Grand
Jurisdiction, and this continued practice is a violation of our Code. It is my
duty as Grand Lecturer to require Lodges to conform to the ritual in order
that there will be uniformity of the ritual throughout this Jurisdiction. The
work it has been trying to perpetuate from year to year is in and of itself
a violation of the Master's obligation - "that it is not in the power of any
man, or body of men, to make innovations in the body of Masonry." Grand
Lodge alone has the power to authorize any changes in the ritual for the purpose of having it remain as it was handed down from time immemorial.
"Each degree conferred and all lectures in this Jurisdiction must be in conformity with the ritual now or hereafter taught by the Grand Lecturer and
recognized by the Grand Lodge, and such must be adhered to by all Lodges
and Masons in this Jurisdiction, except that the Lodges in this Jurisdiction
whose long- establi§hed ritualistic work is in part a departure from the uniform
ritual of this Jurisdiction, may continue to perform, insofar as the same may
not be disapproved by the Grand Master and the Grand Lecturer ...." Section 2688 allows some exceptions for those Lodges working in a foreign
language and a note which states: "Parfaite Union No. 17, Valle de France
No. 329, Hermann Lodge No. 127 are the excepted Lodges." While these excepted Lodges work in a foreign language, they do not deviate in any way
from our ritual of the Third Degree. Le Progres does not work in a foreign
language nor has it worked in a foreign language since becoming a part of
this Jurisdiction.
Section 2530. Duties of Master. It shall be his duty "to confer or have conferred all degrees in strict accordance with the ritual which has been, or may
hereafter be, ordained by the Grand Lodge."
Section 1114. It shall be the duty of the Grand Lecturer: "To supervise and
direct the Assistant Grand Lecturers and the Inspectors in the performance
of their duties, and to require conformity with the adopted ritual and work
and to see that the Inspectors examine all officers who are required to produce
certificates of proficiency at their installation in accordance with these ordinances."
Accordingly, I reaffirm my position as Grand Lecturer that Lodge Le
Progres de I..:Oceanie No. 371 must not be permitted this special privilege.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Ritual emphatically recommends a "No" vote.
Failing a 5/6 affirmative vote, but receiving a majority vote, the Resolution will be held over for consideration at the 1986 Annual Communication.

Temple is shown on four different occasions. It is screened in a small
auditorium on Olvera Street.
The Temple is open to visitors on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday
from 10:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M .. Masonic Lodges pay a $45.00 rental fee per
night. Masonic youth groups are charged $25.00 for Saturday morning dates.
Nine Masonic organizations rented the Temple during the year for degree
work. We have one permanent tenant, Plaza de Los Angeles No. 814 which
meets every Thursday night.
Lodges renting the Temple are afforded free parking after 6:00 P.M. directly
across North Main Street in West Lot No. 2.
Hundreds of new visitors will visit the Old Temple when the Ancient Arabic
Order, Nobles of the Mystic Shrine hold their Imperial Sessions in Los
Angeles, June 30 through July 4, 1986. Illustrious Thomas M. Boles, Potentate
during 1985 of Al Malaikah Shrine Temple, is a booster of the Old Temple
and has made plans for visiting Shriners to visit the historic building. Nearly
25,000 Shriners are expected to visit Los Angeles from all over North America.
The Old Temple is air conditioned and has a modern heating system. It
has been recently painted and several old-fashioned facilities replaced. It can
accommodate 60 persons in the main room.
Reservations can be made by contacting the Chairman or the Custodian,
Oliver Celaya, at (213) 626-4933. Incidentally, Brother Celaya will be Master
of William D. Stephens Lodge No. 698 in 1986. This is the Blue Lodge of
Potentate Boles and also of Illustrious Walker Sanborn Kisselburgh, 33rd
Degree, who is the Imperial Potentate of the Shrine of North America.
The Committee is grateful to Ralph H. Head, editor of the California
Freemason for including the Temple on the front cover of the December 1985
•
issue.
The Committee presented an attractive and interesting Historical exhibit
of mementoes from the Old Temple at the 1984 Communication and again
in 1985. Our sincere thanks to the Grand Secretary, Very Worshipful Robert
A. Klinger, for his interest and courtesy in allowing us space on "G" Floor
for our exhibit.
We look forward to a memorable year during 1986.

252

RESOLUTION DECLARED "OUT OF ORDER"
The following Resolution which had been submitted, titled, numbered and
printed for distribution for consideration at the 1985 Annual Communication was declared "out of order" by the Grand Master.
No. 85-1) Admission Requirements - Masonic Home for Children.

RESOLUTION WITHDRAWN
The following Resolution which had been submitted, titled, numbered and
printed for distribution for consideration at the 1985 Annual Communication was withdrawn by its proponents.
No. 85-18) Members Suspended NPD - Masonic Funerals.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In tha mainstream of California Freemasonry, the Old Masonic Hall at
Los Angeles enjoyed a most active year and charted plans for an epoch-filled
1986.
Visitors to the birthplace of Masonry in Southern California set an alltime record of 2,480 for the year ending on September 24, 1985.
The reason for the increased activity is that the historic Temple is located
near Olvera Street, which attracts more than 2 million people a year, making
it one of Southern California's top tourist attractions.
The Temple is located at 416 1/2 North Main Street, occupying the first
site in the Pico-Garnier block, consisting of pre-1900 buildings as part of El
Pueblo de Los Angeles State Historic Park. The Old Plaza has been landscaped and paved with brick. There are viable plans to erect hotels, restaurants,
gift shops, museums and entertainment centers. Developers would manage
the refurbished area. However, the Old Plaza, where the Old Masonic Hall
is located, would remain unchanged, under State supervision.
The interior of the Temple underwent a number of much needed improvements during the last year. Heading these improvements were two new
10 feet by 12 feet display cases. For the first time, valuable relics that have
been kept under lock and key have surfaced and are being displayed in walnut
cases, which can be illuminated for night use.
Spreading the historical role the Old Temple plays in the area is an 18 minute
movie, entitled, "Welcome to the Old Plaza Area" in which the Masonic

253

Respectfully submitted,
MORRIS C. Guss, Chairman
MARTON D. LEADERMAN
OLIVER CELEYA

MORRIS KORETS

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE LAYMEN'S NIGHT SPEAKER'S PANEL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
During the 1984-85 Grand Lodge Year, 185 constituent Lodges have benefited from Laymen's Night Programs, under the auspices of this Committee.
A list of those 185 Lodges is attached hereto.
These 185 Lodges represent 30.4 percent of the Lodges in this Jurisdiction.
A poll of the Secretaries of the Lodges having had the Program this Grand
Lodge Year authenticates that approximately three hundred Applications for
Degrees received this year in those Lodges were as a result of the Laymen's
Night programs.
1 - Occidental-

California
3 - Tehama
5 - Benicia
12 - Yount
13 - Nevada
20 - Washington
24 - Mariposa
25 - Georgetown
27 - Trinity
35 - San Diego
37 - Howard
43 - Hiram
46 - Texas
51 - Illinoistown
57 - Santa Rosa
61 - Live Oak
84 - Vesper
87 - Naval
91 - North Star
93 - St. Helena
98 - Hornitos
99 - Yosemite
106 - Arcata
110 - Pajaro
111 - Chico
112 - Summit
113 - Eden
120 - Fidelity
128 - Visalia
131 - Woodbridge
136 - Lebanon-Pacific
139 - Park-Crockett
167 - Alameda
175 - Antioch

180 - Petaluma
182 - Arbuckle
186 - Evening Star
187 - Keith
188 - Oakland Durant
Rock ridge
204 - Salinas
206 - Stanislaus
208 - Rio Vista
209 - King David's
215 - Oak Grove
217 - Monterey
220 - Downey
224 - Bakersfield
226 - San Mateo
243 - Eucalyptus
254 - Reading
256 - Lodi
259 - Evergreen
260 - King Solomon's
Seaport
264 - Hesperian
275 - Oakdale
289 - Elsinore
290 - Fellowship
296 - Silver Gate
297 - Dunsmuir
303 - Porterville
304 - Reedley
306 - Ashlar
307 - Santa Monica
309 - Delano
310 - Sisson
314 - Temescal
317 - Fallbrook

323 - Whittier
324 - Corona
327 - Long Beach
332 - Los Angeles
Harbor
334 - Covina
337 - Pinole-Carquinez
343 - San Fernando
349 - Sequoia-St. Elmo
351 - Fountain Valley
363 - Berkeley
365 - Willits
366 - Las Palmas
367 - South Pasadena
372 - Gardena
374 - United
375 - Brotherhood
376 - Francis Drake
379 - Fillmore
380 - Huntington
Beach
381 - Oceanside
383 - Orosi
389 - Palos Verdes
402 - Brawley
403 - Yerba Buena
407 - La Mesa
409 - Honolulu
417 - Clovis
424 - Exeter
430 - Mccloud
435 - George
Washington
437 - Lancaster
439 - Tyrian

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

440 - Standard
444 - Carpinteria
445 - Golden Gavel
447 - Torrence
451 - Montebello
459 - Riverbank
463 - Morgan Hill
466 - Libertas
467 - Culver
City-Foshay
471 - Delta
473 - Blythe
476 - Coachella
479 - Golden Rule
494 - Acorn
501 - Westwood
504 - Seaside
511 - Sunnyvale
512 - Palms-Adams
520 - Ionic
529 - Loyalty
530 - Sun Garden
533 - Azure
548 - Triangle
552 - Semper Virens
555 - White Pine
556 - Fairfax
560 - Plymouth
561 - East San Diego
564 - Foothill
567 - Searchlight Alta
Loma

572 - Westchester
United
585 - Manchester
591 - Escalon
593 - All States
595 - Tri
596 - Guardian
598 - Pearl Harbor
600 - Lynwood
607 - Sojourner
614 - Atwater
Larchmont
620 - Point Loma
625 - Angeles Mesa
626 - Chula Vista
627 - Lamanda Park
Carmelita
634 - Victorville
651 - Menlo Park
652 - Crescenta Valley
655 - Monte Vista
663 - Ojai
665 - Kaweah
670 - Greenleaf
675 - Modesto
676 - Willow Glen
680 - Carmel
684 - Trona
685 - San Marino
686 - El
Cerrito-Albany

691 - Indian Wells
Valley
711 - Rim of the World
712 - Los Altos
715 - Magnolia Park
717 - Wayfarer
720 - Mineral King
725 - Saint John's
741 - Tyre
746 - Soquel
749 - Merced
752 - Luther Burbank
754 - San Pablo
756 - Clayton Valley
762 - Coastside
765 - Dana R. Weller
769 - Palmdale
776 - East Whittier
778 - La Mirada
791 - General Henry
H. Arnold
796 - Golden Valley
798 - Ashland
802 - Yucca Valley
803 - The Gabilan
815 - Mount Baldy
824 - Camarillo
826 - Palm Desert
827 - Kern River Valley
835 - Half Moon Bay
836 - Kona

Respectfully submitted,
IRVING A. BERLINER, Chairman
M. WILLIAM HOLSINGER
FORD E. LONG
HAVEN R. MARTIN
WILLIAM F. POYNTER
RALPH W. GAINES
LAURENCE DRIVON
MARKE. SCHROCK
RICHARD J. PIERCE
MELVIN F. SCHUSTER
VERNE W. HENDRIX
EARL MARSHALL

255

LLOYD V. SMITH
JIM F. KLEINKNIGHT
WARREN E. CLARK
JOHN R. STEWART
BURNS H. HAMLETT
JACK R. EVANS
JOHNS. FELT
A. GLENN MacBRIDE
THOMAS F. JOY
JAMES G. FLETCHER
DONALD A. NIELSEN

256

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EDGAR 0. ANDREWS
ROBERT L. SORENSON
ROBERT E. CRIST
LEE STRONG
JAMES E. BACON
CHARLES H. ALEXANDER
C. CLIFFORD GEDDES

GLEN A. WORRELL
WILLIAM J. MURPHY
JAMES W. CAMPBELL
ERNEST E. LEWIS
MAURICE L. HAMM
ANTHONY J. deCONTRERAS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

BILLY R. WILKERSON
RAYMOND F. FREEMAN
THOMAS LUBY

257

ROBIN MANSFIELD
RAY PETERSON, SR. (Consultant)
WAYNE c. BATES (Consultant)

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

Referred to Committee on Finance(Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC WIDOWS PROGRAM
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
MASONIC INFORMATION AND RESPONSIBILITY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Our Committee's objectives and goals, as enumerated in our last year's
report, were reinforced and reemphasized by the Elective Line with the added
responsibility of observing and monitoring the extent to which the educational pamphlets and pamphlet holders in each Masonic Temple in our Grand
Jurisdiction are being used.
These holders were distributed to the various Temples late last year, including
a supply of the pamphlets most frequently in demand.
Reports from our Committee members concerning their use have not been
received in sufficient quantity to enable your Chairman to render an opinion
concerning the success or failure of this method of distributing such pamphlet material throughout our Grand Jurisdiction.
Again, members of our Committee attended and participated in most of
the leadership seminars held this past year. Our committee material and
pamphlets were again eagerly sought by those in attendance.
We had scheduled a joint mini-seminar with the Inspectors of the Fifth
and Sixth Masonic Divisions during June 1985, but were forced to cancel same
due to a breakdown in communication and a conflict of dates.
Respectfully Submitted,
ARTHUR L!NSK, Chairman
JAMES TARIQ
GEORGE KUTUVINIS
VERNON W. CEARLY
JAMES R. ROBBINS
LAURENCE l. PITTS
CARL J. DRISCOLL
ROBERT J. SCHULTE
J. PATRICK CORRIGAN
ZEBULON E. LAMPHEAR
GREGORY W. BLOOM
JAMES W. NEWTON
WILLIAM A. FISHBACK
FRANKLIN E. HINMAN
JOEL RUDOF
JAMES E. BLACK
WILLIAM E. DUNBAR
JAMES MADRID
HARRY E. ESTES
THEODORE J. HADDAD
DANIEL R. GASKILL

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
The continuing efforts of Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction to recognize
the widows of California Masons as a part of our Masonic family have resulted
in seventy-six percent of our Lodges scheduling events to which their widows
have been invited.
These activities ranging from Stated Meeting dinners to picnics, teas, and
fashion shows have signaled the members' awareness of their obligation to
their First Degree.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT w. CAHN, Chairman
NORMAN E. HALE
ERNEST A. REICHARDf
ROBERT P. HIGGINS
A. LESTER HUTCHINSON
GORDON 0. ANDERSON
HARVEY C. FERGUSON
HARDY W. WALLEN
NORRIS M. ALLEN
RICHARD A. WEITZ
RALPH A. GRANDY
BRITTON MILLER
ARTHUR H. SCOTT
HENRY PARK
JAMES A. GUIDDY
RICHARD SANTIESTEVAN
CLAYTON A. WITHEROW
FRED M. HANSEN
WALTER W. HAWK
DERWIN E. Moss
WILLIAM PENCA
MERLE F. RUNOLFSON
RAY CREECH
RODNEY C. DAUSSE
VICTOR D. DRYDEN
ROBERT H. CAIN
FRED C. BRYAN
CLAUD A. BOWER
DAVID M. HARRIS
DAVID ESCAMILLO
ROBERT J. LEHMAN
ROBERT D. MCLAREN
G. WESLEY PARR
VINCENT J. DUTRA
RUSSELL C. EIKENBERRY
CLIFFORD E. CLAUSE
Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE MASONIC HISTORY COMMITTEE

MORNING SESSION - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1985

258

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Masonic History has been encouraging Lodges to write
brief histories of their Lodges and send them to this Committee for editing,
with the thought of eventually publishing them in book form. More than half
of the Lodges have complied with this request.
The Committee has selected histories of those Lodges having anniversaries
in 1985 and published some of them in the California Freemason. The histories
of Grafton No. 141, Franklin No. 143 and Oakdale No. 275 were in the Winter
1984 issue, and the histories of Vitruvius No. 145 and San Gabriel-Southern
California No. 278 were in the Spring 1985 issue. Grafton, Franklin and
Vitruvius Lodges celebrated 125th Anniversaries, and Oakdale and San
Gabriel-Southern California Lodges celebrated lOOth anniversaries.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. NOCAS, Chairman
ROBERT L. HIRT
JAMES MADRID
JAMES L. McDONALD

MICHAEL M. MARSELLOS
ROBERT C. ORWIG
MELVIN LOCKWOOD

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).
Grand Lodge was called off at 5:15 P.M. to be called on again at 9:00 A.M.
Wednesday, October 16, 1985.

259

At 9:00 A.M. the Grand Lodge Officers entered the Auditorium and assumed their places and stations. Those in attendance, consisting of Brethren,
ladies, friends and representatives of the Youth Organizations were raised by
George H. Claude, Master of Saddleback Valley Lodge No. 832. Grand Master
Henville directed the Grand Marshal and the Grand Deacons to retire and
escort into Grand Lodge the Honorable George Deukmajian, Governor of
the State of California. In his remarks the Governor alluded to the importance of Masons participating in community programs, the improved Public
Schools System, expansion of State Prison Facilities and a better controlled
system for Welfare Recipients. At the conclusion of the Governor's address
he was accorded a standing ovation.
Following the departure of the Governor, the Grand Master instructed the
Grand Marshal and Grand Deacons to retire and escort into Grand Lodge
the Adult Leaders of the three Youth Groups and the six Youth Leaders, who
had been chosen to represent their respective organizations. Each of these
distinguished guests were individually introduced and seated in seats provided
for them. The Youth Leaders were invited to seats in the East.
The Grand Marshal retired and escorted the dignitaries representing the
Concordant and Appendant Bodies of Masonry in California into Grand
Lodge. Each was individually introduced by the Grand Marshal and cordially welcomed by the Grand Master and then escorted to seats provided for them.
Each of the Youth Leaders seated in the East were called upon to address
the audience and each responded with words of appreciation for the assistance
that they have received; however, a plea for adult support and direction was
urgently requested. At the conclusion of their messages, each speaker was
accorded a standing ovation.
Following the addresses given by the Youth representatives, all who were
not Master Masons were asked to retire.
At 10:45. A.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
Gavels used during the Morning Session were presented to the Grand Master
by the Sacramento Masters and Wardens Association on the Occasion of the
Cornerstone Laying of the Old Marshall School of Sacramento; a Reception
hosted by San Gabriel Valley Masters and Wardens Association; the Cornerstone and Dedication Ceremony for the new Masonic Temple by
Westminster-Fairview Lodge No. 629 in Westminster; at the lOOth Anniversary of Madera-Joppa Lodge No. 280 in Madera; at the 320th Masonic District
Constitution Observance Barbecue in San Luis Obispo; on the occasion of
the Cornerstone Laying of the Trabuco Hills High School at Mission Viejo
by Saddleback Valley Lodge No. 832 in El Toro; at the Mortgage Burning
Ceremony of Ontario Lodge No. 301 in Ontario; and a gavel presented by
Big Bear Lodge No. 617 at a Cornerstone Laying Ceremony for the new Big
Bear High School located at Big Bear Lake.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF
QUITMAN TEMPLE COMMITTEE

among Lodge officers, and bring additional visitations to this historic Masonic
Temple.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM H. LAMBERT, Chairman
RONALD P. FAWCETT
DEMAR B. DUNDAS
E. ROBERT RI CHIER, Consultant
JOHN J. GLANCY

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M of California:
Upon assuming the office of Grand Master in October 1984 the Most
Worshipful ~oy J. Henville reappointed four of the five me~bers ~f the Quitman Masomc Temple Committee: William H. Lambert (13), Chairman; Demar
B. Dundas (13), John J. Glancy (IOI) and Ronald P. Fawcett (51). Lambert
again invited Robert Richier (59) "not a Past Master" to attend all meetings
as a special consultant.
The w~rk _load of the Committee was light during most of the year. On
May 8, Richier an? Lambert installed the two new wall sconce lights at the
East and West Stations. These light sconces were originally in the Napa Opera
House, and are valuable antiques over 100 years old. The Committee has an
~ntique k~rose?~ lamp ~or the South Station, which is being restored at the
time of this wntmg. This lamp was originally in the South at Michigan City
~dg~ No. 47 (now extinct) in Michigan Bluff, California. This is the Lodge
m which Leland Stanford was raised. The lamp was a gift from Brother Leslie
E. Woodworth (a 75-year Mason), a resident of the Masonic Home at Union
City. 1:he Committee is still watching for a gift, loan or a good bargain on
an antique rolltop desk for the Secretary's Station.
Three of the Committee members were present at the annual "Home
Coming Celebration" in North Bloomfield on June 9. The Lodge room was
open to the public. and the Committeemen explained the history of Gold Rush
Masonry to throngs of visitors. The Committee Chairman was one of the
speakers during the ceremonies.
. On .August 17, Silverado Lodge No. 782 of Napa conferred a Third Degree
m Qmtman Temple. It was their third visitation to Quitman Temple in recent
years. On August 24, Nevada Lodge No. 13 of Nevada City conferred two
Second Degrees. As always, the officers enjoyed the novelty of working under
the same conditions as our pioneer fathers. On September 26, a group of
35 d?cents from the neighboring Empire Mine State Park spent several hours
toun~g Malakoff _State Park. Lambert and Richier were on hand to explain
the history of Qmtman Lodge No. 88 and the key role of Masonry during
the Gold Rush.
Financially, the Committee went slightly over our budget, not being
forewarned that $120 was being deducted by Grand Lodge for insurance. A
sum of $400 has been allocated for the new Masonic year, which should be
ample to cover all anticipated expenses.
The State Department of Parks and Recreation estimates that there will
be a ~otal of 30,931 ~isitors to Malakoff Park during calendar year 1985. Approximately one third of these get to tour Quitman Temple.
The Committee predicts that there will be more Lodge visitations to Quitman Temple when it becomes better known throughout the State. Plans are
under way for the Committee to have a display on "G" Floor during the Annual Communication. Last year over 800 "flyers" were passed out to the
Masters and Wardens in attendance. It is hoped this will arouse more interest

261

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
REVIEW OF PROCEEDINGS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In 1984-85 your Committee reviewed some 22 publications from Grand
Jurisdictions in amity with the Grand Lodge of California. Of these, 18 were
from Grand Lodges in the United States, and 4 from foreign jurisdictions.
Our annual report does not attempt to detail the activities of these bodies
but rather to present information as to the position of Freemasonry in the
United States as well as the world. We do not attempt to give detailed data
on membership, finances, committee actions and similar matters except as
they may be of an unusual nature.
Diminishing membership is one thing every jurisdiction seems to have in
common. Pennsylvania has adopted a program which is known as King
Solomon II for the purpose of increasing membership. It seems to be working.
Other jurisdictions have asked permission to use part of it and further develop
it for their areas .•
Colorado has an interesting Grand Lodge Committee known as the Armed
Forces Welfare Committee. Their responsibility is to have volunteers put in
over 5000 hours of regular visits to the Veteran's Hospital in Denver and Grand
Junction.
Some of the jurisdictions use advertisement in their magazines to generate
much needed revenue - New Zealand, Indiana, Vermont, Rhode Island, just
to name a few.
In New Zealand 5 Lodges combined recently to purchase a baby respiration monitor for use in their area. Another Lodge donated a laerdal cardiac
rhythm simulator to a hospital. This is Masonry in action, and it is something
we in this Jurisdiction could do for further exposure.
Iowa is studying the feasibility of a plan for keying Grand Lodge and local
dues to the economy, indexing them every few years.
The per capita tax has been raised in every one of the jurisdictions reviewed.
Some have been substantial increases. For instance, South Dakota where it
jumped from $2 to $5 annually and in British Columbia where all members
were assessed $5 in 1984 and $1 per year thereafter.
Education is of interest in all of the jurisdictions reviewed. Some feel that
we need more education on Masonry for Lodge members and leadership
workshops for officers.

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Florida Grand Lodge held a ground breaking ceremony in April for a new
Masonic Home. They also had their Public Relations and Publicity Committees develop ads to be used on TY. and radio spots to promote Masonic
activities.
In the jurisdictions of both West Virginia and Tenessee Worshipful Masters
were removed from offices, one for violation of his official duties and the
other for a felony.
Lastly, Montana's North Star Lodge No. 46 of Glasgow is a sponsor of
a retirement home for both members and non-members of the Craft. It was
opened in 1979. Your Committtee takes this opportunity to thank the ~ra~d
Secretary and Grand Lodge Staff for their continual support and advice m
the day to day work of the Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
DEAN D. vAN NORMAN, Chairman
WILLARD H. NUTTING, JR.
JOHN F. LITTEL
GEORGE T ATARIAN
ORREN C. RUPPERT

the Workshop and urging Lodge officers to attend. It is recommended that
the Workshops be continued in the coming Masonic year.
Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT HOUSER, Chairman
MELVIN F. SCHUSTER
M. WILLIAM HOLSINGER
VERNE W. HENDRIX
LAURENCE A. SANCHEZ

JAMES B. BISHOP

MUCIO L. MANZANARES

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF MASONIC
LEADERSHIP WORKSHOP COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Leadership Workshops during 1985 have had the enthusiastic support
of Most Worshipful Roy J. Henville, Grand Master, and the members of the
Executive Committee.
Workshops were h~ld as follows: February 2, Los Angele~; February 16,
San Diego; February 23, Sacramento; March 2, San Bernardmo; March 23,
Ventura; March 30, Fresno; April 13, San Jose; May 4, Oakland; May 11,
Long Beach; June 1, Redding; and July 13, Honolulu.
.
The normal time for Workshops was from 10:00 A.M. to 3:30 P.M., with
a break of an hour and a half at lunch when the Grand Master or someone
selected by him, addressed the entire gathering and answered questions from
the floor. Classes were arranged in one hour sessions with three classes
operating simultaneously. This plan permits a selection by the Brother in attendance so that he can hear a discussion of the subject which is of greatest
interest to him. The more popular subjects were repeated so that if there was
a conflict the first time the delegate could hear the subject later in the day.
The practice of making a nominal charge for combined registration and
lunch was continued with satisfactory results.
The instructors made conscientious efforts to present facts of greatest practical value to their listeners and to find answers to questions which came up
during the discussion period.
.
.
.
The Grand Secretary was again extremely useful m arrangmg meetmg places
and for taking reservations. The Inspectors supported the effort by announcing

ANTHONY P. WORDLOW
JACK W. JOE, JR.
IRVING A. BERLINER
ROGER S. MURRAY
ATTILLIO G. PARISI
DONALD A. NIELSEN

263

WALKER S. KISSELBURGH
WILLIAM B. JONES
DAVID H. FARLEE
ALBERT GATES
KENNETH K.W. LAU
ERNIE POOLEON

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Grand Lodge Committee on Taxation renders advice on matters of
taxation when requested by the Grand Lodge, subordinate Lodges and ot~er
organizations under their jurisdiction. Our assistance has been requested with
respect to matters of income, property, sales and employment taxes. Our work
includes this annual report which discusses items of current interest in the
taxation of fraternal organizations.
This year's report is a summary of the overall tax treatment of Masonic
Lodges and Temple Associations which Masters, Secretaries and Temple
Boards members may use as a handbook. Because this is a summary, this
material does not address all possible issues in detail. A competent tax advisor may be required in some circumstances.
Masonic Lodges
Masonic Lodges are exempt from all federal and California income taxes,
regardless of the amount of income from dues, interest, dividends or income
from other investments, with certain exceptions, discussed in the next
paragraph. The Internal Revenue Service has officially recognized that t.he
Grand Lodge of Californi":.and its subordinate Lodges are exe~pt from mcome tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(10). It 1s Group Exemption No. 0214, memorialized in a letter dated July 11, 1.972 ~rom ~~e I.~.S.
to the Grand Lodge, which letter had the followmg 1dent1f1cat1on:
T:MS:EO:R:l. (This classification may be important for other purposes. For
example, you may be asked to prove your exempt status in or?er t~ receive
authorization from the U.S. Postal Service to mail at the special third-class
bulk rate.)
A Lodge is taxable on income from a trade or business which is unrelated
to the fraternal purposes of the Lodge. For example, net income from a working oil interest would be taxable because such an interest is consi.dt;:red a trade
or business. To constitute a trade or business, however, the act1v1ty must be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

regularly carried on. This does not include periodic events. Operating a
restaurant constitutes a trade or business. Holding periodic dinners does not
constitute a trade or business. In addition, income from events conducted
by tax-exempt fraternal organizations, such as Masonic Lodges, are not taxable if substantially all the labor required to hold the event is performed for
the Lodge without compensation.
While there may be no income tax consequences, there are potential California sales and use tax consequences to certain Lodge events. A sales tax is assessed upon the sale of tangible personal property. The sale of tangible personal
property includes furnishing meals as well as supplying merchandise at garage
sales or bazaars, for a purchase price, even if the purchase price is labeled
a "donation".
There is one exemption to the tax available to Lodges, however. Social clubs
and fraternal organizations, such as Masonic Lodges are not subject to the
sales tax on their receipts from furnishing meals if the meals are furnished
exclusively to members and are furnished less frequently than once a week.
Both these requirements must be met. If the Lodge furnishes meals to nonmembers, all receipts from meals are subject to tax, whether the meals are
furnished to members or non-members. However, meals paid for by members
are considered furnished to the members and are therefore not subject to the
sales tax even though consumed by guests who are not members. The Committee suggests that tickets for non-members who attend Lodge dinners should
be purchased by members of the Lodge. The Lodge need not thereafter concern itself with whether the member obtains any reimbursement from the
guest.
Any other transfers of tangible personal property by the Lodge, such as
at garage sales or bazaars, are subject to the sales tax. If the Lodge is subject
to the sales tax, it must apply for a California Seller's permit. These can be
obtained from the local office of the State Board of Equalization.
Some Lodges have been asked to pay sales tax when they purchase from
printers their completed trestleboard or other Lodge bulletin for distribution
to members. As discussed above, with respect to Lodge dinners and other
events, the sale of tangible personal property is subject to the sales tax. A
printer's charge for printing the Lodge's bulletin is considered the sale of tangible personal property: the bulletin. However, the law provides an exemption
for the sale of "periodicals". A periodical is a publication issued at stated
intervals, which publication contains news or information of general interest
to a particular organization. A Lodge bulletin which is no more than a notice
of upcoming meetings does not qualify as a periodical containing "news or
information of general interest". However, a Lodge bulletin which contains
articles and other information in addition to upcoming events has been ruled
exempt from the sales tax. If your Lodge bulletin does contain news and information other than upcoming dates, and you are paying sales tax to your
printer for printing the bulletin, you should advise the printer that the bulletin
is exempt as a periodical. If the printer is unwilling to recognize this exemption, the State Board of Equalization or your Committee should be contacted.

A Lodge is required to withhold payroll taxes from the wages of its
employees. Generally, a Lodge's employees would include persons such as the
Secretary, custodian or anyone else who receives compensation for services
rendered to the Lodge, although there are exceptions if wages do not exceed
$100 a calendar quarter ($100 a month in the case of elected or appointed
officers). Withholding may be required even if the Lodge calls the payments
"mileage" or some other form of expense reimbursement. Because these rules
are detailed and beyond the scope of this summary, a competent tax advisor
should be consulted before such payments are made.

264

265

Masonic Temple Associations
A Masonic Temple Association, even if separately incorporated from the
Lodge, can be tax-exempt, just like a Masonic Lodge. In order to be exempt
from the payment of federal and California taxes on the net income of a Temple Association, wholly owned by a Lodge, the exclusive business of the Temple
Association must be to hold title to property, collect income from the property and annually turn over the entire amount of such income, less expenses,
to the Lodge which owns it. Internal Revenue Code Sections 50l(a), 50l(c)(2),
(10). California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 2370lh. If this is not done,
the Temple Association will lose its exempt status. The articles of incorporation for a Temple Association should include this exclusive purpose. (Temple
Associations can qualify for exempt status even if not wholly owned by a
single Lodge, but the satisfaction of the requirements to obtain exempt status
may be more difficult.)
In determining the amount of net income which must be turned over to
the Lodge, any expense incurred by the Temple Association reduces the amount
of income requirecLto be remitted to the Lodge. The term "expense" includes
not only out-of-pocket expenditures but also reasonable additions to depreciation reserves. See Rev. Ru!. 66-102, 1966-1 C.B. 133; Rev. Ru!. 67-104, 1967-1
C.B. 120. Because of possibly differing interpretations of what is reasonable,
the Committee recommends that a Temple Association turn over its entire
net cash profit for the year to the Lodge which owns it. If the Temple Association in future years requires additional cash, the Lodge can then return the
money to the Temple Association. Of course, any reinvestment of funds in
the Temple Association should not be done without obtaining the consent
of the Grand Lodge Committee on Temple Properties. California Masonic
Code Section 2304. Should the property owned by the Temple Association
be sold subsequently, the net income distribution rule would require the Temple
Association to dissolve and transfer its remaining assets to the Lodge.
The Grand Lodge does not maintain a group exemption for individual Temple Associations as it does for Masonic Lodges, discussed previously. Application for recognition of exempt status should be made to the 1.R.S. on
Form 1024 and to the State of California on FTB 3500. Detailed instructions
are published with these forms regarding their proper completion.
Generally, a Masonic Temple Association's receipt of rents from real property is not taxable if rents attributable to personal property leased with the
real property are IO percent or less of the total rents and if the determination

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the amount of the rent does not depend on the net income or profits derived
by the tenant. Rental based upon a fixed percentage of gross receipts or sales
is permitted, however. Internal Revenue Code Section 512(b)(3). Thus,
regardless of how a Masonic Temple may be leased, if the rental payment
is a fixed amount or a fixed percentage of the tenant's gross receipts and no
significant amounts of personal property are leased with the building, the
Temple Association will not be taxed on its rental income. No distinction is
drawn between rentals to retail stores and rentals to other fraternal
organizations.
If services are rendered by an exempt organization for the convenience of
the tenant (such as maid services), other than those usually and customarily
rendered in connection with the rental of space (such as heat and electricity),
the rents would be taxable. U.S. Treasury Regulation Sections l.512(b)- l(c)(2),
(5). Thus rents from the operation of a hotel, boarding house, motel,
warehouse or parking lot are generally taxable. But, they are taxable only if
conducted directly by the exempt organization. For example, if a Masonic
Temple Association leased property to a hotel and collected rent at a fixed
monthly rate or at a fixed percentage of the hotel's gross receipts, then the
rental income of the Masonic Temple Association would not be taxable: the
Temple Association did not perform the services and did not participate in
the net income of the entity performing those services. The Internal Revenue
Service has ruled that income derived by an exempt organization for the use
of its meeting hall is not taxable if the only services provided are utilities and
janitorial services. Revenue Ruling 69-178, 1969-1 C.B. 158.
It is possible for a Masonic Temple Association to be taxable upon part
of its rental income if the property is "debt-financed" property, i.e.: there is
a loan against the property. See Internal Revenue Code Section 514. However,
because the Temple Association would be entitled to deduct interest and
depreciation, no tax would be due in most circumstances. In any event, if
a tax is due, it is paid by the Masonic Temple Association itself. The Lodge
should not be liable.
Temple Associations are not exempt for California property tax purposes.
Temple Associations are not exempt from any other taxes, such as California
sale and use taxes, or from the requirement to withhold and pay employment
taxes with respect to employees. (See the discussion of these taxes in the discussion of Masonic Lodges.)

all Lodges comply. As discussed subsequently, the Federal Form 990 is due
only if the filing entity has a certain amount of total gross receipts for the
year. There is a significant penalty for failure to file a return if indeed one
is due. If the difference between filing and not filing a return is the amount
of these contributions held in trust, the Committee would strongly recommend that the Lodge include them in gross receipts and file the return to
eliminate any risk of the failure to file penalty. In any event, it is important
for us as Masons in our fraternal activities to comply with regulatory requirements until changed.
Lodges and Temple Associations with gross receipts not in excess of $25,000
are excused from filing Federal Form 990 and California Form 199. However,
Lodges and Temple Associations with annual gross receipts of $25,000 or less
are required to file the simplified information return, California Form 199B.
If a Lodge or Temple Association is required to file Form 990 with the Internal Revenue Service or Forms 199 or 199B with the California Franchise
Tax Board, a penalty of up to $10 a day (to a maximum of $5,000) is imposed
on each such exempt organization which fails to file such an annual information return or files a late return without reasonable cause. The returns are
due by the fifteenth day of the fifth month after the end of your accounting
period. Thus, if a Lodge or Temple Association uses a calendar year, its returns
are due on the following May 15th.
Although there can be no assurances for the future, the Committee has
been successful in the past in proving reasonable cause. We encourage all
Lodges and Masonic Temple Associations to file their returns in a timely
fashion. If for any reason the return is filed late and a penalty is assessed,
we ask that you seek competent tax advice, including any member of this
Committee, immeqiately upon receipt of a notice assessing such a penalty
and before paying it.
Certain payments made by Lodges and Temple Associations totaling $600
or more during a calendar year must be reported to the Internal Revenue Service on Form 1099 and the Franchise Tax Board on Form 599 prior to March
Ist of the following year. Such information returns are required for payments
in the form of wages, salaries, rent premiums, annuities, compensation,
remuneration or otherwise in amounts of $600 or more in a single calendar
year. If the payments are dividends or interest, the dollar threshold for reporting is reduced to $10 a year. No such reporting is required for payments
made to an employee whose wages are properly reported on Form W-2. Failure
to comply with these rules could subject the paying Lodge or Temple Association to a $50 fine from the Internal Revenue Service and a $10 fine from the
State of California for each failure to file. It should be noted that a Form
1099 and a Form 599 need not be filed if the payee is a corporation. Thus,
no filing would be required with respect to payments by a Lodge to an incorporated Temple Association.
Periodically, the tax returns of Masonic Lodges and Temple Associations
are audited. Usually, the agent is only verifying that you are exempt, that
the Lodge or Temple Association does not engage in political activity (which
would jeopardize exempt status) and that there is no income from advertising
in Lodge publications (which income is taxable). As part of the review, the

Masonic Lodge and Temple Association Tax Return Filing Requirements
Exempt organizations, not subject to federal or California income tax, such
as Masonic Lodges and Temple Associations, may under certain circumstances
be required to file a Federal Form 990 and either California Form 199 or 199B.
Those forms call for the Lodge or Temple Association to report "total gross
receipts". One I.R.S. tax auditor has required a Lodge to include in "total
gross receipts" Home Endowment contributions, Memorial Temple contributions and candidates' contributions which are held by the Lodge in trust to
be transmitted periodically to the Grand Lodge. While the appropriateness
of this inclusion is questionable, the Committee strongly recommends that

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

agent has the right to review all written records of the Lodge or Temple
Association, including your minute books. Anything in Masonry that is
"secret" should never be written! You should therefore cooperate with the
agent by supplying the requested information. In case of doubt, contact the
Committee.

Are Contributions to a Masonic Lodge or a Masonic Temple Association Tax
Deductible?
While a Masonic Lodge is not taxable on its income from dues and investments, it is not the type of organization which can receive gifts which
are deductible for income, gift or estate tax purposes unless the funds are
transferred to the Lodge with the express request that they be redirected to
a charity which is qualified to receive such tax deductible contributions, such
as the Masonic Homes of California. Internal Revenue Code Section 170(c)(4).
Also, contributions to a Temple Association for its exclusive use are not deductible for income, gift or estate tax purposes.
Contributions by an individual to a domestic fraternal order operating under
the Lodge system, such as Masonic Lodges, are deductible for income tax
purposes only if the contributions will be used exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary or educational purposes, or for the prevention
of cruelty to children or animals. Internal Revenue Code Section 170(c)(4).
For example, a charitable purpose is the support of elderly and indigent
members of the order who live in a home owned by the order. LT. 3261, C.B.
1939-1, 122. Thus, contributions to the Homes Endowment Fund for the support of the Homes at Union City and Covina are deductible even though given
to the Lodge for transmittal to the Homes Endowment Fund rather than sent
directly to the Fund. However, contributions given to a Lodge for the use
of a local blood bank are not deductible unless the blood bank's operations
qualify it as a charitable organization. TYpically, this would require the blood
bank to limit its aid to poor and distressed members of the Fraternity and
their families. Because most blood banks do not so operate, it is unlikley that
contributions to the Lodge for the use of the local blood bank would be
deductible.
Periodically, Lodges and individuals are asked for proof that contributions
to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund are deductible for income, gift or
estate tax purposes. California Masonic Code Section 1406b provides that
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund is an asset of the Masonic Homes of
California. The Masonic Homes of California is listed as an I.R.C. Section
501(c)(3) organization in Publication 78, Cumulative List of Organizations
described in Section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. This
Publication together with the California Masonic Code should be sufficient
evidence of the exempt status of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund and
sufficient evidence that contributions to such Fund are deductible for income,
gift and estate tax purposes. Again, even if individuals make such contributions through Lodges, the contributions are still deductible if given to the
Lodge with specific iqstructions that the contributions be forwarded by the
Lodge to the Masonie Homes Endowment Fund.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

269

Respectfully submitted,
STEPHEN DOAN, Chairman
WILLIAM J. MOIR

VINSON BRICE

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON YOUTH ORDERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Youth Orders has been active this year in a continued
effort to support and promote the health and general welfare of our Masonic
Youth Orders. At the direction of the Grand Master, the Committee was expanded to forty (40) members in an effort to increase its activity and visibility among our Lodges and the various Youth Orders. This, we think, has been
successful enough that it should be continued.
The two major problem areas for the Youth Orders remain a declining
membership and a lack of enough qualified adult leaders and workers.
It is gratifying to note the rate of loss of members appears to be slowing
and, while it seems too early yet to predict, there is encouragement that it
might actually level off and start upward in the next few years.
It is the belief of this Chairman that the changes and trends in our general
society today are, for the first time in some twenty (20) years, favoring the
ideals and principles promoted by the Masonic Fraternity. This, we feel, will
in turn make it more fashionable and acceptable to join and belong to our
Orders. These changes are in the direct path of increased membership, and
we feel this will lij)pear first in our Masonic Youth Groups, then ultimately
in our own Fraternity.
The primary concerns of this Committee with regard to the relationship
between the California Grand Lodge and the various youth organizations continues to center around the lack of understanding on the part of our Lodges
and our Masons as to who the youth organizations are and how they fit into
the Masonic family. As a corollary to this, the youth organizations continue
to need a larger number of qualified, dedicated adult leaders to support the
youth in their organizations and activities. This is not to say that there are
not many outstanding examples of superior relationships between Lodges and
local Assemblies, Bethels and Chapters. Nevertheless, we continue to learn
of gross examples of misunderstanding and little or no Masonic support in
certain localities.
On August 18, 1985, a meeting was held under the auspices of this Committee between the Executive Committee of the Grand Lodge and the Adult
Heads of the various Masonic Youth Orders in California. The primary purposes and accomplishments were:
A. To promote a greater acquaintanceship and understanding between the
various entities and their leaders.
B. To openly discuss the problems and needs of each of the groups and
exchange beneficial ideas.

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

C. To exchange rosters and calendars to promote the inter-action between
.
the groups and their members.
D. To open and maintain lines of communication between the vanous
organizations and their leaders.
A similar meeting has already been scheduled for next year, and we recommend they be continued.
This year the Committee again made available a single-page flyer for Lodges
to include in their Trestleboard mailing asking Masons to recommend young
people for membership in appropriate Masonic Youth ?rder~. Similarl~, an
article and accompanying cut-out type coupon was published m The California Freemason. Our Lodges asked for approximately 110,000 of the flyers
and it is presumed all those were mailed. The result of both these efforts was
some 150 names being received and forwarded to the appropriate Youth Order.
While it is difficult to track the exact results, we are aware of a number of
new members in our Masonic Youth Orders as a result of this project. We
recommend it be continued and extend our thanks to The California
Freemason and Brother Ralph Head, Editor, for his support of this effort.
Grand Master Henville has been most diligent and enthusiastic in his personal support of Masonic Youth. He has been present at the a.nnual me~ting
of each group in California, or sent a member of the Executive ComI?1.t~ee
as his Representative, and has personally attended many events and act1V1t1es
of local youth groups. He has continued the recent practice of offering some
reimbursement of expenses to the Youth Leader of each group attending Grand
Lodge. This is well received by the Youth Orders as a tangible expression of
Masonic Recognition of and support for their Orders.
This Committee continues to staff an information booth on "G" Floor
during this Grand Lodge Communication for the benefit of our Lodges in
general and particularly for Senior Wardens regarding their including youth
activities in the Lodge calendar for the coming year.
Having served as Chairman of this fine Committee now for five (5) years,
this Chairman has asked not to be reappointed. This is out of a conviction
that five (5) years is long enough to serve on any Committee in consideration
for the Committee and the cause being served. New leadership always brings
new energy, activity and ideas. So, I leave this post with a deep sense of thanks
and appreciation to each of the Grand Masters under whom I have had the
pleasure of serving, to the Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger, Grand Sec~tary,
and the fine staff in the Grand Lodge office, to the wonderfully dedicated
members of this Committee over the years and to the various youth and adult
leaders of the Youth Orders with whom I've had an opportunity to associate
and work. I leave, most of all, with a renewed conviction that in the success
of our Youth Orders lies the success of our entire Masonic Fraternity, both
immediately and in the future, and I pray for greater support and understanding for them by the Grand Lodge, local Lodges and all Masons.

Respectfully submitted,
GLENN D. WOODY, Chairman
JAMES R. DOTY
RICHARD N. MECHAM
THOMAS G. COOK
MILTON G. KITE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DONALD L. GRIFFITHS
JOHN GARRISON
LOWELL R. JOHNSON
DEAN F. BRADLEY
DAVID R. ALEXANDER
LEROY L. ERVIN
MICHAEL P. BLACKMER
RICHARD F. NIELSEN, JR.
RAYMON L. HAMILTON
JAMES P. MALCZON
DRURY W. PARKS
DAVID H. DENBOW
E. EARL WHEELER
MARION C. BOHANNON, JR.
FRANK WINTON
WILLIAM A. SINCLAIR

271

EUGENE H. BOWMAN, SR.
HOMER A. CUNDIFF
RAY DAVIES
JAMES EAKINS
HOWARD P. GREEN
MAX E. HILES
JOHN H. HOOLEY
KENNETH D. KNIGHT
JAMES C. MYERS
RICHARD A. PARIS
W. PATRICK RIGGS
BENJAMIN F. DAVIS, JR.
FREDERICK J. AUSMUS, SR.
WALLACE A. KELLEY
W. GAYLON FAGAN

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Finance, as required by our Code, has reviewed the audited
financial statements presented by the Grand Treasurer for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1985.
Approval by the Grand Master for supplementary appropriations in the
amount of $101,777 has been given to cover those items where budgets were
exceeded; of that figure $8,000 was to cover increased costs for the California Freemason Magazine.
Costs for the publication and distribution of our California Freemason
Magazine for the 1985-1986 year are estimated at $182,700. To cover these
costs an increase of$ .IO in the per capita will be required. We believe this
Magazine is of great benefit to the Craft and do not hesitate to recommend
this increase.
The rate of reimbursement for the use of personal vehicles on Grand Lodge
business shall remain at $ .18 per mile until this time again in 1986.
New capital additions have been budgeted in the amount of $34,500 as
shown below:
Computer Terminal and Typewriters .................. $ 6,500
Computer System Upgrade .......................... $28,000
Total ............................................. $34,500
The capital addition to upgrade our computer system is necessary because
of the obsolescense of our present system and more requests within Grand
Lodge and constituent Lodges for additional information. Proper implementation of the system will take several years, using a phased approach. Phase
one is budgeted for $28,000.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The total budgeted expenses for the 1985-1986 fiscal year have increased
less than one percent over the 1984-1985 fiscal year. However, the per capita
tax has increased from $5.84 to $6.30. This increase in per capia results primarily from our continuing loss of membership. For fiscal year 1984-1985 the per
capita tax was based on a membership of 173,500. For the current fiscal year
per capita is based on a projected membership of 166,500. This represents
a decline of 4 percent or 7,000 members. Unless we are able to reverse the
decline in membership the per capita tax will continue to increase even if expenses are held constant.
Your Finance Committee foresees that in the near future the decline in
membership will continue to significantly impact your per capita tax.
Although your Committee on Finance is principally interested in, and
charged with the responsibility of establishing a budget for the operational
expenses of the Grand Lodge, we are also very concerned with the control
of those expenses. We note that the expenditures necessary to hold our Annual Communicatio n is a major budget item. A substantial portion of that
expenditure is for lodging and other expenses of Grand Lodge officers, Inspectors and Committeemen . We believe that all avenues of potential cost
reduction should be pursued.
In the past we have provided all Lodge Secretaries with advance notice of
the proposed per capita asessment following our August budget meeting with
the Grand Lodge Elective Line. This year we also provided copies for the
Master and Wardens and requested that it be read in Lodge.
Our sincere thanks to the Very Worshipful John A. Sickenberger, Grand
Treasurer, for his expert counseling in the area of Grand Lodge fiscal affairs
and to Brother Hugo Delfin, our Accounting Manager and his staff for their
fine assistance.
Our thanks also to the Very Worshipful Robert A. Klinger, Grand Secretary,
and his staff for their support.
The proposed 1985-1986 budget is presented here in summary form. Details
are also published in the Proceedings as part of the report.

NET-COVERED BY PER CAPITA ......... $1,048,500
Estimate of Assessable Membership
166,500
as of June 30, 1986 ............. . .... .
$6.30
Calculated Per Capita .............. .... .

272

BUDGETED EXPENSES:
Administrative and Office .............. . $448,000
557,000
General ........... ... ... .. ..... . .... . . .
142,500
Appropriations .............. .......... .
Total Budgeted Expenses ...... . ......... . $1,147,500
LESS:
Estimated Revenue
Investment Income ... . .............. . .
Degree Fees .............. ........... .
Total Estimated Revenue ............ .

$80,000
6,000
$86,000

REMAINDER .............. ............. $1,061,500
ADJUST FOR:
Removal of Depreciation .............. . . $(47,500)
34,500
Capital Additions .............. ........ .

273

The operation of the Grand Lodge during the weeks between the close of
one fiscal year and the adoption of a new budget requires funds be provided
for that period; therefore we recommend the continuation of the following
budget on a pro-rata basis for the period from July 1, 1986 through September
30, 1986.
In order to meet the expenses of the Grand Lodge we offer the following
resolution:
RESOLVED, that a per capita tax of $8.00 be levied as of June 30 1986
'
'
divided as follows:
Grand Lodge Constitutional .......... . ......... $ .50
Grand Lodge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.80
California Freemason . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I.IO
Rose Parade Float . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
TOTAL PER CAPITA . .............. .... . ... $8.00
Respectfully Submitted,
HERBERT E. POMPEY, Chairman
HARRY L. MAYNARD
DONALD W. FINTON
CHARLES H. ISRAEL
ROBERT W. RANDALL

Entire report adopted.

BUDGET-1 985-86
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M.
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Acct. No.
8001
8021
8041
8043
8051
8052
8062
8064
8065
8071
8073
8074
8084
8086

Caption
Salaries and Wages .............. ........ .
Employee Benefits .............. ......... .
Office Supplies ..... .. .... ........ .... ... .
Repairs and Maintenance .............. . . . .
Postage and Mail Delivery .............. .. .
Telephone .............. .............. .. .
Property Taxes .............. ............ .
Cleaning Service .............. ........... .
Facility Rent .............. .............. .
Legal and Accounting .............. ...... .
Temporary Labor .............. ........ . . .
Outside Printing & Duplicating ............ .
Depreciation Furniture & Fixtures ......... .
Amortization Leasehold Improvements .... . .

Budget
$218,000
78,000
9,000
6,000
26,000
12,000
4,000
8,400
26,500
6,000
1,000
6,000
12,500

5,000

274

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Acct. No.
8087
8098
8099

Caption
Depreciation D. P. Equipment ............. .
Miscellaneous General Office .............. .
Allocated D. P. Expenses ................. .
TOTAL ................................. .

Budget

Acct. No.

30,000
14,000
(14,400)
$448,000

6704
6705
6706
6707
6708
6709
6711

GENERAL EXPENSES

Acct. No.
6601
6603
6604
6605
6606
6611
6613
6621
6622
6636
6637
6644
7801
7802

Caption

Budget

Annual Communication .................. .
Representatives' Mileage .................. .
Elected Officers' Expense ................. .
Appointed Officers' Expense .............. .
Grand Lodge Regalia & Inspectors' Aprons ..
Grand Master's Travel .................... .
Grand Master's Relief .................... .
Cornerstone Reimbursements .............. .
Conference Out of State .................. .
P.G.M. Meetings ......................... .
Veterans' Buttons ........................ .
Printing and Photocopying ............... .
Constituent Lodge Supplies ............... .
Less: Estimated Receipts ................ .

$64,000
37,000
50,000
80,000
7,000
25,000
4,000
15,000
4,000
15,000
70,000
100,000
(100,000)

RITUALISTIC EXPENSE

Acct. No.
6602
6666

Budget

Caption
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference-Annual Communication
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference ............................ .

$49,000
60,000

INSURANCE

Acct. No.
6671
6674
6675

Caption

Budget

Workers' Compensation--Lodges ........... .
Public Liability & Extended Coverage ...... .
Group Travel/Accident. ................... .
TOTAL ................................. .

$30,000
42,000
5,000
$557,000

APPROPRIATIONS

Acct. No.
6701
6702
6703

Caption

Budget

Jurisprudence Committee ................. .
Policy & General Purposes ................ .
Finance Committee ...................... .

$4,500
5,600
5,500

6712
6713
6714
6715
6716
6717
6718
6719
6721
6723
6724
6725
6745
6747
6748
6749
6751
6752
6753
6754
6756
6757
6758
6767
6768
6801
6802
6804
6805
6811
6812
6813
6814
6824
6825
6838

275

Caption

Budget

Trial Review Committee .................. .
Credentials Committee ................... .
Travel Allowance Committee .............. .
Charters Committee ...................... .
By-Laws Committee ...................... .
Review of Proceedings Committee ......... .
Activities Committee-Union City Visit ...... .
Less: Home Reimbursement ............. .
Temple Properties Committee ............. .
Memorial Service Committee .............. .
Masonic History Committee .............. .
Public Schools Committee ................ .
Less: Estimated Receipts ................ .
Masonic Information & Responsibility ...... .
Investment Committee .................... .
Masonic Code Committee ................ .
Masonic Leadership Workshop ............ .
Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee ... .
Less: Estimated Receipts ................ .
Masonic Service Bureaus Committee ....... .
Layman's Night Committee ............... .
Resources & Development Committee ...... .
Film & Creative Projects .................. .
Masonic Widows' Committee ............. .
U. S. Constitution Observance Committee .. .
Taxation Committee ...................... .
Youth Orders Committee ................. .
Commercialism Committee ................ .
Insurance Committee ..................... .
Masonic Cemeteries Committee ............ .
Masonic Publicity Committee ............. .
Recognition of Foreign Lodges ............ .
Certificates & Awards Committee .......... .
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ........ .
Less: Homes Reimbursement ............ .
Retirement Plan Committee ............... .
Less: Reimbursement ................... .
Columbia Temple Committee .............. .
Less: Estimated Rentals ................. .
Old Los Angeles Temple Committee ........ .
Less: Estimated Rentals ................. .
Quitman Memorial Temple ................ .
Less: Estimated Rentals ................. .
Sojourners .............................. .
TOTAL ................................. .

3,500
2,000
300
1,000
1,500
200
3,500
(3,500)
4,000
700
500
28,500
(8,500)
5,500
2,000
100
15,000
35,500
(18,500)
3,400
4,000
4,400
3,500
3,000
5,000
500
12,500
300
2,200
100
3,500
500
1,000
51,000
(51,000)
2,500
(2,500)
4,200
(300)
5,000
(500)
400
(100)
l,000
$142,500

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECAPITULATION

Assistant Grand Treasurer, W :.Kenneth H. Boucher, William D. Stephens
Lodge No. 698
Assistant Grand Secretary, W :.Clare W. Wilson, Jr., Berkeley Lodge No.
363.
Grand Marshal, W :.Anthony P. Wordlow, Tehama Lodge No. 3.
Grand Standard Bearer, W :.Samuel K.S. Hong, Kilauea Lodge No. 330.
Grand Sword Bearer, W :.Maurice L. Hamm, Indian Wells Valley Lodge
No. 691.
Grand Bible Bearer, W :.Raymond A. Young, Capital City Lodge No. 499.
Senior Grand Deacon, W :.John W. Abernethy, Palm Springs Lodge No.
693.
Junior Grand Deacon, W :.Dale L. St. Claire, Bakersfield Lodge No. 224.
Senior Grand Steward, W :. R. Frank Olds, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479.
Junior Grand Steward, W :.Victor D. Dryden, Alameda Lodge No. 167.
Grand Pursuivant, W :.Milton F. Moore, Centennial Lodge No. 729.
Grand Organist, W :.Harold M. Hand, Fellowship Lodge No. 290.
Grand Tiler, W :.C. Ray Whitaker, Madera Joppa Lodge No. 280.
In addition to the above appointments, the Grand Master-elect announced
the following appointments:
To serve as Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, Verl B. Lobb
and Alvin J. Weis. Continuing as Trustees are Kermit A. Jacobson, P.G.M.,
John M. Palmer, Jr., Ralph M. Hinds, Chester R. MacPhee, P.GM., Ronald
A. Sherod, Hambleton F. Leas and Jack R. Vickers.
NOTE: Following the installation of the Grand Lodge Officers, it was
reported that R :. W :. Jack R. Levitt, Deputy Grand Master; R :. W :. Leo B.
Mark, Senior Grand Warden, and R:. W :.Stanley L. Channon, Junior Grand
Warden, by virtue of their respective offices, are also members of the Masonic
Homes of California Board of Trustees.
It was further reported that R. ·. W .·.Jack R. Levitt was appointed to the
Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, taking the
place of John W. Driskell. Re-appointed to serve as Temple Trustees were
Stanley Cazneaux, Robert 0. West, P.G.M., Albert C. McGuirk, Davis B.
Leonard, Sam M. Pavlovich.
Grand Lodge was called off at 12:15 P.M. for the purpose of installing the
Grand Lodge Officers elected and appointed for the ensuing year. It was announced that the installation would be "open" and would commence at
3:00 P.M.

Budgeted Expenses:
Administrative ........................... .......... .
General Expenses ................... . .............. .
Appropriations ..................... . ................ .
TOTAL ........................... .............. .

$448,000
557,000
142,500
$1,147,500

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS
Grand Master Henvillle announced that the hour had arrived for the Annual Election of the Grand Lodge Officers. The Grand Secretary then read
the Section of the Constitution of Grand Lodge which pertained to the election of Officers. The results of the elections were as follow:
The R :. W :. John W. Driskell, Capital City Lodge No. 499, was elected
Grand Master.
The R :. W :. Jack R. Levitt, San Diego Lodge No. 35, was elected Deputy
Grand Master.
The R:. W:. Leo B. Mark, San Jose Lodge No. 10, was elected Senior Grand
Warden.
The W :.Stanley L. Channon, Evergreen Lodge No. 259, was elected Junior
Grand Warden.
The V :. W :. John A. Sickenberger, Henry Knox-Westlake Lodge No. 392,
was re-elected Grand Treasurer..
The V :. W :. Robert A. Klinger, Fidelity Lodge No. 120, was re-elected
Grand Secretary.
The V :. W :.Joe Hammond, Corcoran Lodge No. 490, was re-elected Grand
Lecturer.
Grand Master-elect, the R. ·. W. ·.John W. Driskell, then announced that
the following were appointed to serve as Grand Lodge Officers for the ensuing year:
Grand Chaplain, G. Maurice Ottsen, Camarillo Lodge No. 824.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division I, W. ·.Edward P. Margherio, McKinley
Lodge No. 347.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division II, W .·.Louis A. Lasell, Sr., Sacramento
Lodge No. 40.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division III, W :. Ulysses G. Patropulos, King
Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division IV, W :. William J. Taylor, Jr., Delano
Lodge No. 309.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division V, W :.Samuel E. Harris, Camellia
Lodge No. 612.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division VI, W. ·.James A. Boyle, Fountain Valley
Lodge No. 351.
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division VII, W :.Oswald J.B. Lau, Schofield
Lodge No. 443.
Grand Orator, W :. Ronald A. Sherod, Bixby Knolls Neptune Lodge No.
699.

277

AFTERNOON SESSION - WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1985
Members and guests assembled at 3:00 P.M. for the open installation of
the Officers elected and appointed to serve for the ensuing Grand Lodge year,
Grand Master Roy J. Henville presiding.

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS

Following the Benediction the assembled guests retired for a reception to
greet the newly installed Grand Lodge Officers.

The Installation Ceremony commenced at 3:00 P.M., with the retiring Grand
Master, Roy J. Henville, acting as Installing Officer, and Past Grand Master
Raymond A. Ebbage acting as Master of Ceremonies. The Appointive Officers were introduced and duly installed after which the Grand Lecturer,
Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer were also introduced and installed. The
Junior Grand Warden and Senior Grand Warden were then introduced and
installed in their respective stations. The Deputy Grand Master was then installed after which the Grand Master was duly installed.
The newly installed Grand Master was saluted with Public Grand Honors
and he was then presented with his first gavel by Brother Nick Kerhoulis P.M.
of Tehama Lodge No. 3. The newly installed Grand Master explained the
history of the Bible upon which he had been installed; he then requested the
Grand Marshal to escort Elinor Henville to the East where she was presented
with a beautiful bouquet of red roses by the newly installed Grand Master.
Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems then presented her with a gift on behalf
of the entire membership of the Fraternity. This gracious lady responded with
an expression of love and appreciation for the remembrances.
Past Grand Master Kermit A. Jacobson presented the Grand Master's Lapel
Pin to the retiring Grand Master. Past Grand Master E. Arthur Haglund
presented to the Junior Past Grand Master the Past Grand Master's Apron
following which Past Grand Master Harry L. Maynard presented the Past
Grand Master's Certificate. Appropriate words with expressions of gratitude
accompanied each of the above presentations.
The retiring Grand Master met with the newly installed Grand Master,
Deputy Grand Master and Senior and Junior Grand Wardens at the altar
where the Arthur S. Crites Lapel Pins designating their respective stations
were exchanged.
The Grand Master's daughters, Janet and Pamela, presented their father
with a beautiful "Lone Star Belt Buckle." The newly installed Grand Master
requested all of the wives of the newly installed Grand Lodge officers to stand
for recognition, after which members of Capital City Lodge No. 499 were
recognized. Grand Master John W. Driskell then addressed the assembled
guests. He elaborated on some of the programs which he will pursue during
the forthcoming year. He expressed his appreciation to all in attendance for
being with him on this occasion.
At the conclusion of the Grand Masters installation message he was accorded a standing ovation.
Special thanks were extended to Organist Harold M. Hand and Soloist
Donald A. Nielsen for their beautiful musical selections, "Let There Be Peace
on Earth" and "You Will Never Walk Alone." A thank you was also extended
to the Potentate of Ben Ali Shrine Temple in Sacramento for hosting the
refreshments for the reception which was to follow.
All business of the 136th Annual Communication was completed at 4:05
P.M. after which the newly installed Grand Master announced that Grand
Lodge would be called on at 9:00 A.M. on Thursday, October 17, 1985 for
the purpose of Closing.

279

THURSDAY MORNING, October 17, 1985
At 9:00 A.M. Grand Lodge was called on for the purpose of closing, with
Grand Master John W. Driskell presiding. The Benediction was given by the
newly installed Grand Chaplain. All business being completed, Grand Lodge
was closed in due form at 9:10 A.M.

~~

Ir

·R;BERT A. KLINGER
GRAND SECRETARY

lit8~
ROY J. HENVILLE
GRAND MASTER

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

SPECIAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Grand Lodge Audit ........................... ................. 282
Schedule of Annual Returns, 1985 ............... . .......... . .... 288
Masonic Homes Audit ........................... .............. 293
Memorial Temple Audit ........................ . .......... .. ... 306
California Masonic Foundation Audit ........... . ................ 311
Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund Audit .................. .. .. 316

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDIT

'lHE r-n>T WCRSHIPFUL GRAND IDOOE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASCNS OF THli: STATE OF CALIFORNIA

283

BALANCE SHEETS

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

ASSETS
1985

'lb The r-Dst w:>rshipful Grand I.Ddge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
california
San Francisoo, California

We haVe examined the balance sheets of 'lbe fohst w:>rshipful Grand
I.Ddge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, a nonprofit, unincoqx:>rated, fraternal organization, as of June 30, 1985 and
1984 and the related statements of support, revenue and expenses and
chanJes in fl.D'ld balance for the years then errled. Our examinations were
made in accordance with generally accepted alrliting standards and
accordingly incllrled such tests of the a::counting records and such other
alrliting procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.

In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statenents present
fairly the financial EX>Sition of 'lbe fohst w:>rshipful Grand I.Ddge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California at June 30, 1985 and
1984 arrl results of its ~rations and dlanges in fl.D'ld balance for the
years then errled, in confonnity with generally accepted acoounting
principles applied on a oonsistent basis.

Cash
Contributions and per capita receivable fran lodges
Accounts and crlvances receivable
Investment incane receivable
Prepaid expenses
Investments in securities - at market (lt>te 2)

$

12,454
1,157,961
15,365
12, 729
26,062
422,500
1,647,071

469,457
!~76,546)

469,457
(230,600)

192[911

238,857

700

700

$1,879,986

$1,886,628

$

$

Net furniture, equipnent and improvements
Deposits
'lbtal assets

21,414
1,210,568
10,454
12, 746
16,455
414,738

1,686,375
Furniture, equipnent and improvements - at cost
Less: AcCl.lllulated depreciation and CllK>rtization

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
LIABILITIES:
Accounts payable
Accrued expenses
Pension contribution payable
Due to other Masonic entities
Due to George washington Memorial Furrl
'lbtal liabilities

FUND BAUINCE
September 3, 1985

$

1984

'lbtal liabilities and fund balance

29,298
26,628
7,600
14,925
12,400

38,482
24,057
29,250
14,015

90,851

105,804

1, 789, 135

1,780,824

$1,879,986

$1,886,628

'lbe accanpanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

ASSOCIATES IN PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES AND WORLDWIDE
120 MONTGOMERY STREET, SAN FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 94104 TELEPHONE (41 S) 433·0200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE 1'03T WORSHIPFUL GRAND IDI:G: CF FREE
AND ACCEPl'ED M1ISOOS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE IC3T l«llSHIPFUL GRAND ~ CF FREE
AND 1ICCEPl'ED M1ISOOS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

9rATEMEm'S OF SUPPORI', REVENUE AND EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCE
YF.ARS ENDED JUNE 30 I 1985 AND 1984

Wl'ES 'ID FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

284

285

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

Support and revenue:
Contributions and per capita fran lodges
Less contributions for:
Masonic Hanes of california
Publication of california Freemason
california Masonic Merrorial Temple
George washington Masonic National Memorial
Association
.Adjustments for previous years
Net Lodge per capita
Incane fran investments:
Divideoos
Interest - savings
Interest - booos
Grand Master's pcoject (Note 5)
Less C110unt payable to Masonic Hane - Covina
Supplies sold, net of purchases
Bequests
Fees for charters and dispensations
Miscellaneous
Total support and revenue
Expenses:
Progran services:
Camlittee expenses, net of reimbursements
Supp:>rting services:
Administrative and office
General
Total progran and support expenses
Publication of california Freemason:
Per capita fran lodges
Subscription revenue
Deduct: Publishing expenses
Net Incane (Expense) - California Freemason
Total expenses
Excess (deficiency) of supi;:ort and revenue before
depreciation expense and gain (loss) on sale of
securities and net change in market value
of securities
Depreciation and atK>rtization
Gain (loss) on sale of securities
Net change in market value of securities
FuOO balance at beginning of year
FuOO balance at eoo of year

1985

1984

$1,292,619

$1,252,097

(75,675)
( 171,927)
(22,320)

(84,925)
(177,057)
(25, 155)

(12,400)
(2,978)
1£007c319

(14,015)
(3,227)
947 I 718

330
45,639
43,435
89c404
6,285
(6,285)
(22,381)
253
206
156
1,074,957

1,935
51,112
37,739
90,786
(2,268)
131951
10
1,435
1,051,632

142,666

112,076

367,352
565, 103
1,075c121

409, 177
540,314
1,061,567

171,927
132
172,059
180,756
(8,697)
1,083,818

177,057
197
177,254
176,553
701
1,060,866

NOl'E 1 - Sll-lMARY CF SIQHFICANI' ACCXX.Nl'I)'l; FOLICIES:

Method Accounting:
The financial statenents of 'lbe M:>st W::>rshipful Grand Lodge of
been

Free and Accepted Masons of the State of california have
prepared on the accrual basis of accounting.

Furniture, ,Equipnent and I11J>IUVements:
Furniture, equipnent and improvements are recor:ded at rost and
are depreciated on the straight-line method over estimated useful
lives of three to twenty-five years.
NOl'E 2 - INVES'!Mml'S IN SEJ:URITIES:

Investments are presented in the financial statenents in the
aggregate at fair market value and are oanprised of the following:
Cost

1985
Market

$168,578

$178,250

$192,540

$183,062

205,927

217,496

205,927

187,637

18,992

18c992

51,801

51,801

$393,497

$414,738

$450,268

$422,500

Cost

1984
Market

Cori;x:>rate stx>cks and

(8,861)
(45,945)
6,344
56,773
1,780,824
$1,789,135

(9,234)
(43,883)
(4,345)
(43,448)
1,881,734
$1I780,824

The aca:mpanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

OOnds

U.S. Govermient
obligations
Institutional liquid
assets

Differences in market value of investments between reporting
periods are rei;x:>rted as net change in market value of securities.
OOl'E 3 - PENSIOO PLAN:

'!he Grand Lodge and canponent organizations, california Masonic
Meloorial Temple, and Masonic Hanes contribute to the california
Masonic Retirement Plan for the benefit of all eligible employees.
Total pension expense for the Grand Lodge for the years emed June
30, 1985 and 1984 was $9,480 and $22,295, respectively.

286

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE

'!HE r-n>T VllRSHIPFUL GRAND LOIXiE OF FREE
AND ACCEPl'ED MASOOS OF THE STATE OF CALI~IA

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

OOl'ES 'ID FINANCIAL STATfMENTS
JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

REPORI' OF INIEPENDENI' CERI'IFIFD PUBLIC Aca:>uNl'ANTS

N01'E 3 - PENSIOO PLAN: (Continued)

The actuarial present value of accumulated Plan benefits at
January 1, 1985 (the m:>st recent determination date) was $2,998,569.
The market value of net Plan assets on the same date was $3,585, 103.
SUPPLEMENI'ARY FINANCIAL INFORMATIOO
Accumulated Plan benefits are those future periodic payments,
including lump-sllll distributions, that are expected to be provided,
uroer the Plan's provisions, to employees for services rendered.
Effective January 1, 1984, the actuarial cost met:OOd was changed
to the Entry Age cost met:OOd fran the Aggregate Actuarial cost met:OOd
and the rate of return assumption was increased to 7% fran 5%.
NarE 4 - FEDERAL AND STATE IOCOME TAXF.S:
The Grand IDdge is exertpt fran federal and state ina:rne taxes.

NarE 5 - GRAND MASTER'S PROJECT':
The Grand Master initiated a program during 1985 to benefit
certain children's projects at Covina, such as canputer education.
The funding for the program is acCXEplished throogh cash contributions fran lodges.

The accanpanying schedules included hereinafter, although oot
necessary for a fair presentation of the balance sheets of the Most
Worshipful Grand IDdge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
california at June 30, 1985 and 1984 and the related statements of
sUR;X>rt, revenue and expenses and changes in fund balance for the years
then ended, are presented as supplementary information. '!be schedules
have been subjected to the same auditing procedures ~lied in oor
examination of the financial statements and are, in our opinion,
presented fairly in all material respects when oonsidered in relation to
the financial statements taken as a wtx>le.

September 3, 1985

ASSOCIATES IN PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES ANO WORLDWIDE
120 MONTGOMERY STREET, SAN FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 94104 TELEPHONE (41 !5) 433·0200

287

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

nm MC6T i;.QlSHIPFUL GRAND IDDGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPI'ED Mi\SCNS OF nm STATE OF CALIFORNIA

nm MC6T i;.QlSHIPFUL rnAND_IJJOrn OF FREE
AND ACCEPl'ED MASCH> OF nm STATE OF CALIFORNIA

SCHEOOLES OF ANNUAL RETURNS
YF.ARS FlIDFD JUNE 30,

SCHEOOLES OF ADo!INISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSF.5

1985 AND 1984

YF.ARS FlIDFD JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

1985
1984
Rate
Rate
Per Merrtler 'lOtal per Per Merrtler 'lOtal Per
Degree or 1985 Annual Degree or 1984 Annual
Initiate
Returns
Initiate
Returns
IN SUPPORT CF GlAND IJJDrn
ACTIVITIES:

Per Capita:
General support and activities
California Freemason
Degrees conferred

$ 5.84
1.00

$1,004,054
171,927
6,243
1,182,224

$ 5.33
1.00

$

943,714
177,057
7,231
1,128,002

IN SUPPORI.' OF nm MA.500IC HCMES
OF CALIFORNIA, cnlrR!BlJrICN> CF
INITIATES AND AFFILIATES

25.00

75,675

25.00

84,925

IN SUPPORT OF nm MASClUC MEM>RIAL
Ta-tPIE, aJNI'RIBl1rICN3 OF INITIATES

9.00

22,320

9.00

25,155

IN SUPPORT OF GECllGE WASHIWI'OO
MASOOIC NATIOOAL MEMJRIAL
ASSOCIATIOO, CONI'RIBlJrICN> OF
INITIATES

5.00

12,400
$1,292,619

5.00

14,015
$1,252,097

1985

1984

Increase
(Decrease)

$218,163

$214,307

$ 3,856

Grand Lodge rent

26,500

26,500

Legal and alrlit fees and related expense

4,343

33,754

(29,411)

FOstage and express

24,249

27,015

(2,766)

Telephone and telegrai;ti

10,277

1o,718

(441)

Payroll taxes

23,726

19,274

4,452

Personal property taxes

4, 133

3,703

430

Retirement pension plan

9,480

22,295

(12,815)

Medical plan

15,519

11, 713

3,806

Supplies and miscellaneous

30,869

41,203

(10,334)

Maintenance and repairs

7,832

6,075

1, 757

Leases and rentals

6,661

7,020

(359)

(14,400)

( 14,400)

$367,352

$409, 177

Salaries

Iess:

Recovery of data processing costs fran

Masonic lbnes
rorAL ACMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSF.5

OOI'E:

As of JW'le 30, 1985, there were 174,423 Master Masons in gocrl staroing. Of
this total, 2,496 were exempt frcrn the per capita tax because of remissions
of dues by the Lodges, leaving 171, 927 subject to the per capita tax as

canpared to 177,057 at June 30, 1984.

289

$(41,825)

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE KET ~HIPFUL GRAND IDI:G: OF FREE
AND ACCEP1'ED MASCNS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE KET ~HIPFUL GRAND IDI:G: OF FREE
AND ACCEPl'ED MASCNS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

290

291

SCHEDULES OF CCMUTTEE EXPENSES, NET OF REIMBURSEMENl'S

SCHEIXJLES OF GENERAL EXPENSES

YFARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

YFARS E2ilDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984
Increase
1985
Annual camnunication
Annual ccmnunication - inspectors
Representatives' mileage
Grand lodge officers' travel
Gram Master's travel, secretarial, etc.
Grand Master's relief
Cornerstone cereoonies
Conferences - out of state
PrintiBJ
Veterans' buttons
Inspectors' aprons am stationery
Ritual ccmnittee am inspectors' CX>nference
am travel expense
Past Gram Masters' meetings
Payroll tax service program
Less recoveries fran Lodges
Insurance:
'i'«>rknen's canpensation:
lodges
Gram lodge
Less: 'i'«>rkmen's CXJ11pensation dividerx'I
Pttllic liability am exterx'led o::werage
for lodges
Group travel accidental insurance
'IDrAL GENERAL EXPENSES

$ 78,290

1984
$ 47,904
40,686
36,949
155,801
25,520

(Decrease)

1,444
18,642
69,690
10,628
6,854

$ 30,386
13,882
(362)
(7,535)
(6,466)
600
289
(5,689)
4,599
2,488
(320)

49,497
3,543
3,296
(2,526)

55,967
2,527
2,267
(2,393)

(6,470)
1,016
1,029
(133)

27,762
4,248
(11,125)

30,536
4,993
(8,264)

(2,774)
(745)
(2,861)

39,603
4,815

35,673
4,890

3,930
(75)

$565,103

$540,314

$ 24,789

54,568
36,587
148,266
19,054
600
1, 733
12,953
74,289
13, 116
6,534

Increase
(Decrease)

1985

1984

$ 3,984
4,836
2,931
3,083
4,851
418
46,612
(23,360)
3, 711
(3,711)
1,828
2,002
251
1,418
48
92
28,853
(8,026)
687
9,896
2,999
4,239

$ 3,243
4,976
3,195
2,431
2,540
2,129
16,579
(7,587)
2,557
(2,557)
2,230
1, 717
707
1,337
251
541
23,104
(9,857)
625
1,486
3,316
3,848

$

$ 87,642

$ 56,811

$ 30,831

STAND:nl; CDo!M!'l'rEES:

Jurisprudence
Policy am General Purposes
Finance
Trial Review
Temple Properties
Olarte rs
Gram lodge Week Activities
Less receipts
Union City visit
Less reimbursement
Investment
Credentials
Travel Allowance
By-Laws
ProceediBJs review
Masonic History
Public Schools
Less receipts
Mem:>rial Service
Masonic Information and Responsibilities
Masonic Service Bureau
U.S. Constitution Cbservance
(Carried forward)

741
(140)
(264)
652
2,311
(1, 711)
30,033
(15,773)
1, 154
(1,154)
(402)
285
(456)
81
(203)
(449)
5, 749
1,831
62
8,410
(317)
391

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

nm Ma>T ~HIPFUL GRAND I.Dorn OF FREE

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT

292

AND ACCEPI'ED MA.500S OF nm STATE OF CALIFORNIA
SCHEDULES OF ca+II'l'l'EE EXPENSES, NET OF REIMBURSF.MENI'S

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE

YFARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

(Brought forward)

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

1985

1984

Increase
(Decrease)

$ 87,642

$ 56,811

$ 30,831

21
1,077
(1,077)

1,551
604
569
1, 151
4, 168
20
1,655
1, 726
9,639
86
1,275
(1,275)

( 1,551)
(67)
763
(1,151)
(2,561)
(20)
3,094
250
(9,639)
(65)
(198)
198

5, 113
(350)
2, 738

3,814
(425)
2,610

1,299
75
128

5,512
(930)

6,300
(1,900)

(788)
970

335
(50)
1,383
3,854
3,586

199
(25)
2,145

136
(25)
(762)
3,854
221

SPECIAL CCM-II'l.'rEES:
Liason
Sojourners
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Cemeteries
Plt>lic InfoI111ation
Taxation
Youth Orders
Insurance
Grand Lodge Library
Ccmrercialism
Retireioont
Less reimbursement
C.oll.lnbia Temple:
Rental expense
Rental incane
Masonic Widows ProgrClll
Old Masonic Hall CCJmlittee - Los. Angeles:
Rental expense
Rental incane
Quitman Masonic Mem:>rial Temple:
Rental expense
Rental incone
Lodge Resources and Developnent
Film Project c.amiittee
Layman's Night
Certificates, Awards arrl Special
Presentations
Warden's WJrkshop
Hawaiian St\Xfy
Hemes Endownent Board
Less reimbursement
Statue of Liberty expense
Reimburseioont fran Masonic Foundation
Masonic Festivals
Mason of the Year Award
'IUl'AL CCJolMI'l'l'EE EXPENSES

537
1,332
1,607
4,749
1,976

13,804
92,503
(92,503)
86,236
(86,236)
7,688
2, 119
$142,666

3,365
1,223
16,492
298
101,396
(101,396)

$112,076

(1,223)
(2,688)
(298)
(8,893)
8,893
86,236
(86,236)
7,688
2, 119

Board of Trustees
Masonic Homes of California
San Francisco, California

We have examined the balance sheets of The Masonic Homes of
California, a nonprofit, public benefit corporation, as of June 30, 1985
and 1984, and the related statements of support, revenue and expenses
and changes in fund balances for the years then ended. Our examinations
were made in accordance with generally accepted au di ting standards and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other
auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present
fairly the financial position of The Masonic Homes of California at June
30, 1985 and 1984 and the results of its operations and changes in fund
balances for the years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.

September 3, 1985

$ 30,590

ASSOC IATES IN PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES ANO WORLDWIDE
120 MONTGOMER Y STREET. SAN FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 94104 TELEPHONE (41 S) 433·0200

293

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

295

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
"'5()11C IDES CF C'UFlRIIA
STATEJe«S CF 9JllllJIT I 1£\et.E Nil EXl'EN!B Nil CWHB IN F\H) IW.AIC£S

Pennanent
Endowment
Fund

General Fund
ASSETS:
Cash
$
90,016
n .... certificates of depeslt
J,389,453
Invest,.,nts ln securl ties at .arket (Note 2)
65,81J,674
Security sales proceeds
receivable
535,230
Notes receivable (Note J)
1,577,445
Investment income receivable
1 ,887,886
Accounts receivable
940
Per capita and lodge contributions receivable
19,835
Due from other Masonic entities
45,528
Prepayinents

BALANCE SIEETS
11NE JO I 1985 AHO 1984

1985
Hugo M. Lorber
Fund
(Note 6)

Restricted
Trust Funds
(Note 7)

$

$

56,893,427
694,552
36,983
35, 752

$ 18,479,977

$

54D, 128

-

Total
93,395
J,389,453

1,585,775

142, 772, 853

24, 144
21, 194

1,229,782
1,638,572
2,486,960

$

94,297
J,JZ4,510
109,915,888

1,501,783
2, 718,367
20,315

94D

19,835
45,528

20,110
62,895
9,8"

29,828,024
6,002,947
39,598
35,870,569

29,080,429
5,823,476
21,847
34,925,752

(12,374,292)

( 11,213 ,223)

23,496,277

23,496 1 277

23, 712,529

401,744

374,422

$175,575,JJ9

$141,755,560

==:::1==••-====

========-•z

$

$

Other assets
Total assets

401,737

7

$ 97,258,021

$ 57,664,100
==========

======s::s:::

LIABILITIES AND FUii> BALANCES:
S
Accounts payable
Accounts payable - security
purchases
L1 fe annuity agreement
(Note 5)
Payroll and related expenses
payable
Due to other funds
Portion of reoialnder interest
payable to others

$

1,6JJ,11J

============

427, 193
500,042

$

567,226

590,217
40,274

114,268

$
-0-

Total liabllitles and
fund balances

95,586,027

$ 97,258,021
========•2==

391 ,075

118,518

590,217
51,694

526,423
54,734

17 ,408

17,408

15,695

17,408

2,270,048

1, 106,445

13,420

95,586,027

Total fund balances

427, 193
1,067 ,268

114,268

Total liabilities
FUND BALANCES:
General fund:
Operating
Other funds

$ 19,020,105

57 ,083,454

19,020, 105

1,615, 705

95,586,027
77 p 719,264

57,083,454

19,020, 105

1,615,705

173,305,291

$ 57,664,100

$ 19,020,105

$

1,633,113

$175,575,339

============

=:::::::s=======

====•x======

=====z::s:c::::

The acc011panylng notes are an integral part of these financial stat-nts,

15185

Total

Land, bulldlngs and equlpnoent:
29 1 828,024
Union City
6,002,947
Covina
39,598
San Francisco
35,870,569
Less1 Accu111.1lated
(12,374,292)
depreciation
Net book value

'IENIS EKE> 1t£ JO, 1985 Nil 1984

77 ,252,532
6J,396,583
140,649, 115
$141,755,560
==========••

General Fun!
~rt

Permanent
Endownent
Finl

Lodler Flrd

Restricted
Trust Flrds

(Note 6)

(Note 7)

llJgo M.

Total

Total

and rewrue:

~·
The ltlst Worshipful Cr..-d Lodge of Free Md
AccePted Masons of the State of California:
Contributions of initiates ard affiliates
at $Z5 each
Contributions received tf'rough Lodges
Contribution fnn California Masonic
M!d>rlal Tenop.le
~ts, _,rials and contributions
Proceeds from sale of assets asslgied by
lhlon Cl ty residents
Total support
RiNeroe•
Interest
Dividends
Royalty inc<Re
Transfer of Endo.rent Flrd lnc<Jne
~s recei.ed fl'<lft pensions asslgied by
lhlon City residents
Pa)9Mts tf'rough Lodges for•
l)ilon Cl ty residents
Covina residents
111.scellaneous rewrue
Total rewrue
Total support and rewrue
Expenses:
Progr""' services:
~atlon of Masonic lbnes:
lhlon City
Covina
~ants and annuities
ltln-resldent assistance
Total program expenses
5'4Jporting services:
Adalnlstratlon and general
Book value of assets retired - net
Total 9Upp0rtlng services
Total expenses

fxcess of !IUpport ard rewrue before net
change in market value of invesbnents and
goln on sale of investments
Caln (loss) on sale of invesboents
Net change in """'""t value of investllents
F...t balances at begl.mlng of year
F...t balances at end of ye<r

$

$

75 1/ITT
$ 1,417,279
J0,000

s

1,547,967
461,215
5,530,935
4,440, 174
1,078,867
2'+0,875
5,074,388

40,000

lf('Jj,m
lf('Jj,J77

4,695,576 $ 1, 923, 156
J,%0
'18,657
67
(5,074,388)

133,8~

JJO

2,256, 152

88

tJ,220, 134

7, 179#)7
461,215
8,931,558

501,623
9,296,345

11,192,!r)()
1,461,814
2'+0,91+2

10,235,JOO
1,on,034
234,821

2,256, 152

2,083,501

2 1350
32,963

2,000
26,934

~.433

100,035
13,760,025
23,056,370

15,281,474
24,213,0JZ

1,927,116
1,927, 116

18,751,069

84,925
75,675 $
1,490, 190
1,417,279

8,221,059
1,655, 143
56,178

8,221,059
1,655, 143
56,178
149,859

7,626,.1163
1,485,5<!1
93,498
152,095
9,357,365

149,859
10,02.6,061

56,178

1,206,883

1,245

1,208,128

1,206,883
11 ,232 I 9114

1,208, 128
11,290,367

961,732

57,"'23

12,922,665
5,036,909
14,6516,liOZ
140,649, 115

12,737,273
(1,419,110)
(9,525,201)
138,856,353

7,518, 125
1,690,460
9, 124,910
77,252,532

2,995,246
3,275,483
3,417,496
47,395,229

1,927, 116
64,622
2 1033 1 618
14,994,749

"82, 178
6,344

120,578
1,006,605

$ 95,586,027 $ 57,083,454 $ 19,020, 105 $ 1,615,705 $173,305,291 $140,649, 115

The ~ying notes are an lntegl'al part of these financial s t a - s .

296

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
The financial statements of Masonic Homes of California have been
Significant accounting
prepared on the accrual basis of accounting.
policies follow:
Fund Accounting:
To insure observance of limitations and restrictions placed on the
use of resources available to the Homes, the accounts of the Homes are
maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.
The assets, liabilities and fund balances of the Homes are reported
in four self-balancing funds, as follow:
General Fund - Resources are available to support the operations of
the Homes at Union City and Covina, California.

297

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Depreciation is recorded
following estimated lives:

by

the

(Concluded)

straight-line method

Buildings and improvements
Equipment
Furniture and fixtures
Vehicles

over

the

2 - 55 years
7 - 12 years
10 - 20 years
2 - 7 years

Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense when incurred.
Betterments of a major nature which extend the useful lives of buildings
and equipment are capitalized.
On sale or retirement, the cost and
accumulated depreciation applicable thereto are eliminated from the
accounts and the differences between net book value and the proceeds from
sale or retirment are included in income.
Other Assets:
Other assets consist of life insurance policies, real estate and
mineral rights assigned or bequeathed to the Masonic Homes.

Permanent Endowment Fund - Ordinances of the Grand Lodge provide that
no portion of the principal of the Permanent Endowment Fund shall be
expended for any purpose and income from the principal shall be used
only for the maintenance and general operation of Masonic Homes.

Real estate and mineral rights are recorded at the nominal value of
$1 each for accountability. Payments by the Masonic Homes of obligations
of the assig~ors secured by these assets are added to the nominal value.

Hugo M. Lorber Masonic Home, Union City Fund - This fund provides for
the operation, preservation and betterment of the Home at Union City,
California.

Life insurance policies are recorded at their actuarily determined
present values.

Restricted Trust Funds - Details to these Trust Funds are contained
in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Investments in Securities:
Investments, consisting of marketable securities, are stated at fair
market values.
Changes in market values between reporting dates are
recognized for financial reporting.

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES:
Investments are presented in the financial statement in the aggregate
at fair market value and consist of common and preferred stocks,
corporate and government debt obligations and institutional liquid asset
funds. Investments by fund follow:

Land is reported at cost. Buildings and equipment existing at June
30, 1985 and June 30, 1984 are reported at cost or at depreciated
replacement cost as determined by independent appraisors.

1984

1985
Cost

Land, Buildings and Equipment:
General Fund
Permanent Endowment
Fund
Hugo M. Lorber Fund
Restricted Trust

Market

Cost

Market

$ 57,693,256 $ 65,813,674 $ 49,095,185 $ 47,019,749
53,782,435
56,893,427
50,041,572
47,342,857
17,347,809
18,479,977
15,501,682
14,563,634
1,525,988
1,585,775
1,041,638
989,648
$130,349,488 $142,772,853 $115,679,077 $109,915,888
=========-= ======= ======= ========

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

298

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATE~NTS

JUNE 30, 1965 AND 1964

NOTE 2 - INVESTMENTS IN SECURITIES:

299

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

(Continued)
NOTE 5 - LIFE ANNUITY AGREEMENT:

Investments by type follow:
1965
Cost

1964
Market

Market

Cost

Corporate stocks and
bonds
$100,177,664 $110,146,903
69,066,634
66,445,564
U.S. Government
obligations
27,345,730
29,797,675
39,236,311
36,116,372
Institutional liquid
assets
2,626,074
2,626,075
7,353,932
7,353,932
$130,349,466 $142,772,653 $115,679,077 $109,915,666

s

s

============ ============ ============ ============

NOTE 3 - NOTES RECEIVABLE:
Notes receivable represent notes from sales of real estate assigned
to the Masonic Homes by residents of Union City Home and sales of real
estate received as gifts or bequests. These notes are secured by deeds
of trust.
NOTE 4 - PENSION PLAN:
Masonic Homes of California, the Grand Lodge and component
organizations and California Masonic Memorial Temple contribute to the
California Masonic Retirement Plan, a defined benefit plan, for the
benefit of all eligible employees. The total pension expense of Masonic
Homes for the years ended June 30, 1965 and 1964 was $120, 102 and
$236,546, respectively.
The actuarial present value of accumulated Plan benefits at January
1, 1985 (the most recent determination date) was $2,988,569. The market
value of net Plan assets on the same date was $3,585,103.
Accumulated Plan benefits are those future periodic payments,
including lump-sl.111 distributions, that are expected to be provided, under
the Plan's provisions, to employees for services rendered.
Effective January 1, 1964, the actuarial cost method was changed to
the Entry Age cost method from the Aggregate Actuarial cost method and
the rate of return assumption was increased to 7% from 5%.

On November 27, 1974, Masonic Homes of California, in exchange for
conveyance of real property, entered into an agreement to pay the
conveyors during their lifetime $1 ,250 per month. The receipients are
presently 85 and 89 years old and the liability at June 30 equals the
present value of future estimated payments, based upon life
expectancies.
NOTE 6 - HUGO M. LORBER MASONIC HOME, UNION CITY FUND:
During 1962 and 1983, the Masonic Homes of California received
bequests from the Estate of Hugo M. Lorber in the amount of $11,680,365.
Mr. Lorber's Last Will and Testament provided that the bequest be used at
the Home for the elderly at Union City, California.
The Board of Trustees established the Hugo M. Lorber Masonic Home,
Union City Fund to account for the bequest and resolved that all income
from the Fund should be used for operating, rehab ill tating, preserving
and enhancing the Home for Adults at Union City, as deemed necessary.
The Board of Trustees also resolved that the Fund represented a
source for a!Wi tions and replacements of property at Union City, as
represented by the accumulation of depreciation.
NOTE 7 - RESTRICTED TRUST FUNDS:
Details to each trust fund, follow:
George F. and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship Fund:
The principal of this fund is held as a scholarship fund for the
benefit of the Covina Home residents, of which $25,000 may be loaned
for this purpose. Income of this fund is restricted and may be used
only for providing scholarships.
Mildred R. Brown and Leroy G. Brown Memorial Fund:
Principal and income from this fund are to be used for 'llaking
loans for educational purposes to children that the Board of Trustees
deems worthy.

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

NOTE 7 - RESTRICTED TRUST FUNDS:

(Continued)

William J, Clarke and Marguerite Graffen Clarke Memorial Scholarship
Fund:
The income of this fund is to be used to provide scholarships to
colleges or universities for worthy high school graduates.
The F. D. Hardy Memorial for Higher Practical Education:
The net income from this trust is to be used for higher practical
education.
The Charles L. Jacquelin Annuity Trust Fund:
The principal and income of this fund is held by the Masonic
Homes of California subject to a life annuity.
The Anton Jensen Fund:
The principal of this fund, subject to the provision included in
the will of the donor, shall be used for the benefit of the Masonic
Home for the Aged.
The Roy G. Jones Trust Fund:
All income from this trust is to be paid to a beneficiary for the
duration of her life.
Masonic Homes of California holds a 50%
remainder interest in the principal.
Santa Fe Masonic Club Fund:
Ninety percent of the income from this trust is to be distributed
to Covina children as cash gifts during the annual Christmas Party.
The remaining income is to be retained for fund growth.
Walter W. and Maude S. Schultz Scholarship Fund:
The income from this fund is restricted and may be used only to
provide financial assistance to needy children for educational
purposes.

NOTE 7 - RESTRICTED TRUST FUNDS:

301

(Continued)

Clifton S. Slonaker Annuity Trust Fund:
The principal and income of this Fund is held by the Masonic
Homes of California subject to a life annuity.
Frances Snyder Speekman Fund:
The principal and income of this fund is held by the Masonic
Homes of California subject to an agreement to pay rent for the
lifetimes of the beneficiaries.
Student Aid Fund:
This fund is designated by the trustees for use as student aid.
Orville C. Sweeney Memorial Fund:
Six percent of the anuual valuation of this trust is to be used
to benefit the Union City Home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

302

303

MASONIC 8JMES OF CALIFORNIA
RESTRICTED TRUsr ~
BALAlCE SHEETS
JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

1985

1984

Assets:
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

Notes and other receivables
Investments in securities - at market (Note 2)

ON

Total assets

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Liabilities and Fund Balances:
Due to other Masonic entities
Portion of remainder interest payable to others

September 3, 1985

$

$1,633,113

$1,023,340

$

33,692
989,648

17,408

1,040
15,695

17,408

16,735

60,577
217,828

50,761
175,410

71,843
422,218
135,431
6,488
10,310
9, 113
62,486
27,043
416,996
121,501
53,871

64,371
352,109
117,532
5,373
9,023
9,076
51,225
21,837

Total restricted trust fund balances

1,615,705

1,006,605

Total liabilities and fund balances

$1,633, 113

$1,023,340

Total liabilities
The accompanying schedules included hereinafter, although not
necessary for a fair presentation of the balance sheets of Masonic Homes
of California at June 30, 1985 and 1984 and the related statements of
support, revenue and expenses and changes in fund balances for the years
then ended, are presented as supplementary information. The schedules
have been subjected to the same auditing procedures applied in our
examination of the financial statements and are, in our opinion,
presented fairly in all material respects when considered in relation to
the financial statement taken as a whole.

47,338
1,585, 775

$

$

Fund Balances:

George F. and Laura E. Brigham Scholarship Fund
Mildred R. Brown and Leroy G. Brown Memorial Fund
Wilson J. Clarke and Mat:guerite Graffen Clarke
Memorial Scholarship Fund
F.o. Hardy Memorial for Higher Practical Education
Charles L. Ja~elin Annuity Trust Fund
Anton Jensen Fund •
a:Jy G. Jones Trust Fund
Santa Fe Masonic Club Fund
Walter w. and Mal.Xie S. Schultz Scholarship Fund
Clifton s. Slonaker Annuity Trust Fund
Frances Speekman Fund
Student Aid Fund
Orville c. Sweeney Memorial Fund

105,018
44,870

'!be accoopanyin;J notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

304

305

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

H'.S(){IC IDES C.- CALIF<»lIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STAIDENT C.- Sll'PCRT, RE™ ANl EXPENSES ANl CIW«LS IN FIHl BAl..AlnS - RESTIUCTID TRUST FlNlS

SCHEDULE OF EXPENSES - GENERAL FUND
YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

Year Ended June JO

1985

1985
Excess
(Deficiency)

AdnlnlContribu- Dlviderds
tlons ard
ard
Grants ard
/\rnJltles
~Interest

---

George F. and Laura E. Brigham
Scholarship Furd
Mildred R. Brown ard Leroy G.
Brown Memorial Furd
Wilson J. Clarke ard
Marguerite Graffen Clarke
Memorial Scholarship Furd
F .D. Hardy Memorial for Higher
Practical Education
Charles L. Jacq.Jelln
Anrulty Trust Furd

$

stratlve
and
General

Transfers
of

Fl.flds

5,684

of Support
and Reverue
Before
Investnent lnvestnent
Galn (Loss) Galn (Loss)

Furd
Balances
June 30,
1984

4,132

18,061

18,061

24,357

175,410

217 .eai

6,863

6,863

6CH

64,371

71,8'13

21,510

48,539

352, 109

422,218

5,105
249
(1,170)
37

12,79'>
866
2,457

117 ,532
5,373
9,0Z3
9,076

135,431
6,'l88
10,310
9,113

5,663

5,598

51,225

62,"86

627
414,842
2,314

4,579
2, 154
14,169

21,837

27,0ll3
416,911;
121,501

39,140

14,105 $
Anton Jensen Furd
6CH
Roy G. Jones Trust Furd
3,09'>
Santa Fe Masonic Club Furd
n9
Walter W. ard Maude S. Schultz
Scholarship Furd
5,663
Cl! fton S. Slonaker Anrul ty
Trust Furd
2,50Z
Franees Speelonan Furd
$398,284
21,705
Student Aid Furd
10,663
7,093
Orville C. 5weEney
Memorial Furd
~

$405,m $ 134,224 $

$

(17 ,510)

(9,000)
(J(LJ)

(3,09'>) $
(742)

(1,170)

(1,875)
(5,147)
(H,012)

17,510

(2,948) _ _ _
(7_5) - - - ~~

56, 178 $

(1,245) $

-0-

$

482, 178 $

126,922

==

The accanp.mylng notes are an integral part of these financial stattments.

50,761

3.ine 30,

~

5,684 $

$

$

fund

Balarcea

105,018

$

ro,5n

44,870 ~
$1,006,605

$1,615,'IUJ

Union City Home:
Nursing services
Plant operations and maintenance
Housekeeping
Laundry and linen
Dietary
Social services
Residential services
Personal care
Administration
Leases and rentals
Property taxes
Property insurance
Depreciation

1984

s 2,709,324 s 2,456,461
1,240,459
556,436
170,477
1,335,767
243,775
253,260
313,468
417,287
2,775
43,875
28,914
905,242

1,061,297
549,743
138,219
1,293,301
245,025
258 '793
258,369
418,490
2,235
38,936
28,306
877 ,088

Total Union City Home

8 1 221 1 059

7,626,263

Covina Home:
Nursing services
Plant operations and maintenance
Housekeeping
Laundry and linen
Dietary
Social services
Administration
Property taxes
Property insurance
Depreciation

29,900
505,231
17,331
4,213
215,467
106,556
498,110
5,450
17,978
254,907

30,218
451,698
16,076
10,419
190,528
101,553
442,565
807
12,055
229,590

Total Covina Home

1,655,143

1,485,509

405,022
20,000
569,266
41,221
15,865
39,874
92,503
3,711
14,400
4,490
531

368,493
15,000
312,115
32,313
16,089
50,638
101,396
1,969
14,400
2,789
548

1,206,883

915,750

$11,083,085
===

=====

Administrative and General Expenses:
San Francisco Office
Director, charitable gifts
Investment, legal and audit
Trustee expenses
Annuities
Preadmission expense
Endowment Board expense
Annual trip, Union City
Data processing expenses
Depreciation
Miscellaneous
Total administrative and general expense
TOTAL

$10,027 ,522

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

306

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

307

00.IroRNIA !oW300IC Ml'M)RIAL TEMPLE

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

BALANCE SHEETS

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

1985

1984

ASSETS:

cash
Investments in securities - at market (t«>te 2)
Investment inC'Cllle receivable
Accol.Ults receivable
Due fran other Masonic entities
Contributions receivable fran initiates
Board of Trustees
california Masonic Menorial Temple
San Francisco, california

we have examined the balanoe sheets of california Masonic Meloorial
Terple, a oonprofit oorporation, at June 30, 1985 and 1984 and the
related statements of s~rt, revenue, expenses and changes in fund
balances for the years then ended.
Our examinations were made in
accordance with generally accepted auditiD3 standards and accordingly
included such tests of the accounting reoords and such other auditiD3
procedures as we considered necessary in the circL111Stances.
In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present
fairly the financial positions of california Masonic Menorial Temple at
June 30, 1985 and 1984 and results of its operations and changes in fund
balances for the years then ended, in ex>nformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.

988
$
2,145,092
25, 948
39,830
4,143
6,543

$

22,507
1,863,919
20,926
91,111
2,479
5,895

2,222[544

2,006,837

Buildif¥3 and equi!lllent
Furnishi1"¥3S
Rental pcuperties

734,304
6,014,943
480, 104
738,200

734,304
5,987,747
250,667
686,833

Less:

AcclJllulated depreciatioo

7 ,967 ,551
3,254[502

7 ,659,551
3,038[962

Net book value

4, 713,049

4,620[589

$6,935,593

$6,627,426

Larrl, buildi1"¥3s and equi!lllent - at cost:

Temple:

Land

Total assets
LIABILITIES AND Fl.ND BAIANCES:
Liabilities:
Accounts payable
Custaners' deposits
Accrued expenses
Due to other Masonic entities
Accrued oontributions to Masonic Retirement Plan

$

15,232
9,910
14,684
7,434
2[596

$

57,860
4, 195
15,945

Total liabilities

49,856

78,000

U'lrestricted
Designated reserve for building repairs and
i.nprovements (t«>te 5)

6,635,737

6,299,426

250,000

250,000

Total fund balances

6,885£737

6,549,426

Total liabilities and fund balances

$6,935,593

$6,627,426

Furo balances:

September 3, 1985
'!be aco:Epatlying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

ASSOCIATES IN PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES AND WORLDWIDE
1 20 MONTGOMERY STREET, SAN FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 94104 TELEPHONE (41 !5) 433 · 0200

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA ~IC MEK>RIAL TEMPLE
STATEMFNI'S OF SUPPOR!', REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGES IN FUND BALANCES

CALIFORNIA ~IC MEMJRIAL TEMPLE

OOl'ES 'l'O FINANCIAL STATF.MENI.'S

YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984
Tr;1e sundW
1§
985

Total

Rental Proi:irties
984
1985

1§85

Support arrl Revenue:
Supi;ort:
$
5
Bequests arrl ll'SIOrials
25,155
$
Contributions fran initiates $ 22,320
22,320 25, 160
Total SlJPPlrt
Revenue:
Rent arrl other charges
193,202 341,972
to public
289,512 258,084
Rent of garage
26,500
26,500
Rent of space to Grarrl IDdge
$183,972 $162,848
Rent of other real estate
183,972 162,848
509,214 626,556
Total revenue
183,972 162,848
531 ,534 651,716
Total sUPEOrt arrl revenue
Expenses:
8,289
8,529
192,349 197,865
Salaries arrl payroll expense
23,500
23,005
119,318 110,682
Utilities arrl service
50,863
66,930
10,429 25,211
Maintenance
6,073
5,063
17,078 15,846
Insurance
7,409
42,450
41,639
. 7,658
Property taxes
7,231
10,326
205,214 177, 128
Depreciation
3,500
4,923
legal arrl acrounting
Office supplies, printing
9,525
6,166
arrl postage
13,039
12,946
Management am rental fees
14,418
Library expense
17,093
Bad debt expense
4,932
4,247
5,838
6,300
Miscellaneous
124,321 137,310
620[581 600,800
Total expenses
Excess (deficiency) of supp:irt arrl revenue before
other incane arrl oontri$(89,047)$ 50,916 $ 59,651 $ 25,538
bution to Masonic Hanes
Other incane (expense) :
Interest earned:
Savings
Bonds
Contribution to Masonic Hanes
Total other incane
Excess of support arrl
revenue before net change
in market value of
iJ'llTestments arrl gain (loss)
on sale of investments
Net change in market
value of investments
Gain (loss) on sale of securities
Fund balances at
beginning of year
Fund balances at end of year

309

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$

JtliE 30, 1985 AND 1984
1§8~

22,320
22,320

5
25, 155
25[ 160

193,202
289,512
26,500
183,972
693i186
715[506

341,972
258,084
26,500
162,848
789,404
814i564

200,878
142,323
61,292
22, 141
so, 108
215,540
3,500

206, 154
134,182
92, 141
21,919
49,048
184,359
4,923

9,525
13,039
14,418

6,166
12,946

NOl'E 1 - SlM1ARY OF SIGUFICANI' ACCOUNTIN; POLICIES:

'!tie financial statements of California Masonic Meloorial Tenple
have been prepared on the accrual basis of ~oounting. Significant
accol.D'lting policies follow:

Investments:
Investments are stated at market value.
market value between reporting periods are
financial statement rep:irting.

Differences in
recognized for

LaOO, Buildings arrl !f.J:ipnent:

12, 138
744,902

17,093
9, 179
738,110

Land, buildings am equipnent are carried at oost am, except
for larrl, are depreciated on the straight-line method 01er
estimated useful lives of 50 years for Temple buildings, 20 years
for furnishings, five years for minor building improvements, arrl
Maintenance and
ten years for sound arrl lighting equipnent.
repairs are charged to expense ...tien incurred. Betterments of a
major nature, ...tiich extend the useful lives of buildings am
equipnent, are capitalized. <Al sale or retirement, the cost arrl
acctinulated depreciation applicable thereto are eliminated fran
the accounts arrl the difference between net book value arrl the
procedds fran sale or retirement are included in incane.

NOl'E 2 - INVFSlMENl'S IN SECURITIES:
Investments are presented in the financial statements in the
aggregate at fair market value arrl are <x:mprised of the following:

!29,396)

46,641
164, 140
(30,000)
180,781

76[454

70,024
112, 787
(40[000)
142,811

1984

1985

Corporate OOnds
u.s. Govermient
obligations
Institutional
liquid assets

Cost

Market
Value

Cost

Market
Value

$1,246,057

$1,322,522

$ 602,253

$ 556,725

465,647

464,548

465,647

401,915

358,022

358,022

905,279

905,279

$2,069,726 $2,145,092
151,385

219,265

120,748
64, 178

(74,525)
(8,788)

6[549,426 6,413,474
$6,885,737 $6,549,426

'!tie accanpanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

$1,973, 179 $1,863,919

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASCNIC MEM>RIAL TEMPLE
OOl'FS 'ID FINANCIAL STATF.MENTS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION AUDIT

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

OOl'E 3 - PENSirn PLAN:

'!he Tenple, Grand Ia:lge and CllllpC>nent organizations and Masonic
Fkmes contribute to the California Masonic Retirement Plan for the
benefit of all eligible errq;>loyees.
Total pension costs for the
Temple were $5,896 in 1985 and $15,290 in 1984.
The actuarial present value of acC1.Unulated Plan benefits at
January 1, 1985 (the nost recent determination date) was $2,998,569.
The market value of net Plan assets on the same date was $3,585,103.

Board of Trustees
California Masonic Foundation
San Francisco, California

ACClillulated Plan benefits are tOOse future periodic payments,
including lllllP""sun distributions, that are expected to be provided,
under the Plan's provisions, to employees for services rerx3ered.
Effective January 1 , 1984, the actuarial oos t metix:>d was changed
to the Entry Age cost metix:>d fran the Aggregate Actuarial cost
metix:>d, and the rate of return asst.unption was increased to 7% fran
5%.
NOI'E 4 - FEDERAL AND STATE INCG!E TAXES:

'!he Masonic Mem:>rial Temple is a charitable organization exempt
fran federal and state ino::tne taxes.

NOI'E 5 - DESIGIA.TID RESERVE FOR REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
The Board of Trustees resolved that $250,000 of the fund balance
be appropriated for future major building repairs arx3 improvements.

we have examined the balance sheets of California Mascnic
Fouroation, a oorq:>rofit corporation, at June 30, 1985 arx3 1984 arx3 the
related statements of support, revenue and expenses arx3 changes in fund
balances for the years then erx3ed.
Our examinations were made in
acoordance with generally accepted auditing standards arx3 accordingly
included such tests of the acoounting records arx3 such other auditing
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present
fairly the financial position of California Masonic Foundation at June
30, 1985 and 1984 arx3 results of its operations arx3 changes in fund
balances for the years then erx3ed, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles applied on a consistent basis.

September 3, 1985

ASSOCIATES IN PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES AND WORLDWIDE
120 MONTGOMERY STREET, SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94104 TELEPHONE (4 1 !5) 433-0200

311

312

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

C.ALIFORNIA MASCNIC FOONDM'ICN

CALIFURNIA MASCNIC FalNDATICN

STATJ:M'Nl'S OF SUProRI', REVENUE AND EXPENSE'S AND
awl;F.s IN ruND BALANcF.s

BALANCE SHEl?l'S

YFARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

JUNE 30, 1985 l\ND 1984

General
Furd

1984

1985
Statue
of
Amaranth Liberty
Fund
Furd

General
Total

Total

ASSl?l'S:
Cash
Investments in securities at market (Note 3)
Investment incx::rne receivable
Note receivable (Note 2)

$

$

7,809

719

7,809 $

683,563 $ 230,788
1,345
11,502
3471465

$600,051

1,514,402
12,847
347,465

748,926
11,241
360,753

$1,050,339 $ 232, 133

$600,051

$1,882,523

$1,121,639

$595,618

$ 595,618

2,016

3,752

5,768

1,938
855

681

2,619
855

1,860

-0-

600,051

6041860

2,227

1,029,850
151680

232! 133

-0-

1,029,850
247,813

902,645
216,767

Total fund balances

1,0451530

232, 133

-0-

1!277 ,663

1,119,412

'lbtal liabilities and
fl.md balances

$1,050,339

$ 232,133

$600,051

$1,882,523

$1,121,639

Total assets
LIABILITIES AND ruND BAIANCES:

Liabilities:
Due to Statue of Liberty
Fund (Note 1 )
Progran grants payable
Due to other Masonic entities $
Federal excise tax payable
(Note 4)
Other liabilities
Total liabilities
Fund Balances:
Unrestricted
Restricted

354
13

$

4,809

313

suPP0rt and revenue:

Furd

1985
Statue
Of
Amaranth Liberty
Fund
Furrl

1984

Total

Total

Support:
Contributions
68,377
$651,690 $ 720,067 $ 30,647
$
Revenue:
Interest
89,250 $ 22,653
34,051
145,954
1051569
'lbtal support am revenue
685,741
22,653
157l627
866,021
136,216
EXpenses:
Progran services:
Fducational grants
70,000
23,000
93,000
85,500
Gram Bethel of Job's
Daughters
2,000
2,000
2,000
International Order of
Rainbow Girls
2,000
2,000
2,000
Leadership training - De llt::>lay
4,000
4,000
6,000
Contribution to Statue of
Liberty Fund
595,618
595,618
Fund-raising expenses
89,442
89,442
'lbtal progran services
78,000
23,000
685,060
786,060
95,500
Supi;orting services:
Audit
2,000
2,000
2,985
Outside printing, i;ostage
am supplies
273
Trustee travel
12,031
12,031
8,667
Federal excise tax
1,968
681
2,649
1,908
Miscellareous
998
998
-o-.;..__
681
'lbtal supporting services
16,997 ___
17,678
13,833
'lbtal expenses
94,997
803,738
231000 685,741
1091333
Excess (deficiency) of support
am revenue before net change in
market value of investments am
gain on sale of investments
62,630
26,883
-062,283
(347)
Net change in market value of
investments
64,575
31,393
(54,240)
-095,968
Gain (loss) on sale of investments
(2, 135)
Fund balances at beginning of year
918,325
1,119,412 1,148,904
201,087
-oFund balances at en:l of ~ar
$1,045,530 $ 232, 133
-0$1,277,663 $1,119,412

The accanpanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The accanpanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

315

CALIFURNIA MASCNIC FCXJNDATIOO
CALIFURNIA MASCNIC FOONDATIOO
tUl'ES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENI'S
tUl'ES TO FINANCIAL STATEMFNl'S

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

NOl'E

1 - Sl»IARY OF SIQlIFICANl' ACCOUNI'IN:i POLICIES:
Wl'E 1 - Stff!ARY OF SIQlIFICANl' ACCOUN.r!N'.i POLICIES:

(Continued)

'!be financial statements of California Masc:nic Foundation have

been prepared on the accrual basis of accounting.
accounting i;olicies follow:

Investments:

Significant

Investments are stated at market value.
market value between reporting periods are
financial statement reporting.

Fund Accounting:
'lb insure observanc:e of limitations am restrictions placed
on the use of resources available to the Foundation, the accounts
of the FouOOation are maintained in accordance with the principles of fund accounting.

NOl'E 2 - 001.'E REX::EIVABIE:

'!be note receivable held by the General Fund is secured by a
first deed of trust on real property am is collectible in nonthly
installments to February, 1988. '!be note bears interest at 7-1/2%
ard the nonthly installment, including principal am interest,
arounts to $3,326.

The assets, liabilites am fund balances of the Foundation
are rep:>rted in three self-balancing funds, as follow:
General Fund - Unrestricted resources are available for
s~rt of Foundation progrClllS am s~ting
services.
Restricted resources include a $15,680
contribution, ~ich provides for educational
grants fran the incane generated by the
contribution.
Amaranth Fund - Resources are restricted by a trust agreement
with the Amaranth ~s of California. '!be
agreement specifies that principal is to be
invested am the incane is to be used to
provide educational grants to ~en under age
t..ienty-one.
Statue of
Liberty Fund - During the year errled June 30, 1985, a fundraising effort was undertaken to assist in
the cleaning am renovaticn of the Statue of
Liberty in New York City.
S~rt am
revenue of this fund consists of contributions received am interest earned on the
investment of the contributions. '!be excess
of s~rt am revenue cner fund-raising
experrlitures will be contributed to the
Statue of Liberty Fund ~n the fund-raising
effort is canpleted.

Differences in
recognized for

001.'E 3 -

INVES'lMENI'S IN SECURITIES:
Investments are presented in the financial statements in the
aggregate at fair market value am are canprised of the following:
1985
Cost

Market

Cost

1984
Marxet

Corporate· stocks

am bonds

U.S. Goverrment
obligations
Institutional liquid
assets

556,054

$310,850

$305,539

271,438

273,158

271,438

234,158

685, 190
$1,461,026

685, 190
$1,514,402

209,229

209,229

$791,517

$748,926

$

504,398

$

Wl'E 4 - FEDERAL EXCISE TAXES:

In accordance with the applicable provisions of the Tax Reform
Act of 1969, the Foundation is subject to an excise tax en net
investment incane, including realized gains, as defined by the Act.
In addition, the Tax Reform Act requires that certain minimum
distributions be made in accordance with a specified formula.
At
June 30, 1985, the Foundation had distributed more than the required
minimllll.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES POOLED INCOME FUND AUDIT

Ml\SCNIC HCMF.s POOLED INCXlt!E FllND

316

317

BALANCE SHEEI'S

LINDQUIST, VON HUSEN & JOYCE

JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

A5SEI'S
1984

1985

Board of Trustees
Masonic Hanes Pooled Income Fund
San Francisco, California

INVESTMml'S - Kr MARKET (Note 4)

In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present
fairly the financial p:>sition of the Masonic Hemes Pooled Income Fum at
June 30, 1985 arrl 1984 arrl the income earned arrl distributed for the
years then ended, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles axisistently applied.

50

$

51,708

45,348

2,380,222

1 ,588,932

$2,431,980

$1,634,330

INVESTMENI' INCCME RECEIVABLE

'IDl'AL

We have examined the balance sheets of the Masonic Hemes Pooled
Income Fund, a charitable trust, as of June 30, 1985 and 1984 arrl the
related statements of income arrl distributions for the years then
ended. Our examinations were made in accordance with generally accepted
auditing starrlards arrl accordingly included such tests of the accounting
records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in
the circumstances.

50

$

CASH

LIABILITIES AND FllND BALANCE
LIABILITIES:
2,882

8,000
1£123

2£882

9,123

Balance, beginning of year
Contributions received
Gain (loss) on sale of investments
Net change in market value of investments
Remairrler interest distributed to
Masonic Hanes (Note 5)

1,625,207
548,486
4,231
268,222

1,278,250
524,741
(2,747)
(175,037)

Balance, errl of year

2,429,098

1 ,625,207

'IDl'AL

$2,431,980

$1,634,330

rue to Masonic Hemes of California
Distributable income payable

.

Total liabilities

$
$

FllND BALANCE:

(17,048)

Septeniler 3, 1985

The accanpanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

ASSOCIATES IN PRINCIPAL CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES AND WORLDWIDE
120 MONTGOMERY STREET, SAN FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 94104 TELEPHONE (415) 433·0200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

318

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

Ml\SOOIC fDIES POOLED INCOME FUND

STATF.Mml'S OF INCOME AND DISTRIBOI'ICNS

~

'ID FINANCIAL STATEMENl'S

JtEE 30, 1985 AND 1984

YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 1985 AND 1984

OOl'E 1 - ORG\NIZATIOO:
1984

'!be Masonic Hemes R:>oled Inccrne Fund was organized on October 15,
1974 am is a dlaritable renainder trust to which dooors oontribute
irrevocable remainder interests in property while retainin;J an incx:rne
'!be <boors are
interest for life for one or rror.e beneficiaries.
entitled to a tax deduction equivalent to the present value of the
remainder interest in the i:coperty oontributed.

14,204
204,377

639
6,055
151,524

218,581

158,218

2,310

8!184

'lbe property transferred by a oooor is held in trust by the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Hcmes Pooled InCXJne Fund am is co-mir):Jled
with am invested am reinvested with other properties transferred to
the Fund, All inoane of the Fund is distributed quarterly to the
beneficiaries, based on their proportionate share of the Pool. Upon
the death of eadl donor's last inCXJne beneficiary, the renainder
interest is distributed to Masonic Hemes of California, a dlaritable
corporation.

1985

IOCCM::
Interest:
Savin;Js account
Liquid Asset Fund
Bonds

$
$

Total interest
Dividends:
Cmm:>n stocks
'IUrAL

$

220,891

$

166,402

$

220,891

$

166,402

OOl'E 2 - SUo!MARY OF SI~IFICANl' ACCOUNl'~ EQLICIES:
Method of Accounting:

DISTRIBurICN> 'ID BENEFICIARIES

'!be financial statements are prepared on the accrual basis of
acrounti1'¥3:
Investments:
Investments are reported at their fair market value as of June
30. Properties contributed durin:J the year by donors are recorded at
their fair market value at date of receipt am investments purdlased
are recorded at cost. '!be adjustment to the fund balance required at
year em to report investments at their then fair market value is
recorded as net mange in market value of investments.

OOl'E 3 - FEDERAL AND STATE IOCCM: TAXES:
The Fund pays oo inCXJne tax on incx:rne distributed to beneficiaries. AA:>licable federal am state incane taxes are paid by the
beneficiaries on their share of distributed inCXJne.

The accanpanying ootes are an integral part of these financial statements.

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~C

IDIES POOLED IOCOME FUND

OOl'ES 'IO FINANCIAL STATEMfNI'S
~

30, 1985 AND 1984

l'VI'E 4 - INVESTMENl'S IN SECURITIES:

Investments are presented in the financial statements in the
aggregate at fair market value am are canprised of the following:
1985

Cost

1984

Corp.:>rate stocks
am borrls
$ 938,352 $ 905,550
u.s. GNerrment
obligations
1,347,872
1,426,557
Institutional liquid
assets
48! 115
48,115
$2,334,339

Cost

Market

$2,380,222

Market I

$1,062,379 $ 914,528
704, 138

648,974

25,430

25,430

$1,791,947 $1,588,932

IDl'E 5 - REMAINDER INl'EREST DISTRIBCJl'ED 'IO MASCNIC !DIES:

Aloounts distributed to Masonic lbnes of California represent the
market value of a deceased donor's remairrler interest.

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

321

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Executive Committee ........................................... 322
Standing Committeess .......................................... 322
Special Committees ............................................ 326
Constitutional Boards .......................................... 332
Registration and Mileage Payments .............................. 335
List of Constituent Lodges ...................................... 358
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ......................... 376
Elected Officers of Grand Lodge Since Organization ............... 393
List of Inspectors (as of January 1, 1986) ........................ .402
Foreign Grand Lodges Recognized by California ................... 405
Alphabetical List of Lodges ..................................... 413
Correspondence Report Announcement ........................... 420
Index ......................................................... 421

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Temple Properties

John W. Driskell (499) ............................. P.O. Box 918, Twin Bridges 95735
Jack R. Levitt (35) ........................ 7467-161 Mission Gorge Road, Santee 92071
Leo B. Mark (IO) ................................ 704 Bicknell Road, Los Gatos 95030
Stanley L. Channon (259) ........................ 2361 Daventry Road, Riverside 92506

Louis I. Goldkind (120) ........................ 98 Crestlake Drive, San Francisco 94132
George C. Barrett (99) ....................... 881 E.No.Bear Creek Drive, Merced 95340
Lowell E. Daniels (95) ............................... P.O. Box 963, Sutter Creek 95685
David B. Anderson (499) ..................... 7044 Lawnwood Drive, Sacramento 95828
James R. Kiely (32) ...................................... P.O. Box 691, Lincoln 95648
Galen E. Niedenfuehr (442) ...................... 4766 Lorraine Drive, San Diego 92115
Don A. Geiger (327) ........................... 6219 Seville Court, Long Beach 90803
William A. Pettifer (604) S.W.................... 12941 Rosalind Drive, Santa Ana 92705
Victor Losik (168) J.W............................ 1713 Hillman Avenue, Belmont 94002

STANDING COMMITTEES
Jurisprudence
Harlan P. Huebner (445) ............. 900 Wilshire Blvd., Suite IOOO, Los Angeles 90017
Richard B. Eaton (2) ................................ 1520 West Street, Redding 96001
Bruce L. Conroy (544) ......................... 2695 Windsor Avenue, Altadena 91001
Donald B. McCaw (139) ....................... 42 Forbes Avenue, San Anselmo 94960
Richard L. Riemer (778) .................... 19002 Chadbourne Lane, Santa Ana 92705
Allen B. Gresham (348) ........................ 825 Vista Drive, San Bernardino 92405
Ernest Y. Yamane (21) .................. 33 So. King Street, Suite 411, Honolulu 96813
Robert L. Sills (520) S.W ........................ 12544 Allin Street, Los Angeles 90066
Charles W. Foster (807) J.W ................... 6111 Hedgewall, Westlake Village 91361
Donald J. Drew (528) ........................... 2280 Lorain Road, San Marino 91108
(Advisor)

Policy and General Purposes
Donald R. Fretz (99) ............................. County Courts Bldg., Merced 95340
Lester S. McElwain (403) .................. .436 - 14th Street, Suite 716, Oakland 94612
Vernon L. Gordon (280) ............................ P .0. Box 366, Tranquillity 93668
Lee Strong (670) .......................... 13708 Via del Palma, Apt.B, Whittier 90602
Donald K. Baldwin (103) ........................ 2920 Stormes Avenue, Oroville 95966
R. Stephen Doan (548) ................ 6411 Seabryn Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes 90274
Glenn D. Woody (380) ............ IS Corporate Plaza, Suite 130, Newport Beach 92660
J. Lloyd Clayton (750) S.W ................... 6142 San Lorenzo Lane, Anaheim 92807
Thomas M. Boles (698) J.W ........................ 15107 S. Main St., Gardena 90247
William H. Price (259) ............................ 2347 Daventry Rd., Riverside 92506
(Consultant)

Finance
Herbert E. Pompey (627) ........................ 777 S. King Street, San Gabriel 91776
Norman R. Hawkes (633) ............................ 350 Del Sur Way, Oxnard 93030
Donald W. Finton (734) ...................... 5236 Marimoore Way, Carmichael 95608
Harry L. Maynard (214) .......................... 5448 N. Bryn Mawr, Ventura 93003
Charles H. Israel (374) ........................... 3239 Foxboro Place, San Jose 95135
William L. Woodward (40) S.W ................... P.O. Box 162224, Sacramento 95816
Daniel L. Starrett (341) J.W ......................... 1814 Fisher Court, Oxnard 93030

323

Charters
Robert E. Moffitt (659) ........................... 1511 Mikinda Ave., La Habra 90631
Adrianus Sneep (401) .......................... 28398 Cubberley Street, Hayward 94545
Keith Johnson (655) ......................... 5959 Gundry Avenue, Long Beach 90805
Vandell C. Owen (834) ............................. 12481 Russell Avenue, Chino 917IO
Norbert E. Driggers (224) ...................... 1721 Cromwell Court, Bakersfield 93304
Clyde M. Loughead (168) ........................ 4I08 Briarwood Way, Palo Alto 94306
Rowland L. Frendo (371) ................... 1541 Ala Amoamo St., Honolulu, HI 96819
Harold H. Goeringer (720) ............................. 1803 Whitendale, Visalia 93277
Edmund W. Heath (824) S.W. . ......................... P.O. Box 3025, Camarillo 93011
Dudley M. Anderson (40) J.W.................. 3237 Eastwood Road, Sacramento 95821
Joseph C. Freeland (776) ........... 12700 E. Elliott Ave., 481 Brookside, El Monte 91732
(Consultant)

Grand Lodge Week Activities
Kenneth C. Birnbaum (120) ....................... 845 Sloat Blvd., San Francisco 94132
John W. Dennis (376) .................... 246 Santa Clara Avenue, Redwood City 94061
Neil W. Grush (226) ........................... 1617 Cypress Avenue, San Mateo 94401
Tack S. Joe (440) .............................. 4215 Carrington Street, Oakland 94601
George Lazorisak (166•) ........................... 1556 Parrott Drive, San Mateo 94402
Robert W. Ecoff (120) ........................ 1722 - 36th Avenue, San Francisco 94122
Michael M. Ganitch (494) .................. 15608 Cranbrook Street, San Leandro 94579
Harry Muscat (120) ............................... 150 Font Blvd., San Francisco 94132
Bernard Miller (393) ............................•.. 581 Skyline Drive, Daly City 94015
Woodrow Chew (374) .......................... 501 Maureen Lane, Pleasant Hill 94523
Samuel Sheff (344) ........................... 2579 - 37th Avenue, San Francisco 94116
Barrett W. Young (374) ........................ 659 Claridge Drive, Pacifica 94044-2I02
Kenneth D. Knight (376) .............................. 1006 Muir Way, Belmont 94002
Henry Albert (139) ............... 949 Phelan Bldg., 760 Market St., San Francisco 94I02
Orville Jacobs (374) ............................ 3019 El Monte Avenue, Oakland 94605
Erik J. Hobar (65 I) ............................... 52 Willow Road, Menlo Park 94025
Michael V. Ivanoff (136) S.W................... 3070 - 24th Avenue, San Francisco 94132
Paul Owyang (120) J.W......................... 355 - 11th Avenue, San Francisco 94118

Trial Review
Melville H. Nahin (520) ....................... 6399 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
Warren L. Sanborn (315) ................... 3550 Claremore Avenue, Long Beach 90808
William R. Willis (685) .................... 94 So. Los Robles Avenue, Pasadena 91 IOI
Herbert Zinman (578) ................................ 104 N. Rimhurst, Covina 91724
Joel Rudof (623) ................................... 4068 Sapphire Dr., Encino 91436
Lester W. Miller (327) S.W ........................ 5540 La Pasada, Long Beach 90815
James W. McDonald (332) J.W ............... 2012 Stonewood Court, San Pedro 90732

Investment
Ralph H. Head (352) .......................... .492 Scenic Drive, Santa Barbara 93I03
Jack F. Bowley (370) ................................ 94 Melanie Lane, Atherton 94025
Edward H. Siems (521) ..................... 1200 California Street, San Francisco 94109
David K. Lesh (324) ........................... 130 HD St. Joseph Street, Arcadia 91006
B. Robert Malouf (392) .......................... 201 Baroda Drive, Los Angeles 90077
Henry H.P. Wilkins (547) ...................... 545 No.Milton Drive, San Gabriel 91775

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Credentials

Public Schools

Richard C. Ryan (58) . .. . . .... .. .. . . . . . ....... .... 5409 "M" Street, Sacramento 95819
James V. Dingman (669) .......... ... ........... .411 Lewis Road, #358, San Jose 95111
Gilbert Larsen (734) ......... . .. .. . ........ . . .. 237 California Loop, Sacramento 95823
Maurice Sourmany (444) ................... 1300 Santa Monica Road, Carpinteria 93013
Byron C. Smith (542) ...... . .. ........ 23777 Mulholland Hywy., Sp. 18, Calabasas 91302
William L. McDonald (3) S.W. ...... ... . ...... .... 4728 Minaret Way, Carmichael 95608
Richard L. Taylor (380) J.W......... . .... 19031 Mathew Circle, Huntington Beach 92646

Review of Proceedings

Albert E. Gates (173) ......... . ..... .. .. .. ..... . . 9018 El Patio Court, Elk Grove 95624
Clyde M. Stine (521) .. . . ..... . .. .. ......... .... 444 - 15th Avenue, San Francisco 94118
William Zimmerman (58) .... . . .. .. ..... . ......... 3959 - 57th Street, Sacramento 95820
Robert H. Rolfe (144) ......... ................ .. 610 Portofino Lane, Foster City 94404
Leroy Livermore (773) ......... .. . ............ ...... .. P.O. Box 746, Bakersfield 93302
Douglas J. Theriault (663) . . ... .. . ................. . .. 609 Pleasant Avenue, Ojai 93023
Rodger D. Siems (615) . . . . ... .................... ... 28012 Warren Road, Hemet 92343
Jack E. Roberts (588) ........ . .. .............. 10415 La Rosa Drive, Temple City 91780
Billy A. McVey (791) . ........ . . .... . ........ . ... .. .. . P.O. Box 1221, Rosamond 93560
James W. Flournoy (355) .. . . . .... ...... ... . 20504 Londelius Street, Canoga Park 91306
Charles W. LeRoy (736) ....... .... ... .. . ... . . 7833 Longdale Drive, Lemon Grove 92045
Joseph F. Arnold (205) . . ........................... . 505 Solano Street, Corning 96021
John D. Holland (332) ............ .. 2046 Chandeleur Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes 90274
John W. Runcie (722) ....... . . ... ..... ... .......... 995 S. Daniel Way, San Jose 95128
Saul Madfes (120) . ..... ..... . ... . . .. . ..... 75 Country Club Drive, San Francisco 94132
Billy R. Wilkerson (543) . ....... .. ...... ....... 5318 Hanbury Street, Long Beach 90808
Arthur M. Vasquez (379) ...... . . .... . ...... . ... .... 257 Del Valle Drive, Fillmore 93015
Howard K.S. Lau (774) .. .. . ................... 5203 Pilikai Street, Honolulu, HI 96821
Willis H. Phipps (180) ... . .. .............. 2956 Middle Two Rocks Rd., Petaluma 94952
Edward G. Van Pelt (778) .... ..................... 15509 Ocaso Ave., La Mirada 90638
Harlan L. McWhorter (648) ....................... ..... 342 E. Home St., Rialto 92376
Roy L. Youngblood (381) ..... .... . .................. 640 Flora Drive, Oceanside 92056
James Van Ness Smith (81) ...... . . ................ 1642 Donner Way, Woodland 95695
Francis J. Ebert (480) S.W. . .. ... ... ....... . . .. .. ... . .. .. P.O. Box 992, Lafayette 94549
Willard Greenwald (510) J.W........... . ....... . ... 1420 Ormsby Drive, Sunnyvale 94087
Ralph C. Dills (765) .. . ... .. ......... . . . ..... .. . 5050 State Capitol, Sacramento, 95814
(Consultant)

Dean D. Van Norman (480) ....... .. . ... . ..... . .... . 7 Camel ford Court, Moraga 94556
Willard H. Nutting, Jr. (188) ...... . . ....... ... . . .. .. 5616 Estates Drive, Oakland 94618
George Tatarian (344) ....... .......... . . .. ... .. 3178 Old Coach Road, Camarillo 93010
James B. Bishop (349) .......... . . . .. . .. .. ...... 14941 Fjord Street, San Leandro 94578
Alfred C. Marsh (243) ......... ............ . 16640 Cumora Avenue, San Lorenzo 94580
Jim L. Rogers (20) S.W. ..... . .. ........ ........ 4614 Charleston Dr., Carmichael 95608
Alfred F. Kirsch (708) J.W........ . . . . ..... .......... 2019 Republic, Costa Mesa 92627

Bernhardt A. Berliner (120) .. ..................... 750 Darien Way, San Francisco 94127
Franklin R. Preston (725) ...... . . ............ ... 1873 Lucille Lane, Pleasant Hill 94523
Robert W. Moore (30) ....................... 367 Lakeshore Drive, San Francisco 94132
Ben A. Katz (344) ..... ... .. .. ... . ............... 2166 - 47th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Raymond Kentro (620) .................... . ....... 2534 Greyling Dr., San Diego 92123

324

Travel Allowances
William H. James, Sr. (375) ..... .. ... .. .. .. . .. . 582 Corbett Avenue, San Francisco 94114
Stanford C. Lee (139) ......... ... ..... ........... 1078 Clay Street, San Francisco 94108
Henry J.V. Baxter (168) . .. ............ . . . ...... 711 Canyon Road, Redwood City 94062
Charles B. Tilden (569) ........................ 741 Warden Avenue, San Leandro 94577
Roger J. Unland (494) ............... . . ... ........ ... 1916 Tiffin Road, Oakland 94602

By-Laws
Melvyn B. Stein (35) .......... ... . ..... ...... . ... 3740 Calavo Dr., Spring Valley 92077
Tillman Daley (124) .......... ......... .. .. ..... .4914 Pentz Road, R-4, Paradise 95969
Richard C. Hart (202) ......... ....... . .... ... .424 S. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills 90212
Timothy Wallace (778) ....... ............... ... 2112 Wood briar Court, Fullerton 92631
John L. Loomis (27) .......... .... . ....... ... .... ... P.O. Box 1086, Weaverville 96093
William T. Chantler (690) S.W. .............. . ...... . . 958 Hall Street, San Carlos 94070
Craig G. Riemer (259) J .W. . ............. .. ...... ... . . 5920 Shaker Dr., Riverside 92506

325

Memorial Service

Masonic History

Masonic Information & Responsibility

John R. Nocas (450) .. . . ................ 3500 W. Manchester, Apt.224, Inglewood 90305
Robert L. Hirt (810) .. ... .... . .. .... . .............. ... 6351 Glen Aire, Riverside 92506
James L. McDonald (315) .... .. ......... 6542 Manzanar Avenue, Pico Rivera 90660-3464
Robert E. Orwig (309) ............. . ............. . .... . 822 Washington, Delano 93215
William H. Smith (134) ... . ... ... ........ . . ... ....... 128 Kearney Way, Vacaville 95688
Melvin Lockwood (652) S.W. . . . .. ........ . . 10725 Rose Avenue, #213, Los Angeles 90034
David 0 . King (820) J.W. .. .... ................... 114 - 43rd St., Newport Beach 92663

Don Bohn (388) .. . . . ... ... . . ... .. .. ... .... 1481 Plymouth Avenue, San Francisco 94112
George Kutuvinis (730) ............................ 520 - 36th Street, Sacramento 95816
Carl J. Driscoll (748) ... .. .... .. ..... . .... 2823 Fremontia Drive, San Bernardino 92404
Robert J. Schulte (375) ...... . ... ...... ............ . 712 Glenice Street, Petaluma 94952
Zebulon E. Lamphear (175) ... ..... .... . ....... . . .4808 Eisenhower Way, Antioch 94509
James W. Newton (214) . ...... . .... . . ... ..... . ... . . 1401 Junewood Way, Oxnard 93030
James Madrid (290) ... .... ... ....... ...... . ..... . 647 Isabel Street, Los Angeles 90065
Billy R. Wilkerson (543) ...... .. .. ... . ......... 5318 Hanbury Street, Long Beach 90808
James R. Robbins (494) . .................... 317 Hanover Avenue, #104, Oakland 94606
Laurence I. Pitts (693) ....................... 115 S. Indian Avenue, Palm Springs 92262
Daniel R. Gaskill (328) ......... ............. 23930 Ocean Avenue, #149, Torrance 90505
Joel Rudof (623) . ........... ................... . . ... 4068 Sapphire Dr., Encino 91436
William E. Dunbar (19) . ... ..... .......... .. .... 9647 N. Hildreth Lane, Stockton 95212
Harry E. Estes (Ill) . . . .. . .. .. ... . . . .......... ........ 23 Marydith Lane, Chico 95926
Edward B.H. Yee (774) ....... . ... . . .. .. . ........ . . 223 Jack Lane, Honolulu, HI 96817
Gerald Winstanley (35) ...... . ....... . .............. . 2757 Tonto Way, San Diego 92117
Oliver Fisher (246) ....................... . .. . ..... 1457 Mural Drive, Claremont 91711
Thomas 0 . Murray (169) ... ....... ... . ........ . ... 2530 South Court, Palo Alto 94301
Robin Mansfield (35) S.W. .. .. ... . ... . .... . ..... . .. 3681 Liggett Drive, San Diego 92106
Robert T. Hill (789) J .W. . ... .... . ........ ...... ..... 5733 - 8th Ave., Sacramento 95820

Ritual
Joe Hammond (490) .......... .. . ... .. ... ........ 1117 Whitley Avenue, Corcoran 93213
Edward P. Margherio (347) ......... .. ............ 2503 Heidi Court, El Sobrante 94803
Louis A. Lasell, Sr. (40) . .... ........ .... .. ...... 5851 - 19th Avenue, Sacramento 95820
Ulysses G. Patropulos (260) ... . .. ... ... 1275 Washington St., Apt. 1, San Francisco 94108
William J. Taylor, Jr. (309) .... ................ . .... . ...... P.O. Box 781, Delano 93216
Samuel E. Harris (612) ... .. ...... . .... . .... 5044 Persimmon Avenue, Temple City 91780
James A. Boyle (351) ..... .. .................. 6177 MacArthur Way, Buena Park 90620
Albert S. Farias (409) ................. .. . . ..... 3279 Lower Road, Honolulu, HI 96822

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Code

Cemeteries

Varnum Paul (169) ............... 1170 Sacramento St., Apt. 17-B, San Francisco 94108
H. Francis Lewis (192) ............... ... 100 Font Blvd., No. 8-B, San Francisco 94132
Albert A. Axelrod (136) . ... . ................. 135 Jordan Avenue, San Francisco 94118
Ngai Ho Hong (375) ...... ..... ... ............ .42 Morrell Street, San Francisco 94109
Allan H. Fish (344) ...... . .... . ... . . ....... .. .. 65 Lopez Avenue, San Francisco 94116

327

Lester L. Shaw, Jr. (33) ................. ...... .......... P.O. Box 2428, Arnold 95223
Richard E. Tomes (317) . ............... ..... .. ... . . . 123 So.Wisconsin, Fallbrook 92028
Carl L. Shearer (16) ... ... .. ....... ...... .... . ....... ... P.O. Box 662, Foresthill 95631

Masonic Service Bureaus

Youth Orders

A. Bruce Ivie (813) .......... . ... ...... .... . .. 25064 Highspring Street, Newhall 91321
Ray H. Rookard (480) .... .. .. ......... .. . ........ 2024 - 42nd Avenue, Oakland 94601
Jesse C. Canale (442) ........................ 3436 Brandywine Street, San Diego 92117
Merrill R. Shelley (663) . ...................... .......... ... P.O. Box 812, Ojai 93023
DeMay H. White (790) .......... . . ..... ... 19545 Sherman Way, -I, Reseda 91335-3434

Donald L. Griffiths (612) .... . . ................. 9907 Nadine Street, Temple City 91780
Richard M. Mecham (272) . ............ ......... 1725 N. Roosevelt Ave., Altadena 91001
Lowell R. Johnson (722) ..... ... . . .. ....... . ...... 15360 Union Avenue, San Jose 95124
Dean F. Bradley (778) ................................ 2755 W. Orange, Anaheim 92804
David R. Alexander (339) . . .. ... . .. ........... ... 2430 Greyville Drive, La Habra 90631
Leroy L. Ervin (3) ........ . . .... ...... . .......... 1081 Teesdale Road, Yuba City 95991
Richard F. Nielsen, Jr. (695) .................... 3500 Akers -II, Bakersfield 93309-6456
Drury W. Parks (193) ....... .... . ... .. .. . ... ...... .... .. 836 "I.:' Street, Eureka 95501
David H. Denbow (604) ........ . .... ..... ...... 3281 Terra Cotta Drive, San Jose 95135
E. Earl Wheeler (278) . .. . .... .... .. .. .... 999 E. Valley Blvd., Apt. 115, Alhambra 91801
Marion C. Bohannon, Jr. (446) .. . . ........ 2217 Vallecito Drive, Hacienda Heights 91745
William A. Sinclair (325) . ...... ........ 700 W. Walnut Avenue, -58, Orange 92668-2249
James R. Doty (676) ..... ... . . ................... 3185 Longdale Drive, San Jose 95124
Thomas G. Cook (745) ....... .................... 738 Niantic Drive, Foster City 94404
Eugene H. Bowman,Sr. (590) ...... .............. 1803-1/2 W. 11th Street, Upland 91786
Ray Davies (596) ... ......... .. . ................ 9432 Asbury Circle, Westminster 92683
James Eakins (828) ... . ....................... .... 12742 Dean Street, Santa Ana 92705
Howard P. Green (634) .. . ... .... ...... ...... ... .. 15125 Arlette Drive, Victorville 92392
Max E. Hiles (708) ... . . ........... .. ....... .. .. . . 2212 Continental, Costa Mesa 92627
John H. Hooley (209) ... . ... .. ......... . ...... 1415 Ella Street, San Luis Obispo 93401
Richard A. Paris (247) . .... ...... ... ......... . . .. . 1446 East Austin Way, Fresno 93704
W. Patrick Riggs (341) ..... . . . ... . ....... .... ... 1331 Los Prietos Court, Oxnard 93033
Benjamin F. Davis, Jr. (99) ....... .. ................. . 1947 Janet Court, Merced 95340
Wallace A. Kelley (180) .......... ................ 3022 Hartley Drive, Santa Rosa 95405
W. Gaylon Fagan (808) ............................. 617 Bowlen Drive, Broderick 95605
Robert M. Carlson (325) ................. 1401-261 El Norte Parkway, San Marcos 92069
Julian H. Cambridge (260) ......... .................. 5456 Trask Street, Oakland 94601
Donald Burnett (480) . . .......... ............... 3005 Bonnie Lane, Pleasant Hill 94523
George H. Cronin (372) ........ ........... 200 West Midway, Space 156, Anaheim 92805
Michael D.T. Sanders (254) . .... . .. .......... ... ...... . P.O. Box 437, Palo Cedro 96073
Max W. King (756) ......... . ..... .... ... ..... . 3772 Sierrawood Court, Concord 94519
Richard Villasenor (21) . . ...................... 2518 Komomai Dr., Pearl City, HI 96782
Ivan Forbes (343) .................. . ................... 13444 Leach St., Sylmar 91342
Dick Lyddon (242) .... . .............. . .. ....... .. ........ P.O. Box 521, Chester 96020
William E. Horseman (575) ......... .. ... . ......... P.O. Box 771, Fall River Mills 96028
Tisdale P. DeCoe (3) . .. . . . ... ........ . ... . . .. ..... 3111 Patriot Way, Sacramento 95827
Russell Barton (576) .. . ..... . . . . . . .......... . .... ....... 1513 Fairglen, El Cajon 92021

U. S. Constitution Observance
Arnold C. Happel (699) ........................ 11891 Pine Street, Los Alamitos 90720
William J. Voerster (690) ... . .... ..... ......... .. 308 Torino Dr., -5, San Carlos 90470
Warren E ..Clark (209) ......................... 9400 Asuncion Road, Atascadero 93422
William Downie (827) ..... .. . ...... .. .. ........ Route I, Box 313, Lake Isabella 93240
Maurice R. Crosby (131) ......... ....... . ... ... 6408 Rampart Drive, Carmichael 95608
Stuart E. Dawes (381) ....... .. .. . . ....... ....... 259 Cassou Road, San Marcos 92069
Arthur Seddon (406) ............. ....... .... 2070 W. Mountain Street, Glendale 91201
George W. Petri (511) .. ... ... ..... . ........ 1085 Tasman Drive, -176, Sunnyvale 94089
Jack M. Bates (752) ........ .......... .. 1146 - 4th Street, -352, Santa Rosa 95404-4007
Fred Coleman (278) ......... . .. . . ........ 5220 N. Muscatel Avenue, San Gabriel 91776
Stewart A. Dalie Ill (564) ............ . .. . . ..... 1372 Versailles Avenue, Alameda 94501
Ron L. Poorman (367) ...... . .. . .... . ..... . ............ 1731 Oxford, Pasadena 91104
Thomas C. Holm (790) .. . ................ 23726 Community Street, Canoga Park 91304
M . Allan Curry (726) .............. ... ... ... .. 33364 Washington Drive, Yucaipa 92399
Raymond R. Frazier (670) . ... ....... . .. .. ... 1921 Woodcrest Avenue, La Habra 90631
Hon Wa Wat (774) .. .... . ... . ......... 1921 Pacific Heights Road, Honolulu, HI 96813
Charles A. Cooper (357) .. .. .. .............. ... 6341 Sheridan Way, Buena Park 90620
Allen S. Beddoe (561) ........ . . ............ ............ 5125 Arlene, San Diego 92117
Sidney Applbaum (674) ..... .. . ........ . .. ..... 1014 E. Carson, -3, Long Beach 90807
Roger M. Denman (259) ...... ... . .... . ..... ....... 5351 Walter Street, Riverside 92504
Sam L. Levin (529) ........ ........ ......... 11145 McDonald Street, Culver City 90230
Franklin E. Eastman (763) ... . . ... ....... .. .... 3500 Perlita Avenue, Los Angeles 90039
Charles W. Foster (528) ........... . 6006 Fair Avenue, Apt. -3, North Hollywood 91606
James J. Nash, Jr. (332) ....... .............. 2079 Stonewood Court, San Pedro 90732
C. Rick Hutchinson (465) . ...... . . .. ........... 8630 E. Herndon Avenue, Clovis 93612
Everett M. Burchell (187) ....... ................. ....... 701 Second St., Gilroy 95020
George T . Melugin (341) S.W ......... .. ....... 416 Pearson Road, Port Hueneme 93041
Robert G. Schmidt (399) J.W . ... ............... . . ... ... . 5355 Lenora, San Jose 95124
Ralph C. Dills (765) ..................... .. ..... 5050 State Capitol, Sacramento 95814
(Consultant)

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Donald G. Ingalls (542) ..... ............... ... . 1333 Beachmont Street, Ventura 93003
Wm.Rhodes Hervey,Jr. (202) . . .. .... . .... .. ... .... 1806 E. Balboa Blvd., Balboa 92661
Kenneth P. Elliott (327) . ... .. . ............ . . 2850 Magnolia Avenue, Long Beach 90806
W. Ben Sorrells (672) . .. . . . ..... .. . ... .... . .. . .. P.O. Box 2053, Newport Beach 92663
Everett L. Stumbaugh (572) ........ . . ... . . ....... P.O. Box 779, Hermosa Beach 90254

Taxation
Vinson Brice (677) ..... ....... ................. .. .. 2148 Manning, Los Angeles 90025
William J. Moir (400) ........ ... .............. 426 Peninsula Avenue, San Mateo 94401
Albert F. Simmons (368) . .... .. ...... ....... ..... 32302 Alipaz Street, Space 135,
. San Juan Capistrano 92675

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Public Information

Film & Creative Projects

Roger S. Murray (762) Chrmn. No. Cal .................... P.O. Box 49, Montara 94037
William R. Teague (767) Chrmn. So. Cal .......... 11061 Granger Place, Northridge 91326
Norman Schultz (369) ......................... 38243 - 5th Place West, Palmdale 93551
Jay Rider (833) ................................. 2302 N. Olive Lane, Santa Ana 92706
Terry T. Sargent (273) ......... . .... 21600 Bloomfield, Apt. 42, Hawaiian Gardens 90716
Donald L. Leach (732) ................................ .425 Day Road, Ventura 93003
Harry M. Foster (369) ..................... 1330 Federal Avenue, -8, Los Angeles 90025
Thomas M. Sagar (576) ............................ 2282 Dehesa Road, El Cajon 92021
Henry Rieger, Jr. (739) ....................... 1440 Chamberlain Road, Pasadena 91103
Homer A. Cundiff (598) ......................... 2135 Aupuni St., Honolulu, HI 96817
Otis B. Hart (3) .......................... 1917 Carrigan Court, West Sacramento 95691
Neal R. Brittin (828) ................................ 5723 Jewell Road, Paradise 95969
Curtis Betz (41) .................... . .......... 1650 Beechwood Drive, Martinez 94553
(Consultant)
Douglas B. MacMullen (202) .......... . ....... P.O. Box 5201, Sherman Oaks 91413-5201
(Consultant)

Ellis Mills (328) .................................. P.O. Box 85, Wofford Heights 93285
Royal Dano (637) ............................... 517 - 20th Street, Santa Monica 90402
Kenneth B.C. McCubbins (467) ............ 5822 S. Mansfield Avenue, Los Angeles 90043
Donald A. Hull (447) .......................... 20509 Madrona Avenue, Torrance 90503
Raymond J. Nicholson (567) ... . ................ 3613 Ocana Avenue, Long Beach 90808
Paul J. Votava, Jr. (790) ................... 13252 Whistler Avenue, Granada Hills 91344
Michael M. Marsellos (415) ................... 6873 Fountain Avenue, Los Angeles 90025
Robert D. Gustafson (506) ...................... 5632 Norwich Avenue, Van Nuys 91411
Sergei Goncharoff (475) ............................ 6129 Glen Holly, Hollywood 90068
Philip Gray (415) .............................. 5135 Avenida Hacienda, Tarzana 91356
Walter L. Kemmerer (332) ..... . ............... 1342 N.Avalon Blvd., Wilmington 90744
(Consultant)

Insurance
Dennis Shaffer (437) ................................ 314 E. Ave., J-7, Lancaster 93535
Joseph Matich (95) ........ . ..... . ................ 6 Patricia Lane, Sutter Creek 95685
James E. Blanchard (111) ............................. 1887 Modoc Drive, Chico 95928
Ritchie Waterhouse (392) ................ 29 Oceanaire Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes 90274

Library and Museum
C. John Bellman, Jr. (120) ............ 1185 Singingwood Court, -4, Walnut Creek 94595
William Kludjian (352) ........................ 14503 Dunne! Avenue, La Mirada 90638
Bernie Katz (120) ............................. 1864 - 28th Avenue, San Francisco 94122
Dee L. West (435) .................... .497 Forestview Drive, South San Francisco 94080
David M. Shull (480) .................................. 23 Crest Road, Lafayette 94549
Vincent F. Cooper (551) ........................... 1732 Julian Court, El Cerrito 94530
Louis J. Wells (435) ............................... 3115 Burdeck Drive, Oakland 94602

Commercialism
Sherwood C. Kingsley (445) .................. .4159 Keystone Avenue, Culver City 90232
Donald H. Hargraves (708) ........................ 229 Grandview, Laguna Beach 92651
Robert C. Coe (322) ...................... 598-A West Huntington Drive, Arcadia 91006
John T. Ward (272) ............................... 602 Fairview, Apt. 4, Arcadia 91006
Charles K. Richardson (316) ....................... 371 Bethel Avenue,-59, Sanger 93657
Robert E. Griffin (368) ............... 48303 No. 20th St. West, Sp. 194, Lancaster 93534
Richard L. Zweig (832) .................... 1217 Palm Avenue, Huntington Beach 92648
J. Patrick Corrigan (21) ............................. P.O. Box 67, Honolulu, HI 96810

329

Quitman Masonic Temple
William H. Lambert (13) ......................... 537 Coyote Street, Nevada City 95959
Demar B. Dundas (13) ......................... 547 W.Broad Street, Nevada City 95959
John J. Glancy (IOI) ............................................ Box 754, Alta 95701
Ronald P. Fawcett (51) ............................ 1100 Tokayana Ranch, Colfax 95713

Lodge Resources Development
David H. Farlee (677) ........................ 24620 Eilat Street, Woodland Hills 91367
W. Blair Rixon (345) .................................. P.O. Box 370, Brentwood 94513
John W. Brown (505) ......................... 11317 Tunnel Hill Way, Gold River 95670
Donald G. Souza (699) ........................... 11708 Pruess Avenue, Downey 90241
James 0. Fourr (822) ......................................... Drawer F, Boron 93516
Bennett K.C. Ing (443) ..................... 1624 Kanunu St., Apt. 804, Honolulu 96814
Gordon Vaughan (280) ............................... P.O. Box 336, Tranquillity 93668
Merle L. Coon (632) .............................. 3949 - 69th Street, San Diego 92115
Herbert E. Newell (403) ......... . ..... . . .............. 17 Cedar Lane, Blairsden 96103

Certificates, Awards & Special Presentations
Thomas J. McKimson (355) ............... 1203 Bienveneda Ave, Pacific Palisades 90272
Albert Cowan (542) .......................... 6330 Vicland Place, No.Hollywood 91606
J. Kirby Cogeshall (528) .................... 11515 Washington Blvd., Los Angeles 90066
Kenneth W. Kessel (222) ................................ P.O. Box 207, Roseville 95678
William A. Anklam (113) ........................ 265 Castro Street, San Leandro 94577
Edward A. Fromsky (42) ................... 1031 No. Laurel Avenue, Los Angeles 90046
John E. Neff (194) ............................ 1225-344 Vienna Drive, Sunnyvale 94089

Retirement Pension Plan
Columbia Temple
Joseph F. Kohler (33) ............................... P.O. Box 774, Angels Camp 95222
John Richards (8) ............................... 668 E. Bald Mt. Road, Sonora 95370
Robert S. Rathbone (76) ............................ P.O. Box 636, Angels Camp 95222
Lew Morris (8) .............. .. ...... . ...... 10956 Green Street, -235, Columbia 95310

Myron E. Smith (394) ..................... 3800 N. Bradford St., No.172, Laverne 91750
Harry M. Schersching (633) ......................... 8346 Visalia Street, Ventura 93004
Robert D. Lintner (169) ..................... 730 Moraga Street, -1, San Francisco 94122
William A. Fishback (677) ...................... 1685 Valley View Road, Glendale 91202
Kenneth H. Boucher (698) .................... 6742 Bedford Avenue, Los Angeles 90056

330

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Masonic Widows Program
Herbert W. Cahn (120) ... .... .... . ...... 808 Comet Drive, Apt. 307, Foster City 94404
Norman E. Hale (574) . . . . . . . . .. .. . ... . .. .. . . .. . 6012 Lomond Drive, San Diego 92120
Robert P. Higgin (682) . ......... . .... . .... .. ... 1181 West Flora Street, Barstow 92311
Gordon 0. Anderson (343) . .... . .. . .... . ... 15455 Glenoaks Blvd., Sp.46, Sylmar 91342
Britton Miller (594) ... .. ... . .... .. ......... . . 3182 Rowena Drive, Los Alamitos 90720
Hardy W. Wallen (683) . .. . .. . .. .. .. . ...... .. 7686 E. Benbow Drive, Garberville 95440
Richard E. Santiestevan (535) .... ... ... .. ... .. .... . .. .. 30840 Rue De La Pierre,
Rancho Palos Verdes 90274
Fred M. Hansen (447) ... .. . . .. .. . .... . . . ... . ... . 3126 Torrance Blvd., Torrance 90503
Derwin E. Moss (188) .. . .... . .... . ... ... ... . ... . ... 6708 Aitken Drive, Oakland 94611
Merle L. Runolfson (243) ...... . . . . .. ..... . . 1654 Crescent Avenue, Castro Valley 94564
Rodney C. Dausse (388) ..... . .... . ... . ....... Rt.3, 3965 Via Ventura, Red Bluff 96080
Robert H . Cain (26) . . ...... . . . ........ . ...... . 4100 Green Valley Road, Rescue 95672
Claud A. Bower (236) . . . ....... .. ... .. .... .. 8830 So. Whitworth Road, Gustine 95322
David Escamillo (180) . ..... . .. . .... . .... ... . . 326 Sunnyslope Avenue, Petaluma 94952
Robert D. McLaren (202) . . ........ ... ... .. . 5550 Emerywood Drive, Buena Park 90621
Vincent J. Dutra (463) . . . ... . .... .. .... . . . . . 17265 James Lex Lane, Morgan Hill 95037
Clifford E. Clause (40) ... .. ... . . . . . .... .. ... . 5822 Spilman Avenue, Sacramento 95819
Ernest A. Reichardt (802) ... .. ... . .... ... ... 56998 Crestview Drive, Yucca Valley 92284
A. Lester Hutchison (486) ......... . ...... . ...... 2708 Arnold Street, Bakersfield 93305
Harvey C. Ferguson (221) ... .. .. ... .... . ... . . . ... 1428 Bear Creek Drive, Bishop 93514
Arthur H. Scott (326) .... .. .. . 636 Clearview, P.O . Box 5658, Mohave Valley, AZ 86440
James A. Guiddy (710) ... .. . . . . ... ... .... . .. .... .. . 3120 Merced Place, Oxnard 93033
Walter W. Hawk (572) ... .. ... . . . . ... . . .. . .. ... ... 645 Sierra Street, El Segundo 90245
Ralph A. Grandy (461) . . ... . . . .. ... . ... .. . 1937 San Jose Avenue, San Francisco 94112
William Penca (262) .. .. .... .. ... .. .... . .... . .. 1112 E. Hickory Street, Lompoc 93436
Robert J . Lehman (507) ........ . . . . . ... 10710 El Centro Avenue, Fountain Valley 92708
Fred C . Bryan (I 17) ... . .... .. .... . ... . ... 13653 Fair Oaks Blvd., Citrus Heights 95610
David M. Harris (681) . ...... . ...... . .. .. ... . . . .. 2357 Linden Street, Dos Palos 93620
G. Wesley Parr (685) . ... ... . . . .. . ..... . ... ... ... 8333 Bevan Street, San Gabriel 91775
Russell C. Eikenberry (685) . . . .. ..... . . . . ... . .. 26230 Falsterbor Drive, Sun City 92381
William W. Widenham (128) .. .. .... .. . . . . .... .. . 809 Kings Avenue, Chowchilla 93610
Thomas C. Geary (168) . .... ....... ... .. .. 33 Claremont Ave., -I, Redwood City 94062
Anthony J. Muscatell, Jr. (246) .. .. .. ... . . . .. . . . ... .. 1171 E. Olive St., Pomona 91766
Christopher T.F.K. Smith (409) ... .. .. ... .. .. 44-737 Hoonani Place, Kaneohe, HI 96744

Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles
Morris C. Guss (42) .. ... ... ... .. .. .. . 969 Hilgard Avenue, Apt.SOI, Los Angeles 90024
Marton D. Leaderman (814) .. . .. ... . ..... .. ... ... . 178 So.Formosa, Los Angeles 90036
Morris Koretz (520) ... . .... .... .. . ... ... .. ... 1525 So.Ogden Drive, Los Angeles 90019

Grand Master's Advisory Council
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) . ..... . ... . .. . . .. ... 1624 McClaren Drive, Carmichael 95608
Robert S. Wayne (499) . .. .. .... . ... .. .... .. .... -45 Saratoga Circle, Sacramento 95825
Michael L. Sellick (499) ....... ... ... . ... 6504 Meadowcreek Way, Citrus Heights 95610

Charitable Gifts
Warren W. Wildman (336) ....... . . . .. . . . .. .. . 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

331

Masonic Leadership Workshop
Everett Houser (594) . ... ... .. .. .. .... . .... .. .. 260 Atlantic Avenue, Long Beach 90802
Melvin F. Schuster (687) ........ .. .. .. . .... . . . ... 245 Bobier Dr., -73, Vista 92083-1932
M. William Holsinger (259) . ... .... ... .. .. ... ... . 5525 Chatham Drive, Riverside 92506
Verne W. Hendrix (448) ... . ..... ... . ......... 75 Sun Valley Drive, Walnut Creek 94596
Jack W. Joe, Jr. (214) . .. .. ... . ... ... ... . ... . ...... . . 328 Teloma Drive, Ventura 93003
William B. Jones (685) .. ... . ... ... .. ... . ..... . 7130 Sultana Avenue, San Gabriel 91775
Irving A. Berliner (120) . . ... . ... . .. . 295 Buckingham Way, Apt.SOI, San Francisco 94132
Roger S. Murray (762) . .... .. .... . ... ... .. . ..... .. ....... P.O. Box 49, Montara 94037
Attilio G. Parisi (685) . ... .. ...... . ... . ...... 840 So.400 East -23, St. George, UT 84770
Kenneth KW. Lau (774) ......... .. .. . .......... 1224 Koko Head Ave., Honolulu 96816
Donald A. Nielsen (380) ......... .. . . . 20041 Crown Reef Lane, Huntington Beach 92646
Ernie Pooleon (652) .. .... . . .. . .. .. . .... .. ... .. ... . 1444 Opechee Way, Glendale 91208
Larry Ard (41) ...... . ...... .. ... . ... . .... ... ... ... ... . 245 'H' Street, Martinez 94553
A. Bruce Ivie (813) .... .. . . . . ... ... .. . .. ....... 25064 Highspring Street, Newhall 91321
Lloyd V. Smith (392) . ... .. .. .. . . . ... ... .... 5356-112 Fairview Blvd., Los Angeles 90056
W. Ben Sorrells (672) . . . . . ... .. ... . . .. .... . ...... P.O. Box 2053, Newport Beach 92663
C. Clifford Geddes (19) . .... . .... .. ... .. .. . ..... .. ... . .. S Rio Vista Drive, Lodi 95240
Theodore L. Picco (12) ........ . .......... . . . . .. . .... . .. 158 Garth Street, Napa 94558
James 8. Brown (634) .. .. . . .. .. ... .. ... .. .. .. 13965 Smoketree Road, Victorville 92392
R. Stephen Doan (548) . . . .. . .. . . . .... . . 6411 Seabryn Drive, Rancho Palos Verdes 90274
Thomas Luby (444) .. . ... . . . .. ... . . . . . .. . .. .. . .. 1260 La Brea Lane, Carpinteria 93013
William C. Thomas (314) .. . .. .. ... .... .. .. . .... .. . . 740 Butternut Lane, Corona 91720
Robert L. Sills (520) ... . .. . .. . .... . . .. . .. . ...... 12544 Allin Street, Los Angeles 90066
Delmer W. May (242) ... .. . ..... . ........ 5193 Walnut Park Drive, Santa Barbara 93111
Arnold C. Happel (699) . ........... .. .......... . 11891 Pine Street, Los Alamitos 90720
Herbert W. Cahn (120) . .... . ... ... ... .. .. 808 Comet Drive, Apt. 307, Foster City 94404
Donald L. Griffiths (612) ......... . ........... . . 9907 Nadine Street, Temple City 91780
Melvyn B. Stein (35) .... ... .. .. ... .. .... . . . . ... 3740 Calavo Drive, Spring Valley 92077
Frank Fiedler (371) . .... . ... .. . .. . .. . . . . .. ... ... .. P.O. Box 11146, Honolulu, HI 96828

Sojourners
Frank Stimson (789) . ... .. ... . ..... ... ... . ... .. .. 3677 Halter Court, Sacramento 95821
Wes Willoughby (331) .... . .... . . .... .. .... .. .. 1043 Balboa Street, Pacific Grove 93950
(Co-Chair man)
Milton T. Simmons (166) ... . ... . ..... . .... .. 2878 Encina Camino, Walnut Creek 94598
Howard K. Noble (504) .. . ...... . .. . ... . .. . ... 6341 Vera Crest Drive, Long Beach 90815
C. Harold Underwood (27) .. . ... .. .... . .... . .... .. ... P.O. Box 1446, Weaverville 96093
Harold A. Whitmyer (33) .... . ... . . .. ... .. ..... . .. .. . . . . P.O. Box 574, Murphys 95247
Bill A. Jones (580) .... . .... . ........ ... ... ... . . .... .. .. P.O. Box 756, Ramona 92065
John F. Rankin (13) . . . .... . ..... .... ... . ... . . . ... . 819 Zion Street, Nevada City 95959
Clayton D'Arcy (103) . . . .. ... . ... . ... . ... . .. .. . .... . . 1450 - 5th Avenue, Oroville 95965
Earle C. Arbuckle (Ill) .. .. ... . . . . ... ... ... . .. 384 E. Washington Avenue, Chico 95926
John McLauchlan (220) ....... . ..... . ............ .. .. .. 10425 S. Dolan, Downey 90241
Guido J. Bianchi (384) . .. ... ... ... .. 1020 W. Evan Hewes Hwy., Sp.28, El Centro 92243
Ralph E. Swann (715) . . .. ........... ........... ... 1117 N.Myers Street, Burbank 91506
Theodore Ketterer (574) . .. ... .... . .. . . .. ... . . 9395 Harritt Rd., -3, Lakeside 92040-3527
Robert A. Burger (275) . . ..... . . . . . .. . . . ........ 12701 Orange Blossom, Oakdale 95361
Joel H. Springer Ill (462) . . ..... ... . .... .. ... .. 771 - 33rd Avenue, San Francisco 94121
Elio Poletti (10) . . . . .. ... .. ... . .... . . . ........ . .... . . 6464 Shaw Circle, Magalia 95954
James E. Holtdorf (84) .. . . ..... . . . . .... .. .... . ....... . P.O. Box 277, Red Bluff 96080

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Layman's Night Speakers Panel

California Masonic Memorial Temple
Board of Trustee

Irving A. Berliner (120) ............ 295 Buckingham Way, Apt. 501, San Francisco 94132
M. William Holsinger (259) ...................... 5525 Chatham Drive, Riverside 92506
Ford E. Long (375) ........................... 1551 - 44th Avenue, San Francisco 94122
Haven R. Manin (13) ................................. P.O. Box 37, Grass Valley 95945
William F. Poynter (370) ........................ 283 Oak Tree Drive, Santa Rosa 95401
Ralph W. Gaines (226) ....................... 1082 W. Hillsdale Blvd., San Mateo 94403
Laurence Drivon (471) ....................... 3034 No. American Street, Stockton 95204
Mark E. Schrock (612) ............................ 5200 Irvine Blvd., -25, Irvine 92720
Melvin F. Schuster (687) ......................... 245 Bobier Dr., -73, Vista 92083-1932
Verne W. Hendrix (448) ...................... 75 Sun Valley Drive, Walnut Creek 94596
Earl G. Marshall (166) ............................. 1800 Marion Avenue, Novato 94947
Edgar O. Andrews (789) ........................ 4900 Richwood Court, Fair Oaks 95628
Robert L. Sorensen (686) ......................... 2519 Heide Court, El Sobrante 94803
Robert E. Crist (372) .......................... 18917 Alexander Avenue, Cerritos 90701
Lee Strong (670) .......................... 13708 Via del Palma, Apt. B, Whittier 90602
James E. Bacon (437) ..................... 2550 East Avenue I, Sp.108, Lancaster 93535
Charles H. Alexander (111) ........................ 1025 W. Lindo Avenue, Chico 95926
C. Clifford Geddes (19) ................................. 5 Rio Vista Drive, Lodi 95240
Jim F. Kleinknight (366) ................. . ............ 656 West Bullard, Fresno 93704
Warren E. Clark (209) ......................... 9400 Asuncion Road, Atascadero 93422
John R. Stewart (818) ............................. .4953 Augusta Way, San Jose 95129
Burns H. Hamlett (778) ......................... 14312 E. Ramo Drive, LaMirada 90638
Jack R. Evans (626) .......................... 87 E. Emerson Street, Chula Vista 92011
John S. Felt (402) ................................. 350 West 'K' Street, Brawley 92227
A. Glenn MacBride (739) ....................... 15685 Highway 9, Boulder Creek 95006
Thomas F. Joy (290) .......................... 20400 Lake Canyon Drive, Walnut 91789
James G. Fletcher (99) ................................ 2259 Dayna Way, Merced 95340
Donald A. Nielsen (380) .............. 20041 Crown Reef Lane, Huntington Beach 92646
Glen A. Worrell (773) ....................... 3500 Candlewood Drive, Bakersfield 93306
William J. Murphy (106) .............................. 3173 Brian Court, Arcata 95521
Ernest E. Lewis (756) ............................. 1815 Kenwood Drive, Concord 94519
Maurice L. Hamm (691) ............................ 638 Kevin Court, Ridgecrest 93555
Anthony J. deContreras (801) ................... 94-1045 Upai Place, Waipahu, HI %797
Philip I. Hylton (290) ................. 10450 Morning Glory Ave., Fountain Valley 92708

Special Study Committee
(CMC Section 2048 & 2050)
Theodore Meriam (111) ................. 1675 Manzanita Avenue, Space 29, Chico 95926
E. Arthur Haglund (480) ............. 5433 Quail Ridge Circle, Spokane, WA 99223-6388
W. Barrett Ross (368) .......................... 1864 Verdugo Vista Dr., Glendale 91208
James W. McDonald (332) .................... 2012 Stonewood Court, San Pedro 90732
John L. Loomis (27) ................................ P.O. Box 1086, Weaverville 96093
Leo E. Anderson (355) ................. 333 So. Hope St., 35th Floor, Los Angeles 90071
(Consultant)

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
California Freemason Publication Board
John W. Driskell (499) ...................... 1111 California Street, San Francisco 94108
Robert A. Klinger (120) ..................... 1111 California Street, San Francisco 94108
Ralph H. Head (352) ........................... 492 Scenic Drive, Santa Barbara 93103
(Editor-in-Chief)

333

Stanley M. Cazneaux (191) ......................... 12662 Orella Coun, Saratoga 95070
Robert 0. West (26) ............................... 2567 Baker Road, Placerville 95667
Robert A. Bush (435) ................. 1050 North Point, Apt. 1601, San Francisco 94109
Albert C. McGuirk (139) ............................. 25 Conejo Drive, Millbrae 94030
Davis B. Leonard (322) ................... 1422 So. 9th Avenue, Hacienda Heights 91745
Sam M. Pavlovich (366) .............................. 3023 W. Palo Alto, Fresno 93711
Jack R. Levitt (35) .......................... 7467-161 Mission Gorge Rd., Santee 92071

Exec. Vice President & General Manager
Loren M. Stritenberger (344)
1111 California Street
San Francisco 94108
(415) 776-7014

Assistant Manager
Terry Hobson (260)
(415) 776-4702

Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Ernie Pooleon (652) .............................. 1444 Opechee Way, Glendale 91208
Wilbur L. Misner (244) ...................... .4366 Montgomery Street, Oakland 94611
Wilbur W. Holtzclaw (609) ............. 10695 Van Stralen Way, Rancho Cordova 95670
Thomas J. Meraz (I) ........................... 149 E. Vista Avenue, Daly City 94014
Arthur E. Buss (161) ........................ 1217 Country Club Drive, Modesto 95356
Sam Chadnow (623) ............................... 9248 Airdrome, Los Angeles 90035
Larrie D. Ayers (632) .............................. 8605 Dent Drive, San Diego 92119
William F. Lee (371) .............. 1777 Ala Moana Blvd.,Apt.426, Honolulu, HI 96815
J. Norman Roberts (621) ............... 9752 S.Bartley Avenue, Santa Fe Springs 90670
William E. Caldwell (123) ...................... 15450 Pozzan Road, Healdsburg 95448
Herbert Neely (79) ................................ 4597 Campton Road, Eureka 95501
Edwin C. Coffin III (331) .................... 1031 Jewell Avenue, Pacific Grove 93950
F. J. Potter (824) ................................. P.0.Box 848, Port Hueneme 93041
Floyd L. Merrell (373) ........................ 2266 Fox Hills Drive, Los Angeles 90064
Roy Galloway (652) .......................... 3981 El Lado Drive, La Crescenta 91214
L. Lawrence Baird (523) ...................... 17122 Bellflower Blvd., Bellflower 90706
Emmett F. Hill (297) ......................... 5954 Dunsmuir Avenue, Dunsmuir 96025
Henry E. Noguchi (625) .................... 3816 Buckingham Road, Los Angeles 90008
James M. Ray (676) ........................ 1225 Vienna Dr., Sp. 76, Sunnyvale 94089
Orestes Righellis (224) .............................. 335 Bear Mtn. Blvd., Arvin 93203
Charles A. Grossman (380) ............... 10142 Beverly Drive, Huntington Beach 92646
James S. Kemper (825) ........................... 1343 Vernal Avenue, Fremont 94539
George Schrum (381) .......................... 1825 So.Horne Street, Oceanside 92054
John W. Cathey (648) ...................... 1659 North Guthrie, San Bernardino 92404
Nelson Bartoo (150) ................................ P .0. Box 565, Los Molinos 96055
Glenn C. Annis (41) .............................. 2570 Orange Street, Martinez 94553
Patrick L. Horn (594) ......................... 6814 Almada Street, Long Beach 90815
Harold S. Hamre (13) .............................. P .0. Box 983, Cedar Ridge 95924
Douglas S. Veale (732) .................... 6934 Westchester Way, Citrus Heights 95621
Thomas W. Hedgecock (512) ................ 2610 S. Bedford Street, Los Angeles 90034
Joe A. Dines (272) .................... 151 E. California Street, Apt. -1, Arcadia 91006
Charles W. Jackson (392) ........................... 4861 Ambrose, Los Angeles 90027
Francis B. Holland (103) ............................ 107 Riverview Dr., Oroville 95965
Sam Lones (1) ................................ 882 Vista Grande Ave., Millbrae 94030
Everett R. Peugh (312) ..................... 638 Meadowlark Avenue, Los Banos 93635
(Consultant)

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Homes of California
Board of Trustee

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS

Kermit A. Jacobson (627) ............ . .. . ...... .. .417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena 91106
John· M. Palmer, Jr. (809) . ................. 12141 Ballantine Drive, Los Alamitos 90720
Hambleton F. Leas (366) ....... .... .. .. ... . ....... 737 East Saginaw Way, Fresno 93704
Chester R. MacPhee (169) .............. .. .. .. ........ 4SO Fairway Drive, Novato 94947
Jack R. Vickers (666) ... ...... .......... . 11031 White Oak Avenue, Granada Hills 91344
Ver! B. Lobb (40S) ........................ . .. .. 2714 Starfall Drive, La Crescenta 91214
Alvin J. Weis (480) ........ . . .. ............. . .. 627 N. Silverado Drive, Lafayette 94549
Ralph M. Hinds (122) . . ....... . ......... 1476 Creekside Dr., C-212, Walnut Creek 94596
Ronald A. Sherod (699) . ..... . ............. 11962 Weatherby Road, Los Alamitos 90720
Jack R. Levitt (3S) .... ......... .... .... .... . 7467-161 Mission Gorge Rd., Santee 92071
Leo B. Mark (10) ..... . ... ... .. ..... ..... .. . . ..... 704 Bicknell Road, Los Gatos 95030
Stanley L. Channon (259) ................ . .... ... 2361 Daventry Road, Riverside 92S06
Administrator
Home at Union City (Adults)
J. Burton Brown (334)
34400 Mission Blvd., Union City 94S87
(41S) 471-3434
Administrator
Home at Covina (Children)
John A. Rose (324)
16SO Old Badillo St., Covina 91724
(818) 331-0021

California Masonic Foundation
Board of Trustees
Robert J . Valdisera (6S7) ... . ... .. ..... ... ... . . . ..... 5468 Cloud Way, San Diego 92117
Richard Pierce (12) ......... ..... ..... . .... .... ...... 1660 Silverado Trail, Napa 94SS9
Thomas J . May (S7) ... . .... ... ........... . . 32S Mockingbird Circle, Santa Rosa 9S40S
Arthur A. Perry (616) ..... . . . ............ ... ........ 919 So. West vale, Anaheim 92804
James B. Bouick Ill (139) . ... ........... ... ...... 2704 Hallmark Drive, Belmont 94002
Dexter W. Lum (774) ...... .... ............. . . . 1019-201 Smith St., Honolulu, HI 96817
Edgar L. Friedman (520) ... .. .. ... .. .... . ....... 809 Gretna Green Way, Apt.104,
Los Angeles 90049
Andrew J. Nocas (467) . .... .. ........ . .. ..... !SSS Kensington Road, San Marino 91108
Donald C. Briggs (761) .................... 2713 Doverton Square, Mountain View 94040
George T. Sluder (773) .................... .. .. 6601 Eucalyptus -19S, Bakersfield 93306
Robert N. Deter (611) ...... . . . ....... .. . ....... 22309 Bahar Street, Canoga Park 91304
Ted Lindsey (700) ...... ...... . .. . ... . . .. .. ......... 2814 E. Sussex Way, Fresno 93726
Clyde M. Cole, Jr. (499) ... .. ... ... .... ... . . . . .. 7386 West Parkway, Sacramento 9S823
Richard S. Weber (407) .. .. ....... ... ..... 2615 Camino Del Rio South, San Diego 92108
Lloyd G. Hoffmeister (5) . . ......... . .. .. . ..... ........ 205 Carlisle Way, Benicia 94510
Hugo Delfin (480) ....................... ... 1111 California Street, San Francisco 94108
(Advisor)
Larry Basker (SS!) ...... . .............. .. . . ........ 930 Underhills Rd., Oakland 94610
(Consultant)

335

(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated)
No. of
Lodge

2
3

s

8
9
10

12

13

14

16

Registered
Member

A. F. Riley, M ........ . ..
D. G. Hively, SW
V. Bennehoff
T. J. Meraz
G. B. Merrill
R. J. Modolo
J. V. Vann
R. B. Eaton, ER ...... ...
T. P. DeCoe, M ..........
W. L. McDonald, SW
L. L. Ervin
A. P. Wordlow
L. G. Hoffmeister, M .. . .
R. A. Bogunovich, SW
A. Porter, lnsp.
G. C. Little
J. T. Wong
C. E. Waltz, SW .... .....
L. R. Morris
J. D. Richards
R. 0. Heiken, SW
W. Facello, JW
W. W. Clark, SW ....... .
L. I. Grant, JW
L. B. Mark, JGW
G. C. Hesse
E. Poletti
G. H. Steele
W. H. Fahlstrom, M
J. Wharton, SW
S. T. Jones, JW
W. G. Burris
H . W. Cliff
C. Kernan
T. L. Picco
R. J. Pierce
C. V. Edwards, M ..... ...
S. E. Williams, SW
R. E. Hook, JW
B. D. DeForeest
H. S. Hambre
W. H. Lambert
H. R. Martin
F. E. Johnson, Sec.
G. M. Watson, Mdt
K. C. Owen, SW
J.E. Dodson, JW
A.G. Lucier
E. C. Owen
T. F. Schroeder, M .... ...
R. R. Wong, SW
D. K. Wells, JW
R. D. Armbruster

Mile
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

None

17

49.06
18.92

19

7.92
20

28.82

26.40

21

11.00
23
24

10.34

25

26

32.S6
27
30

9.90

26.40

Registered
Member

W. J. Davis
J. L. Robertson
C. L. Shearer, Sec.
R. Lallemand, M ... .....
P. H. Dubost, SW
J . L. Iribarren, I nsp.
H. Nahoum
R. Precivale
J. A. Linnerman, M ......
G. Enebrad, SW
S. E. Jacobs, lnsp.
W. R. Bentler
C. C. Geddes
R. L. Snyder
P. A. Hardiman, M ......
J. M. Petersen, SW
J. L. Rogers, JW
E. P. Hardiman
M. R. Wilson
R. A. Wilson
K. L. K. Wong, SW ......
F. Boitel
J. P. Corrigan
M. C. Grigg, M .........
M. Sprague, SW
A. J . Mercer, M . . .......
C. Lantz, SW
R. Campbell, JW
D. I. Daniels, M .. .......
C. T. Powers, Jr., SW
E. D. Whitcomb, JW
C . J. Davis, lnsp.
D. W. Duncan, M ........
J. E. Carter, SW
R. 0. West, PGM
R.H. Cain
D. P. Dassonville
0. C. Murry, Jr.
R. Holub, SW .. ... . .....
E. Bell, JW
G. L. Andrade, M .......
E. J. Armour, SW
J. J. Cama
F. B. Childers
0. C. Huth
L. Messer
R. W. Moore
E.W. Quon
H. E. Rowe
E. W. Schnurpfeil
H. S. Swierstra
G. M. Travis
R. Van Heekeren

Mile
Allow.

None

17.16

18.92

4S8.00

31.46
36.30

30.36

29.04

58.08
None

No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

J. R. Kiely, M ... .... ... . 25 .08
L. E. Squier
32.34
33 A. B. Parsons, SW .. . ...
H. A. Whitmyer
3S J. E. Burrell, M . . .. . . ... 114.84
R. Mansfield, SW
J. R. Levitt , SGW
J. H. Leach
M. B. Stein
69 .74
37 H. E. Forell, M . . .. . . ...
H. N. Scammell, SW
C. G. Carlson
15.84
38 F. L. Huff, M ......... . .
R. R. Hoffman, SW
E. J. Windham, JW
K. W. Gledhill
R. H. Boyd
G. H. Moyer, Jr., Sec.
18.92
40 J. D. Thompson, M ......
W. L. Woodward, SW
G. R. Walrath, JW
L. A. Lasell, Sr., AGL
H. F. Benning
R. L. Braden
C. E. Clause
R. G. Crowdis
A. L. Jeffrey
R. W. Main
7.48
41 W. A. Wieger, M ...... . .
J . Sparacino, SW
Glenn C. Annis
L. R. Ard
W. O'Neill
G. W. Taylor
E. C. Webb
88.66
42 J. Gould, M ... ..... . . ..
M. Whitman, SW
F. J . West, JW
C. C. Lau, Insp.
M. C. Guss
A. W. Omansky
28 .60
43 J. F. Bohm, M ....... ...
W. C. Temple, SW
G. T. Ryerson, Sec.
81.18
4S J.E. Cline, SW ..... . . . .
19.80
46 C. V. Hewitt, M . . .. .....
H. W. Scott, SW
so H. G. Hodgson, M ...... 37 .40
V. R. Rich, SW
10.78
SS P. L. Morales, M .... ....
L. C. Jacobi, SW
D. T. Quichocho, JW
H. L. Swank, Insp,
A. Digerud
G. A. Turner
None
S6 T. Hotchkiss ... ..... ....
32

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

336

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

W.R. Parker, M .. .. . .. .
E. D. Doss, SW
J. H. Andreson, JW
H.P. Adams
J. L. Durnford
R. A. Miller
C. F. Minetti
H. E. Parrott, Sec .
S8 R. C. Smith, M ...... ...
D. L. B. Burden, SW
R. S. Watanabe, lnsp.
J . W. Gee
R. C. Ryan
S9 J. D. White, M . .... .....
J . A. Alverson
60 A. J . Rice, SW . .... . ....
R. S. Andrews, Insp.
61 P.A. Love, M . . ... .. ...
S. M. McDonald, SW
W.W . Trueblood, JW
J . D. Hansen, lnsp .
G. E. Montgomery, Jr.
J. K. Petersen, Sr.
R. A. Varano
64 J.P. Thomson, M .. . . .. .
T. Stevens, SW
6S S. F. Routt, JW ..... ....
68 R. W. Schaeneman, M ...
B. J. Clark, SW
J . T. Kelley, lnsp.
76 J. H. L. Wolfsohn, ER .. .
78 E. R. Jones, M ......... .
79 G. D. Norris, SW . ... ....
M. R. Moe, Insp.
J . H. Spittler, lnsp.
80 H. L. Evans, Jr., SW ....
S. Jaber, Jr., lnsp.
81 J. V. Smith, M .. . ... .. . .
M. H . Radford, Sr., SW
J. A. Lingberg, JW
W. 0 . Rose, Insp,
84 J. Holtdorf, M . ...... ...
H. A. Struthers
87 J . E. Mitchell , M .... . ...
W. J . Chavis, SW
L. Agot, JW
S. E. Allen
F. C. Berdan
K. J . Brisbin
A. Fithian
A. C. Kincaid
J . J . Nicholas, Jr.
G. Oertel
J. Olson
D. M. Thomas
B. Tool

S7

Mile
Allow.
11 .88

18.92

38.06
49.28

None

24.20
28 .82
17.16
30.80
27.50
62.48
26.84
17.82

40.92
6.82

No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

H.F. Tyrrell
J. J . McDonald Ill, ER ..
9S L. E. Daniels, ER . . . . ...
98 R. E. Rucker, M ..... . ..
J. D. Dixon, SW
R. B. Twitty, Jr.
99 C. D. Faulkenberry, M . . .
H. W. Hamlin , SW
G. C. Barrett
B. F. Davis
D.R. Fretz
101 V. Pengelly, M ..........
R. Pauw, SW
G. F. Parsons
103 P.R . Enck, JW .... .... .
D. K. Baldwin
104 M. McGuire, M ..... .. . .
N. E. Jameson, SW
C. 0. Dillon, lnsp.
G. E. LeBeck
106 P.A. Lindke, SW ... . . ..
L. L. Juell
W. J . Murphy
110 D. R. Johnston, M
R. J. Lindstrom, SW
J . C. Reynolds
Ill J . E. Blanchard, M .. . . ..
H. H. Slater, SW
E. W. Reid, JW
C. H. Alexand'er, lnsp .
E. C. Arbuckle
W. M. Conner
H. E. Estes
L.A . Langie
L. G. Roberts
M. E. Sharpe
J.B. Smith
E. S. Stephens
112 W. B. Cook, SW . . .. .. ..
R. L. Bright, lnsp,
113 A. R. Franke, M . . . ... . .
C.R. Neil, Jr., SW
S. H. Gee, JW
W. A. Anklam
W. L. Lindsey
117 D. Franke, SW . ........ .
F. C. Bryan
H. Schultze
R. Ware
120 W. J . Morris, M ..... ....
P. L. Owyang, JW
R. A. Klinger, GS
B. J . Hartman, lnsp.
C. John Bellman, Jr.
B. A. Berliner
I. A. Berliner
89

Mile
Allow.

30.58
28 .60
44.66
28.16

32.78
32.56
91.52

64.24
19.80
35.64

23.54

None

18.92

None

No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

K. C. Birnbaum
H. W. Cahn
R. W. Ecoff
L. B. Froomin
R. E. Gilbert
L. I. Goldkind
M. V. Kaplan
B. Katz
S. Madfes
I. C. Mintz
122 R. C. Anderson, M .. . . . .
J. E. Sherriff, SW
G. F. Lovejoy, JW
R. M. Hinds
D. Mcfetridge
123 R. L. McAdon, M . . . . .. .
L. Nash, SW
A. Julian
W. E. Stiles, Sec.
124 W. B. Spencer, M . ......
R. Rathbun, SW
D. A. Brittin, JW
H. D. Norton, lnsp.
T. Daley
126 J. 0. Mohn, M . . . . .... ..
R. W. Boltz, SW
H. J. Mohn, JW
K. 0. Guyer
A. Toth
H. C. Holmes, Sec.
127 R. K. Kamilli, M .. . .....
A. Degenhardt, SW
W. Kleczek, JW
R. T. Christians, Insp.
M. Schredl
U. K. Thielemann
128 G. B. Winans, M .. . . . .. .
J. M. Sherrill, SW
R. S. Dixon, JW
L. Martell
W. C. Michalk
W. W. Widenham
129 J. R. Sage, M ....... . ...
131 M. R. Crosby, SW . . . . . ..
A. E. Weir, Insp.
134 W. W. Price, M ... ..... .
A. Carpenter, SW
E. 0 . Brown
L. D. Callison
M. L. Esh
G. E. Justice
0. K. Whitten
C. E. Moomey, Sec.
13S J . A. Drace, M . .... .. . . .
H. E. Fisher, Insp.
136 M. Ivanoff, SW ... ......

337

Mile
Allow.

None

15.40

36.30

12.10

None

49.28

27.06
20.90
11.88

20.46

None

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

338
Registered
Member

J. E. Harm, JW
A. A. Axelrod
B. DeLeon
G. Goldman
W. Harm
S. D. McNail
L. Rubin
139 R. F. Willms, M .........
D. W. Dickinson, Sr., SW
D. B. McCaw, PGM
J. A. Affleck
H. C. Albert, Jr.
J. B. Bouick III
W. J. Harlow, Jr.
S. C. Lee
F. J. Ruggiero
D. W. Sherer
140 W. R. Carter, M
143 P. K. Frame, M .........
D. D. Updegraff, Insp.
144 N. S. Gama, M ..........
W. N. Carter
C. T. Hecker
E. T. Mancuso
R. A. Mast
S. G. Riley
R.H. Rolfe
145 J. R. Lansdon, M
G. W. Peterson, SW
R. G. Grauer, JW
146 M. H. Hickey, Insp ......
149 R. Lyddon, ER ..........
150 N. E. Bartoo, M .........
161 A. E. Buss, ER ..........
164 C. J. McCarty, SW ......
166 E. D. Benton, M ........
D. J. Feagin, SW
D. T. Chong, JW
J. R. Davis, Insp.
W. L. Knoepp
G. Lazorisak
E. G. Marshall
M. T. Simmons
167 R. Cole, M .............
P. Damewood, SW
A. Miller, JW
J. E. Vance, Insp.
D. Barrett
V. D. Dryden
J. Moore
T. Parker
C. Peeler
168 C. M. Loughead, M
K. C. Van Roekel, SW
V. Losik, JW
H. J. V. Baxter

Mile
Allow.

None

19.36
19.58

None

11.44

None
59.40
37.84
25.30
45.32
None

7.26

5.72

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

N. C. Blecher
T. C. Geary
W. L. Henry
W. J. Hodgson
169 T. 0. Murray, M ........
E. E. Caldwell, SW
M. Nasseem, JW
C. R. MacPhee, PGM
G. K. Buss
R. D. Lintner
V. Paul
R. J. Shuman
173 L. E. Slavich, M .........
A. A. Anguiano, SW
R. L. Rodrigues, JW
D. D. Davies
A. E. Gates
E. V. Wilson
175 E.W. Adams, M ........
M. 0. Dikes, SW
J. R. Ledbetter, JW
Z. E. Lamphear
178 R. H. Dahlgren, M ......
C. C. Edwards, SW
R. W. Thomas, JW
J. W. Ditto, Jr., Insp.
179 D. L. Lisman, M ........
D. K. Goss, Sec.
180 S. H. Jones, M ..........
W. E. Slubik, SW
J. A. Boland, Insp.
D. Escamillo
W. A. Kelley
C. W. MacNichols
S. C. Olmstead
L. D. Smith, Sec.
181 M. Andrews .............
J. W. Breckenridge II
R. W. Thomas, Sec.
183 R. J. Zeilski, SW ........
P. Benson, Jr.
185 K. M. Moss, M ..........
186 W. A. Krueger, ER, Insp.
187 E. M. Ames, M .........
R. H. E. Dale, SW
J. J. Clark, JW
G. W. Goris
188 W. Geha, M ............
J. Stohr, SW
J. Kahn, JW
J. H. Boehrer
P. Boyles
D. D. Crosman
C. L. DeWitt
E. A. Freije
R. M. Geha

Mile
Allow.

None

22.00

10.12

99.88

34.32
8.36

13.86
23.98
28.38
75.68
17.60

None

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

C. E. Hagen
C. R. Hoffman
R. M. Koontz
R. K. Massingill
D. E. Moss
W. H. Nutting, Jr.
C. R. Ratkovich
F. F. Soares
D.S. Staley
190 A. J. Jensen, SW ........
191 T. N. Tobener, M .......
J. E. Martens, SW
W. M. Webber, JW
S. M. Cazneaux
W. R. Constable
G. T. Rowse
R. E. Saxton
R.R. Spear
R. W. Troutman, Jr.
W. M. Vanderbilt
192 N. B. Chamberlain, SW ..
R. M. Davenport, lnsp.
H. Francis Lewis
H. W. Freeman, Sec.
193 D. C. Petersen, M .......
194 R. Haggerty, M .........
E. C. Moore, SW
S. Paxinos, JW
P. E. Mears
E. Neff
195 J. B. Haden, M .........
R. W. Baker, JW
W. F. Bower
C. M. Fugate
D. Warren
196 H. D. Hines, ER ........
198 P. Harrington, JW .......
E. M. Eklund
199 A. Nunes, ER ...........
200 C. E. Mandeville, SW ....
201 N. C. Cryer, M ..........
E. C. Still, SW
202 R. N. J. Roberts, M .....
G. C. Lane, SW
R. Allen, JW
R. C. Hart
H. J. Henschel
L. Yaphe
203 J. Nicolaides, SW ........
J.E. Walden
A. L. Curtis, Sec.
204 T. C. Crompton, M ......
D. D. McCabe, SW
L. W. Blankenship, JW
F. Roel, Jr., Insp.
C. E. Dunn

Mile
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

205
206
207

50.60
None

208
209

74.80

210

60.28
8.14

211
212

17.16

214
49.28
93.50
27.06
42.02
14.30

215

88.66

23.10
217
23.76
218

Registered
Member

C. F. Hushbeck
A. E. Price
G. Rice
J. F. Arnold ............
D. L. Scott, SW .........
W. F. King
M. G. Kirk, M ..........
E. F. Roberts, Insp.
G. M. Kirk
E. L. Weist
N. Stanphill, M .........
A. Kearney, SW
A. A. Scott, JW
A. B. Goldsmith, M
C. M. Johnson, SW
T. D. Hawkinson, JW
D. H. Wasson, Insp.
W. Boone
W. E. Clark
J. H. Hooley
T. A. Bohrer, M .........
W. Krill, JW
R.H. Tan
E. C. Vollgraff
F. Smallwood, Sec.
L. Austin, SW ..........
J. Felice, JW
E. V. Bernal, M .........
S. C. de la Pena, SW
C. P. Molina, JW
M. K. Biega
A. H. Hufnagel
C. J. Palmer
M. L. Sigua
D. J. McGrath, M .......
W. W. Kirkland, SW
B. E. Robinson, JW
H. L. Maynard, PGM
J. W. Joe, Jr.
J. H. Strehlow, M .......
A. T. Weber, SW
C. L. Wheat, JW
W. H. Amberg
F. H. Keck
J. C. Knudsen
J. W. O'Brian
J. H. Ross
J. W. Walton
J. E. Weber
M. Maxey, M ...........
J. Williams, SW
C. Mauck, II, JW
T. Flint
R. W. H. Botell, M ......
L. W. Belknap, SW
F. J. Woodworth, JW

339
Mile
Allow.

None
20.02
94.82

14.96
51.04

11.00

20.90

None

80.52

None

25.74

8.80

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

340

Registered
Member

R. J. Page, Insp.
E. Williams, Insp.
A. R. Jensen
220 G. W. Briggs, M ........
M. N. Briggs, SW
A. Crary, JW
C. R. Hutchinson
222 H. L. Midkiff, M ........
J. Horn, SW
H. A. Marsh, JW
K. W. Kessel
224 L. D. Olson, M .........
J. C. Carpenter, SW
D. L. St. Claire, JW
J. C. Carpenter, Insp.
N. E. Driggers
R. A. Griffith
S. J. Kliewer
G. G. Laiblin
L. E. Myers
G. L. Newby
225 R. E. Baird, M ..........
G. R. Anderson, JW
E. Evans
E. W. Johnson
E. C. Roulette
226 M. P. O'Connell, M .....
J. F. Claffy
G. K. Dress
R. W. Gaines
N. W. Grush
D. F. Halvorsen
K. M. Thompson
228 E. W. Stiles, Sr., JW
H. E. Moore, Insp.
229 G. R. Munkres, M .......
D. A. Read, Jr., SW
R. A. Meyer, JW
A. G. Espinosa
G. A. Heinzman
C. E. Shoaf
230 A. Holmberg, M
J. D. Henderson
231 L. D. Peterson, M .......
233 W.W. Furber, M ........
A. E. Enderlin, SW
D. D. Dearing, JW
E. L. Hoffner
W. 0. Johnson
234 R. J. Hischier ...........
A. J. Becker
236 C. A. Bower, M .........
C. Bloom, JW
237 D. J. Cowger, M ........
G. W. Elliott, SW
J. E. McGlothlin, GP

Mile
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

H. Hamburg, Jr.
240 W. D. Mills, Insp ........
241 J.M. Dorrel, M .........
91.96

R. T. Potts, SW
242 L. Wormington, JW .....

22.88

63.58

None

None

15.84
6.82

29.48
40.04
16.28

None
22.66
51.92

None
95.70

A. E. Brandt
V. L. Mathiason
D. W. May
243 V. Trigueros, M .........
L. W. Feather, SW
L. L. Stark, Insp.
H. W. Anderson
R. Libbach
A. C. Marsh
M. L. Runolfson
W. T. Smith
W. E. Wittenberg, Sec.
244 K. E. Bain, JW ..........
W. B. Harp
T. F. Miller
W. L. Misner
N. A. Passur
J. Shattock
S. P. Vasilovich
246 A. Muscatell, M .........
E. Fitch, SW
C. DeArmitt, JW
247 M. E. Haney, M .........
D. A. Coleman, SW
A. L. Lloyd, JW
K. M. Emmert
0. T. Lee
R. A. Paris
254 M. D. Sanders, M .......
K. E. Benton, SW
E. H. Kavert, JW
P.A. Dawson
255 R. H. Jones, M .........
R. E. Dias, lnsp.
256 C. R. Moore, M .........
258 R. Tudsbury, ER ........
259 R. M. Denman, M .......
J. D. Ree, SW
S. Boryk, Jr., JW
W. H. Price, PGM
H. A. Born, Insp.
S. L. Channon
260 H. F. Lewis, M ..........
T. L. Hobson, SW
H. 0. Thomas, JW
U. G. Patropulos, AGL
R. L. Kramer, Insp.
W. A. Burkett
J. H. Cambridge
R. R. Castellotti
S. J. Dean, Jr.

74.80

5.94

None

95.92

40.26

47.74

46.86
20.68
25.08
101.20

None

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

S. J. Dean III
R. L. Dreyfus
F. H. King
G. Konstantopoulos
A. G. Kuersten
G. F. Lohman
E. A. Nylund
B. C. von Konsky
T. H. Patten, Sec.
262 W. Muller, SW ..........
J. W. Paulson, Jr., Insp.
W. Penca
264 R. L. Diamond, M .......
B. A. McGray, SW
D. C. Schneider, JW
C. L. Barton
C. W. Flood
W. L. Harshbarger
265 R. D. Kelly, M ..........
R. D. Lazard, SW
P. B. Molleson, JW
G. R. Lazard, Insp.
267 L. D. Templeton, M .....
269 L. A. Hill, Jr., M .......
J. S. Crabtree, JW
D. L. Zack, GSB
D. E. Higdon
C. E. Jackson
272 J. W. Smithson.. M
W. J. Stone, JW
J. A. Dines, GM
R. M. Mecham
W.R. Van Houten
J. T. Ward
C.H. Zern
273 A. C. Bockstahler, M ....
R. A. Balling, SW
G. C. Beard, JW
W.R. Mayo
B. R. Mooney
T. T. Sargent
274 Z. L. Braun, SW ........
L. C. Bair
275 L. P. Bradley, M ........
A. Fox
278 C. T. Offenhauser, M ....
J. M. Shollenberger, SW
J. S. David, JW
F. Coleman
E. T. Knowles
A.H. Sinzig
E. E. Wheeler
J. C. Williams
279 W. G. Ester, M .........
M. Winn, SW
G. Santillan, JW

Mile
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

J. Rudy
280 W. H. Hughes, M .......
V. L. Gordon, PGM

63.14

51.62

34.10

19.36
49.94

90.42

94.60

54.56
20.90
90.42

47.08

341

Mile
Allow.

35.42

C. R. Whitaker, GSB
H. C. Holoboski
G. Vaughan
45.32
281 W. J. Camblin, SW ......
20.02
282 L. D. Ballew, SW ........
C. G. Hartje, Insp.
283 S. M. Discar, SW ........ 115.72
44.66
286 R.H. Holman, SW ......
84.70
287 J. W. Howell, M ........
L. Havlik, SW
W. W. Partridge, Insp.
289 J. N. Orris, SW ......... 103.84
C. T. Thompson
88.66
290 H. L. Wright, M ........
J. J. Pappas, SW
L. B. Fisher, JW
H. M. Hand, GO
P. I. Hylton, AGL
G. E. Harrison, Insp.
J. A. Crosby
R. W. Meier
84.04
291 0. L. Hale, M ·········.
J. D. Weeks, SW
J.E. Wingo, JW
11.66
292 J. A. Kryszak, M ........
R. F. Wells, Jr., SW
M. Franceschini, JW
W. F. Buffington
95.26
293 J.E. Chambers, M ......
B. C. Ridgway, SW
H. S. Kebre, JW
T. Lowe
46.42
294 G. M. Gloeckler, SW ....
R. 0. Bailey, JW
R. N. Rouch, Insp.
15.18
295 R. Deatherage, SW ......
E. Deatherage, JW
296 U. Brynjestad, M ........ 114.84
D. R. Hawley, JW
J. Bain
59.62
297 F. P. Fe, SW ............
F. G. Tittle, lnsp.
E. F. Hill
9.90
299 D. L. Clifford, M
J. L. Giguere, SW
G. W. Hodam, JW ......
F. Chapman
J. Okada
C. Zercher
300 K. R. Wiley, SW ........ 101.20
K. C. Almind, JW
M. K. Tallon, Insp.
R. T. Dillon

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

342

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

C. F. Patton
95.48
301 U. 0. Brosch, ER
302 E. M. Palmer, ER ...... . 33 .22
E. Eade
W. M. Head
F. Y. Mar
54.78
303 C. S. Herzberg, M .... . ..
B. E. Symmonds, SW
A. D. Brewer, JW
R. F. Herrold, lnsp.
H. G. Jefford
93.50
305 W. L. Sherred, M
L. K. Latta, SW
C. H. Ulch, JW
306 D. R. Hoon, M ... . ..... 101.64
88.22
307 T. J. Comiskey, M . .... . .
D. F. Hasbrouck, SW
M. T. Fekri, JW
G. W. Pike, lnsp.
T. R. Lehmann
N. W. Thompson
91.95
308 R. D. Dickey, M ... ... ..
L. R. Bonay, SW
L. H. Falcon, JW
309 R. E. Orwig, M .. ... .. . . 56.98
K. Parsons, SW
W. J. Taylor, Jr., AGL
59.62
310 R. L. Baker, ER ..... .. ..
27.72
312 V. J . Fisher, M . .. . ......
E. R. Peugh
72.82
313 F. R. Fellows, M ... .. ...
R. J. Haaker, JW
R. Stevenson
99.00
314 A. E. Brown, SW ........
L. W. Brookshier
W. C. Thomas
91.96
315 R. E. Sickles, Jr., M ... ..
D. L. Weathers, SW
D. B. Eichen, JW
W. L. Sanborn
43 .56
316 M. Dawson, M . . . .. . ....
317 C. W. Hodson, M . .. .. . . 111.10
A. G. MacKimm, SW
R. E. Tomes
320 K. L. McMurray, M . ... . 88.66
R. 0. Bollin, SW
R. C. Sweeley
C. H. Scott, Sec.
8.58
321 R. B. Bionaz, M .... ... ..
R. E. Cottrill, SW
J. W. Shepherd, JW
H. F. Bordley
90.23
322 J . A. Davis, SW . .. ......
R. C. Coe
D. B. Leonard
90.86
323 W. A. Edmondson, M

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

D. A. Granade, SW
J. H. Bullock JW
D. D. Jones, lnsp.
H. C. Cook
90.42
324 S. M. Johnson, M .... . ..
R. Alcorn, SW
J . Kracow, JW
R. K. Keller
D. K. Lesh
C. E. Small
R. L. Villalobos
325 A. Handell, M ........ . . 111.76
R. Harrell, SW
J . Cobon, JW
J . P. Gibson, lnsp.
R. M. Carlson
R. L. Matlock
W. A. Sinclair
326 W.W. Light, M . .. .. . .. . 125 .18
94.38
327 D. Hinton, M ..... . .....
L. W. Miller, SW
A. Wheeler, JW
G. P. Calderwood
K. P . Elliott
D. A. Geiger
S. Langley
91.08
328 D. R. Gaskill, M
N. B. Waller, SW
E. L. Chan, JW
G. A. Anderson
88.44
329 M. Gaul, ER ...... ... ...
J. C. Bourguignon, lnsp.
A. Caen
A. de Montignac
330 A. K. Bell, ER . . .. .. ... . 458.00
W.W. Flagg
S. K. S. Hong
26.84
331 W. W. Smith, M ... . ....
C. R. Guidara, SW
E. C. Coffin Ill
J.B. Gore
W. Willoughby
94.60
332 D. E. McNeely, M . . . ....
R. A. Erbacker, SW
J. W. McDonald, JW
E. J. Hull
W. F. Parker
333 D. L. Boone, M .. ... . . . . 64.90
334 C. R. Mullison, M ...... . 93 .72
M. L. Manzanares, SW
J. A. Leone, JW
W. R. Bergener, Jr., lnsp.
W. C. Bates
88.66
335 H. Goldstein, SW . ... ....
S. Wolfus, JW
L. R. Carlston, lnsp.

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

H . Hamburg
None
336 J . W. Hansford, M ......
R. A. Epperhart, SW
R. Jacobsen, JW
B. 0. Young, PGL
A. Welch
W. W. Wildman
6.16
337 J. Horn, SW . . ....... . ..
R. Goodman, JW
R. A. Silva, lnsp.
R. L. Spinney
338 J . A. Cox, JW . ... ...... 107.80
94.60
339 K. W. Johnson, M .... . ..
D. J . Alexander, SW
W. L. Currie
H. C. Holoboski
82.72
341 G. T. Melugin, SW . .... .
F. A. Russell, Jr., lnsp.
W. G. Harman
W. P. Riggs
83 . 16
343 L. Muinos, M .... . ......
R. A. Johnson, JW
W. L. Bacon
J . R. Winslow
None
344 E. G. Stephenson, M . ....
A. Bolanos, SW
M. Crater, JW
L. Becker, lnsp.
M. Baer
M. W. Eberhardt
G. G. Hawxhurst
B. A. Katz
S. Sheff
M. Stern
L. Stritenberger
L. A. Wickens
12.32
345 F. Garcia, Jr., M ....... .
J . Reedy, JW
W. B. Rixon
7.04
346 W. E. Ellison, M .. . . ....
J . W. Carl, lnsp.
T. P . Chamberlain, lnsp .
E. H. Nickell
E. L. Walls
None
347 H. M. Harvey, M ... .... .
L. Smith, SW
E. P . Margherio, lnsp.
R. L. Dolan
M. Gearhardt
K. M. Johnson
B. C. Murphy
D. Lambert
99.88
348 T. R. Harmon, M .......
R. E. O'Brien, SW
T. W. Meyer, JW
A. N. Schmitz, lnsp.

.

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

G. M. Cellar
F. P. Weatherford
D. T. Wright
349 M. M. lnan, M ... . . . ....
H. S. Bigelow, SW
E. R. Stone, JW
D. W. Besoain
J . B. Bishop
351 J. D. Neuwirth, M ..... ..
V. T. Snow , SW
M. E. Knutson, JW
J . A. Boyle, AGL
M. R. Alarcon
J. S. Douglass
352 C. J. Muela, M ... ...... .
E. S. Fleischer, SW
L. Mitchell, JW
B. Meyer, Jr., PGM
R. A. Anderson
A. E. Guy
R. M. Hacker!
R. M. Hamilton
R. Head
A. G. Kahn
W. Kludjian
D. W. Litsinger
L. F. Smith
N. D. Stanley
355 R. T. Gilmore, Jr., M ....
A. R. Cummings, SW
J. W. Flournoy, JW
L. E. Anderson, PGM
J. G. Gladson
R. E. Smith
357 L. E. Seals, M .. ..... ...
R. E. Marsh, SW
J. A. Chastain, Sr., lnsp
E. A. Robinson, lnsp .
T. R. Siems
361 I. Carlson, JW .. ...... . .
362 P. B. Dods, M ..... .... .
B. L. Martinsen, SW
C. L. Williams, JW
F. G. Nash
363 G. F. Comins, M .. ... ...
Z. Ekmekjian, SW
C. W. Wilson, Jr., AGS
C. V. Hughes
L. C. Moore
C. E. Pedersen
R. L. Spurrier
365 H. L. P. Wessel, ER .. . ..
D. F. Case, Jr.
366 L. L. Duba, M .. . . .... ..
J . L. Denton, SW
J . 0. Hall, JW

343

Mile
Allow.

None

95.70

88.66

85 .36

93 .06

36.52
10.78

None

30.80
40.26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

344

No. of ·
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

J. F. Kleinknight
S. M. Pavlovich
G. A. Starr
367 R. L. Poorman, M .......
90.86
T. G. Beck, SW
E. F. Rice, JW
K. H. Bonsack
W. F. Hockersmith
R. W. Reach
88 .00
368 A. E. Fraser, M ... ..... .
V. N. Legerton, SW
W. B. Williamson, GC
E. R. Brink
R. A. Kent
W. B. Ross
369 H. M. Foster, M
88.22
R. D. Robinson, SW
J. J. Thornton, JW
J. R. Dymond
T. B. Fach
J. P. Farley
N. M. Schultz
J . J. Hamilton, Sec.
370 A. F. Wong, M . .. ......
None
C. A. Brose, SW
T. W. M. Lyau, JW
M. Balopoulos
G . F. Corlew
F. Green
J. A. Hinman
W. J. Lambo
U. D. Mackins
W. F. Poynter
B. T. Saenz
E. E. Schoolcraft
H. R. Schoolcraft
K. K. S. Won
371 F. B. Fiedler, M .. .. .... . 458 .00
N. Ahina, SW
E. G. Hasenjager, Jr.
W. F. Lee
J. D. Wilson, Sec.
91.74
372 W. W. Gray, SW ....... .
R. R. Hernandez, JW
C. Lewis, Insp.
R. E. Crist
373 D. Kellog, M ............
88.66
W. C. Husted, SW
R. A. Barzilli, JW
V. A. Bradfield
F. L. Merrell
K. Montgomery, Sec.
374 H. Chan, M ............
None
0. Jacobs, SW
W. Yip, JW
W. Chew

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Registered
Member

J. J. Dunn
C. H. Israel
S. W. Lee
J.M. Mabel
B. W. Young
375 H. 0. F. Hirsch, M ......
D. S. Green, SW
K. 0. Zehnder, JW
J. F. Harrop
N. H. Hong
W. H. James, Sr.
C. W. Lee
V. D. Mabry
G. H. Pape
R. J. Schulte
L. H. Strohecker
376 W. Buenger, M ..........
A. Fritz, SW
D. Cox, JW
D. E. Strand, Insp.
J. W. Dennis
K. D. Knight
H. B. Merritt
J. C. Myers
E. A. Sandberg
377 A. R. Henson, Jr., M .. ..
I. W. Quimby, Jr., SW
M. Orozco, JW
378 F. Halliwill, M ..........
R. John, SW
R. Riggin, JW
B. 0. Carmitchel
R. Wrede
379 A. M. Vasquez, SW ......
K. C. Creason, JW
380 W. N. Murray, M .......
H. N. Nelson, SW
A. C. Peters, JW
C. A. Grossman
D. A. Nielsen
J. Waddington
G.D. Woody
381 R. L. Youngblood, Jr.,
SW ........ ...... .. . . . .
G. Schrum
383 J. D. Otto, M . ........ . .
J. H. Peloian
384 J. M. Barker, SW
M. M. Weiss, JW
A. E. Dufresne
J . W. Kennerson
387 R. A. Booth, ER ........
388 K. C . Lytle, M .... ..... .
M. Morgan, SW
A. J. Sperow, JW
G. W. Bode

Mile
Allow.

None

None

92.62

83.16

86.24
98.12

107.36
45.98
135.52

45.76

None

No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

A. L. Croce
G. E. Frank
K. Hopper
L. R. Lawrence
G. L. Masson
94.38
389 D. J. Flowers, M ........
R. A. Teal, SW
M. N. Davis
390 J. Stevenson, ER ........ 134.64
30.58
391 J.C. Taylor, M .........
H. E. Waltz
88.66
392 T. J. Nicholoff, M .......
M. M. Martinez, SW
E. M. Roos, JW
J. A. Sickenberger, GT
D. R. Patterson, Insp.
W. Bottorff
G. Bucklew
M.A. Flint
G. Hollingsworth
C. W. Jackson
B. R. Malouf
L. V. Smith
R. Waterhouse
R. P. Winslow
None
393 R. Konstad, M . ..... ....
A. F. Ruppel, SW
C. G. Bloom
J. A. Knudsen.
C. D. Lindstrom
B. Miller
J. E. Yarberry
93.06
394 R. J. Aterrado, M .......
G. E. Wyne, Jr., SW
R. Gutierrez, JW
M. E. Smith, PGM
C. E. Thompson, Jr.
22.88
395 G. L. Linhares, M .......
R. R. Cripe, SW
W. G. McCord, JW
A. F. Mesa, Insp.
None
396 G. A. Jurgens, M ........
J. L. Farina, SW
J. G. Jonker, JW
B. J. Ballard
H. B. Conway, Jr.
L. W. Jack
89.76
397 R. H. McGlasson, M .... .
M. L. Thompson, SW
J. Porcell, JW
0. A. Capps
J. M. Hefner
C . G. Carroll, Sec .
11.00
399 S. W. Campen, M . . .....
D. T. Gibson, SW
T. D. Carpenter, JW

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

345

Mile
Allow.

F. Divers
J. T. Hutson, Sec.
None
400 J. C. Mineke, M .........
V. R. Campbell, JW
W. G. Ferguson
W. A. White
R. S. Wilson, Sec.
None
401 H. T. Thiel, M ..........
E. Littlefield, SW
W. S. McMullen, JW
S. M. Giovannelli
E. C. Lamp
A. Sneep
402 J. J. Errickson, M ....... 131.12
J. S. Felt, Insp.
J. B. Whitehead
None
403 L. S. McElwain, PGM ...
A. R. Kirk
J. F. Ratto
93.94
404 R. L. Lewis, M ..........
L. J. Babineau, Jr., SW
E. J. Miller, Sr., JW
J.C. Hoffman, Jr
91.74
405 G. Q. Liganor, M .......
V. B. Lobb
P . T. Donohugh
87.12
406 S. D. Nave, JW ..... ....
R. B. Carter, Insp.
F. A. Crayton
E. L. Deatrick
J. J. Libby
T. G. McElwain
R. L. Olson
A. Seddon
407 D. L. Hill, M ........... 117.04
R. L. Edwards, SW
J. A. Kurupas, JW
409 W. I. Alvey, SW ........ 458.00
A. S. Farias, Insp.
J . P . Malczon
411 C.H. Applegate, M .. .. .. 106.48
W. E. Moller, SW
H. R. Whitford, JW
87.12
415 L. A. Haynes, M ........
R. G. Robbins, SW
H. R. Ravain, Jr., JW
P. Gray
E. Hughes
D. Loucks
M. M. Marsellos
W. Songer
T. Teague
41.14
417 D. E. Campbell, SW .....
P. E. Richey
88.66
418 R. G. Kolts, M ..........
C. Cortez, JW

No. of
lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

346

Registered
Member

C. K. Schertle, Insp.
B. R. Dean
K. C. Sherrow
419 G. R. Chavez, M ........
M. Futhey, SW
D. Wendel, JW
J. Huston
420 L. W. Jelinek, Jr., SW . ..
421 A. E. Hougham, M .. . ...
J. A. Parker, SW
E. B. Show, JW
J. A. Liles, Sec.
422 R. L. Price, M ..........
J. E. Calhoun
423 0. E. Esparza, M .... . ...
V. W. Cearley, JW
W. C. Cavanaugh
K. W. Perkins
424 C. C. Kirkman, M .......
D. Armstrong, JW
B. B. Hagans, Insp.
425 K. E. Thompson, M
426 J. L. Brown, M ..... ....
H. Norton, SW
W. N. Burnett
B. L. Foster
428 L. Klausen, M ...........
R. J. Bingle, Insp,
G. C. Johnson
W. Namahoe, Jr.
S. H. Potter
429 M. P. S. Thomason, M
P. J. Lee, SW
L. G. Hammil, JW
431 E. H. Thompson, Jr., M
D. H. Stratton, SW
P. F. Leong, Insp.
R. E. Davenport
D. E. Davis
S. Emmanuele
C. F. Lilley
J. W. Mason
R. F. McDonald
E. R. Rowe
J. L. Van Winkle
R. E. Wincentsen
433 J. L. Mitchell, M ........
435 J. 0. McGaughy, M
A. Fischer, JW
R. A. Bush
W. Kiesow
R. L. Nichols
D. Rutherford
J. Schneider
J. Taylor
D. L. West

Mile
Allow.

96.58

38 .94
89.98

88.66
91.96

51.70

136.18
65.34

94.82

8.80

None

26.62

None

No. of
lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

G. Whiteside
B. R. Woodard
96.58
436 M. W. Wigton, M .......
L. T. Rothenhausler, SW
B. L. Thompson, JW
A. R. Lockhart, Insp.
R. K. Hager
82.50
437 J. A. Faris, M ...........
E. E. Collins, SW
D. J. Willerford, Sr., JW
J . E. Bacon
C. I. Cornelius
S. H. Hawkes
D. Shaffer
J. C. Sinn
R. B. Reeves
G. E. Morse, Sec.
16.50
439 J. F. Carmichael, M
R. E. Collins, SW
R. German, JW
None
440 G. H. Miller, M .........
H. K. Bozajian
T. Joe
441 W. J. Neumann, Sr., SW . 120.56
A. E. Bowen, JW
R. H. Gifford
442 W. E. Lingo, Jr., M ..... 114.86
V. H. M. Miranda, SW
R. B. Tatum, JW
P. T. Hodiak, lnsp.
H. M. Kirkland, Insp.
J. C. Canale
443 0. H. Taylor, M .. . ..... 458.00
J. F. Tomlinson, SW
B. K. C. Ing, JGS
76.78
444 M. M. Barrish, M .......
M. M. Shann, SW
M. Sourmany, JW
D. J. Groves
T. Luby
445 D. W. Leiblie, M .. ......
88.66
A. C. Carlson, SW
D. L. Charein, JW
H. P. Huebner
92.84
446 L. W. Baker, JW ...... . .
R. B. Fitzpatrick
L. 0. Mason
E. I. Van Atta, Jr.
93.06
447 D. W. Stilwell, M .. ......
W. T. Owings, JW
J. B. Bennett, Jr., lnsp.
R. C. Byer, lnsp.
F. M. Hansen
D. A. Hull
6.82
448 M. D. Underwood, M ....
W. N. Wine, SW

No. of
lodge

Registered
Member

V. W. Hendrix, PGS
R. J. Franks
A. H. LeMunyon
E. R. Perkins
L. E. Wine
J. R. Buchanan, Sec.
450 T. M. Koupal, M ........
D. L. Snuder, SW
D. L. Jones, JW
W. W. Dickson, Jr., lnsp.
W. C. Faubion
R. E. Gibson
C. W. McDonald
J. R. Nocas
V. T. Shields
R. E. Wilson
451 J.M. Neely, M ..........
D. L. Peek, SW
G. A. Logan, JW
R. M. Harris
F. E. Prosser
F. L. Sutliff
C. F. Meese, Sec.
452 S. G. Vienna, M .........
C. Burr
M. B. Chubbuck
R. C. Southall
G. Wainscott
454 L. G. Dye, M, ..........
D. Heaton, SW
G. T. Nance, JW
457 A. G. Harder, SW .......
V. C. Johnson, JW
E. E. Greene
W. S. Lind
G. P. Rosich
C. L. White
459 A. J. Smyth, SW .... . ...
T. S. Perez, JW
460 C. E. Gustafson, M .. . ...
R. Gabbard, SW
461 F. K. Beering, M ........
N. C. Raisis, SW
R. T. Jackel, JW
G. P. Leung, Insp.
F. F. Barba
A. B. Becker
E. A. Caldwell
J.E. Campos
D. N. Deane
S. V. Doninelli
C. D. Estolano
F. E. Faber
R. A. Grandy
A.G. Holly
S. L. Holly

Mile
Allow.

85.36

90.20

90.42

None
90.42

20.02
13.64

None

No. of
lodge

Registered
Member

347

Mile
Allow.

J. C. Lewellen
C. F. Montgomery
F. Moran
G. W. Nelson
A. V. Sligar
C.R. Smith
A. T. Sola
462 J. H. Springer III, ER
None
M. J. Price
J . H. Springer, Jr., Sec.
15.18
463 H.J. Fletcher, M ........
R. M. Cruz, SW
S. A. Epstein, JW
K. 0. Leverton, Insp.
V. J. Dutra
R. R. Gambriell
D. M. Farris, Sec.
40.26
465 C.R. Hutchinson, Jr., M.
W. D. Briggs, SW
466 R. F. Indorf, M .........
63.58
J. F. Weringer, SW
F. R. Driscoll, JW
R. B. Weringer, lnsp.
88.66
467 C. D. Kussner, M ........
K. B. C. McCubbins
L. W. Turner
95.26
469 D. H. Peterson, M .......
0. G. Anderson, SW
J. A. Petersen, JW
471 J. G. Rojas, M ..........
17.16
W. L. Obenshain, SW
B. P. Gray
472 W. L. Hager, SW ........ 458.00
473 O.E. Kitzmiller, SW ..... 138.38
A. C. Wright, Sec.
475 S. Goncharoff, M .......
88 .66
H. W. Behn, SW
G. Razsadin, JW
476 F. Gillespie, SW .... .. .. . 117.70
R. Carver
F. F. Wilson
479 M. Diner, M ............
11.00
H. Hagaman, SW
G. Ellsworth, JW
A. A. Pasquinelli, Insp.
T. V. Baker
L. G. Benjamin
H. Coffman
J . V. Hillis
F. Olds
F. W. Shirey
E. C. Van de Mark
M. Wright
J. F. Leggate, Sec.
None
480 D. H. Freitas, M ........
F. J. Ebert, SW

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. of
Lodge

482

483
485
486

487

488
490
493
494

Registered
Member

H. Syversrud, JW
E. A. Haglund, PGM
W. C. Armstrong, Insp.
D. Burnett
A. L. Costa
D.R. Hansen
C. Nilsen
R. H. Rookard
D. M. Shull
D. D. Van Norman
A. J. Weis
E. H. Whelchel, M ......
J.M. Andrews, SW
R. V. Dixon, JW
I. M. Haecker
H. A. Hauben
R. B. Becker, Sec.
S. M. Sample, SW .......
J. F. Higgins, JW
M. A. Ladnier
C. Gregory, JW .........
W. Widenham
L. K. Wyatt, M .........
B. W. McDaniel, SW
G.G. Owens, JW
G. E. Montgomery, Insp.
W. C. Corse
R.R. Holt
A. Lester Hutchinson
L. 0. Montgomery
H. R. Riebel
J.C. Snell, M ...........
J. H. McKasson, SW
M. D. Hodges, JW
W. A. Thompson, Insp.
E. G. Branstetter
H. A. Budding
E. C. Fraser, Jr.
D. E. Jensen
L. J. McKasson
J. S. Mahaffey, ER ......
S. White, M ............
J. Hammond, GL
B. White
J. M. Storlie, M .........
F. T. Franscioni, JW
R. J. Unland, M .........
A. T. Kirkpatrick, SW
R. D. Young, JW
D. F. Darrow, lnsp.
M. H. Berrie
M. M. Ganitch
C. D. Cuthrie
E. L. Hanson
F. P. Newmark
J. R. Robbins

Mile
Allow.

84.70

91.30
32.12
63.58

6.82

20.02
51.48
47.08

None

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Registered
Member

497 S. Tamez, M ............
H. E. Miller, JW
D. C. Barnett
498 J. L. Read, SW .........
499 C. R. Patton, M .........
T. A. Smith, SW
R. W. Smith, JW
J. W. Driskell, DOM
R. A. Ebbage, PGM
D. B. Anderson
C. M. Cole
L. 0. Goodnow
M. L. Sellick
G. W. Stewart
R. J. Terk
R. S. Wayne
R. A. Young
501 E. B. Martin, M .........
D. L. Kalfas, SW
M. E. Ward, JW
502 D. L. Boehner, M .......
D.R. Deabenderfer,
Jr.,SW
D.R. Deabenderfer,
Sr.,JW
E. J. Grant, Jr.
D. L. Hill
J. E. Thurbon
503 G. R. Smith, JW ........
J. R. Forseth, Insp.
L. E. Elledge
D. W. Miller
504 J.E. Wallace, M ........
D. Martinez, SW
C. M. Cullen, JW
R. H. Davis, lnsp.
R. E. Roswurm, lnsp.
H.K. Noble
F. J. Miller, Sec.
505 D. E. Dee, M ...........
D. S. Mackay, SW
506 W. A. King, SW .........
W. Burger, JW
T. Moberly
507 0. Kerns, M ............
R. W. Riddle, SW
R. J. Lehman
510 0. D. Davis, M .........
J. H. Franks, SW
J. A. Gmelin, JW
H.J. Wright
511 M. W. Boone, M ........
T. Boydstun, SW
A. D. Collier, Insp.
C. A. Cobb
S. Dennison

Mile
Allow.
None
17.16
18.92

54.78

None

None

94.38

95.70
88.66
89.98
9.90

9.02

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

H. L. Horn
G. W. Petri
C. N. Cave, Sec.
88.66
512 R. L. Adamson, M
C. Hall, SW
A. Dalton, JW
A. Armstrong, lnsp.
T. Hedgecock
R. Niccum
88.66
513 J. Olarte, M ............
J. Miller, SW
D. E. Robinson, Sr.
518 G. E. Simpson, M ....... 113.74
J. N. Webb
88.66
520 H. L. Goodman, M ......
R. L. Sills, SW
R. J. Stein, JW
S. Rosen, Insp.
I. Cohen
M. H. Nahin
A. House, Sec.
None
521 W. 0. Richmond, M .....
R.H. Rookard, SW
W. L. Misner, JW
E. H. Siems, PGM
D. E. Weisse, AGL
L. B. Grayson
C. M. Stine
C. L. Wolfgaqg
92.40
523 K. C. Gardner, M
J. Ward, SW
J. Slingerland, JW
S. J. Salter, Insp.
J.B. Allen
L. L. Baird
101.64
524 J. K. Jennings, M
J. F. Parkins
88.66
528 B. I. Genstel, M .........
R. W. Akin, II, SW
E. Koik, JW
E. D. Cochran
D. J. Drew
D. P. Ottinger
P. Wood
88.66
529 M. E. Levine, M
J. Bolten, SW
B. Kreisberg, JW
A. Linsk
S. L. Raabe
40.26
530 J. F. Storment, M .......
J. S. Beery, SW
W. H. Murphy, lnsp.
J. T. Beery
D. B. Brewer
L. H. Moller
20.68
532 K. C. Coleman, M .......

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

G. W. Beal, JW
533 W. F. Sizemore, M ......
N. B. Leeper, SW
H. H. Christensen
H. L. Massie
E. L. Piantoni
H. L. Deiters, Sec.
535 E. S. Kruse, M ..........
G. W. Bailey, SW
R. H. Holcomb
J. M. Robertson
W. Carnot, Sec.
538 W. S. Y. Ho., M ........
H. R. Taylor
540 F. C. Tanner, M .........
M. G. Van Nattan, SW
M. A. DePage, Jr., JW
W. F. Stovall, Jr., Insp.
542 W. S. Coburn, SW ......
S. A. Pitassi, Jw
D. W. Maltby, lnsp.
A. Cowan
B. C. Smith
D. S. Coburn, Sec.
543 W. R. Spradlin, M .......
L. Lassley, SW
D. Costello, JW
G. A. Dhenin
B. R. Wilkerson
544 J. L. Hinson, M .........
Z. Antanesian, SW
J. R. Vaughan, Insp.
B. L. Conroy
A. A. Muske
547 H. J. Cyriacks, M .......
R. N. Sechrest, SW
W. T. Buschmann, Insp.
H. L. Landing
548 H. Anderson, M .........
A. Bray, SW
W. F. Sult, JW
R. S. Doan, GO
R. W. Doan
C. C. Jacobsen
H. C. Smith
R. J. Nepute, Sec.
551 J. J. Palmeri, M .........
J. R. Seib, SW
L. J. Guttierrez, JW
L. C. Basker
W. J. Blomseth
V. F. Cooper
J. Trindel
552 F. Tomlin, SW ..........
555 R. Baker, JW ...........
556 E. A. Weden, Jr., M .....

349
Mile
Allow.

94.82

90.64

93.06
94.38

85.80

94.38

88.00

91.74

89.32

5.94

62.48
63.58
None

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

350

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

J . G. de Baere, SW
M. L. Gerber, JW
B. J . Franklin
G. H . Totten
R. R. Newman, Sec.
557 S. W. Chase, M .. .... . . . 90.42
T. A. Brydon, SW
N. F. Simmons
561 W. R. Smith, M .... . .... 114.84
E. Denton, SW
R. B. Svendsen, JW
M. G. Clark
H. I. Dorsett
564 R. H. Bird, M ..... .... ..
5.94
L. B. Baziuk, SW
W. R. Mathias, JW
A. L. Harsauer
D. M. Schauer, Sr., Sec.
567 R. A. Henderson, M . ....
94.38
C. P. Barrett, SW
R. Meicht, JW
569 K. R. Allen, M . . ........
5.94
W. F. Ferrell , SW
A. G. Kenyon, JW
C. B. Tilden
C. V. Tucker
572 M. Kowarsky, M . .... . . .
88.88
E. F. Hanson, SW
W. L. Pry, JW
W.R. Cox
E. L. Stumbaugh
574 A. M. Allemao, M . . .... . 114.84
B. J. Knight, SW
J. M. Farrell, JW
W.W. Andert
N. E. Hale
V. J . Thompson
575 W. E. Horseman, M ... ..
63.14
R. G. Ingram, Insp.
576 J . R. Austin, M ... . .. . . . 117.04
F. L. Englant, SW
B. McCoy, JW
G. D. Miller
T. M. Sagar
577 F. M. Coto, M . .... ... ..
91.08
P. M. Pulido, JW
R. C. Earnest
V. G. Hedlund
0 . H. Larsen
578 H. Zinman, M .. . .. . ....
90.42
R. A. Erath, SW
K. I. Boardman
579 G. E. Pullen , Jr., M .. . ..
18.92
E. A. Owre, SW
G. S. Sellnow, JW
D. H. Elder, Insp .

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

W. D. Kaestner
K. W. Meyser
580 J . R. Baker, M ... . . ... .. 115.94
B. A. Jones, SW
L. Chambers
581 J . Blythe, M .. . . . ... .. . . 63.58
T. Latham, JW
C. J. Sharp
582 W. A. Sullivan, JW .. . ...
99 .44
583 W. U. Woolley, SW .....
60.72
D. E. Ingalls
585 B. J. Bodinar, M . .......
91.96
A. Henderson, SW
S. C. Jones
L. L. Nichols
B. P. Ragsdale
R. F. Van Fossen
586 H. P. Hall, M .. ........ .
95.70
F. H. Patterson, SW
W. M. Richardson, JW
R. B. Woods, Insp.
W. E. Lampley
N. R. Webb
588 W. A. Turnham, ER .... .
88.66
589 G. W. Smith, M .. . ...... 458.00
K. C. Futterer, SW
C. H. Bennett
E. Moir
590 R. Dierking, SW .........
95.92
L. Dias, JW
E. H. Bowman, Sr.
591 F. J . Cavalieri, M .......
18.70
J . W. Haley, SW
K. Armstrong, JW
592 B. B. Bever, JW .. . ... . ..
85.58
W. H. Stuart, Sr.
593 J . K. Hammer, M .. ... ..
94.38
T. L. Cable, JW
594 W. I. Montgomery, M
94.38
E. R. Hardin, SW
J . M. Solan, JW
P . L.Horn
E. C. Lamberson
B. Miller
J . Schweer
595 R. Collins, SW . . .. .... . .
88.66
P . Firestone
596 R. E. Davies, M . .. .... ..
90.20
G. C. Hughershoff
598 W. D. Bryant, SW ... .. .. 458.00
A. L. Skinner, JW
L. C. Ondo, Insp.
R. T. Ota, Insp.
91.74
600 W. C. Hamel, M ... ... ..
J. E. Bristol, SW
R. A. Herbold

No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

601 S. H. Wronker, M .. .... .
J . A. Haman, SW
C. C. Rathburn
604 N. Enriquez, M ··· ······
W. A. Pettifer, SW
R. M. White, JW
L. G. Connelly, SGS
J . D. Parsons
J . E. Swaim
605 R. H. Tiebout, SW . . . .. .
607 J . Hawley, SW .. ... .. . . .
A. J. LaSance, JW
J. A. Hipp
609 R. L. Mehlhaff, SW .... .
C. H. Clawson, JW
E. J. G. Chapman
C. B. Hendricks
W. W. Holtzclaw
W. 0 . Smith
B. Bird, M
J. C. Hahs, SW
J . E. Bitner, JW
611 J. B. Laumann . . .... .. . .
C.R. Weels
612 D. A. Journey, M ... .. . .
V. A. Heald, SW
S. E. Harris, Insp.
A. C. Emerson
D. L. Griffiths
J . A. Kimbro
D. I. Marlow
T. F. J. McDuffie
M. E. Schrock
H. L. Taber
613 R. R. Haase, M .. .. .....
W. H. Fitch, SW
J . W. Real, JW
F. L. Baker
F. N. Christophel
P . C. Cox
614 L. S. Mengel, II, M . .... .
D. M. Silver, SW
W. P. Stuart, JW
V. M. Dandridge, Insp.
F. R. Aguirre
C. F. Chapman
615 W. R. Lowe, SW .. ... ...
W. E. Donaldson, JW
D. R. Oltman, Insp.
H. W. Raymond
R. D. Siems
616 W. Lollis, M . ... .. . . . . . .
R. Bruneau, JW
617 N. H. Moore, M .... .. . .
B. D. Baker, SW
F. Kitching, JW

Mile
Allow.
55.00
95.70

88.66
92.62
18.92

86.46
91.74

.

18.92

88.66

107.80

94.82
103.84

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

351

Mile
Allow.

D. G. Parmelee, Insp.
C.H . Kirkham
E. H. Longbrake
85 .80
618 P. R. Miller, M . . .... .. .
C. E. Shaver, SW
B. K. Donahue, JW
E. R. Reynolds
620 M. J. Connerton , M . . ... 114.84
J . L. Hodge, SW
W. O'Neal, JW
H. S. Fisher
R. A. Freyer
R. Kentro
J. F. Littel, Jr.
W. A. Low, Sec.
90.20
621 M. Robbins, M ... . ......
J. H. Davis, JW
D. W. Jones
J. N. Roberts
E. F. Seaward
88.66
623 B. Kulick M .. . ...... .. .
R. S. Granas, SW
M. N. Kert, JW
D. I. Bega, Insp.
N. Landsberg, Insp.
A. A. Alferi
S. Chadnow
H. E. Chernick
B. Levitt
S. Parker
J. B. Joyce, Sec.
95 .70
625 W. E. Tiner, M .. .......
G. Thrane, SW
R. Cooper, JW
H. E. Noguchi
K. T. Patton
626 C. H. Bawcum, M . ...... 116.16
R. C. DeVault, SW
M. R. Williams, JW
J . R. Evans, Insp .
J. K. Nicoll, Sec.
90.42
627 J.C. Bell, SW ... ... .. ..
H. Bennett, JW
K. A. Jacobson, PGM
R. Cannon
G. P . Cross
A. L. Gerrie, Jr.
H. E. Pompey
85 .36
628 M. E. Honig, SW . . .. ....
J . E. Higby, JW
D. Monson
629 R. W. Randall, M .. . .. . . 96.36
R. A. Cook, SW
I. Gentry, JW
632 R. C. Scott, SW ...... .. . 114.84
C. T. Stark, JW

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

352
No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

L. D. Ayers
E. L. Wright
633 E . H. Nichols, M ........
80.52
R. A. Broomfield, SW
634 R. L. Robillard, M ..... . 92 .84
D. Rosu, SW
A. W. Carter, JW
W. A. Peacock, Insp.
635 B. F. Followell, M . . . ... . 101.20
W. E. Wilmore, SW
J . B. Casseday, JW
R. F. Baker
W. R. Jones
W. S. Weathers
637 J . E. Lachapelle, M ......
88 .22
H . F. Gillespie, SW
L. A. Sickler, JW
639 R. S. Dunn, M ......... .
88 .22
N. Grattan, Jr., SW
R. Alexander, JW
N. Shaphran
642 E. Cumpiano, JW . ......
74.80
644 K. M. Mcintyre, M ......
93 .94
J . Langit, SW
C. Gittings, JW
R. Vickers, Insp.
V. E. Hansen, Sec.
645 J . A. Lacy, M ...... . .. ..
93 .94
F. B. Anderson, JW
R. D. Gallareto, Insp.
647 L. E. Schultz, SW . . .... . 91.08
C . W : Frields
H . I. Marietta
648 R. 0 . Ward, M .... ......
99 .88
D. L. Ward, SW
L. D. Bridgewater, JW
J. W. Cathey
L. C. Cook
H. L. McWhorter
E. Pester
I. M. Traynor
651 E. H. Holtmann, M . .. ...
7.04
D. K. Littleton, SW
H . L. Berry, JW
A. F. Koula, Insp.
E. J. Coquelle
F. W. Diestel
R. F. Eisenhart
652 G. Dann, M . . ... .......
88 .44
M. Lockwood, SW
J . Stubblefield, JW
F. B. Robertson, lnsp.
R. Galloway
E. Pooleon
653 W. B. McDonald, SW .... 101.42
H . R. Hamilton

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Registered
Member

654 J.C. Ashley, M .........
C. Troncoso, SW
W. S. Van DeWeghe,
Insp.
W. H. Clarke
655 R. L. Mcintosh, M ..... .
M. H. Belleville, SW
R. E. Sinclair, JW
D. E. Royce
U. X. Tretter
L. C. Bennitt, Sec.
656 R. J . McBride, M ........
J . A. Guilford, SW
R. J. Wilson, JW
J. R. Hutchinson , lnsp.
657 R. J. Valdisera, M .......
A. L. Covey
658 0. A. Stimson, M ... ... .
G. J. Frago, SW
R. L. McNew, JW
J. L. Johnson
W. R. Gleason, Sec.
659 E. A. Wolcott, M ........
C. L. Fudge, Sw
R. J . Nelson, Sr., JW
660 D. Bernstein, ER ..... . . .
661 F. L. Baeza, SW .........
663 H. L. Henson, M .. . .....
K. Bertelsen, SW
I. Atkinson, Insp.
M. Shelley
D. J. Theriault
665 H. W. Michalk, M ... . ...
W. J. Faubel, JW
J. L. Faubel
666 F. A. Lacy, M ..........
B. D. Van Leuven, SW
H. D. Fuller, Jr., JW
J . 0. Jarnagin
M. S. Perez
R. C. Read
668 P. L. Galliher, M . .......
R. W. Kramer, SW
R. D. Pickett, JW
669 F. C. Eggers, M ........ .
· R. R. Head, SW
E. C. Bayron, JW
V. 0. Campbell
J. V. Dingman
J . E. Walker
670 W. G. Valle, M ······ .. .
D. N. Campbell, SW
E. E. Symmes, JW
L. Strong
W. L. Valle
C. F. Mounts, Sec.

Mile
Allow.
90.20

94.38

93.94

114.84
25.08

93 .28
92. 18
88 .66
81.84

51.26
85 .36

107. 14
11.00

90.86

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

671 M. McKibban, SW ...... . 101.86
L. Jones, JW
W. Overall,
P. S. Hollar, Sec.
672 A. B. Ludwig, M . ....... 100.10
S. Pearson, SW
C.R. Beck
W. B. Sorrells
94.38
674 S. J . Applebaum, M .....
S. Levin, SW
20.02
675 L. H. Glidewell, M ......
H. H. Howard, SW
E. A. Jarrett, Insp.
H. H. Coleman
11.00
676 M. B. Short, M .........
R. J. Hickenbottom , SW
G. D. Clarke, JW
J. L. Andre
J. R. Doty
J . M. Ray
R. W. Scott
88.66
677 D. P . Shampay, M .......
R. M. Blight, SW
G. V. Roten, lnsp.
V. Brice
D. H. Farlee
W. K. Merrick
A. S. Ostrom
S. 0. Packard,
90.20
678 P. L. Wilson, M ....... ..
A. DeCicco, SW
T. W. Heidner
H. Riley
E.W. Smith
27.28
680 M. W. Norman, M
J . F. Myron, Insp.
C. R. Watson
31.24
681 J . J . Sorenson, SW . . ....
91.30
682 R. A. Peabody, M .......
46.42
683 J . Arthur, M .. . ..... .. ..
S. R. Symons, SW
90.86
685 J. R. Paden, M .. .. . .....
R. Miller, SW
J. E. Scarborough, JW
R. J. Henville, GM
A.G. Parisi
G. W. Parr
W. R. Willis
None
686 R. L. Sorenson, M .. .... .
C. J. Crawford, SW
J . B. Barbero
687 W. E. Brewer, M ....... . 109.34
J. A. Wohlfarth, SW
C. F. Sharp, JW
T. A. Kanester
None
690 D. E. Callis, M . . . ······

No . of
Lodge

Registered
Member

353

Mile
Allow.

F. K. Edminster, JW
R. J. Earl
D. A. Nielsen
88.60
691 B. D. Johansen, M
G. A. Graham, SW
W. T . Cooper, JW
M. L.Hammitt
18.92
692 J. M. Hawkins, M . . . . ...
E. Schneider, SW
L. R. Cox, JW
D. D. Werb
693 A. R. Preston, M .... .. .. 112.64
R. H. Salm, SW
S. R. Pritsker, JW
J. W. Abernethy
R. S. Bertrand
T. Frederickson
F. E. Waters, Sec.
63.58
695 R. F. Nielsen, Jr., M .....
V. Fontes, Sec .
696 R. C. Fish, M ... . . .... .. 114.84
A. J. Viavada, Jr., Sw
E. E. Hortman, JW
C. R. Fish
P . G. Krings
H . G. Lacy
88.66
698 0. Celeya, SW ........ ..
T. M. Boles, JW
K. H . Boucher, AGT
W. S. Kisselburgh
R.R. Whyte
94.38
699 H. R. Peckholdt, M .. . ...
H. C. Hartzel , SW
H. D. Lemons, PGM
J . R. Ashwill
A. C. Happel
R. McMillian
F. J . Russo
R. A. Sherod
40.26
700 G. G. Lewis, SW ........
C. S. Bersani, Insp.
66.00
701 P . Bedrosian, SW .. ......
W. B. Hutchinson
W. Penca
M. G. Rigney, Sec.
90.64
702 C. Hall, SW .. .. ... . ....
J. Abshier, JW
42.24
707 J . Leitner, M .... .. .. ....
708 B. W. Kemper, M .... ... 100.76
H. F. R. Bate, SW
E. B. Long, JW
R. E. Enz, lnsp.
M. E. Hiles
D. E. New
R. H. Anderson, Sec.
None
709 J. R. Yeoman, M . ... ... .

354
No. of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Registered
Member

J. H. VanDen Bos, Insp.
J. E. Speharet
710 E. B. Reynoso, M .......
W. J. Berry
711 F. E. Johnson, M ........
G. B.Anderson, SW
712 W. F. Wright, M ........
F. C. Oder, SW
W. V. Jones, JW
H. S. Bailey
W. E. Henry
W. B. Pruitt
L. R. Trimlett
R. J. Watson
713 T. J. Ledford, M ........
D. D. Morris
G. W. Morris
R. K. Smith
714 J. W. Stube, M ..........
D. F. Greensides,SW
L. B. Carlson, JW
R. B. Douglas
D. E. Forster
L. E. Sheller
715 L. J. Beroussard, M
D. Johnstone, SW
C. Pruett, Jr., JW
F. J. Olivadoti
R. 0. Smith, Jr.
R. E. Swann
R. L. Swann
716 K. M. Jacob, M .........
K. V. Andrews, SW
J. A. Carey, JW
J. R. Nelson, Insp.
R. L. Gandt
F. E. Goppert, Sec.
717 R. Minichiello, M ........
W. W. Rose, Sw
G. L. Gearhart, JW
F. A. Steiner
W. F. Townsend
718 M. F. Hotchkiss, M ......
J. A. Chilton
E. J. Kieser
J.M. Ward
719 L. E. Forbus, SW
E. H. Poe, JW
E. C. Arledge, Sec.
720 C. U. Patmore, Jr., M ...
S. Bacon, SW
M. McDaniel, JW
721 R. Sterneck, M ..........
I. Levine, SW
M. Barlam, JW
M. Linn

Mile
Allow.

82.72
103.18
8.58

None

None

87.12

94.38

90.86

14.96

51.70
49.28
85.80

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

J. Winchell
M. Winchell
722 T. P. McCollum, M ......
11.66
L. R. Johnson
J. W. Runcie
724 K. J. Keen, M ...........
7.26
L. P. Wille, SW
H. W. Burson
W. W. Ebbett, Jr.
D. S. Frazier
725 J. Garner, M ............
6.82
R. Broadhead, JW
R. Kerr
F. R. Preston
J. K. Hoit, Sec.
726 J. Hays, SW ............ 102.96
J. Katzman, JW
728 R. L. Tadich III, M ......
94.38
L. R. Stanton, JW
729 G. L. Williams, M .......
91.26
J. V. Goodson, SW
730 R. V. Stroup, M .........
22.44
D. B. Thayer, SW
L. D. Morgan, JW
R. L. Brawley
731 C. W. Dolan, M .........
91.30
V. L. Massey
732 H. C. Collins, M ........
22.44
A. W. Birge, SW
K. L. Davis, JW
R. E. Dunn
T. F. Tapp
A. W. McConchie, Sec.
733 R. E. Markwell,M .......
18.92
R. E. Hood, JW
J. R. Leong
J. Robinson
734 R. R. Argo, M ..........
18.92
W. D. Lakin, SW
D. L. Allison, JW
D. W. Finton
G. Larsen
E. R. Nicholls, Jr.
735 J. D. Terry, M .......... 113.08
W. Monroe, Insp.
W. W. Shirley
736 C. W. Grahn, M ........ 117.26
C J. Andrade, SW
C. R. Barnes, JW
C. W. LeRoy
739 H. Rieger, M ............
88.44
A. G. MacBride
R.R. Damiani
740 F. E. Brant, M ..........
91.08
741 R. H. Rigney, M ........
91.%
R. McAdams, SW

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

W. C. Burchell, Insp.
M. D. Maccallum, Insp.
C. L. Thompson
745 W. L. Estabrook, M .....
None
P. D. Hennig, Insp.
T. G. Cook
R. Sterner
746 A. Schlee, M ............
16.72
C. B. Jones, SW
J.E. Knight, JW
W. M. Wong
747 L. L. Handley, ER ....... 114.84
748 K. W. Ratley, JW .......
99.88
C. J. Driscoll
749 A. F. Reynolds, M .......
28.16
M. D. Abney, SW
T. D. Cox, Insp.
V. T. Fike
J. Stallings
94.82
750 N. Anderson, M .........
J. L. Clayton, SW
L. Eddy
E. L. Harp
6.16
751 H. D. Lang, M ..........
K. E. Bowers, SW
B. Canning, JW
R. Anderson
A. Hughes
W. M. Standl~y
11.88
752 D. Rishe, M ............
W. Hay, SW
F. Langerman, JW
F. Tillmannshofer, Insp.
H. J. Halvorsen
753 R. S. Bauer, M ..........
91.08
J. K. Forkner
J.E. Coon, Sec.
None
754 L. Curtis, M ............
W. F. Postmus, Insp.
R. W. Rose
H. Stiebinger
6.82
756 0. C. Rupert, M ........
A. 0. Smith, Jr., SW
R. W. Lively, JW
S. D. Glazier
M. W. King
H. L. Rutan
757 R. W. Bussman .........
None
J. H. Tanaka
759 J. Dominguez, M ........
91.30
R. M. Fellows, Insp.
F. W. Jones
760 E. R. Pellom, M ......... 117.04
R. K. Ray, JW
761 R. C. Lantrip, SW .......
8.58
D. C. Briggs

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

355
Mile
Allow.

C. G. Lessing
R. F. Locke, Jr.
None
762 R. S. Murray, M
J. M. Barrows
763 G. Nassif III, M .........
88.66
S. Moukarim, SW
J. Quintero, JW
F. Eastman
T. J. Haddad
93.06
765 L. C. Doke, M ..........
C. J. Echelberger
88.66
767 M. L. Pollack, M ........
E. D. Kaye, SW
W. R. Teague, JW
P. 0. Grubb
85.36
768 J. W. Pavey, M .........
R. E. Welsh, Jr., Sw
R. F. Bradbury, JW
T. F. Lyddon
85.14
769 M. J. Bouche, Jr., M ....
R. F. Stout, SW
H. A. Macy, Insp.
F. Cervantes
771 M. E. Long, M .......... 114.84
B. Navarrette, Sr., SW
J. 0. Barnes, JW
C. G. Knight, Jr., Insp.
D.R. Taylor
63.58
773 V. V. Miller, SW ........
L. Brown, JW
L. Livermore
774 D. Q. Pang, M .......... 458.00
D. W. Lum, SW
W. K. McKee, Jr., Insp.
H.K. S. Lau
K. K. W. Lau
H. W. Wat
775 D. Kates, SW ........... 110.22
C. M. Wilensky, Insp.
A. Allen
90.86
776 D. L. Groves, M ........
A. D. Molnar, SW
E. Clyde, JW
J. C. Freeland
95.04
778 N. D. Barge, M . ........
R. K. Slocombe, SW
M. Rosenberg, JW
R. L. Riemer
E. G. Van Pelt
T. Wallace
88.44
780 N. R. Trelan, M .........
R. E. Kirby, JW
E. F. Collins
10.34
782 M. L. Baumgardner, M
J. Kilgore, SW
L. G. Carsner, Jr., GBB

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

356

Registered
Member

R.H. Bantz
784 R. D. Tevis, M ..........
D. E. Stephens, SW
G. M. Guiles
L. Kidwell
786 C. E. Anderson, M ......
R. E. Fenrich, SW
R. L. Dover, JW
J. E. Smith, Insp.
J. H. Stout
788 L. M. Henderson, SW ....
M. M. Pierce, JW
W. J. Schlichting, Insp.
789 E. E. Hearld, M .........
E. C. Miller, SW
R. T. Hill, JW
J.C. Richey, GT
E. 0. Andrews
E. P. Gonsalves
M.A. Lien
F. Stimson
G. A. Uren
790 W. C. Weis, Jr., M ......
J. M. Wells, SW
J. James, Jr., JW
H. E. Barr, SGD
T. C. Holm
P. J. Votava, Jr.
D. H. White
791 B. Y. Turner, M .........
D. L. Lancaster, SW
C. E. Willis, JW
B. A. McVey·
S. Zalk
793 J. L. Garcia, M .........
C. Castaneda, JW
A. Hernandez, Insp.
795 C. W. Snyder, M ........
0. G. Bocock, SW
G. A. Voetsch, Sr., JW
D. G. Reynolds
796 C. M. Rock, M ..........
R. W. Harrison, SW
J. A. Gehrke, JW
797 L. M. Decastro, SW .....
E. V. Garcia, JW
798 S. W. Smith, Sr., M .....
E. C. Ruth, JW
K. H. MacL.aughlin
E. Matraia, Jr.
A. R. Perryman
799 C. D. Winfrey, M .......
R. S. Moore, SW
R. E. DeLaurentis, JW
H. G. Scott, Insp.
J. A. Falls

Mile
Allow.

35.64

22.00

44.88
18.92

84.70

81.84

90.42
22.22

99.88
88.66

None

114.84

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

800 H. W. Siggers, ER .......
801 E.W. Lane, M ..........
J. E. D. Williams, JW
J. P. Dennehy
802 H. A. Nelson, SW .......
R. L. Casey, JW
E. A. Reichardt
A. M. Shinn, Jr.
804 J. A. Roddy, M .........
806 D. C. Newcomer, M .....
C. Dracy, JW
M. E. Shannon
R. E. Smith
B. B. Tilden
807 S. K. Thompson, M ......
J. A. Falkin, SW
C. W. Foster, JW
R. L. LaRose
808 C. C. George, M ........
809 K. Williams, M ..........
A. Pollock, SW
810 D. R. Ludwig, M ........
R. F. Barden, SW
P. M. Granstrom
811 R. A. Pritchard, M ......
T. E. Brown, SW
H.B. Lyman
813 C. C. Koonce, M ........
B. N. Bowles, SW
E. R. James, JW
C. R. Krohn, Insp.
0. C. Heximer
A. Bruce Ivie
814 A. Popp, M .............
S. Frank, SW
T. J. Hargaden, JW
L. Freeland
815 M.A. Fechner, M .......
J. L. Hollinger, Jr., SW
F. Hunsaker, Jr., JW
P. E. Holtsclaw
T. H. Morgan
W. G. Templeton
818 C. D. Allen, M ..........
G. L. Crombie, SW
A. L. Hook, JW
J. M. Bennett
C. Duran
R. L. Nelson
820 K. J. Egan, Jr, M
R. E. Moody, SW
G. R. Strom, JW
D. Newstead
R. F. Speth
821 D. Likas ................
R.E.Tilly

Mile
Allow.
91.52
458.00
107.14

l0it28
84.70

84.70

18.04
94.82
101.20
86.46
81.62

88.66

95.48

9.02

100.76

None

No. of
Lodge

Registered
Member

822 J. 0. Fourr, ER .........
824 T. Broucek, M ..........
E.W. Heath, SW
L. C. Heckman, JW
M. P. Blackmer
F. J. Potter
825 E. S. Pador, M ..........
F. V. Galardi, Jr., SW
C. M. Jeronimo, JW
J. H. Abraham
J. S. Kemper
W. A. Ross
L. S. Vergara, Sec.
826 M. R. Hornick, JW .... . .
R.Pillow
G. C. Klein, Sec.
827 M. F. Hoff, Jr., M ......
C. R. Edmondson, SW
A. E. Westergren, JW
T. G. McKinney, Insp.
J. D. Costa
K. A. McDowall
W. A. Turner
828 J. C. Phillips, M
J. G. Presutti, SW
B. L. Jeffers, JW
N. R. Brittin
J. Eakins
G. W. Jeffers
D. A. Poole
D. A. Poole, Jr.
N. F. Thompson

.

Registered
Member

Mile
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

83.82
84.70

830 H. D. Hanawalt, Sr., M ..
G. T. Hennagin, Jr., SW
S. York, Sec.
831 P. A. Ecalnea, M ........
A. C. Abelow, SW
P. C. Bernardo, JW
A. C. Asercion
M. P. Misenas
A. R. Wuezon
832 G. H. Claude, M ........
J. R. Ashby, SW
L. H. Robertson, JW
L. L. Todd, Insp.
V. D. Alianiello
G. E. Heaton
833 J. Rider, ER ............
834 D. Hastings, M ..........
W. Alford, SW
V. C. Owen
835 R. J. Anderson, M .......
H. E. Honerlah, SW
P. L. Askins, JW
J. E. Miller
836 W. C. Mallion, SW ......
U .D. Joseph L. Shell Daylight. .
G. C. Kern, M
J. C. Canale, SW
P. I. Greenwood, JW
A. F. Peterson, Sec.
U .D. King Kalakaua Daylight ..
J. Malczon, M
B. K. C. Ing

7.26

114.62
76.78

96.14

357

Mile
Allow.
18.92
7.92

115.50

95.70
95.92
6.60

458.00
114.84

458.00

.....
lJI

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

00

Showing Membership Totals, Charter Dates, Degree Fees, Affiliation Fees, Dues, Degrees Conferred, Per Capita Payments
and Candidate's and Affiliates' Contributions.
Grand Lodge per capita for the year ending June 30, 1985 includes $5.84 for Grand Lodge and $1.00 for publication of
the California Freemason Magazine.
Candidates' and Affiliates' contributions include Masonic Homes contribution of $25.00, George Washington Memorial
contribution of $5.00 and California Memorial Temple contribution of $9.00.
The membership totals apply to the year ending June 30, 1985.
For location of Lodges, see "Alphabetical List of Lodges" on page _.

'tl

~

No.

1984

1985

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

I
2
3

938
270
534
209
310
273
393
415
325
290
417
97
36
483
624
343
267
246
100

901
269
522
202
301
262
392
400
339
275
413
94
35
470
605
345
258
231
IOI

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853

100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125

Members
Lodge
Occidental-California .....
Western Star ............
Tehama ........ . .... . ...
Benicia .................
Tuolumne ...............
Corinthian ... . ..........
San Jose .......... . .....
Yount ..................
Nevada ..... . ........ . ..
Temple .... . ... . ........
Eureka .................
La Parfaite Union .......
Mountain Shade .. .......
San Joaquin .... . ...... ..
Washington ...... . ......
Hawaiian . . . ... ....... . .
Madison ........ ... .....
Mariposa ...............
Georgetown ..... ........

El Dorado . . .... .. .... ..
Trinity ...... . ...........
Golden Gate Speranza ....
Gold Hill ... .... ........
Ophir ....... ...... .....
San Diego .... . .... .....
Howard ................
Santa Cruz ..... . .. . .....
Sacramento . ... . ........
Martinez ................
Los Angeles .............
Hiram ..................
Crescent ...... .... ......
Texas ...................
Forbestown ... . . ... .... .
Illinoistown .. . .. . ...... .
Suisun ...... .. . .. . ..... .
Volcano ... ....... ......
Santa Rosa ..............
Union ...... ...... ......
Gravel Range ........ ....
Plumas ...... . . . ........
Live Oak .. .... . ........
Natoma .................
Amador ..... .. . .. ... . ..
Morning Star ............
Enterprise ... ........ ....
Bear Mountain ..... .. ...
Calaveras ...............
Humboldt .... . .. .. .... . .
Ione . .......... .. . .... ..
Woodland .. .. .. .... ....
Vesper ......... . ........
Naval ..................
Rose's Bar ..............
North Star ..... . ........
St. Helena .. .. .... ... ...

5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
23
24
25

26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43

45
46

50
51
55
56
57
58

59
60
61
64
65
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93

332
202
718
112
134
1191
232
401
532
336
934
207
187
78
140
69
358
169
538
388
98
122
536
412
104
458
298
83
107
313
91
70
252
671
102

95
113

336
203
673
109
136
1180
232
401

519
344
926
199
182
80
131
69
346
172

525
372
97
123
522
416
106
439
300
80
107
314
86
309
250
666
97
92
106

1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855

1855
1855
1855

1855
1855

Affil.
Fee
20

10
10
2

5
5

-

50
75
100
100
75
125
125
75
78
90
100

100
125
100

50

-

18
18
15
30
24
35
18
30
20
25
24

3
6
4

3
2
6
4

4
2
7
4
2
3
8
2
10

25
24
15
30
20
36

-

-

5
JO
2
10

25

5

15

115

-

125
150
100

10

50
100
• 100
111
175
75

150
50

50

-

I
I

10

JO
JO
10

5

5
10

-

1855

100
75

-

50

3
10

85
80
80

50
100
90

115
50
50

2
I

5
5
5
5

JO
20

5
2

30
25
30
32
22.50
32
20

15
16
24
31
25
18
30
20
25
22
16
30
40
20

5

-

5

3

7

5

5

2
7

12

-

-

7

I

I

7
11
I

2
7
7
3

3

I
I

-

3
3
3
2

-

29
4
4
4

I

2
8
6

5
9
4
2
I

5

5

2
4

3
I
I

I
I

17
2

5

3

15
5
5
2
9
8
2

3
8
3

15
11
2
2

10
2
I
I

5

-

I

I
I

-

-

II

5
5

5

-

-

4

-

15

115
60

100
100

-

30
36
24
27
30
24
25
24
36
36
20
36
20
24

50

1855

Raised

10
JO

1855

1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

Passed

15
15

75
75
100

1855
1855

/nit.

15
5

1855
1855

1855

2

Dues

3
I

3

II
3
4
I
I

-

-

-

9
10

6
II

7
10

I

I
I

-

4
7
I
3
3
2

2
3

I

2
4

I

2
2
I

5
4
9

3

-

3
2
9

-

3
3
2
3
2
JO

-

-

I

-

I

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
G.L.
Per Capita
Contrib.
6108.12
1826.28
3549.96
1374.84
2052.00
1778.40
2681.28
2674.44
2305.08
1874.16
2824.92
642.96
239.40
3146.40
4117.68
2359.80
1744.20

117.00
234.00
181.00
220.00

195.00
348.00
220.00
518.00
25.00
181.00
39.00

0

(')

m
m

0

z0
tll

0
..,,
--l

::i::

m

245.00
273.00
579.00
39.00

1559.52
684.00

142.00

2277.72
1361.16
4589.64
731.88
930.24
8002.80
1552.68
2729.16
3481.56
2332.44
6251.76
1354.32
1231.20
547.20
882.36
471.96
2352.96

142.00
117.00
117.00
78.00
25.00
1356.00
156.00
256.00
181.00
685.00
454.00
78.00
78.00
39.00

1155.96
3495.24
2489.76
663.48
800.28
3570.48
2831.76
684.00
2948.04
2031.48
547.20
718.20
2093.04
574.56
2099.88
1696.32
4507.56
663.48
629.28
725.04

78.00
337.00
234.00
220.00
117.00
25.00

351.00
390.00
25.00
206.00
323.00
39.00
117.00
142.00
78.00
195.00
156.00
401.00
39.00
78.00
156.00

0

~

>
z
0

I:""'

0
0
0

m

0
..,,
(")

>
I:""'
=a
0

~

z
s;:

.....
lJI
\0

Members

1984

1985

Charter
Issued

95

95

98
99
IOI
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
124
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149

110
377
85
423
490
263
265
534
102
288
233
483
547
207
503
176
77
430
122
193

94
109
368
84
437
479
254
261
520
104
170
227
472
511
203
501
173
73
405
120
190
58
339
84
483
531
84
68
92
278
102
264
200
149

1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862

120
56
45
539
368
450
478
186
64
329
429
72
270
93
49
213
58
67
53
159
604
141
322
269
70
307
166
93
391
189
93
105
224
76
442
119
368

1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870

Lodge

No.

Henry Clay . . ...... .....
Hornitos ..... .. .. . ......
Yosemite ... ......... ....
Clay . . .... . .. .. . ... . . .. .
Oroville .. ... . . . ....... . .
Lexington . ..... . . . .. .. ..
Arcata ... ..... .. . . .. .. ..
Pajaro .... .... . ... ......
Chico ..... ...... .......
Summit .... ...... .......
Eden . ... ....... . .. .....
Concord . .. .. . . ... . .... .
Fidelity . . ..... . .........
Alamo . .. . . . . .... . ... . . .
Sotoyome .. .... .........
Table Mountain .... .. . ..
LaFayette ... ..... .. . ....
Hermann .. . .... . . . . .. . .
Visalia . .. . .. ........ . ...
Nicolaus . . . . . .. . ........
Woodbridge .. .... . ... ...
Sincerity . . . ... . ... . . ....
Vacaville ... .... . ... .....
Valley .... ..... . . . . .....
Lebanon-Pacific .. . .. . .. .
Park-Crockett . .. ........
Curtis .. . . .... . . . .. . . .. .
Grafton .. ........... ... .
Franklin ... . . . .. . .......
Oriental .. ... . ... .. . ....
Vitruvius ..... ..... . . ....
Abell ... . .. .. ..... . .. . ..
Eel River ....... . . .. .. ..
Lassen . ... ... ..... . ... ..

Molino .. ......... ......
Keystone ............ .. . .
Harmony .. . ............
San Francisco Educator . .
Alameda . ... .. ..... .....
Redwood City .... .......
Mission Golden West .....
Elk Grove . ...... . .. ....
Drytown .. .. ...... . . .. . .
Antioch ... ... .......... .
Phoenix ......... .. . .. . .
Mendocino . ......... ....
Petaluma .. ... . .. .......
Russian River ..... ......
Arbuckle . .. . . . ..... . . ...
Clear Lake . . . . .. . .... .. .
Sierra Valley .... . ..... ..
Claiborne ........ .... . ..
Evening Star . . .... .. . ...
Keith ....... . . .... ......
Oakland Durant Rockridge
Northern Light ... . .... ..
Marin . .. . .. . ... .. . . .. . .
Santa Barbara . . . .. . . ... .
Ferndale .... . ......... . .
Mountain View ..... . . ...
Landmark-Buckeye . .... . .
San Simeon .. .. .. . ......
Wilmington ....... . ... ..
Hartley . .. . . . . .. . . . ... ..
Truckee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Silveyville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pentalpha. . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Confidence. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Salinas .... ... . .. . . .... .
Olivet ... .. . . . ... . ... ...
Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

150
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
198
199
200
20 I
202
203
204
205
206

59
341
89
502
574
85
71
93
285
103
266
206
154

128
60
45
573
380
470
495
183
67
334
445
74
273
97
51
222
64
71

55
157
506
141
339
279
67
313
169
94
412
200

95
106
234
83
446
120
376

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fee

50
90
90
50
125
125
75
75
90

10
10

50
105
115
100
75
105
80
75
150
75
75

/nit .

Passed

Raised

1
I
3
I
16
11
I
8
8
I
3
4
8
I
3
2
3
I
I

I
I
4

-

5

20
12
30
21
28
30
30
45
24
25
30
32
20
36
25
25
30
60
30
25
20
25
30
25
20
36
30
25
25

10

15

I

-

20
24
24
35

3
2

-

-

5

10
15

-

5

I
2
30

5

-

135
161

-

5
12
20

100
190
75

-

50

-

75
100
75

50
50

5
5

-

50
50

.

Dues

5

-

100

-

65
75

2.50
10

50

5
5
5

100
165
100
100

50

50

10

65
75
75
100
100
75

5

50
115

50
50
100
61
111
90
100
100

50
100
85
75
125
100
90
90
100
75
105

50
115

I

5
5

5

-

I

25

5
5
2
I

5
10

-

5
25

-

15
10

5
20

-

-

35
20
12
25
30
36
18
24
30
24
27
21
36
20
18
30
24
18
28
30
24
24
28
30
24
30
20
36
30
36
20
30
20
36
24
25
48

-

I
4

-

-

11
I

14
3
I
6

6
6
I

-

5
2

I
8
I
4
4

-

I
9
I
3

5

5

4

2

2
I

5

5

6
I
4
4
3
6
I

-

-

-

2

2
I
4
9
I
3

3

I

2

5
8

10

-

I
7
-

I
3
7
3
9
2
2
2

-

I

I
I
6

5

8

4

5

5

I

-

I
6
2
9
2
2

5

-

5

-

4

-

-

4
2
I
3
3

4
4

9
8

-

-

3
3
2
3
2

I

-

6
I

-

3

-

3

-

-

3
3
I
2
3

I
3
3
I
2
2

5

5

2

3

-

-

I
4

I
3
2

2
4
3
2
2
3
I

-

5

7

I
9

-

5
I

I

11

I
-

9
I
7

G.L.
Per Capita
642.96
745.56
2510.28
567.72
2989.08
3235.32
1737.36
1785.24
3502.08
704.52
1798.92
1545.84
3214.80
3420.00
1381.68
3385.80
1162.80
471.96
2729. 16
820.80
1299.60
389.88
2298.24
567.72
3228.48
3632.04
574.56
465.12
608.767
1887.84
697.68
1771.56
1368.00
984.96

807.12
376.20
307 .80
3625.20
2517.02
3002.76
3269.52
1272.24
437 .76
2216. 16
2865.96
478.80
1826.28
636.12
335.16
1456.92
389.88
430.92
362.52
1046.52
4062.96
964.44
2181.96
1826.28
471.96
2058.84
1053.36
636.12
2612.88
1285.92
622.44
718.20
1518.48
519.84
2995.92
813.96
2469.24

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
Contrib.
64.00
64.00
167.00
39.00
838.00
454.00
39.00
312.00
312.00
39.00
117.00
156.00
337.00
39.00
117.00
203.00
242.00
39.00
39.00
25 .00
234.00
39.00
295.00
156.00
117.00
259.00
39.00

w

g

"tl

:;r;:i

0

(j
(Tl
(Tl

S1

z

Cl
CJ)
0

'TJ

-l

::i:
(Tl

8.00
39.00
117.00
78 .00
117.00

39.00
78.00
195.00
437.00
454.00
401.00
337.00
25.00
39.00

195 .00

-

39.00
117.00
298.00
142.00
376.00
103.00
78.00
128.00
25.00
78.00
156.00
142.00
78.00
103.00
117.00
39.00
195.00
64.00
376.00

Cl

:;r;:i

>
z

Cl

t""'

0
Cl
Cl
(Tl

0

'TJ

(j

>
t""'
::;;

0

:;r;:i

z

>

w

g:

Members
Lodge

No.

1984

1985

Anaheim . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Rio Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208
King David 's . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
Friendship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 210
San Benito.... .. ........ 211
South San Francisco . . . . . 212
San Buenaventura ........ 214
Oak Grove... . . .. . . . .. . . 215
Monterey .. . .. .... ...... 217
Mosaic ..... . .. .. .... .. . 218
Downey . . . ......... .. .. 220
Inyo. . . . . .. ... .. .. . . .... 221
Roseville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
Bakersfield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
San Leandro-Brooklyn . . . 225
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
Athens . ... .... . .. .... . . 228
Solano . ....... ... ..... . . 229
North Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230
Covelo . .. .... . . .. ... . .. 231
Janesville . ........ . .... . 232
Calistoga ... .... . .. .. ... 233
Hope .. ....... ... ....... 234
Surprise Valley . . . . . . . . . . 235
Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236
Guadalupe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237
Colusa .. . . .. . . .. . . .... . . 240
Santa Ana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Magnolia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
Eucalyptus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243
Alcatraz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244
Laurel .. .... ..... ....... 245
Pomona . .... .... ....... 246
Fresno .. . ....... .. . . .... 247

432
130
337
443
113
159
406
327
227
282
481
105
596
420
403
365
189
245
241
56
99
98
90
62
125
253
132
375
431
512
227
155
344
456

429
126
347
428
106
158
398
318
221
276

Alturas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
Adin .. ...... . . ... . . .... 250
Reading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Welcome . .. ...... .. . .. .. 255
Lodi . .. . ..... . ... . .. . . . 256
Penrhyn . . .. ... . .. ...... 258
Evergreen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 259
King Solomon's Seaport .. 260
Tuscan .. . . ... .. ..... . .. 261
Lompoc . ... . ........ . .. 262
Hesperian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Orland ...... .. .. .. ..... 265
Galt . .. . .. . ... . .. . .. .. .. 267
Olive Branch . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Snow Mountain .. . .. . . . . 271
Pasadena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Anchor ...... . .. ... ... .. 273
Arroyo . ...... . .. . ...... 274
Oakdale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
Selma .. . . .. ....... ..... 277
San Gabriel-Southern
California... ........ . . . . 278
Hanford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Madera-Joppa . . . . . . . . . . . 280
Mount Shasta . . . . . . . . . . . 281
Callayomi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
South West . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
Paso Robles . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Winnedumah .. .... . . .. .. 287
Maxwell . . .. . . .... . . .. .. 288
Elsinore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289
Fellowship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 290
Santa Paula. ... . .... . ... 291
Los Gatos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
Orange Grove . . . . . . . . . . . 293
Clarence L. Fraser . . ..... 294
Mount Jackson .......... 295

116
74
294
217
319
139
530
277
70
360
405
157
96
169
35
300
314
237
198
161

113
70
295
215
310
132

535
202
281
199
71
463
243
217
36
138
592
320
423
455
252
102

464

104

599
398
389
344
183
241
233
53
96
89
87

59
114
247
136
361
416
492
216
151
317
448

Charier
Issued

Degree
Fees

1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1876
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877
1878

105
100
100
115
65

-

I

50

5

100
100
100
180
90
75
75
50
75
50

10

10
50

-

10

10

5

-

50

5
5

75
75
75

24
40

25

I

14

5

-

-

I

2

-

-

21
26
66
30

25

4

50

5

-

18
40
30
18
35
24

2

25

5

32
42
18
30
20
24
34
30

-

-

-

I

-

30

-

25

-

I
I

30
36
28
36
20
35
18
30
20
30
35
30
30

5

25

5
25
3

-

10

-

5

-

11
2
2
6
6
2

-

10
4

-

5

3
2
2
6

I

4

5
-

I

16
4
7

5
I

10

5

42
20
30
35
20
30
18
24
15
12

Raised

I

4
3

50
25

36
36
30
36
30
30
35
36

50
90
100
75

75
165
99
90
Ill
135
75
100
75
101
215
90
100
115
80
75

4

10

65

1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889

6
2
6
9
3
10
8
6

25

Ill

503
194
282
196
71
461
240
211
36
141
569
313
413
444
237
98

30

-

115
100

163
31
209
303
236
196
158

95

I

100
75
115
125

65

Passed

30
18
30
20
24
33
30
30

-

90
50
115
100

!nit.

I

5

JOO

50

Dues

25

10

Ill
265
50
• 100
100
75
50
75
75
115
125
100
75
80

269
67
356
397
156

-

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
Per Capita
Con I rib.
G.L.

26

95

1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885

525

Affil.
Fee

9

I

-

3
2

3
I

I

-

-

3

4
4
2

4
7
2

I

-

-

3

5

2
3

I

-

7
2
4

3
2
2

I

I

6
4

2
3

-

-

I

-

-

3
2
2
3
3
I
I

2

-

I

I

I

14
8
I

13
7
I
2

9

5
21
I

-

15
I

-

7
4
2
2
3

5
2
2
9
I

9
2
I
I
2

-

9
3
2

2

-

-

-

-

I
2
4
4
I

2
3
I

3

5
I

2
2
4
I
I

21
3
2

-

6
2
7
7
10
7
I

I
I
3
2
3
20
3
3

-

I

2
I

5

3
16
6
3

-

I

3
3
7
9
2
2

I
I

3
8
8
2
I

2907.00
855 .00
2352.96
2893.32
718.20
1060.20
2708.64
2127.24
1484.28
1812.60
3125.88
704.52
4097.16
2681.28
2578.68
2332.44
1231.20
1641.60
1573 .20
348.84
656.64
595.08
595.08
389.88
772.92
1668.96
930.24
2428.20
2804.40
3317.40
1429.56
978.12
2168.28
3043.80

772.92
478.80
1963.08
1450.08
2113 .56
889.20
3549.96
1808.76
458.28
2400.84
2701.80
1026.00
649 .80
1087.56
205.20
1395.36
2058.84
1593.74
1292.76
1080.72
3358.44
1299.60
1901.52
1326.96
485.64
3105 .36
1621.08
1436.40
246.24
943.92
3844.08
2127.24
2790.72
3016.44
1580.04
670.32

259.00
78.00
384.00
401.00
117.00
440.00
337.00
234.00
25.00
181.00
142.00
39.00
649.00
181.00
273 .00
195.00
39.00

117.00
39.00
25.00

.....

°'""

"tl

"0
(j

m
m

g
zCl
Cl'.l

0

'Tl

-l

:r:
m

117.00
245.00
39.00
273.00
128.00
181.00
39.00
234.00
156.00

39.00
571.00
312.00
114.00
195.00
919 .00
39.00
273 .00
156.00
78.00
78.00
117.00

-

25.00
117.00
195 .00
39.00

-

78.00
103.00
156.00
64.00
39.00
844.00
167.00
78.00
284.00
103.00
323 .00
298.00
429.00
273 .00
39.00

Cl

">z0
r

0
0

Cl

m

0

'Tl

(j

r>

~

"z>

.....

°'.....

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

A/fl/.
Fee

100

IO
-

Lodge

No.

Members
1984
1985

Silver Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dunsmuir ..... .. .. . . ....
Liberty .. .......... . ....
Redlands ...... . .. . ......
Ontario .. ..... . ... . . .. ..
Santa Lucia . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Porterville . .... . .. ... . ..
Reedley ........... .... ..
Azusa ... . . ......... . ...
Ashlar ...... .. ..........
Santa Monica .. . . .......
Monrovia . ........ .. . . ..
Delano .... ...... ...... .
Sisson ..... .... .........
Los Banos ..... . ... .. . . .
Tehachapi . . ........... . .
Temescal. ... . . . . . .. . .. . .
Norwalk . ... .... . ... .. ..
Sanger . ... ....... . . . . ...
Fallbrook .. ... . . . .......
South Gate . .... .........
Alisa!. . . ......... . .. . ...
Alhambra .. . .. . ... . .....
Whittier . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Corona .. . . ...... . ... . ..
Consuelo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Needles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Long Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Redondo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vallee de France . . . . . . . . .
Kilauea . ................
Pacific Grove . . .... .. . ..
Los Angeles Harbor ......
Alta ...... . . ..... .......

296
297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333

623
148
318
391
342
152
413
150
278
231
277
147
176
77
140
197
290
734
209
215
199
254
352
457
291
602
222
515
667
87
176
269
631
115

594
143
299
390
329
143
412
146
271
224
276
138
169
76
142
189
284
709
202
219
196
259
335
442
287
600
218
498
646
89
175
271
610
110

1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897

50
125
100
135
75
50
75
115
105
125
120
100
75
75
125
115
115
75
90
215
140
100
100
115
90
122.50
125
125
100
125
75
165
53

Covina . . ...............
West Gate ......... .....
Fruitvale ... .. .. . . . ......
Pinole-Carquinez . .......
San Jacinto .. . ... .. . ....
Fullerton .. . .... . .... ... .
Oxnard . . .... . ........ . .
San Fernando . ... . .. .. ..
Starr King . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brentwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Palo Alto ... ...... . . ....
McKinley . .. .. .... .... ..
San Bernardino .... . . .. ..
Sequoia-Saint Elmo ......
Fountain Valley . . . . ... ..
Metropolitan ...... ......
Hollywood .. .... . . ......
Mill Valley . ..... ........
Buena Park ........ .....
Fort Bragg .. ... . ........
Charity . ................
Berkeley . . .. ......... . . .
Willits ..... ...... ..... . .
Las Palmas . . . . . ........
South Pasadena . ....... .
Jewel City . . .. . . . . ..... .
Ocean Park ..... ... .....
Amity . .. .... . ....... .. .
Le Progres de L'Oceanie . .
Gardena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
West Los Angeles .. ......
United.. ........ ........
Brotherhood .......... . .
Francis Drake . . . . . . . ....
Artesia ....... . ... . .... .
Mizpah .. . . ........ . .. . .
Fillmore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
355
356
357
361
362
363
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379

600
742
420
252
112
352
380
494
572
165
400
273
896
654
369
606
708
254
605
110
249
652
154
848
395
750
265
449
561
458
268
561
349
270
225
167
181

579
731
393
250
108
340
380
480

1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906

115
165
100
120
65
125
125
161
100
90
100
115
75
100
100
100
125
JOO
135
125
100
75
75
115
115
100
140
100
154
125
125
100
100
125
115
100
100

560
164
377
257
882
629
339
571
663
248
585
107
251
620
153
836
378
720
252
431
560
447
266
527
331
261
213
176
171

.

-

15

20

-

-

2

-

5

-

-

-

I

25

12

-

5

25

5

-

35

10

-

5

-

I

10

5

5
I
IO

1

5

-

25
25

25
I

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
Per Capita
Contrib.
G.L.

Dues
32
15
42
24
30
25
36
30
40
32
25
45
24
25
18
35
48
25
30
30
32

50
30
40
25
25
30
30
36
30
30
28
48
12

30
40
28
24
25
30
35
40
25
38
24
30
25
24
18
30
30
36
36
30
30
18
40
36
21
18
21
24
20
24
25
15
18
42
36
20
35

/nit.

Passed

I

3

2
8
4
2
2

I

-

4
7
3

Raised
3

4
4

-

2

4

4
2
6

3

5

-

4

9
2
2
2
3
3
7
8

-

I
I

3

-

I

-

2
2

2
I

6

-

5

7
6

4
2
8

4
2
6

5
I

10
2
4
4
18

I

-

I

-

I

2

5

5
18

4
15

I

I

-

6
4
4
2

3
4

3

I

3
3
4

-

3
4
4

5
4

-

3
3
3
2

3
3
3
2

5

I

I

3
9
4

II

9
2
2
1
14
4
8
2
2

5

3
9
4
2
I

2
I

I

5

6

-

2
2
7
3
4
2
4
13
3
4
2
2
3
8

-

2
1

5
10

-

2
4
2
7
6
2
4
2
3
3
3
3

5

-

6
9
3
3
4

5

I
I

3
3
10

I
I

3
10
6
2
2
2

6
2

5
11
3
3

2
8
7

5
I

3

I

-

3

2

I

I

-

4028.76
978.12
2024.64
2640.24
2195.64
971.28
2797.56
991.80
1846.80
1518.48
1853.64
923.40
1149.12
513.00
957.60
1272.24
1894.68
4767.48
1368.00
1491.12
1340.64
1744.20
2277 .72
2900. 16
1894.68
4069.80
1477.44
3406.32
4281.84
601.92
1176.48
1833.12
4124.52
752.40

3857.76
4856.40
2647.08
1607.40
704.52
2325.60
2571.84
3125 .88
3734.64
1121.76
2544.48
1757.88
5848.20
4192.92
2298.24
3796.20
4480.20
1696.32
3898.80
725.04
1675.80
4240.80
1039.68
5663.52
2517.12
4883.76
1723.68
2920.68
3796.20
3009.60
1785.24
3597.84
2257.20
1744.20
1422.72
1203.84
1162.80

w

~

39.00
78.00
312.00
270.00
78 .00
78.00
220.00
206.00

426.00
78.00
I03.00
I03.00
117.00
117.00
323 .00
337 .00

245.00
64.00
465.00
128.00
156.00
231.00
891.00
39.00
259.00
181.00
156.00
128.00
295.00
181.00

220.00
284.00
376.00
117.00
39.00
117.00
256.00
518.00
351.00
I03.00
78.00
64.00
571.00
156.00
337 .00
103.00
78.00
39.00
270.00

78.00
64.00
259.00
490.00

-

78.00
156.00
78.00
423.00
259.00
153.00
156.00
78.00
117.00
117.00
267.00
142.00

..,,

"'

0

CJ
tTl
tTl

0

z
0
(/)

0

'T1

-l

::i::
tTl

0

"'

>
z
0

r0
0
0

tTl

0

'T1

CJ

>
r:;;
0

"'
>
z

w

°'
VI

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fee

-

Lodge

No .

1984

1985

Charter
Issued

Huntington Beach . . . . . . .
Oceanside .. . . .. . . . .. . . . .
Orosi .. . . . . .. . . . .... . . ..
El Centro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coalinga .. ............ ..
Park Presidio . . . . . . . . . . .
Palos Verdes . . . . . . . . . . . .
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Belt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Henry Knox-Westlake . . . .
Balder . . . .. . . .... . . .....
University. ...... .. . . . ...
Turlock . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Apollo-Woodstock ..... ..
Rising Light. .. . ....... ..
Fraternity . . .......... . ..
Burlingame . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bay View . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brawley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Yerba Buena . . . . . . . . . . . .
Glendora . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Moneta .. . . .............
Burbank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
La Mesa .... ........... .
Sierra Madre . . . . . . . . . . . .
Honolulu . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Perris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Silver Trowel ... . . . . . . . .
Lindsay. .... .. ..... .. . . .
Clovis . .......... . . . ....
Elysian . . . . . .. . . . .. . .. . .
Upland . .. .. ........... .
Kerman ... ....... . ......
Inglewood-James Kew ....

380
381
383
384
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
411
415
416
417
418
419
420
421

501
457
125
331
286
450
626
153
149
624
267
243
392
503
448
360
514
322
179
666
223
384
633
456
106
349
401
349
137
577
210
232
124
545

505
440
124
309
275
432
594
150
146
576
258
234
384
494
417
352
491
310
176
630
224
355
597
445
100
338
404
337
130
580
210
220
123
525

1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911

120
160
86
125
100
100
125
125
50
125
150
100
120
75
100
115
100
75
125
100
110
105
125
125
90
140
90
161
50
160
150
115
75
125

Eagle Rock . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Florence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Exeter .. ......... . ......
Holtville ................
Taft-Midway . . . . . . . . . . . .
Chino Valley . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Dimas . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pittsburg .. . .... . . .. . ....
McCloud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alpha Shattuck-Stephens .
Hammonton . . . . . . . . . . . .
George Washington . . . . . .
Claremont . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lancaster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Tyrian . .. . .. . . .. . .. .. . ..
Standard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Coronado . .. . ...........
Blackmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Schofield . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
Carpinteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Golden Gavel . . . . . . . . . . .
La Puente . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Torrance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Diablo . . . . . . . . . . .
Van Nuys .. . ...... . .... .
Montebello . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Pasqual . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Crocker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Monterey Park . . . . . . . . . .
Riverbank. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Oso . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paul Revere . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morgan Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Center . ..... . ...........
Li bertas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Culver City-Foshay . . . . . .

422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
433
435
436
437
439
440
441
442
443
444
445
446
447
448
450
451
452
454
457
459
460
461
462
463
465
466
467

248
318
182
110
494
176
188
208
67
531
144
487
194
475
213
201
258
724
311
182
682
197
667
368
1051
435
265
339
541
132
244
489
299
172
325
509
316

227
290
178
102
472
170
189
196
60
505
142
463
199
462
215
194
250
701
294
181
641
187
644
349
988
423
252
337
529
132
238
466
285
167
323
495
288

1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917

100
100
50
75
50
90
90
75
50
75
50
100
111
115
75
75
100
115
140
100
125
150
125
136
125
100
115
100
100
75
115
125
100
75
80
100
100

Members

.

-

10

5
10
20
10

1

5

5
25
-

10
3

25

10

5
3

25

-

-

25
-

-

-

10

-

-

-

5

I
-

10

10
-

I
10
10
1

-

Candidates ' &
Affiliates '
Cont rib.
Per Capita
G.L.

Dues

/nit.

Passed

Raised

37 .50
36
35
30
30
30
30
25
15
18
24
18
21
20
30
36
21
24
25
30
40
18
36
30
30
20
25
36
40
30
26
30
30
12

24
6
2
7

25

26
2

-

-

30
20
30
25
27.50
30
30
26
18
16
24
20
30
40
25
30
25
30
30
30
30
40
.21
48
36
30
22
12
22
30
50
24
24
40
42
45
40

2
1

4
12
2
1
4
2
5
5
4
3
6
2
1

I

2
4
4

-

-

-

1
1
2
7
4
4
1
5
I
4
3
I
6
3
4
2

5
4
4
2
13
3
5
3

-

3
8
4
2
9
3
2
3
I

I
1
2

I
I
2

-

3
2
6
8
14
7
2
2
6
6
1
5
2
4
1
7
4
2
1
8
3
1
5
6
3
3
5
1

-1

-

-

8
4
7
4

-

4

-

1
I
9
6
4
1
6
3
2
1
2
8
3
4
3

8
9
2
6
3
3
8
2
4
1
11
8
15
5
1

-

7
2
6
2

-

-

5
2
4
1

-

3
2
4
4
7
4

2
2
4
5
6
5

-

-

-

1
10
5
1

1
6
5

-

-

2
4
4
6
4

3
6
5
10

2
6
4
4
3
5
1
2
6
1

-

I
4
7
8
4
8
2
1
3
4
3

3392.64
2968.56
827 .64
2058.84
1853.64
2879.64
4042.44
1026.00
984.96
3816.72
1737.36
1539.00
2585.52
3296.88
2749.68
2394.00
3303.72
2065.68
1197.00
4213.44
1518.48
2394.00
3946.68
2954.88
670.32
2298.24
2756.52
2223.00
889.20
3891.96
1388.52
1484.28
827.64
3591.00

936.00
309.00
78.00
298 .00

1497.96
1942.56
1217.52
690.84
3221.64
1162.80
1279.08
1326.96
410.40
3392.64
950.76
3132.72
1361.16
3050.64
1395.36
1320.12
1682.64
4658.04
2004.12
1217.52
4192.92
1265.40
4336.56
2346. 12
6566.40
2845 .44
1696.32
2298 .24
3454.20
902.88
1627.92
3084.84
1928.88
1142.28
2168.28
3303.72
1935.72

78.00
39.00

181.00
493 .00
103.00
39.00
181.00
78 .00
195.00
195.00
156.00
142.00
309.00
103.00
39.00

-

337.00
351.00
78.00
284.00
142.00
117.00
312.00
342.00
181.00
39.00
429.00
337 .00
635.00
195 .00
64.00

w

°'°'

"tl
:;o::i

0

n

m
m

S2

z

0

Cll

0

"Tl

-l

::c
m

25 .00
312.00
156.00
298.00
156.00
156.00
78 .00
234.00
462.00
596.00
323.00
78.00
103 .00
284.00
234.00
39.00
195 .00
78.00
195.00
39.00
298.00
156.00
78 .00
39.00
312.00
117.00
39.00
259.00
234.00
142.00
117.00
195.00
39.00

0

:;o::i

>
z
0

r

0
0
0

m

0

"Tl

n

c"Tl>
0

:;o::i

z

>

w

°'
...:i

Degree
Fees

No.

1984

1985

Charter
lssued

Yorba Linda . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
Delta.. . . ....... . ....... 471
Lodge Maui . . . . . . . . . . . . . 472
Blythe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 473
America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 475
Coachella . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 476
Golden Rule ............ 479
Acalanes-Fellowship. . . . . . 480
Clarence F . Smith . . . . . . . 482
Bell ...... . .. .. . .. . .. . .. 483
Chowchilla . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485
Caledonia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 486
Vallejo ............ .. .. . 487
Patterson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Atascadero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 493
Acorn . .. . ....... .. . .. .. 494
Fremont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 497
Stockton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 498
Capital City . . . . . . . . . . . . . 499
Westwood .. ...... . ..... 501
Harbor ... . .. ..... . ..... 502
Point . . . .. . ............. 503
Seaside ....... . ... ... . .. 504
Silver Cord ....... . ... .. 505
Mount Olive ....... . .... 506
El Segundo . ..... .. . . ... 507
Cupertino ............ .. . 510
Sunnyvale .. ........ . ... . 511
Palms-Adams .. . .... ... . 512
Cahuenga-La Brea ....... 513
La Jolla ..... ......... . 518
Ionic .. . ... .. . . . ........ 520
Orinda . .. . ............. 521

203
284
142
199
206
238
589
531
144
453
164
489
221
135
117
119
350
261
137
523
171
351
262
343
421
525
293
173
365
326
350
258
1119
332

204
281
137
192
200
230
583
528
140
424
164
477
203
134
110
117
332
251
132
501
. 178
341
245
329
406
499
276
172
354
309
316
243
1068
321

1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922

100
100
100
75
115
75
115
100
115
100
75
100
90
86
50
90
80
100
80
100
80
75
135
125
105
125
100
75
150
165
100
115
215
100

523
524
528
529
530
532
533
535
538
540
542
543
544
547
548
551
552
555
556
551
560
561
564
567
569
572
574
515
576
577
578
579
580
581
582
583
585

582
93
298
683
368
218
272
292
168
138
589
299
529
341
230
430
260
85
342
392
226
695
614
407
226
623
417
171
574
232
276
476
162
251
362
174
152

561
94
285
647
351
209
248
649
163
134
568
283
510
330
224
416
250
83
331
375
222
667
558
383
219
586
406
166
572
222
264
461
158
238
351
165
146

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

161
100
125
150
215
75
125
100
100
150
140
100
100
100
115
100
75
55
150
115
90
75
100
145
150
100
125
100
100
125
100
125
115
100
115
115
125

Members
Lodge

Bellflower-Paramount ....
Catalina Island ..........
Beverly Hills ............
Loyalty ..... . ...........
Sun Garden . .. . .........
Smyrna ... .... ..........
Azure .......... ...... . .
Granada . . ... .. . . .. . .. . .
Ascot ...... . ........ .. . .
Queen Beach .. . ........
North Hollywood . . ......
Signal . .... . .. . . . .......
Glendale .... . .. . . . . .. ...
Arcadia ..... . .. .........
Triangle .. . .......... . ..
Tri-Square . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Semper Virens ...........
White Pine ..............
Fairfax ... . . ............
Hermosa-Manhattan . . . . .
Plymouth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
East San Diego. ... . . .. ..
Foothill ............. . . . .
Searchlight Alta Loma ...
Chateau Thierry ..... .. ..
Westchester United .. .. . . .
S.W. Hackett ... . . . .. ...
Fort Crook . . . . . . . . . . . . .
El Cajon Valley .........
Sunnyside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Progressive ... ...........
Warren G. Harding ......
Santa Maria . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Security ...... . .. . . . . ... .
Rialto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Wasco .. ... . .. .. . . ..... .
Manchester. . .. . .... ... ..

.

Affil.
Fee

5
5

-

-

I

-

10

10

-

I

10

10
30

-

I
-

-

5

-

25
10

32

10
25
5

5

5

5

2

5

5

25

10
5
10
20
10
10

-

-

5

Candidates ' &
Affiliates'
Cont rib .
Per Capita
G.L.

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

I

5
2

3
2

I
I

I
I

2
3
7
8

2
4
6
7

39
35
28
30
24
60
21
30
30
42
35
38
40
30
35
32
24
18
36
24
35
20
30
25
40
45
27
40
36
30
45
27
40
30

30
30
25
30
42
30
30
30
21
25
35
24
24
50
30
30
30
24
44
28
27
30
25
25
40
30
36
25
30
15
25
30
30
45
20
45
25

2

3
3
5
9
10

-

-

-

4

3

3
3
7
3

-

I

8
5

9
2
I

I

-

-

-

I

2
4

3
4

3

I
I

-

I

8
9

6
10

6
7

I

I

2
I

-

-

-

I

2
2
4
5
3
4

3
6
6
5
4
4

-

2
3
4
4
3
4
I

I

-

5
3
6
3

I

2
8
2

8

-

7

6
I

-

8

-

-

2
10

3
7
6
2
8
3
2
2
6

-

I

10
7
4
6
I

6
10

6
5

I

I

5
3

5
2

-

-

3
8
4
3
8
2

-

4
3

5

I

-

-

I

-

5
2
3
6

2

-

-

3
10
8

I

I

5

3
6
3
2
6
3
3
1
10
3

5
9
5
5
2

2
5
4
3
7
3
2

5

-

I

6
7
2
2
3
3
1
6

-

2
2

5
7

-

I

I

3
I

-

1388.52
1915.20
937.08
1306.44
1326.96
1573.20
3933.00
3563.64
909.72
2736.00
1094.40
3221.64
1381.68
896.04
752.40
793.44
2236.68
1710.00
889.20
3406.32
1135.44
2298.24
1662.12
2223.00
2653.92
3331.40
1887.84
1135.44
2394.00
2093.04
2045.16
1648.44
7120.44
2181.96

3768.84
642.96
1881.00
4404.96
2325.60
1429.56
1662.12
4384.44
1108.08
916.56
3748.32
1901.52
3454.20
2236.68
1532.16
2777.04
1675.80
567.72
2202.48
2517.12
1456.92
4507.56
3707 .28
2592.36
1484.28
3946.68
2708.64
1135.44
3837.24
1518.48
1730.52
3139.56
1046.52
1593.72
2387.16
1121. 76
991.80

w

°'
00

39.00
78 .00
117.00
142.00
195.00
426.00
615.00
117 .00
39.00
401.00
78 .00
39.00

-

78 .00
64.00
117.00

312 .00
351.00

-

'"C
~

0

(')

rn
rn

z00

en
0
'Tl

....,
:I:

rn

39.00
167.00
259.00
234.00
220.00
156.00
156.00
25 .00
195.00
192.00
284.00
142.00

259.00
39 .00
242 .00
412.00
156.00
142.00
312.00
78.00
78.00
415 .00

415.00
323 .00
156.00
259.00
39 .00

-

0

~

>
z
0

r:-'

0
0
0

rn

206.00
117.00

0

-

>
r:-'

245 .00
376.00
195.00
195.00
78.00
64.00
117.00
518.00
312.00
39.00
220.00
78.00
117.00
259.00

78.00

'Tl
(')

'Tl

0

~

z

:;

w

°'"'

Lodge

No .

Garden Grove .... .......
El Sereno .......... .....
Kauai .. . . .. .... . .. . . ...
Compass ............ . . . .
Escalon . . ... .. ...... . ...
Tujunga .. . ....... ......
All States .. . . . . ... ......
Service ..... .. . . ........
Tri . ..... ..... . .... .....
Guardian . .. ... ..... ... .
Pearl Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lynwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grizzly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Jubilee .. ..... . . ........
Glassel Park . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sojourner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Provident . . . .... . . . .....
Canoga . ....... . ... . ....
Camillia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Three Pillars . . . . . . . . . . . .
Atwater-Larchmont . . . . . .
Hemet. .... . . .. ........ .
R.E. Dolley . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Big Bear . ... ...... . .....
Southland Heritage . . ....
Point Loma . . . . . . . . . . . . .
The Gardens . . . . . . . . . . . .
Menorah. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Angeles Mesa . . . . . . . . . . .
Chula Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lamanda Park Carmelita .
Truth ............... .. ..
Westminster Fairview . . . . .
Normal Heights . . . . . . . . .

586
588
589

590
591
592
593

594
595
596
598
600
601
604
605
607
609
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
620
621
623
625
626
627
628
629
632

Poinsettia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
Victorville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 634
Riverside .. .. . . . . .. ...... 635
Palisades.... .... . . ...... 637
Composite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639
La Cumbre . .... ........ 642
Lomita .. ....... . . . .. .. . 644
A.F.E. Irwin . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
Hawthorne. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 647
Damascus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 648
Menlo Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
Crescenta Valley . . . . . . . . . 652
Fontana . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
Jordan-Golden Bowl . . . . . 654
Monte Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Citro) . . ................ 656
John D. Spreckels . . . . . . . 657
Livingston . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 658
La Habra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 659
Baldwin Park . . . . . . . . . . . 660
Malta ........ .. . . .. .. . . 661
Ojai ...... .... . ... . . . . . . 663
Kaweah .. ... . . . .... .... . 665
Reseda .. .... . . . .. ...... 666
San Gorgonia . . . . . . . . . . . 668
John P. Jarmon . ........ 669
Greenleaf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
San Clemente . . ... . . .. .. 671
Laguna Beach . . . . . . . . . . . 672
Los Cerritos ......... . . .. 674
Modesto.. . . ...... ...... 675
Willow Glen . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
Liberal Arts . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Altadena-Mt. Wilson . . . . . 678
Canby Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
Carmel ........ . . . .. .... 680
Dos Palos .... . .. ...... . . 681

Members
1984
1985

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

561
182
85
250
141
226
353
572
473
578
475
342
86
270
222
209
340
328
395
291
395
625
188
175
332
522
262
1151
379
746
415
178
227
694

547
182
86
234
139
214
341
543
444
562
468
322
81
264
213
204
332
322
379
283
384
620
187
184
317
512
249
1121
368
731
394
172
217
666

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926
1926

140
75
75
115

651
352
488
261
539
226
375
187
386
532
232
441
263
379
541
201
421
166
350
241
151
173
109
797
214
247
589
224
214

644

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939

450
378
339
296
322
93
184
118

355
467
253
527
224
352
179
363
536
230
427
256
369
510
199
404
163
352
220
140
165
102
778
209
248
567
220
200
434
370
332
281
309
88
180
109

50
125
126
100
140
100
150
125

50
115
105
115
100
180
125
100
75
120
150
100
105
120
100
175
125
125
115
140
JOO
125

.

100
Ill
75
125
175
75
125
125
100
75
125
125
125
100
126
120
115
90
125
115
140
105

50
180
105
115
100
161
1001
175
115
115
125
115

A/fit.
Fee
I

-

75
100

15

-

I

15

-

10

5

5

25

5
10
20
10
3

-

10
10

-

-

-

5
5

-

-

-

3

-

25
3
10
25

-

36
27

-

30
36
35
36
30
30
30
30
24
24
36
30
42
25
28
40
30
18
32
30
35
30
26
18
40
15
36
30
26
32
30

18
30
27
24
30
30
36
24
33
20
32
35
25
22
30
32
30
28
40
30
25
30
25
33
30
30
25

50
I

10
10

I

-

/nit.

15
5

65

Dues

36
35
48
18
25
27
20
30
18

Passed
7

12

-

7

-

2

I

I

2

-

I

2
2

2

I

5

4
2
3

3
I

I

-

3
2
3

2

I

I

5

3

4

-

4
I

5
I

5
4
7
2
6
3

5
I
23
2
21
3
I
I

12

6
7
3
3
2

2
-

3

I
-

3
2
3
4
8
I
6
2
2
I
10
3
14
3
2
3
11

3
2
2
3
6
3
6
2
3

II

10
8
6
3
3
2
3

10
8
6
4
3
3
2

-

I

9
3
19
3
2
2

I

6
9
3

I

6
7
4
I

5
5

I
I

2

I

5
9

I

3
2

II

-

I

2

-

-

10
3
10
4
I

8
2
6
6
2

5
2

5
2

I

3
6
4
3

3
2

4
6
9

4
2
10
3
6
9
6
3
9

I

-

5

-

2

-

5

-

-

6
8

-

Raised

I

I

2
6
2
4
I

3

-

5
3
4
2

-

2

-

G.L .
Per Capito
3686.76
1217.52
588 .24
1586.88
950.76
1436.40
2284.56
3659.40
2948.04
3762.00
3166.92
2181.96
540.36
1805.76
1415.88
1354.32
2236.68
2134 .08
2523.96
1908.36
2585.52
4186.08
1238.04
1258.56
2134 .08
3454.20
1662.12
7524.00
2455.56
4917.96
2633.40
1121.76
1477.44
4541.76

4391.28
2421 .36
3119.04
1710.00
3502.08
1518.48
2366.64
1224.36
2435.04
3666.24
1525.32
2831.76
1737.36
2482.92
3440.52
1354.32
2722.32
1114.92
2346.12
1491.12
950.76
1121.76
697.68
5266.80
1415.88
1682.64
3864.60
1497.96
1306.44
2913 .84
2482.92
2257.20
1846.80
2113.56
601.92
1224.36
738.72

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
Contrib.

....
-i

0

468.00
78.00
25.00
39.00
78.00
195.00
167.00
39.00
78.00
195 .00

'ti

-

'°0

156.00
64.00
25.00

0

-

-

195.00
39.00
195.00
156.00
437.00
128.00
234.00
117.00
359.00
64.00
972.00
128.00
958.00
156.00
39.00
39.00
518.00

(]

tTl
tTl

z

a

(/J

0

"!1

-l

:r::
tTl

284.00
373 .00
117.00
142.00
78.00
128.00
234 .00
337.00
245.00
39.00
220.00
195.00
89 .00
195.00
231.00
259.00
351.00

78 .00
181.00
78.00
440.00
142.00
284.00
376.00
234.00
117.00
376.00
245.00
153.00
220.00
128.00

-

a

'°z
>
0

t""

0
0

atTl
0

"!1

(]

>
t:"!1
0

'z°

>

....
-i

Members
1985
1984

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Fee

Barstow ................ 682
Redwood Empire . . . . . . . . 683
Trona .............. . . .. 684
San Marino . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
El Cerrito-Albany . . . . . . . . 686
Vista . ...... ... ......... 687
San Carlos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Indian Wells Valley . . . . . . 691
Travelers.. . . . .. . .. .. .. . . 692
Palm Springs ............ 693
Meudell-Oildale . ...... ... 695
Crossroads ............. . 696
William D. Stephens . . . . . 698
Bixby Knolls Neptune . . . . 699
Ponderosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700
Santa Ynez Valley ....... 701
Rosemead .... ... ....... . 702
Lake Tahoe .......... . .. 707
Seafaring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Lorenzo ..... . . ......... 709
Anacapa ... ...... ..... .. 710
Rim of the World ...... . . 711
Los Altos ... . . .......... 712
Castro Valley ....... .... . 713
Blue Lakes.. ......... .. . 714
Magnolia Park .......... 715
Belmont Shore .. .. ...... 716
Wayfarer .. . ............ 717
San Lorenzo Valley . . . . . . 718
Estero .................. 719
Mineral King ..... ....... 720
Home ................ .. 721
George E. Tutt . . . . . . . . . . 722
San Ramon Valley ....... 724

406

390
108
112
297
302
397
312
314
148
331
420
225
161
563
346
170
189
97
511
338
279
181
274
259
185
230
312
162
125
183
155
683
194
187

1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953

100
100
100
100
90
150
100
140
100
100
115
115
160
125
80
75
135
125
100
100
125
75
100
120
100
125
145
100
100
75
75
165
115
Ill

-

111
117
314
310
398
321
318
155
318
425
230
161
570
348
166
207
99
526
352
279
177
282
269
185
238
320
161
130
188
161
712
198
182

Saint John's .......... . .. 725
Yucaipa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Lakewood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728
Centennial ..... . . ...... . 729
Polaris ..... .. .......... 730
Two Rivers . . .. .. .. .. . . . 731
San Juan ...... . . ....... 732
Golden Empire ........ .. 733
Kit Carson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 734
Oasis of Mara . . . . . . . . . . . 735
Lemon Grove ..... ... ... 736
La Canada-Oakwood . . . . . 739
Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 740
Tyre . ........ ... ........ 741
Peninsula . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
Soquel. . . .......... . .... 746
Claude H. Morrison ..... 747
Highland ............... 748
Merced ...... ... ....... . 749
Mother Colony .......... 750
Hamilton ............... 751
Luther Burbank . . . . . . . . . 752
Lawndale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
San Pablo .............. 754
Clayton Valley .......... 756
Channel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757
West Covina . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
El Rancho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 759
Lakeside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 760
Josiah W. Roller . . ...... 761
Coastside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
Arabic ....... ...... .... . 763
Dana R. Weller . ........ . 765
William Rhodes Hervey . . 767
Zenith .. ....... . .. .. ... . 768
Palmdale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 769
Mission Bay. . . . . . . . . . . . . 771

204
239
311
118
204
149
372
169
202
140
471
202
163
501
168
168
210
171
195
187
161
328
191
140
386
130
220
185
195
210
149
173
143
107
281
246
238

194
235
314
116
195
144
370
159
191
140
471
198
157
495
171
162
210
162
195
188
159
328
184
140
389
134
216
169
191
201
144
171
143
102
275
245
239

1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957

Lodge

No.

-

75
105
140
125
125
100
100
136
• 120
90
115
125
115
131
100
100
140
75
90
105
100
115
100
115
75
80
165
100
100
100
100
140
105
125
125
115
115

I

5

10
5

10

10
I

5
5

-

-

5

-

I

10

-

10

10
10
15

-

-

-

15
I

-

5
5

-

-

-

10

-

5
10

-

5

10

10

Dues

/nit.

Passed

Raised

52
35
25
44
30
35
24
40
30
45
50
24
25
36
30
30
30
36
16
40
36
30
25
50
36
35
40
36
20
24
30
40
35
36

7
2
3
2
3
7
7
5

6
I
I

8

48
30
30
45
30
36
40
36
35
35
30
36
24
30
24
24
35
24
30
36
55
30
25
25
36
30
40
35
30
30
36
36
30
20
40
40
25

I

0
2
2
5
3
7
2
6
5
2

-

2
5
3
7

-

II
7
2
I
II
14

-

-

-

9
4
2

-

2
5
7
8
2
2
4
3
3
2
3

I

I

3
9
5
5

2
3
8
4
6

-

I

7
4
6

2
2
8

4
2
18
2
4
2

-

I
4
4
8
6
I
2
4
4
2
I
6

I
2
4
1
9
2
4
7
5
2
2
I
2
I

-

5
5
2

7
5

4
3
9
3

-

2
19
I
I

4
I

9

-

3
12
I

II

6
10

2
5
10

1

-

-

9
5

2
5
6

2
5
3

I

-

3

3

-

I

6
8
2
14
3
7
7
4
5

4
2
2
8
2
8
8
4
5

5
0
2
3
I

9
2
3
9
5
5

-

-

7

-

3
3

2
2
2
2
1

I

7
-

I

4
1

-

4
7
3

-

I

I

3
4

2
3

-

G.L .
Per Capita

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
Contrib.

2640 .24
731.88
745.56
1997.28
2031.48
2660.76
2134.08
2113.56
1005.48
2257.20
2838.60
1525.32
1101.24
3830.40
2339.28
1149.12
1279.08
663.48
3481.56
2298.24
1894.68
1231.20
1839.96
1744.20
1251.72
1566.36
2058.84
1080.72
827.64
1224.36
1039.68
4575.96
1320.12
1279.08

273 .00
78.00
142.00
78.00
117.00
398.00
298 .00
220.00

1320.12
1586.88
2134.08
779.76
1326.96
943.92
2510.28
1073.88
1306.44
957.60
3194.28
1347.48
1067.04
3378.96
1162.80
1087.56
1436.40
1108.08
1333.80
1251.72
1087.56
2229.84
1258.56
923.40
2640.24
916.56
1456.92
1155.96
1292.76
1361.16
984.96
1169.64
964.44
663 .48
1853.64
1641.60
1634.76

103.00
128.00
337.00
25.00
181.00
78.00
802.00
78 .00
206.00
153.00
504.00
64.00

654.00
298 .00
103.00
39.00
454.00
546.00
50.00
64.00
78.00
331.00
39.00
351.00
103 .00
156.00
273 .00
220.00
78.00
78.00
64.00
128.00
89.00
39.00
398.00
156.00
234.00

-

376.00
220.00
39.00
167 .00

234.00
337.00
78.00
571.00
117.00
273.00
298 .00
156.00
270.00

w

-.J

N

'tl
~

0

(j

tTl
tTl

0

z

0

(/J

0

'Tl

...,

::r:
tTl

0

~

z>0

r0

0
0

tTl

0

'Tl
(j

>r-

~

z~
;;

298.00
39.00
273 .00
25.00
181.00
273.00
242.00

w
-.J
w

Degree
Fees

A/fit.
Fee

-

Lodge

No .

1984

1985

Charter
Issued

Tejon ..... . .. . ... .. ....
Waikiki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
San Dieguito . . . . . . . . . . . .
East Whittier . . . . . . . . . . . .
La Mirada . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Five Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Riviera . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Silverado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Leland Stanford . . . . . . . . .
Rio Linda. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sierra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oak Plains . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Granada Hills . . . . . . . . . . .
General Henry H . Arnold .
Maya ...................
American River . . . ..... ..
Golden Valley . . . ....... .
Tila Pass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ashland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Clairemont Mesa . . . . . . . .
Rio Hondo . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Koolau . .. . .............
Yucca Valley ............
The Gabilan ............ .
Moreno Valley . . .. . .. . ..
Simi Valley . . ..... . . . ...
Conejo Valley .... . ......
Scepter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Los Alamitos ...... .. ....
Victoria Palms .. . .......
Woodland Hills . .. . .. . ...
Triad ...... .... . ..... . . .
Old West . .. ........ . .. .
Plaza De Los Angeles . . . .

773
774
775
776
778
779
780
782
784
786
788
789
790
791
793
795
796
797
798
799
800
801
802
803
804
806
807
808
809
810
811
812
813
814

218
228
203
244
261
120
134
182
196
190
166
499
249
121
179
170
218
140
130
175
124
172
219
115
156
170
253
179
172
138
264
Ill
277
78

222
229
206
239
255
122
131
181
191
186
169
494
241
119
183
164
205
140
128
171
122
169
218
110
171
172
256
180
163
133
262
102
282
69

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1963
1963
1963

175
175
90
100
100
125
125
125
100
100
75
100
125
90
125
200
75
115
100
111
125
175
90
105
90
136
160
100
111
75
135
100
125
125

Mount Baldy . ...... ... . .
Great Lights . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mar Vista . . ... .. ........
Gateway .. . . . .. .........
Boron . .. .. .............
Camarillo .. . . ...........
Gemini ... . . ... .. ..... . .
Palm Desert . . . .. . ... . ...
Kern River Valley ...... . .
Tustin .. . .... . ... .......
Bicentennial Daylight .....
Sublime ....... . .... .. . ..
Saddleback Valley . ......
Orange County Daylight . .
Square & Compass . . . . . . .
Half Moon Bay .. . ......
Kona . .. ... . . . ........ . .
Joseph L. Shell Daylight
U.D ... . . .. .. ...........

815
818
820
821
822
824
825
826
827
828
830
831
832
833
834
835
836

118
419
256
72
96
324
171
75
229
140
96
98
135
79
50
54
63

122
429
258
68
91
325
164
73
237
139
92
117
142
85
48
51
72

1964
1964
1965
1966
1966
1967
1967
1968
1970
1971
1977
1978
1978
1982
1982
1982
1982

136
150
100
90
90
150
211
100

. 95

100
161
115
105
111
150
126

-

50

-

100

Members

TOTALS .. . . . .... .... ..
6,245 Degrees Conferred
@ 1.00 each . . .. . .. . .. ..
GRAND TOTALS .......

10
5

-

10

10

-

-

10
5
10

7
10
10
25

-

10

-

10

-

10

-

Candidates' &
Affiliates'
Cont rib.
Per Capita
G.L.

Dues

!nit.

Passed

Raised

38
25
30
32.50
36
36
30
30
27
36
30
25
40
40
30
30
30
35
24
25
30
30
26
24
35
40
35
34
30
40
26
25
25
35

6
2
2
I
8
5

5
I
2
4
4
4

6
2

-

-

259.00
78.00
103.00
89.00
337 .00
220.00
25.00
78.00
39.00
156.00
270.00
543 .00
220.00
78 .00
596.00
78 .00
220.00
142.00
156.00
78.00
103.00
50.00
295.00
78.00
543.00
192.00
504.00
117.00
78.00
78 .00
156.00
25.00
412.00
64.00

12
4
2
I
I
6

834.48
2934.36
1737.36
465.12
615.60
2202.48
1114.92
485.64
1621.08
943.92
629.28
793 .44
971.28
581.40
328.32
348.84
485.64

181.00
813.00
476.00
142.00
156.00
476.00
220.00
156.00
309.00
103.00
25 .00
1036.00
309.00
245.00
64.00
39.00
348.00

-

342.00

-

0

~
r
:;;

I

-

4
3
I
4
5
3
I
2
5
2
2
2
4

3
3
3

-

-

-

-

2

4
I
11
I
6
4
2
2
2

II

3
2
2
4

-

-

-

-

5
2
10
3

5

-

3
8
2
2
2
4

3

12
I
5
3
2
2
2

-

4

3

8
I

-

-

4
17
9
3
4
9
4
4
6
2

2
9
6
I
3
7
5
I
7
3

2
9
I
I
I
6
4

-

-

24
6
5
I
I
7

13
3
2
I

-

30
30
35
15
50
45
45
36
26
36
25
30
36
25
40
36
30

25

30

-

-

179,660 174,423

2458

1899

1888 $1,175,980.68 $110,395 .00

179,660 174,423

2458

1899

6,245.00
1888 $1,182,225.68 $110,395.00

)()()

10

-

5
-

10
15

-

-

7

7
-

As of June 30, 1985, exclusive of the Research Lodges, there were 604 chartered Lodges in this Jurisdiction with a total membership of 174,423 .
Northern California Research . . . .. ....
201
1952
Southern California Research ... . .....
1952
1488
El Camino Research . .. .. . . .. ... . .. ..
1958
143
Central California Research . .... ... . ..
1959
89
Alta California Research ..... . .... ....
62
1981
Orange County Research U.D .. . .. ....
61
For membership and degree totals, see report of Grand Secretary.
Average Degree Fees = $104.06
Average Dues = $29.42

"""

1491 . 12
1545.84
1381.68
1621.08
1723.68
834.48
889.20
1238.04
1292.76
1265.40
1135.44
3378.96
1648.44
800.28
1251. 72
1121. 76
1402.20
957.60
875.52
1162.80
820.80
1155.96
1484.28
752.40
1162.80
1162.80
1751.04
1224.36
1114.92
909.72
1792.08
697.68
1915.20
458.28

3

2
I
4
5
12
5
2
14
2
5
3
4
2
2

w
_,

'ti
::ii::i

0

("')

l:Tl
l:Tl

0

za

(/)

0

'T1

-l

::t
l:Tl

a
>
z
::ii::i

0
r

0
0

al:Tl

'T1

0

::ii::i

z
:;

w
_,
VI

376

31

California, San Francisco, 1850. Consolidated with Occidental No. 22 as OccidentalCalifornia No. 1, December 2, 1975. Consolidated with Mt. Davidson No. 481 as
Occidental-California No. 1, July 11, 1978. Consolidated with Ingleside-Pyramid No.
562 as Occidental-California No. 1, July 3, 1979.

34

Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.

36

Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.

37

St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Siskiyou No. 105 as St. John's No. 37,
October 11, 1876. Consolidated with Howard No. 96 as Howard No. 37, December
8, 1924.

39

Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9,
June 16, 1916.

44

Mount Moriah, San Francisco, 1854. Consolidated with Golden Gate Speranza No.
30 as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, February 7, 1978.

47

Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.

48

Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.

Western Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolidated with Clinton No. 119, as Western Star No.
2, Oct. 15, 1936.

4

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings No. 4, Charter surrendered
May 6, 1853.

6

Sutter, Sacramento, 1950. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.

7

Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco No. 7, August
18, 1852. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.

9

11

377

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS

2

8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calavares No. 78, as Calavares No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.

Tuolumne, Sonora, 1850. Consolidated with Mount Jefferson No. 107 as Tuolumne
No. 8, December 1876. Consolidated with Columbia No. 28 as Sonora No. 8, December 12, 1891. Consolidated with George Washington No. 62 as Tuolumne No. 8,
September 15, 1919.

49

Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.

50

Forbestown, Forbestown, 1854. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Forbestown
No. 50, July 19, 1926.

Marysville, Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, December 1874. Consolidated with Yuba No. 39 as Corinthian No. 9, June 16,
1916.

52

Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered November 1864.

53

Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.

54

Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.

59

Gravel Range, Comptonville, 1855. Consolidated with Forest No. 66, as Gravel Range
No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.

62

George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as
Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.

Williamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November
1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation 1851, Charter never issued.

13

Nevada, Nevada City, 1851. Consolidated with Quitman No. 88, and Manzanita No.
102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.

63

Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.

15

La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November
1851.

64

Natoma, Folsom, 1855. Consolidated with Lattrobe No. 189, as Natoma No. 64, Oct.
17, 1884.

16

Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolidated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka No. 16,
Sept. 2, 1919.

66

Forest, Allegheny, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, as Gravel Range
No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.

Pacific, Valparaiso, Chile, Dispensation 1853. Charter never issued.

67

Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.

22

Occidental, San Francisco, 1852. Consolidated with California No. 1, as OccidentalCalifornia No. 1, December 2, 1975.

69

Independent Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May
2, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9 as Corinthian No. 9, December 1874.

24

Mariposa, Mariposa, 1853. Consolidated with Pohona No. 689, as Mariposa No. 24,
May 26, 1976.

71

Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, as Ione No. 80, Oct.
15, 1887.

25

Georgetown, Georgetown, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as Georgetown
No. 25, December 1898.

72

E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.

26

El Dorado, Placerville, 1853. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 151 as Palmyra No. 26,
October 16, 1902. Consolidated with Mt. Zion No. 114 as Palmyra No. 26, October
11, 1911. Consolidated with Acacia No. 92 as Palmyra No. 26, March 29, 1916. Name
Changed to El Dorado No. 26, October 10, 1929.

73

Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.

28

Columbus, Columbus, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 as Tuolumne No. 8,
Dec. 12, 1891.

29

Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.

30

Golden Gate, San Francisco, 1853. Consolidated with Speranza ltaliana No. 219 as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966. Consolidated with Roosevelt No. 500 as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1975. Consolidated with Mount Moriah No.
44 as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, February 7, 1978. Consolidated with Far West
No. 673 as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 11, 1978.

74

Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.

75

Mountain Forest, Mountain Forest, 1855. Charter surrendered May 1870.

77

Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180 as Petaluma No. 180,
December 1898.

78

Calaveras, San Andreas, 1855. Consolidated with Mokelumne No. 31 as Calaveras
No. 78, October 31, 1883. Consolidated with Camp Seco No. 100 as Calaveras No.
78, October 1898. Consolidated with Mokelumne Hill No. 298 as Calaveras No. 78,
December 25, 1919.

80
81

Ione, Ione, 1856. Consolidated with Nebraska No. 71, as Ione No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
Yolo, Yolo, 1856. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, as Woodland No. 81, June
I, 1985.

378
82
83
85
86
88
90
91
92
93
94
96
97

98

99
100
102
105

107
108
109
113
114
115
116
118

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, as Eureka No. 16,
Sept. 2, 1919.
Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115 as St.
Mark's No. 85, October 17, 1874. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as Gibsonville No. 158, November 1882.
Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman No. 88, May 8, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No. 13, October 13, 1910.
Polar Star, Poorman's Creek , 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
North Star, Fort Jones, 1856. Consolidated with Owen No. 108, as North Star No.
91, Oct. 15, 1908.
Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26, Mar.
29, 1916.
Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name changed to St. Helena No.
93, Oct. 10, 1867.
Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
Howard, Yreka, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec.
8, 1924.
Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No . 158, as Jefferson no.
97, Oct. 15, 1908. Consolidated with Forbestown No . 50, as Forbestown No. 50, July
19, 1926.
Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Moved to Hornitos and changed name to Hornitos
No. 98, May 1860.
La Grange, Merced, 1856. Consolidated with Yosemite No. 133, as Yosemite No. 99,
Oct. 16, 1913.
Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras
No. 78, October 1898.
Manzanita , North San Juan , 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No.
13, Oct. 13, 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Cosolidated with St. John's No. 37, as St. John's No. 37, Oct.
11, 1876.
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispensation 1857. Charter never issued.
Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne
No. 8, December 1876.
Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, as North Star No. 91,
Oct. 15, 1908.
Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
Eden, San Leandro, 1857. Consolidated with Standard No. 440, as Eden Standard No.
113, December I, 1985.
Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 11, 1911.
Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as St.
Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan . 5, 1859.

119
121
122
125
130
131
132
133
136
137
138
139

142

144
148
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158

159
160
162

379

Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, as Western Star No. 2,
Oct. 15, 1936.
Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905 .
Alamo, Walnut Creek, 1858. Consolidated with East Bay No. 489, as Alamo No. 122,
August 1, 1977.
Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Napa City, Napa. Dispensation 1859. Charter never issued.
Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
Carpenter, Wood's Ferry. Dispensation 1858. Was chartered in 1859 as Woodbridge
No. 131, the name of the location of the Lodge having been changed to Woodbrige.
Sincerity, Greenville, 1859. Consolidated with Greenville No. 249, as Sincerity No.
132, Oct. 16, 1896.
Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, as Yosemite No.
99, Oct. 16, 1913.
Pacific, San Francisco, 1860. Consolidated with Lebanon No. 495, as Lebanon-Pacific
No. 136, September 7, 1971.
Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
Crockett, San Francisco, 1860. Consolidated with Park No. 449, as Park-Crockett No.
139, Nov. 2, 1972. Consolidated with Justice No. 549, as Park-Crockett No. 139, Dec.
6, 1979.
Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240, April
1, 1882.
Doric, North Fork, Dispensation 1861. Charter never issued .
Oriental, San Francisco, 1861. Consolidated with Forest Hill No. 534 as Oriental No.
144, December 12, 1974 .
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26,
Oct. 16, 1902.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11 , 1864.

.

Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 13, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nevada Territory, 1862. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865 .
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Woodland, Woodland, 1863. Consolidated with Tyrian No. 284, as Woodland No. 156,
Oct. 11, 1911. Consolidated with Yolo No. 81, as Woodland No. 81, June I, 1985.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville , 1863. Consolidated with Saint Louis No. 86 as Gibsonville
No. 158, November 1882. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Jefferson No. 97,
Oct. 15, 1908.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, as Georgetown
No. 25, December 1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

da,
tory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Neva
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Terri
Jan. 16, 1865.
Char ter never issued .
Alpine, Markleeville, Dispensation 1864.
da
tory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Neva '
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Terri
Jan. 16, 1865.
as
olidated with San Francisco-Victory No. 360
166 Excelsior, San Francisco, 1864. Cons
San
as
554,
No.
ator
Educ
with
ted
olida
San Francisco No. 166, Dec. 6, 1972. Cons
Francisco Educator No. 166, Dec. 5, 1979.
on
olidated with Golden West No. 455, as Missi
169 Mission, San Francisco, 1864. Cons
1982.
Golden West No. 169, April 6,
da,
1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Neva
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nevada Territory,
Jan. 16, 1865.
da,
tory, 1864. Transferred to Juridiction of Neva
171 Escurial, Viginia City, Nevada Terri
Jan. 16, 1865.
Jan.
1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
172 Lander, Austin, Nevada Territory,
16, 1865.
ed to Antioch No. 175, Oct. 12, 1865.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name chang
ndered Oct. 16, 1879.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surre
na,
1866. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizo
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Arizona Territory,
Mar. 25, 1882.
180,
ted with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No.
180 Arcturas, Peteluma, 1866. Consolida
December 1898.
ed to Arbuckle No. 182, Oct. 16, 1919.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name chang
Valley
olidated with Loyalton No. 359, as Sierra
184 Sierra Valley, Sierraville, 1867. Cons
No. 184, Nov. 6, 1972.
changed to Claiborne, Oct. 10, 1867.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name
ockted with Rockridge No. 468, as Oakland-R and
188 Oakland, Oakland, 1868. Consolida
Oakl
as
268,
No.
nt
Dura
with
ted
ridge No. 188, December 6, 1983. Consolida
Durant Rockridge No. 188, Jan . 1, 1985.
64, Oct.
ted with Natoma No. 64, as Natoma No.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolida
17, 1884.
eye
with Landmark No. 253, as Landmark-Buck
195 Buckeye, Winters, 1869. Consolidated
1979.
No. 195, Dec. 4,
ndered July 20, 1872.
197 Paradise, Hayward, 1869. Charter surre
ter never issued.
Char
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation 1870.
Oct.
ted with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No. 205,
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolida
1, 1917.
ed Oct. 12, 1889.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revok
No.
ted with Starr King No . 344 as Starr King
216 Doric, San Francisco, 1871. Consolida
344, April l, 1974.
changed to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18, 1881.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name
30, as
1872. Consolidated with Golden Gate No.
219 Speranza ltaliana, San Francisco,
1966.
1,
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July
221,
ted with Waucoba No. 413, as Inyo No.
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Consolida
Jan. 10, 1945.
222,
ted wtih Roseville No. 432, as Roseville No.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolida
May 29, 1919.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

ndered Nov. 17, 1877.
Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surre
droted with San Leandro No. 744, as San Lean
225 Brooklyn, Oakland, 1873. Consolida
1983.
6,
mber
Dece
Brooklyn No. 225,
d to San Mateo and named changed to San
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Move
Mateo No. 226, Oct. 13, 1905.
ter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
227 Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Char
ted with Emmanuel No. 318, as North Butte
230 North Butte, Gridley, 1873. Consolida
No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
ise
olidated with North East No. 266, as Surpr
235 Surprise Valley, Cedarville, 1874. Cons
1962.
1,
Valley No. 235, July
16, 1884.
Gold Run, 1875. Char ter surrendered Oct.
Tyre,
238
surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
239 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter
April
with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240,
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated
1, 1882.
No.
ted with Elmhurst No. 610 as Eucalyptus
243 Eucalyptus, Hayward, 1876. Consolida
243, July 1, 1979.
No.
olidated with Sincerity No. 132, as Sincerity
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Cons
132, Oct. 16, 18%.
ter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Char
251
ah No.
with Winnedumah No. 287, as Winnedum
252 Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated
287, Dec. 20, 1918.
eye
ted with Buckeye No. 195, as Landmark-Buck
253 Landmark, Esparto, 1879. Consolida
No. 195, Dec. 4, 1979.
254,
ted with Kennett No. 456, as Reading No.
254 Reading, Reading, 1879. Consolida
Dec. 19, 1925.
No.
ted with Riverdale No. 496, as Welcome
255 Welcome, Lemoore, 1879. Consolida
255, May 18, 1943.
na,
1879. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizo
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona Territory,
March 25, 1882.
Dispensation 1881. Transferred to JurisdicSolomon, Tombstone, Arizona Territory.
1882.
25,
h
tion of Arizona, Marc
Consolidated with Seaport No . 550, as King
260 King Solomon's, San Francisco, 1880.
1963.
5,
Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec.
na,
1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizo
263 Tucson, Tucson, Arizona Territory,
March 25, 1882.
erian
olidated with Santa Maria No. 340, as Hesp
264 Hesperian, Santa Maria, 1882. Cons
No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
Surolidated with Surprise Valley No. 235, as
266 North East, Fort Bidwell, 1882. Cons
1962.
l,
prise Valley No. 235, July
and
ted with Oakland-Rockridge No. 188, as Oakl
268 Durant, Berkeley, 1883. Consolida
Durant Rockridge No. 188, Jan. 1, 1985.
ter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Char
surrendered May 26, 1888.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter
14,
with Fowler No. 398, as Selma No. 277, Oct.
277 Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated
1915.

223

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

383

278

Southern California, San Gabriel, 1884. Consolidated with San Gabriel No. 546, as
San Gabriel-Southern California No. 278, December 1, 1977.

344

Starr King, San Francisco, 1902. Consolidated with Doric No. 216 as Starr King No.
344, April 1, 1974.

280

Madera, Madera, 1885. Consolidated with Joppa No. 508, as Madera Joppa No. 280,
September 13, 1983.

346

Palo Alto, Palo Alto, 1902. Consolidated with Josiah W. Roller No. 761 , as Palo AltoRoller No . 346, December 1, 1985.

284

Tyrian , Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, as Woodland No. 156,
Oct. 11 , 1911.
San Miguel, San Miguel, 1887. Consolidated with Paso Robles No. 286, as Paso Robles
No. 286, Dec. 1, 1968.
Paso Robles, Paso Robles, 1887. Consolidated with San Miguel No . 285, as Paso
Robles No. 286, Dec. 1, 1968.
Winnedumah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No. 252 , as Winnedumah No.
287, Dec. 20, 1918.
Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, Oct. 12, 1899.
Consolidated with Highland Park No. 382, as Fellowship No. 290, Jan. 6, 1982. Consolidated with Garvanza No. 492, as Fellowship No. 290, Nov. 3, 1982.

349

Sequoia, Oakland, 1902. Consolidated with Saint Elmo No. 697, as Sequoia-Saint
Elmo, Dec. 4, 1979.
Cavite, Cavite, P.I., 1903. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec. 19,
1912.

294

Traver, Kingsburg, 1889. Consolidated with Dinuba No . 385, as Clarence L. Fraser
No. 294, July 1, 1977.

297

Dunsmuir, Dunsmuir, 1889. Consolidated with McCloud No. 430, as Dunsmuir-McCloud
No. 297 September, I, 1985.

298

Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill , 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No . 78, as
Calaveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
Ontario, Ontario, 1890. Consolidated with Square and Compass No. 834, as Ontario
No. 301, January I, 1986.

285
286
287
290

301
302
311
313
315

318
319
332
337
339
340
341
342

Santa Lucia, King City, 1890. Consolidated with Pinnacle No. 777 as Santa Lucia No.
302, October 1, 1979.
Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341 , as Oxnard No. 341,
Oct. 16, 1902.
Tehachapi , Tehachapi, 1892. Consolidated with Arvin No. 738, as Tehachapi No. 313,
July 24, 1978.
Norwalk , Norwalk, 1893. Consolidated with Euclid No. 519, as Norwalk-Euclid No.
315, April 3, 1973. Consolidated with Hollenbeck No . 319, as Norwalk No. 315, April
1, 1982.
Emmanuel , Biggs, 1893. Consolidated with North Butte No. 230, as North Butte No .
230, Oct. 8, 1968.
Hollenbeck, Whittier, 1894. Consolidated with Norwalk-Euclid No. 315, as Norwalk
No. 315, April 1, 1982.
San Pedro, San Pedro , 1897. Consolidated with Point Firmin No. 558 as Los Angeles
Harbor No. 332, Dec. 2, 1981.
Carquinez, Crockett, 1899. Consolidated with Pinole No. 353, as Pinole-Carquinez
No. 337, January 1, 1984.
Esperanza, Fullerton, 1900. Name changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13, 1904.
Santa Maria , Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264, as Hesperian
No. 264, Oct . 13, 1910.
Oxnard , Oxnard, 1901. Consolidated with Hueneme No. 311, as Oxnard No. 341 ,
Oct. 16, 1902.
Manila, Manila, P. I. , 1901. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec.
19, 1912.

350
351

Palestine, Los Angeles, 1903. Consolidated with Craftsmen No . 559, as PalestineCraftsmen No. 351 , July 1, 1972. Consolidated with Fountain Valley Bicentennial No .
829, as Fountain Valley No. 351 , January 4, 1982.

352

Sunset, Los Angeles, 1903. Consolidated with Albert Pike No. 484 as Sunset 352,
December 4, 1973. Consolidated with Golden Gate Benevolence No. 358 as Metropolitan No. 352, Dec. 3, 1981.

353

Pinole, Hercules, 1903. Consolidated with Carquinez No. 337, as Pinole-Carquinez
No. 337, January 1, 1984.

354

Presidio, San Francisco, 1903. Consolidated with Parnassus No. 388, as ParnassusPresidio No. 388, Dec. 1, 1969.
Hollywood, Hollywood, 1903. Consolidated with William B. Ogden No . 816, as
Hollywood No. 355, September I, 1977. Consolidated with Melrose No . 602, as
Hollywood-Melrose No. 355, July 6, 1978. Name changed to Hollwood No. 355, Oct.
IS, 1981. Consolidated with Truth No. 628, as Hollywood No. 355, January I, 1986.

355

358

Golden State, Los Angeles, 1903. Consolidated with Arlington No. 414 as Golden
State No. 358, August 1, 1970. Consolidated with Benevolence No. 631 as Golden
State Benevolence No. 358, July 1, 1976. Consolidated with Sunset No. 352 as Metropolitan No. 352, Dec. 3, 1981.

359

Loyalton , Loyalton, 1904. Consolidated with Sierra Valley No . 184, as Sierra Valley
No. 184, Nov. 6, 1972.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1904. Consolidated with Victory No . 474, as San Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961. Consolidated with Excelsior No. 166, as San
Francisco No. 166, Dec. 6, 1972.

360

363

364
367

Berkeley, Berkeley, 1904. Consolidated with Charter Rock No. 410 as Berkeley No.
363, July 1, 1968. Consolidated with Thousand Oaks No . 478 as Berkeley No. 363 ,
Oct. 1, 1981.
Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205, Oct.
1, 1917.
South Pasadena, South Pasadena, 1905. Consolidated with Metropolitan No. 646 as
South Pasadena No. 367, December 10, 1973.

368

Unity, Glendale, 1905. Consolidated with Verdugo Hills No. 727 as Verdugo HillsUnity No. 368, April 1, 1979. Consolidated with Frank S. Land No. 819, as Verdugo
Hills-Unity No. 368, April 4, 198:;. Consolidated with Meridian No. 667, as Jewel
City No. 368, April 5, 1983.

370

Amity, San Francisco, 1905. Consolidated with Seal Rock No . 536 as Amity~ Seal
Rock No. 370, March l , 1963. Consolidated with Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, as Amity
No. 370, December 1, 1975.

371

Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H ., 1905. Name changed to le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
Veteran, Sawtelle , 1906. Name changed to West Los Angeles No . 373, Oct . 12, 1939.

373

384
374

Jewel, San Francisco, 1906. Consolidated with Lincoln No. 470 and Bay City No. 526,
as United No. 374, July 1, 1973.

375

Richmond, San Francisco, 1906. Consolidated with Military Service No. 570 as Brotherhood No. 375, July 1, 1974.

382

Highland Park, Los Angeles, 1907. Consolidated with East Gate No. 290, as Fellowship No. 290, Jan. 6, 1982.
El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Centro No. 384,
Aug. 30, 1937.

384

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
430
431
432
434
435

385

Mccloud, McCloud, 1912. Consolidated with Dunsmuir No. 297, as Dunsmuir-McCloud
No. 297, September I, 1985.
Alpha, Richmond, 1912. Consolidated with Shattuck-Stephens No. 541 as Alpha Shattuck-Stephens No. 431, December 7, 1982.
Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222, as Roseville No. 222,
May 29, 1919.
Maricopa, Maricopa, 1913. Consolidated with Taft-Midway No. 426, as Taft-Midway
No. 426, July 1, 1973.
Fairmont, San Francisco, 1913. Consolidated with George Washington No. 525 as
George Washington No. 435, December 3, 1974. Consolidated with Hunters Point
Naval No. 706 as George Washington No. 435 , July 1, 1975.

385

Dinuba, Dinuba, 1907. Consolidated with Traver No . 294, as Clarence L. Fraser No.
294, July 1, 1977.

386

Corregidor, Manila, P. I. , 1907. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islanps, Dec.
19, 1912.

438

Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438, October 16, 1918.
Consolidated with Arlington No. 414 as Arlington No. 414, September 28, 1959.

387

Coalinga, Coalinga, 1907. Consolidated with Avenal No. 772 as Coalinga No. 387,
Dec. 10, 1981.
Parnassus, San Francisco, 1907. Consolidated with Presidio No. 354, as ParnassusPresidio No. 388, Dec. 1, 1969.
Imperial , Holtville, 1908. Consolidated with Calexico No. 412 as Imperial No. 390,
Jan. 11, 1982.
Westlake, Los Angeles, 1908. Consolidated with Henry Knox No. 662, as Henry
Knox-Westlake No. 392, April 2, 1975 . Consolidated with South Park No. 563, as
Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392, January 1, 1981.
Apollo, Alameda, 1908. Consolidated with Woodstock No. 491, as Apollo-Woodstock
No. 396, December 6, 1983.
Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, as Selma No. 277, Oct. 14,
1915.
Burlingame , Burlingame, 1908. Consolidated with Hillsborough No . 737 as Burlingame No. 400, August 1, 1981.

440
445

Standard, San Lorenzo, 1914. Consolidated with Eden No. 113, as Eden Standard No.
ll3. December l, 1985.
Wilshire, Los Angeles, 1914. Consolidated with James A . Garfield No. 566, as Wilshire-Garfield No. 445, Oct . l , 1973. Consolidated with Henry S. Orme No. 458, as
Golden Gavel No. 445, Dec. l, 1980.

446

La Puente, La Puente, 1914. Consolidated with West Covina No. 758, as West CovinaLa Puente No. 446, July I, 1985.

447

Torrance, Torrance, 1914. Consolidated with Rolling Hills No. 781, as Torrance No.
447, October 5, 1983.
Park, San Francisco, 1914. Consolidated with Crockett No. 139, as Park-Crockett No.
139, Nov. 2, 1972.

388
390
392

396
398
400
403
405
410
412
413
414

421

Yerba Buena, Oakland, 1909. Consolidated with Park Boulevard No. 568 as Yerba
Buena No. 403, April 1, 1979.
Moneta, 1909. Consolidated with Vermont Square No. 515 as Moneta No. 405, December 1, 1971.
Charter Rock, Berkeley, 1910. Consolidated with Berkeley No . 363, as Berkeley No.
363, July l, 1968.
Calexico, Calexico, 1910. Consolidated with Imperial No. 390 as Imperial No. 390,
Jan. 11 , 1982.
Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No. 221, Jan. 10,
1945.
Arlington, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438, as Arlington No.
414. Sept. 28, 1959. Consolidated with Golden State No. 358, as Golden State No.
358, Aug. 1, 1970.
Inglewood, Inglewood, 1911. Consolidated with James H. Kew No. 766, as Inglewood-James Kew No. 421, July 1, 1980.

423

York, Walnut Park , 1912. Consolidated with Florence No 649, as Florence No. 423 ,
December 3, 1970.

426

Midway, Taft, 1912. Consolidated with Taft No. 516 as Taft-Midway No. 426, July 1,
1972. Consolidated with Maricopa No. 434 as Taft-Midway No. 426, July 1, 1973.
Consolidated with Temblor No. 477 as Taft-Midway No. 426, Aprill, 1975.

449
450

Van Nuys, Van Nuys, 1914. Consolidated with Utopia No. 537 as Van Nuys No. 450,
Oct. 1, 1981.

451

MontebelLo, Montebello, 1914. Consolidated with Triad No. 812, as Montebello No.
451, August l, 1985.

453

Bethlehem, San Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker No. 454, as Crocker No.
454, Aprill , 1961.
Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 453, as Crocker No. 454,
April 1, 1961.

454
455
456

Golden West, San Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Mission No. 169, as Mission
Golden West No. 169, April 6, 1982.
Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, as Reading No. 254,
Dec. 19, 1925.

457

Ramona, Monterey Park , 1915. Consolidated with Belvedere-Sunrise No . 522 as Monterey Park No. 457, April 2, 1974. Consolidated with Maccabee No. 823 as Monterey
Park No. 457, Oct. 1, 1980.

458

Henry S. Orme, Los Angeles, 1915. Consolidated with Covenant No. 527, as Henry
S. Orme No. 458, Dec. 1, 1971. Consolidated with Wilshire-Garfield No. 445, as
Golden Gavel No. 445, Dec. l, 1980.

461

Argonaut, San Francisco, 1916. Consolidated with Argonne No. 514, as ArgonautArgonne No. 461, December 5, 1968. Consolidated with Alta Vista-Mt . Vernon No.
464, as Columbia No. 461 , April 4, 1983.

464

Alta Vista, San Francisco, 1916. Consoldiated with Mt. Vernon No. 517, as Alta VistaMt. Vernon No. 464, December 2, 1968. Consolidated with Argonaut-Argonne No.
461, as Columbia No. 461, April 4, 1983.

386

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

387

467

Culver City, Culver City, 1917. Consolidated with James A. Foshay No. 641, as Culver
City-Foshay no. 467, December 4, 1973.

517

Mount Vernon, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Alta Vista No. 464, as Alta
Vista-Mount Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.

468

Rockridge, Oakland, 1917. Consolidated with Oakland No. 188, as Oakland-Rockridge No. 188, December 6, 1983.

519

Euclid, Norwalk, 1922. Consolidated with Norwalk No. 315, as Norwalk-Euclid No .
315 , April 3, 1973.

470

Lincoln , San Francisco , 1918. Consolidated with Jewel No. 374 and Bay City No . 526,
as United No. 374, July 1, 1973.

521

Piedmont, Piedmont, 1922. Consolidated with Orinda No. 704, as Orinda No. 521 , Dec.
I, 1966. Consolidated with Plymouth No. 560, as Orinda-Plymount No. 521, Sept. l, 1985.

474

Victory, San Francisco, 1919. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 360, as San Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.

522

Sunrise, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Belvedere No. 539 as Belvedere
Sunrise No. 522 July 1, 1968. Consolidated with Ramona No. 457, as Monterey Park
No. 457. April 2, 1974.

477

Temblor, Fellows, 1922. Consolidated with Taft-Midway No. 426, as Taft-Midway No.
426, April 1, 1975.

523

Bellflower, Bellflower, 1922. Consolidated with Paramount No. 785 , as BellflowerParamount No. 523, December 6, 1983.

478

Thousand Oaks, Berkeley, 1920. Consolidated with Indian Rock No. 638, as Thousand
Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968. Consolidated with Berkeley No. 363 as Berkeley No.
363, Oct . 1, 1981.

525

George Washington, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Fairmount No . 435, as
George Washington No. 435, December 3, 1974.

526

480

Fellowship, Oakland, 1920. Consolidated with Fortitude No. 624 as Fellowship No.
480, Dec. 1, 1969. Consolidated with Acalanes No. 723 as Acalanes-Fellowship No.
480, Dec. 4, 1979.

Bay City, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Jewel No. 374 and Lincoln No. 470,
as United No. 374, July 1, 1973.

527

Covenant, Hawthorne, 1922. Consolidated with Henry S. Orme No. 458, as Henry
S. Orme No. 458, December 1, 1971.

481

Mt. Davidson, San Francisco, 1920. Consolidated with Occidental-California No. 1
as Occidental-California No. 1, July 11, 1978.

531

Alexandria, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Educator No. 554 as Educator
No. 554, October 2, 1974.

484

Albert Pike, Los Angeles, 1920. Consolidated with Sunset No. 352 as Sunset No . 352,
December 4, 1973.

534

Forest Hill, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Oriental No. 144 as Oriental No.
144, December 12, 1974.

489

East Bay, Orinda, 1920. Consolidated with Hillcrest No. 573 as East Bay No. 489,
Dec. 1, 1967. Consolidated with Alamo No. 122 as Alamo No. 122, August 1, 1977.

535

Alexander Hamilton, Los Angeles, 1922. Consolidated with Harding No . 584, as
Hamilton-Harding No. 535, July l, 1976. Consolidated with Granada No. 608, as Granada
No. 535, April I, 1985.

491

Woodstock, Alameda, 1920. Consolidated with Apollo No. 396, as Apollo-Woodstock
No. 396, December 6, 1983.

536

492

Garvanza, Los Angeles, 1920. Consolidated with Fellowship No. 290, as Fellowship
No. 290, Nov. 3, 1982.

537

495

Lebanon, San Francisco, 1921. Consolidated with Pacific No. 136 as Lebanon-Pacific
No. 136, September 7, 1971.

539

496

Riverdale , Riverdale, 1921. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255 , as Welcome No.
255, May 18, 1943.

541

500

Roosevelt, San Francisco, 1921. Consolidated with Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1975.

Seal Rock, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Amity No. 370, as Amity-Seal
Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
Utopia, Van Npys, 1922. Consolidated with Van Nuys No. 450 as Van Nuys No. 450,
Oct. l, 1981.
Belvedere, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Sunrise No. 522, as Belvedere
Sunrise No. 522, July l, 1968.
Henry Morse Stephens, Berkeley, 1923. Consolidated with Francis K. Shattuck No.
571, as Shattuck-Stephens No. 541 , December 4, 1972. Consolidated with Alpha No.
431 as Alpha Shattuck-Stephens No. 431 , December 7, 1982.

508

Joppa, San Joaquin, 1921. Consolidated with Madera No. 280, as Madera Joppa No.
280, September 13, 1983.

509

Benjamin Franklin, Beverly Hills, 1921. Consolidated with Alexander Graham Bell
No. 595, as Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No. 595, Aug. 1, 1980.

512

Palms, Los Angeles, 1921. Consolidated with West Adams Lodge No. 565 as PalmsAdams No. 512, Jan. 31 , 1984.

513

Cahuenga, Los Angeles, 1921. Consolidated with La Brea No. 650 as Cahuenga No.
513, December 5, 1978.

546

514

Argonne, San Francisco , 1922. Consoldiated with Argonaut No. 461, as ArgonautArgonne No. 461 , Dec. 5, 1968.

549

515

Vermont Square, Inglewood, 1922. Consolidated with Moneta No. 405, as Moneta
No. 405, December 1, 1971.

550

516

Taft, Taft, 1922. Consolidated with Midway No. 426 as Taft-Midway No. 426, July 1,
1972.

551

542

Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542,
Oct. 12, 1950.

543

Signal, Long Beach, 1923. Consolidated with Five Points No. 779, as Signal Five Points
No. 543, October l, 1985.

545

Jonathan, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Veritas No. 640 as Veritas-Jonathan
No. 545, December 3, 1963. Consolidated with Am ity-Seal Rock No. 370, as Amity
No. 370, December l, 1975.
San Gabriel, San Gabriel, 1923. Consolidated with Southern California No. 278, as
San Gabriel-Southern California No. 278, December l , 1977.
Justice, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Park-Crockett No. 139, as ParkCrockett No. 139, Dec. 6, 1979.
Seaport, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with King Solomon's No. 260, as King
Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
Lakeshore, San Lorenro, 1923. Consolidated with Dimond No. 603 and Lake Chabot
No. 770, as Tri-Square No. 551 , July 1, 1980.

388

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

389

553

Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, as Educator
No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.

603

554

Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Golden City No. 553 as Educator
No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940. Consolidated with Alexandria No. 531 as Educator No. 554,
Oct. 2, 1974. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 166 as San Francisco Educator
No. 166, Dec. 5, 1979.

608
610

Elmhurst, Hayward, 1925. Consolidated with Eucalyptus No. 243 as Eucalyptus No.
243, July 1, 1979.

557

Hermosa, Manhattan Beach, 1923. Consolidated with Manhattan No. 742, as Hermosa-Manhattan No. 557, June 1, 1984.

611

558

Point Firmin, San Pedro, 1923. Consolidated with San Pedro No. 332, as Los Angeles
Harbor No. 332, Dec. 2, 1981.

Owensmouth, Owensmouth, 1925. Subsequent to the name of the community being
changed to Canoga Park, the name of the Lodge was changed to Canoga No. 611,
Oct. 15, 1931.

612

559

Craftsmen, Los Angeles, 1923. Consolidated with Palestine No. 351, as PalestineCraftsmen No. 351, July l, 1972.

Temple City, Temple City, 1925. Consolidated with Camellia No. 805, as Camellia
No. 612, Dec. 1, 1982.

614

560

Plymouth, Oakland, 1923. Consolidated with Orinda No. 521, as Orinda-Plymouth No.
521, September I, 1985.
Pyramid, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Ingleside No. 630 as Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562, December 4, 1973. Consolidated with Occidental-California No. 1 as
Occidental-California No. 1, July 3, 1979.

Larchmont, Los Angeles, 1925. Consolidated with Atwater No. 622, as AtwaterLarchmont No. 614, Dec. l, 1982.

616

Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925, Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616, Oct. 14, 1937.

618

Southland, Glendale, 1925. Consolidated with Heritage No. 764, as Southland Heritage No. 618, July 1, 1979.

619

Neptune, Long Beach, 1925. Consolidated with Bixby Knolls No. 699, as Bixby
Knolls-Neptune No. 699, December 1, 1976.

622

Atwater, Los Angeles, 1925. Consolidated with Larchmont No. 614, as AtwaterLarchmont No. 614, Dec. l, 1982.

624

Fortitude, Oakland, 1925. Consolidated with Fellowship No. 480, as Fellowship No.
480, Dec. 1, 1969.

627

Lamanda Park, Pasadena, 1925. Consolidated with Carmelita No. 599, as Lamanda
Park Carmelita No. 627, Dec. 1, 1981.

628

Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597, as truth No.
628, Feb. 14, 1939. Consolidated with Hollywood No. 355, as Hollywood No. 355, January
I, 1986.

562

Dimond, Hayward, 1925. Consolidated with Lakeshore No. 551 and Lake Chabot
No. 770, as Tri-Square No. 551, July 1, 1980.
Granada, Alhambra, 1925. Consolidated with Hamilton-Harding No. 535, as Granada
No. 535, April I, 1985.

563

South Park, Playa del Rey, 1923. Consolidated with Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392,
as Henry Knox-Westlake No. 392, Jan. 1, 1981.

565

West Adams, Culver City, 1923. Consolidated with Palms No. 512, as Palms-Adams
No. 512, Jan. 31, 1984.

566

James A. Garfield, Los Angeles, 1923. Consolidated with Wilshire No. 445, as Wilshire-Garfield No. 445, Oct. 1, 1973.

567

Searchlight, Long Beach, 1923. Consolidated with Alta Loma No. 643 as Searchlight
Alta Loma No. 567, December 1, 1976.

568

Park Boulevard, Oakland, 1923. Consolidated with Yerba Buena No. 403 as Yerba
Buena No. 403, April 1, 1979.

570

Military Service, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Richmond No. 375 as Brotherhood No. 375, July 1, 1974.

629

571

Francis K. Shattuck, El Cerrito, 1923. Consolidated with Henry Morse Stephens No.
541, as Shattuck-Stephens No. 541, Dec. 4, 1972.

Fairview, El Se'gundo, 1926. Consolidated with Westminster No. 787, as WestminsterFairview No. 629, July 7, 1978.

630

572

James Madison, Playa del Rey, 1923. Consolidated with Westchester No. 703 as Westchester-Madison No. 572, April 1, 1976. Consolidated with Valley Forge No. 587 as
Westchester-United No. 572, December 7, 1978.

Ingleside, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Pyramid No. 562 as Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562, December 4, 1973.

631

Benevolence, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Golden State no. 358, as Golden
State Benevolence No. 358, July l, 1976.

573

Hillcrest, Orinda, 1923. Consolidated with East Bay No. 489, as East Bay No. 489,
Dec. 1, 1967.

636

John Marshall, Beverly Hills, 1926. Consolidated with Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No. 595, as Tri No. 595, January 1, 1984.

584

Harding, Los Angeles, 1924, Consolidated with Alexander Hamilton No. 535, as
Hamilton-Harding No. 535, July 1, 1976.

638

587

Valley Forge, Playa del Rey, 1924. Consolidated with Westchester-Madison No. 572,
as Westchester-United No. 572, December 7, 1978.

640

Indian Rock, Berkeley, 1926. Consolidated with Thousand Oaks No. 478, as Thousand
Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
Veritas, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Jonathan No. 545, as Veritas-Jonathan No. 545, Dec. 3, 1%3.

595

Alexander Graham Bell, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidat_ed with Benjamin Franklin
No. 509, as Alexander Graham Bell-Benjamin Franklin No. 595, August 1, 1980.
Consolidated with John Marshall No. 636, as Tri No. 595, January 1, 1984.

641

James A. Foshay, Playa del Rey, 1926. Consolidated with Culver City No. 467 as
Culver City-Foshay no. 467, December 4, 1973.

597

Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628, as Truth
No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.

643

Alta Loma, Long Beach, 1926. Consolidated with Searchlight No. 567, as SearchlightAlta Loma No. 567, December 1, 1976.

599

Carmelita, Pasadena, 1924. Consolidated with Lamanda Park No. 627, as Lamanda
Park Carmelita No. 627, Dec. 1, 1981.

646

Metropolitan, South Pasadena, 1926. Consolidated with South Pasadena No. 367 as
South Pasadena No. 367, December 10, 1973.

602

Melrose, Hollywood, 1925. Consolidated with Hollywood No. 355, as HollywoodMelrose No. 355, July 6, 1978.

649

Florence, Walnut Park, 1027. Consolidated with York No. 423, as Florence No. 423,
December 3, 1970.

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

391

650

La Brea, Los Angeles, 1927. Consolidated with Cahuenga No. 513 as Cahuenga No.
513, December 5, 1978.

739

654

Jordan, Huntington Park, 1927. Consolidated with Golden Bowl No. 755 as JordanGolden Bowl No. 654, October 1, 1979.

741

662

Henry Knox, Los Angeles, 1928. Consolidated with Westlake No. 392 as Henry KnoxWestlake No. 392, April 2, 1975.

742

664

Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.

Morningside Park, Inglewood, 1955. Consolidated with Manhattan No. 817, as Manhattan No. 742, Dec. 5, 1972. Consolidated with Hermosa No. 557, as HermosaManhattan No. 557, June 1, 1984.

667

Meridian, Glendale, 1928. Consolidated with Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368, as Jewel
City No. 368, April 5, 1983.

743

Oakwood, La Crescenta, 1955. Consolidated with La Canada No. 739 as La CanadaOakwood No. 739, July 1, 1979.

673

Far West, San Francisco, 1929. Consolidated with Golden State Speranza No. 30, as
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 11, 1978.

744

San Leandro, San Leandro, 1955. Consolidated with Brooklyn No. 225, as San Leandro-Brooklyn No. 225, December 6, 1983.

678

Altadena, Altadena, 1930. Consolidated with Mt. Wilson No. 794 as Altadena-Mt.
Wilson No. 678, July 1, 1979.

755

686

Albany, San Pablo, 1945. Consolidated with El Cerrito No. 705, as El Cerrito-Albany
No. 686, Dec. 6, 1982.

756

688

Oildale, Bakersfield, 1946. Consolidated with Meudell No. 695, as Meudell-Oildale
No. 695, Jan. 1, 1985.

689

Pohona, Yosemite, 1946. Consolidated with Mariposa No. 24, as Mariposa No. 24,
May 26, 1976.

Golden Bowl, South Gate, 1955. Consolidated with Jordan No. 654 as Jordan-Golden
Bowl No. 654, October 1, 1979.
Clayton Valley, Concord, 1955. Consolidated with Saint John's No. 725, as Clayton
Valley Saint John's No. 756, March I, 1986.
West Covina, West Covina, 1956. Consolidated with La Puente No. 446, as West CovinaLa Puente No. 446, July I, 1985.
Josiah W. Roller, Palo Alto, 1956. Consolidated with Palo Alto No. 346, as Palo AltoRoller No. 346, December I, 1985.

694

San Antonio, Whittier, 1947. Consolidated with Tyre No. 741, as Tyre No. 741, April
2, 1982.

695

Meudell, Bakersfield, 1948. Consolidated with Oildale No. 688, as Meudell-Oildale
No. 695, Jan. 1, 1985.

697

Saint Elmo, Alameda, 1948. Consolidated with Sequoia No. 349, as Sequoia-Saint
Elmo No. 349, Dec. 4, 1979.

699

Bixby Knolls, Long Beach, 1949. Consolidated with Neptune No. 619 as Bixby KnollsNeptune No. 699, December 1, 1976.

703

Westchester, Playa del Rey, 1950. Consolidated with James Madison No. 572, as
Westchester-Madison No. 572, April 1, 1976.

704

Orinda, Orinda, 1950. Consolidated with Piedmont No. 521, as Orinda No. 521, Dec.
1, 1966.

781

705

El Cerrito, El Cerrito, 1950. Consolidated with Albany No. 686, as El Cerrito-Albany
No. 686, Dec. 6, 1982.

783

Mojave, Mojave, 1958. Charter revoked October 12, 1983.

706

Hunters Point Naval, San Francisco, 1950. Consolidated with George Washington No.
435, as George Washington No. 435, July 1, 1975.

785

Paramount, South Gate, 1958. Consolidated with Bellflower No. 523, as BellflowerParamount No. 523, December 6, 1983.

723

Acalanes, Lafayette, 1953. Consolidated with Fellowship No. 480, as Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480, Dec. 4, 1979.

787

Westminster, Huntington Beach, 1958. Consolidated with Fairview No. 629, as Westminster-Fairview No. 629, July 7, 1978.

725

Saint John's, Concord, 1953. Consolidated with Clayton Valley No. 756, as Clayton
Valley Saint John's No. 756, March I, 1986.

792

Millbrae, Millbrae, 1959. Consolidated with Hillsborough No. 737, as Patriot No. 737,
January 15, 1975.

727

Verdugo Hills, Glendale, 1953. Consolidated with Unity No. 368 as Verdugo HillsUnity No. 368, April 1, 1979.

794

737

Hillsborough, Burlingame, 1954. Consolidated with Milbrae No. 792 as Patriot No.
737, January 15, 1975. Name changed to Hillsborough No. 737, October 11, 1979.
Consolidated with Burlingame No. 400, August 1, 1981.

Mt. Wilson, Altadena, 1959. Consolidated with Altadena No. 678 as Altadena-Mt.
Wilson No. 678, July 1, 1979.
Bay Claire Vista, San Diego. Name changed to Clairemont Mesa No. 799, October
15, 1964.
Camellia, Temple City, 1961. Consolidated with Temple City No. 612, as Camellia
No. 612, Dec. 1, 1982.
Triad, Montebello, 1963. Consolidated with Montebello No. 451, as Montebello No.
451, August I, 1985.

758
761
764

Heritage, North Hollywood, 1956. Consolidated with Southland No. 618, as Southland
Heritage No. 618, July 1, 1979.

766

James H. Kew, Inglewood, 1956. Consolidated with Inglewood No. 421, as InglewoodJames Kew No. 421, July 1, 1980.

770

Lake Chabot, Hayward, 1957. Consolidated with Lakeshore No. 551 and Dimond
No. 603 as Tri-Square No. 551, July 1, 1980.

772

Avenal, Avenal, 1957, Consolidated with Coalinga No. 387 as Coalinga No. 387, Dec.
10, 1981.

777

Pinnacle, Soleda<l, 1957. Consolidated with Santa Lucia No. 302 as Santa Lucia No.
302, October 1, 1979.

779

Five Points, Long Beach, 1957. Consolidated with Signal No. 543, as Signal Five Points
No. 543, October I, 1985.
Rolling Hills, Lomita, 1957. Consolidated with Torrance No. 447, as Torrance No.
447, October 5, 1983.

799

738

Arvin, Arvin, 1954. Consolidated with Tehachapi No. 313 as Tehachapi No. 313, July
24, 1978.

La Canada, La Crescenta, 1954. Consolidated with Oakwood No. 743 as La CanadaOakwood No. 739, July 1, 1979.
Tyre, Downey, 1955. Consolidated with San Antonio No. 694, as Tyre No. 741, April
2, 1982.

805
812

392
816
817
819
823
829
834

William B. Ogden, North Hollywood, 1964. Consolidated with Hollywood No. 355
as Hollywood No. 355, September 1, 1977.
Manhattan, Inglewood, 1964. Consolidated with Morningside Park No. 742, as Manhattan No. 742, December 5, 1972.
Frank S. Land, Los Angeles, 1965. Consolidated with Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368,
as Verdugo Hills-Unity No. 368, April 4, 1983.
Maccabee, San Marino, 1966. Consolidated with Monterey Park No. 457, as Monterey
Park No. 457, Oct. 1, 1980.
Fountain Valley Bicentennial, Garden Grove, 1976. Consolidated with PalestineCraftsmen No. 351, as Fountain Valley No. 351, January 4, 1982.
Square and Compass, Chino, 1982. Consolidated with Ontario No. 301, as Ontario No.
301, January 1, 1986.

393

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elected omcers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1850
Jonathan D. Stevenson ... G.M.
California No. 1
Born Jan . 1, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894

John A. Tutt ... ........ D.G.M.
Caleb Fenner ... ...... S.G.W.
Sashel Woods . . .... ... J.G.W.
Levi Stowell .... . .. . ..... G.T.
John H. Gihon . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1851
John A. Tutt .. .......... . G.M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900

Jno. A. Raymond ... . . . S.G.W.
Sam A. Merritt ........ . J.G.W.
Addison Martin ... .. .. . . . G.T.
Levi Stowell . . ...... ..... G.S.

James Laidley . . ... . .. . . . G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........ . ... G.S.

1856

William C. Belcher ....... G.M.

William H. Howard .. .. . .. G.M.
John A. Raymond . ... .. D.G.M.
Lemuel Lyon ...... .. .. S.G.W.
Peter W. Randle . ...... J.G.W.
Addison Martin . . ... ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . .. . . ...... G.S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtis ... . . . . G.M.

Washington No. 20
Benj. D. Hyam .. . .. . .. . D.G.M.
Born Feb. 8, 1825
E. F. F. Ellis . . . . .. . .... S.G.W.
Died July 12, 1897
Benj. S. Olds . . . ...... . J.G.W.
Townsend A. Thomas .... G.T. Charles Marsh . . .. .... D.G.M.
Levi Stowell .. ........... G.S. ·Aaron D. Park . ........ S.G.W.
John B. Pope .. ..... ... J.G.W.
Addison Martin . ... . . .... G.T.
1852
Benjamin D. Hyam ... .. .. G.M. Alex G. Abell . . . . ... .. . .. G.S.
Benicia No. 5
Born March 1, 1813
Died July 12, 1893

Chas. M. Radcliff ...... D.G.M.
J. R. McConnell ........ J.G.W.
Addison Martin . ..... .... G.T.
Levi Stowell .. . ... .. . .... G.S.

1853
Charles M. Radcliff . . .. ... G.M.
Tuolumne No. 8
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31 , 1889

T. A. Thomas ... .... .. D.G.M.
Jno. R. Crandall ....... S.G.W.
Richard F. Knott .. . . . . . J.G.W.
Addison Martin .... . ..... G.T.
Levi Stowell .... ...... .. . G.S.

1854
William H. Howard ... . .. . G.M.
San Jose No. 1O
Born Aug. 29, 1810
Died Sept. 18, 1866

Nath. G. Curtis . ..... . . D.G.M.
Rector E. Cole . . ...... S.G.W.
Robt. N. Wood ......... J.G.W.
Addison Martin . ......... G.T.
Levi Stowell . ... . . ... .... G.S.

1855
William H. Howard . ...... G.M.
T. A. Thomas . . . ..... . D.G.M.

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis . ...... G.M.
P. W. Shepheard .. .... D.G.M.
Wm. McCormick .. ..... S.G.W.
Jas. W. Bicknell ..... ... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .. ... . .... G.T.
Alex G. Abell . ... .... .... G.S.

1859
Nathaniei G. Curtis . ...... G.M.
P. W. Shepheard . ..... D.G.M.
Ebenezer Lane . . . ..... S.G.W.
Thos. P. Hawley ... ... . J.G.W.
Addison Martin . . . ... .. .. G.T .
Alex G. Abell . . . . . • . . . . . . G.S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis .. . .... G.M.
P. W. Shepheard . ..... D.G.M.
Wm. C. Belcher ... .... S.G.W.
Alvinza Hayward . ... .. . J.G.W.
Addison Martin . . .... .. .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell . .... . ...... G.S.

1861
James L. English . ....... G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born June 5, 1813
Died May 29. 1889

Wm. C. Belcher ....... D.G.M.
John W. Harville . .. . . .. S.G.W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon . .... J.G.W.

1862
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12. 1820
Died Sept. 1. 1895

Gil. B. Claiborne . .. .... D.G.M.
John W. Harville ....... S.G. W.
John B. Hewson .... ... J.G.W.
James Laidley . ...... .... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ... ..... .... G.S.

1863
Wilfiam C. Belcher ... . .. . G.M.
Gil. B. Claiborne ....... D.G.M.
Louis Cohn . . . ........ S.G.W.
Wm. A. Davies .. . . .... J.G.W.
James Laidley ..... ...... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. ....... ... G.S.

1864
William C. Belcher ..... .. G.M.
Gil. B. Claiborne ..... .. D.G.M.
Wm. A. Davies ....... . S.G.W.
Isaac S. Titus . ... . .. ... J.G.W.
James Laidley .. . .. .. . ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... . .. . G.S.

1865
Gilbert B. Claiborne .. ... . G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born 1828
Died Dec. 1, 1908

Wm. A. Davies . . . . . ... D.G.M.
Isaac S. Titus .... .. ... S.G.W.
Henry H. Hartley . ...... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........ . . . G.T.
Alex G. Abell . ..... .. . ... G.S.

1866
Gilbert B. Claiborne . ..... G.M.
Henry H. Hartley ... . ... D.G.M.
Wm. H. Peterson ... . . . S.G.W.
Thomas Beck ...... . .. J.G.W.
James Laidley ........ . . . G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. . . ........ G.S.

1867
William A. Davies . . ...... G.M.
Columbia No. 28
Bom Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916

Henry H. Hartley . . . .. .. D.G.M.

Thomas Beck . .. . ..... S.G.W.
Leonidas E. Pratt ...... J.G.W.
James A. Laidley ......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........ . ... G.S.

1868
Charles Marsh ...... . ... G.M.
Nevada No. 13
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died April 28. 1876

Leonidas E. Pratt ... . .. D.G.M.
Theo. G. Cockrill ..... . S.G.W.
Fred. F. Barss .. ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley . ..... .. ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1869
Leonidas E. Pratt . .. ..... G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aug. 29, 1833
Died Oct. 25, 1886

Isaac S. Titus . .. ... . .. D.G.M.
John S. Ward .. . . . ... . S.G.W.
Richard Dale ......... . J.G.W.
James Laidley ......... .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1870
Leonidas E. Pratt ... . .... G.M.
Isaac S. Titus ......... D.G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin . . . . . . . S.G.W.
Benj. H. Freeman . . .. .. J.G.W.
James Laidley . . . . .. .. . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........ .... G.S.

1871
Leonidas E. Pratt ........ G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ...... . D.G.M.
Ben. H. Freeman ...... S.G.W.
Geo. C. Perkins ........ J.G.W.
James Laidley ......... .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1872
Leonidas E. Pratt ..... .. . G.M.
Benj. H. Freeman ..... . D.G.M.
Geo. C. Perkins . ...... S.G.W.
John M. Browne .. .. .. . J.G.W.
James Laidley ......... . . G.T.
Alex G. Abell . .. .. .. .. .. . G.S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus ......... .. G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Died April 22. 1892

Geo. C. Perkins ... . ... D.G.M.
Jno. M. Browne ....... S.G.W.
Chas. E. Mitchell .. ..... J.G.W.
James Laidley ......... .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1874
George C. Perkins . .. . ... G.M.
Oro\/llle No. 103
Bom Aug. 23. 1839
Died Feb. 26, 1923

John M. Browne ....... D.G.M.
Wm. B. Parker ........ S.G.W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ......... J.G.W.
James Laidley . ......... . G.T."
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1875
John M. Browne .... .. . . . G.M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1894

Chas. L. Wiggin .. . .. .. D.G.M.
Wiley J. Tinnin . . ..... . S.G.W.
Jacob H. Neff . ....... .. J.G.W.
James Laidley ... . ....... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1876
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin .... .. . D.G.M.
Wm. S. Wells ......... S.G.W.
Solon W. Craigue .. .. .. J.G.W.
James . Laidley . .. .. . . . . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ... . .. .. . ... G.S.

1877
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ....... D.G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor . .. ... . S.G.W.
Wm. H. Crane . . ....... J.G.W.
Moses Heller . ..... . .... . G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1878
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor . . . • . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. H. Crane .. .. . .. .. S.G.W.
Robt. C. Broder . ... .. .. J .G.W.
Moses Heller .. ... . ...... G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . ......... . G.S.

1879
William W. Traylor . . ..... G.M.
California No . 1
Born March 17, 1822
Died Jan. 18. 1883

Samuel C. Denson. . . . . D.G.M.
Clay W. Taylor ........ S.G.W.
John Q . Adams ... . .... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ......... . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ... . ..... . .. G.S.

1880
Samuel C. Denson . ...... G.M.
Union No. 58
Bom Sept. 23. 1839
Died July 26. 1917

395

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

394

Clay W. Taylor ...... . . D.G.M.
John 0. Adams ... . .. .. S.G.W.
0 . W. Hollenbeck . .. .. . J.G.W
Moses Heller .. .. . ... . ... G.T:
Alex G. Abell . . ......... . G.S.

1881
Clay W. Taylor .. .... .. .. G.M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. 10, 1844
Died May 1, 1897

John Q. Adams ........ D.G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines .. . .. S.G.W.
Thos. J. Bowers . ...... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ......... ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. .. .. .. .. .. G.S.

1882
Clay W. Taylor ... .. . .... G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines .. ... D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ... .. . S.G.W.
George Hinds .. . .. .. .. J.G.W.
Moses Heller ..... . ... . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell ......... ... G.S.

1883
Jonathan D. Hines ...... . G.M.
San Buevaventura No. 214
Born Jan. 1, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886

Wiley J. Tinnin ........ D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ... .. . S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker ....... J.G.W.
Moses Heller . .. . ... .. . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . ....... . .. G.S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines . .. . ... G.M.
Wiley J. Tinnin .... . ... D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson . . .... S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker . .. . . .. J.G.W.
Moses Heller ....... .. . .. G.T.
Alex G. Abell . .. .... .. ... G.S.

1885
Wiley J. Tinnin . ...... . .. G.M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24.1910

Edm. C. Atkinson ...... D.G.M.
Hiram N. Rucker ... . ... S.G.W.
Henry H. Knapp .... .. . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. .. . G.T.
Alex G. Abell . .. .. .... . .. G.S.

1886
Edmund C. Atkinson . . ... G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Bom Nov . 17, 1837
Died March 20. 1911

Hiram N. Rucker . .. .. .. D.G.M.

Morris M. Estee .. . .. .. S.G.W.
Alvah A. Conk~n ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. ... G.T.
Alex G. Abell . ....... . ... G.S.

1887
Hiram N. Rucker . ... . . ... G.M.
La Grange No. 99
Bom Sept. 6, 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905

Morris M. Estee ....... D.G.M.
Alvah A. Conklin ....... S.G.W.
Wm. Johnston ..... . . . . J .G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ... . . G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........ . . .. G.S.

1888
Morris M. Estee ....... .. G.M.
California No. 1
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903

Alvah A. Conklin ..... • . D.G.M.
Wimam Johnston . . .... S.G.W.
Marc. D. Boruck ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. . .... .. . .. G.S.

1889
Morris M. Estee ..... . ... G.M.
William Johnston ...... D.G.M.
Chas . A. Gritman . ... . . S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme .. .. . .. . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ....... ..... G.S.

1890
Alvah A. Conklin ... ...'. . . G.M.
Inyo No. 221
Bom 1835
Died Oct. 5, 1897

William Johnston • ... . . D.G.M.
Chas. A. Gr~man . ..... S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme ..... . .. J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding . .... G.T.
George Johnson • . . . .. ... G.S.

1891
William Johnston ........ G.M.
Frank~n No. 143
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Chas. A. Gr~man . ... .. D.G.M.

Henry S. Orme ........ S.G.W.
Jas. B. Stevens ... . .. . . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ... . . G.T.
George Johnson . . ....... G.S.

1892
Charles A. Gritman ...... G.M .
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 1 1838
Died May 14. 1894

o.

Henry S. Orme . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Jas. B. Stevens . . . .. . . S.G.W.
Edw. M. Preston .. .. . .. J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G .T.
George Johnson .. . .. .. .. G.S.

1893
Henry S. Orme ...... . ... G.M.
So. Caifornia No. 2711
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1912

Jas. B. Stevens ........ D.G.M.
Edw. M. Preston .. . .. .. S.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucas •..... . .. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... . ... . G.T.
George Johnson .. . ... . .. G.S.

1894
James B. Stevens .. ..... G.M.
Young No. 12
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919

Edw. M. Preston .... . .. D.G.M.
Thomas Flint ... . ... . .. J.G.W.
Wm . T. Lucas ... . .. .. . S.G.W.
Edward Coleman .•.... . . G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.

1895
Edward M. Preston .... .. G.M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May 4, 1841
Died April 24, 1903

Wm. T. Lucas ... .. .... D.G.M.
Thomas Flint .. .. ..... . S.G.W.
F. M. Angellotti . . ...... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .. .. .. .. G.T.
George Johnson •........ G.S.

1896
William T. Lucas ........ . G.M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1931

Thomas Flint . . . .. ..... D.G.M.
F. M. Angellotti .. . ... .. S.G.W.
Chas. L. Patton . . ... . .. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . .. .. G.S.

1898
Frank M. Angellotti ... . . . . G.M.
Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4. 1861
Died May 23, 1932

Chas. L. Patton .... . . . . D.G.M.
Jas. A. Foshay . .... . .. S.G.W.
Wm. S. Wells . . ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... . . . . . G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.

1899
Charles L. Patton . ...... . G.M.
California No. 1
Born 1865
Died April 11, 1923

Jas. A. Foshay . ..... .. D.G.M.
Wm . S. Wells ......... S.G. W.
0 . S. Henderson . .. .... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .. .. . . . . G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1900
James A. Foshay ... ..... G.M.
So. California No . 278
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914

Wm . S. Wells . ...... .. D.G.M.
0. S. Henderson .. .... S.G.W.
Chas. W. Nutting ... . ... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... .. . .. G.T.
George Johnson ... . ..... G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards ......... G.L.

1901
William S. Wells .. . ... . .. G.M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23. 1919

0. S. Henderson . . . . ... D.G.M.
Chas. W. Nutting ...... S.G.W.
Geo. W. Hunter .... . . . . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
George Johnson .... .. ... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards . ........ G.L.

1902
1897
Thomas Flint ....... ... . . G.M.
Texas No. 46
Bom May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 1936

F. M. Angellotti • . .. . . .. D.G.M.
Chas. L. Patton ...... . . S.G.W.
Jas. A. Foshay ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.

Orrin S. Henderson . ... .. G.M.
Morning Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25. 1940

Chas. W. Nutting . .... . D.G.M.
Geo. W. Hunter . .... . . S.G.W.
Motley H. Flint ..... . ... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
George Johnson . .. ... .. . G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards ......... G.L.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

396

1903

1908

Charles W. Nutting .... ... G.M.

Osr-.ar Lawler ... ... ...... G.M.

Evening Star No. 186
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917

1913

East Gate No. 290
Born April 2, 187 5
Died Jan. 3, 1966

John D. Murphey ........ G.M.
Alta No. 333
Born July 7. 1863
Died Sept. 15, 1945

Geo. W. Hunter .. .. . . .. D.G.M.
Motley H. Flint ......... S.G.W.
Edw. H. Hart ... ... .... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ... .. G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards .. ....... G.L.

W. Frank Pierce .... ... D.G.M.
Dana R. Weller ........ S.G.W.
A. J. Monroe .......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ...... .. G.T.
John Whicher ...... ... .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. . .... . . G.L.

Benj. F. Bledsoe ....... D.G.M.
Alb. G. Burnett .. ...... S.G.W.
F. V. Keesling ..... .... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . ........ .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1904

1909

1914

George W. Hunter .. ... .. G.M.

W. Frank Pierce . . . . . . . . . G.M.

Benj. F. Bledsoe ...... .. . G.M.

Humboldt No. 79
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1925

Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910

San Bernardino No. 348
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Oct. 30, 1938

Dana R. Weller ....... . D.G.M.

Motley H. Flint ......... D.G.M .
Edw. H. Hart .......... S.G.W.
Geo. M. Perine ........ J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ..... G.T.
George Johnson .... ..... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ..... .... G.L.

Wm. P. Filmer .... .... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .. ... ... G.T.
John Whicher . ........ . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Alb . G. Burnett .... .. .. D.G.M.
F. V. Keesling ......... S.G.W.
W. Rh. Hervey ... ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . ... ... G.T.
John Whicher . .. ........ G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1905

1910

1915

Motley H. Flint . .. ........ G.M.

Dana R. Weller . . . . . . . . . . G.M.

Albert G. Burnett ........ . G.M.

East Gale No. 290
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Died July 14, 1930

Edward H. Hart ........ D.G.M.
Geo. M. Perine.... ... S.G.W.
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards .... ..... G.L.

1906
Edward H. Hart .......... G.M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26 , 1917

A. J. Monroe . .. ....... S.G.W.

So. California No . 278

Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April 9, 1856
Died Aug. 15, 1923

Born March 24, 1874
Died Jan. 9, 1947

A. J. Monroe .......... D.G.M.
Wm. P. Filmer ....... .. S.G.W.
J. D. Murphey ... ...... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1911
Alonzo J. Monroe ..

G.M.

Humboldt No . 79
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Died June 14, 1922

F. V. Keesling ......... D.G.M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey . ...... S.G.W.
Bradford Webster . .. . .. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. ... .. G.T.
John Whicher ... ...... . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... . .... G.L.

Live Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941

Charles A. Adams ... .. D.G.M.
Geo. F. Rodden ....... S.G.W.
Sam. E. Burke .. .. ... . . J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . ... ... G.T.
John Whicher .. . .. ...... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ..... ... . G.L.

Bakersfield No. 224
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Died Apr. 28. 1957

David J. Reese . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Alb. E. Boynton ........ S.G.W.
Geo. L. Jones ......... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ..... .. G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933

C. M. Wollenberg ... ... D.G.M.
J. S. Ross ............ S.G.W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ... .... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1919

1924

1929

Charles Albert Adams .... G.M.

David J. Reese ..... ..... G.M.

C. M. Wollenberg ........ G.M.

Excelsior No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Died May 1, 1962

Geo. F. Rodden ....... D.G.M.
Sam. E. Burke ........ S.G.W.
Wm. A. Sherman ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ... ... . G.T.
John Whicker .... ........ G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Aug . 22. 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934

Alb. E. Boynton . ....... D.G.M .
Geo. L. Jones ...... . .. S.G. W.
Will H. Fischer . . .. ..... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .... ... G.T.
John Whicker ............ G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... ... . . G.L.

Starr King No. 344
Born March 13, 1873
Died Oct. 22, 1962

John S. Ross .. . .. ... .. D.G.M.
Robt. B. Gaylord ....... S.G.W.
Frank W. Mixter ........ J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ..... ...... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1920

1925

1930

George F. Rodden . .. . ... G.M.

Albert E. Boynton . ....... G.M.

John Stewart Ross ....... G.M.

Marin No. 191
Born Dec. 24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934

Sam. E. Burke . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sherman .... .. S.G.W.
Arthur S. Crites .. ...... J.G.W.
Wm . Parker Filmer ... . ... G.T.
John Whicker. . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... . .... G.L.

Oroville No. 103
Born Oct. 9. 1875
Died Feb. 22, 1945

Geo L. Jones . . . . .. . . . . D.G.M.
Will H. Fischer .. ...... S.G.W.
Gus A. Hutaff .......... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

El Centro No. 384
Born May 21 , 1879
Died Aug. 31, 1952

Robt. B. Gaylord .. . .... D.G.M.
Frank W. Mixter ....... S.G.W.
James B. Gist .. ...... . J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. ..... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1921

1926

1931

George L. Jones .... .. ... G.M.

Robt. B. Gaylord ......... G.M.

California No. 1
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Died Sept. 25. 1963

1907

1912

1917

George M. Perine .. . ..... G.M.

Wm. P. Filmer . . .. ....... G.M.

Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... . G.M.

Jno. 0. Murphey ....... D.G.M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... ... S.G.W.
Alb. G. Burnett ......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .... .... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . ........ G.L.

1928
Gustav A. Hutaff .. ... .... G.M.

Samuel E. Burke . ...... . G.M.

Wm . Rh . Hervey ....... D.G.M.
Bradford Webster .. .... S.G.W.
Charles A. Adams . . .... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ..... .. G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Reuben H. Lloyd . .... .. D.G.M.
Oscar Lawler . ........ S.G.W.
W. Frank Pierce ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ..... . ... G.L.

1923
Arthur S. Crites ... ...... . G.M.

1916

Wm. P. Filmer ......... D.G.M.
J. D. Murphey ......... S.G.W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ..... G.T.
John Whicher ....... .. .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ..... .. .. G.L.

King Solomon No . 260
Born March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942

1918
Bradford Webster ..... .. . G.M.

Francis V. Keesling .... .. G.M.

Geo. M. Perine . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Reuben H. Lloyd . ... .. S.G.W.
Oscar Lawler .......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ... .. G.T.
George Johnson . . ....... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards . . . . . . . . . G.L.

Pacific No. 136
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933

397

Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 1870
Died Feb. 1, 1953

Bradford Webster ...... D.G.M.
Charles A. Adams ..... S.G.W.
Geo. F. Rodden ....... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. ..... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... .. ... G.L.

Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Feb. 14, 1961

Wm. A. Sherman . . . . . . D.G.M.
Arthur S. Crites ........ S.G.W.
David J. Reese ........ J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . . ......... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ....... .. G.L.

Madison No. 23
Born May 11 , 1873
Died June 22, 1956

Will H. Fischer . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Gus. A. Hutaff .... ..... S.G.W.
C. M. Wollenberg ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .... ... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24 , 1876
Died Aug. 4, 1953

Frank W. Mixter ....... D.G.M.
James B. Gist .. .. .... . S.G.W.
Wm . A. Sitton ..... . ... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

1922

1927

1932

William A. Sherman . ..... G.M.

Will H. Fischer ........... G.M.

Frank W. Mixter .. . ..... . G.M.

Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19. 1940

Arthur S. Crites .. . ..... D.G.M.
David J. Reese ...... . . S.G.W.
Alb. E. Boynton ........ J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... .. ... G.L.

Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. 11, 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1953

Gus. A. Hutaff ..... . ... D.G.M.
C. M. Wollenberg ... ... S.G.W.
J. S. Ross .. ........... J.G.W.
Wm . Parker Filmer ...... . G.T.
John Whicher .... ...... . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1873
Died May 22 , 1947

James B. Gist .... .... . D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sitton .... ..... S.G.W.
R. V. Whiling .......... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .... ... G.T.
John Whicher . .......... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

398

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1933

1938

1943

James B. Gist ... ........ G.M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, 1868
Died April 25, 1954
R. V. Whiling ... . ...... D.G.M.
Earf Warren ... . ....... S.G.W.
Rollie W. Miller ........ J.G.W .
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ... ........ G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . ........ G.L.

Leon 0. Whitsell .. ..... .. G.M.
Orange Grove No. 293
Born July 1 o. 1876
Died Feb. 25, 1966
Wiliam H. Waste ...... D.G.M.
Wiliam B. Ogden .... . . S.G.W.
Lloyd E. Wilson . .. . .... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. ..... G.T.
John Whicher .. ..... .... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ... . ....... G.L.

Claude H. Morrison . .. . .. G.M.
San Diego No. 35
Born July 10, 1887
· Died Nov. 2, 1953
Gilbert C . DeForest . ... D.G.M.
Lawrence C. Kelley .... S.G.W.
Arthur W. Brouillet .. ... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ..... .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow . . .. ... G.L.

1934

1939

1944

Randolph V. Whiting . . . .. G.M.
King Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4. 1952
Earl Warren ...... ..... D.G.M.
Rollie W. Miller . .... ... S.G.W.
James T. Fraser .. .. . .. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . . . . . .. G .T.
John Whicher .... ....... G .S.
Leslie E. Wood .. ...... . .. G.L.

William B. Ogden . .... ... G.M .
Hollywood No. 355
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Frank M. Sm~h ...... .. S.G.W.
Leslie E. Wood ... . . .. . J.G.W.
Wm . Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........ ... G.S .
Walter Leonard . ... ... . .. G.L.

Gilbert C. DeForest ...... G.M.
Reading No. 254
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Died Jan. 25, 1952
Lawrence C. Kelley . • . . D.G.M.
Arthur W. Brouillet . .... S.G.W.
John R. Moore .. ... ... . J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling .. . .... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . .. ...... . G.S.
Chester H. Warlow . . . . . . . G.L.

1948

1953

1958

Edward H. Siems . . .... .. G.M.
Plymouth No. 560
Born December 7, 1903
Ellsworth Meyer ..... . . D.G.M.
Arthur Paulsen . ....... S.G.W.
Louis C. Drapeau ... . . . J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . .... .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..... ..... G.S.
Arthur M. Warren .. . .. .... G.L.

Frank Harwell, Jr... ... . .. G.M.
Beverly Hills No. 528
Born October 4, 1898
Died Jan. 25, 1966
Henry C . Clausen .. .... D.G.M.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.. . . S.G.W.
L. Harold Anderson ... . J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .... . . .... G.S.
Elbert W . Davis ... ..... .. G.L.

Phil N. Myers .......... .. G.M.
McCloud Lodge No. 430
Born. January 12, 1897
Died July 6. 1972
Joe L. Shell . .......... D.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer ... . . S.G.W.
Guy B. Mize ........... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems .... .... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....... ... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ...... .... G.L.

1954

Joe L. Shell ...... .. . .... G.M.

Henry C. Clausen .. ...... G.M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born June 30, 1905
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. . . . D.G.M.
L. Harold Anderson .. . . S.G.W.
Leo E. Anderson . .. ... . J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems .. . ... .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ......•... G.L.

San Diego No. 35
Born February 18, 1892
Died May 5, 1974
Alfred F. Breslauer . . ... D.G.M.
Guy B. Mize .. .... .... S.G.W.
Ira W. Coburn ......... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .... . ..... G .S.
Elbert W. Davis ...... .... G.L.

1949

1959

1935

1940

1945

Ellsworth Meyer ..•.. ... G.M.
liberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905
Died October 7, 1 984
Arthur Poulsen . ... .. . D.G .M.
Louis C. Drapeau . .. .. S.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren .. . .. J.G .W.
Francis V. Keesling .... . . G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . ..... ... G.S.
Walter H. E. vonKonsky .. G.L.

Earl Warren ... .......... G.M.
Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 1891
Died July 9. 1974
Rolie W. Miller ........ D.G.M.
James T. Fraser .. ..... S.G.W.
Leon 0. Whitsell . ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . .......... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ........ ... G.L.

Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.M.
Ingleside No. 630
Born-Aug. 16, 1895
Died Nov. 2. 1961
Frank M. Smith ... ... .. D.G.M.
Leslie E. Wood ...... . . S.G.W.
Claude H. Morrison .. .. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . ...... G.T.
John Whicher ..... . ..... G.S.
Walter Leonard .... ...... G.L.

Lawrence C. Kelley ...... G.M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24. 1945
Arthur W. Brouillet ....... G.M.
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21, 1884
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore . .. ..... S.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . ...... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . .. . . ... . G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

1950

1955

1960

Arthur Paulsen . . .... .... G.M.
Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 1890
Died Sept. 20, 1969
Louis C. Drapeau ...... D.G.M.
Arthur M. Warren ..... . S.G.W.
Frank Harwell, Jr....... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ..... .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Walter H. E. von Kansky' . . . G.L.

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr . . .. .. G.M.
Loyalty No. 529
Born Oct. 3, 1901
Died May 22, 1969
L. Harold Anderson .. . . D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ..... . S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers ...... .... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ... ..... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis . .. ... . ... G .L.

Alfred F. Breslauer ....... G .M .
Starr King No. 344
Born August 26, 1898
Died January 27, 1971
Guy B. Mize ........... D.G.M.
Ira W. Coburn ........ . S.G.W.
Elmer W. Heald ........ J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ... . .... . G.T.
Edward H . Siems ..... .. . G .S.
Donald G. Campbell ....•. . G .L.

1936

1941

Rollie W. Miller .......... G.M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17. 1883
Died July 18. 1960
James T. Fraser . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Leon 0 . Whitsell . . ..... S.G.W.
William H. Waste .. .... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher .... ....... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ....... .... G.L.

1937
James T. Fraser ......... G.M.
Humboldt No. 79
Born Aug. 28, 1868
Died June 26. 1953
Leon 0. Whitsell .... ... D.G.M.
William H. Waste . . . . .. S.G.W.
Wirnam B. Ogden . ..... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. .. . .. G.T.
John Whicher ........ ... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood . .......... G.L.

1946
Jo~:r:·a~:r:,·7• · · · · · · · · G.M.

Frank M. Smith . . .... .... G.M.
Born Sept. l 893
East Gate No. 290
Died March 28, 1965
Born April 1• 1894
Chester H. Warfow ..... D.G.M.
Died April 7, 1951
Leslie E. Wood ....... . D.G.M. Edward H. Siems ...... S.G.W.
Claude H. Morrison .... S.G.W. Ellsworth Meyer ....... J.G.W.
G.C. DeForest ····· · ··· J.G.W. Francis V. Keesling ... .... G.T.
Wm. Parker Filmer ...... . G.T. Uoyd E. Wilson .. ........ G.S.
Lloyd E. Wilson · · · · · · · · · · G.S. Arthur M. Warren . ...... .. G.L.
Chester H. Warlow . .. .... G.L.

1942

1947

Leslie E. Wood .... ..... . G.M . Chester H. Warlow ....... G.M.
Provident No. 609
Fresno No. 247
Born April 2, 1897
Born June 30, 1889
Died Jan. 28. 1974
Died December 10, 1963
Claude H. Morrison ... . D.G.M. Edward H. Siems . . .... D.G.M.
S.G.W.
....
DeForest
Gilbert C.
Ellsworth Meyer .. . .... S.G.W.
Lawrence C . Kelley ... . J.G.W. Arthur Paulsen . .. .. . .. J.G.W.
G.T.
..
.....
Wm . Parker Filmer
Francis V. Kees~ng ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S. Lloyd E. Wilson ... .... . .. G.S.
G.L.
Chester H. Warlow .......
Arthur M. Warren .. ....... G.L.

1951

1956

1961

Louis C. Drapeau . . . . . . . . G.M.
Poinsettia No. 633
Born Aug. 30, 1885
Died December 19, 1 973
Arthur W. Marren . .. ... D.G.M.
Frank Harwell, Jr. ...• . • S.G.W.
Henry C. Clausen .•. . . . J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . . . .... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..•... .... G.S.
Walter H. E. von Kansky . . . G.L.

L. Harold Anderson ...... G.M.
Palo Ano No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Died October 16, 1974 ·
Leo E. Anderson .... ... D.G.M .
Phil N. Myers . . ... .... S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell ...... .. . .. J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .... .. .... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ... . . ..... G.L.

Guy B. Mize ........... .. G .M.
Unity No. 368
Born April 23. 1901
Died February ZT, 1985
Ira W. Coburn ......... D.G.M .
Elmer W . Heald ....... S.G.W .
Theodore Meriam ... ... J.G .W.
Arthur M. Warren ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems . . . . . . . . G.S.
Donald G. Campl>ell . ..... G.L.

1957

Ira W. Coburn ......... . G .M .
Doric No. 216
Born Jan. 4, 1904
Died February 26, 1 984
Elmer W. Heald ..•.• . . D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam . ... . S.G .W.
Myron E. Smith .... .. . J.G .W.
Arthur M . Warren .. ..... G .T.
Edward H . Siems ... . . . . G .S .
Donald G. Campbell ..... G.L.

1952
Arthur M. Warren ... ..... G.M.
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born December 27, 1901
Died May 21 , 1964
Frank Harwell, Jr ... . .. . D.G.M.
Henry C. Clausen ...... S.G.W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.... J .G.W.
Francis V. Keesling .... . .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....... ... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis ....... ... G.L.

G.M.
Leo E. Anderson .... .
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20, 1902
Phil N. Myers ... ....... D.G.M.
Joe L. Shell .. ......... S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer .. . .. J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems . . .. .... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...... . ... G .S.
Elbert W. Davis ..... . .... G.L.

1962

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

400
1963

1968

1973

1978

1983

Elmer W. Heald ..... .... G.M.

Robert A. Crigler .•....... G.M.
John Marshall No. 636

Raymond A. Ebbage ..... G.M.

Donald G. Ingalls ....... G.M.

E. Arthur Haglund ....... G.M.

El Centro No. 384
Born Jan. 7, 1885
Died November 26, 1975

Born June 28, 1916

North Hollywood No. 542
Born July 29, 1918

Capital City No. 499
Born March 20. 1913

Chester R. MacPhee . .. D.G.M.
Herbert A. Huebner ... . S.G.W.
Lester S. McElwain ..... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems .... .... G.S.
Harold N. Richards .... . .. G.L.

Burton Meyer, Jr...•.. . D.G.M.
John F. Roberts, Jr..... S.G.W.
Kermit A. Jacobson ... . J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ...... .. G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

Vernon L. Gordon ..... D.G.M.
H. Douglas Lemons ... S.G.W.
Robert 0. West .. . . ... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix .. .... .. G.S.
Burton 0. Young ... ..... .G.L.

1964

1969

1974

Vernon L. Gordon ............. G.M.

Theodore Meriam ........ G.M.

Chester R. MacPhee .... . G.M.

Burton Meyer, Jr. ...... . . G.M.

Theodore Mariam ...... D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith ... .... . S.G.W.
Laurence E. Dayton .... J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ..... ... . G.T.
Edward H. Siems .... .... G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

Chico No. 111
Born April 18, 1910

Golden West No. 455
Born June 5, 1905

Golden State No. 358
Born February 12, 1921

Joppa No. 508
Born June 10. 1928

Herbert A. Huebner . ... D.G.M.
Lester S. McElwain .... S.G.W.
William H. Price ........ J .G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger . . . . . . . . . G.T.
Edward H. Siems ..... .. . G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

John F. Roberts, Jr..... D.G.M.
Kermit A. Jacobson .. .. S.G.W.
Donald B. McCaw .... . J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ... ... G.L.

1965

1970

1975

Myron E. Smith .......... G.M.

Herbert A. Huebner ...... G.M.
Wilshire No. 445

John F. Roberts, Jr .. ...... G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346

H. Douglas Lemons ..... D.G.M.
Robert 0. West ............. S.G.W.
Harry L. Maynard .......... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger ........ G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix ............. G.S.
Burton 0 . Young ............... G.O.

1980

Laurenoe E. Dayton .... D.G.M.
John F. Porter ......... S.G.W.
Eugene S. Hopp ....... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger .... . .... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ... .... G.L.

Born March 21, 1902
Died March 25, 1974

Lester S. McElwain .... D.G.M.
William H. Price ...... . S.G.W.
Raymond A. Ebbage ... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee .. ... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ... .... . G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

H. Douglas Lemons ........... G.M.

Born February 22 . 191 0
Died February 1, 1981

Kermit A. Jacobson ..... D.G.M.
Donald B. McCaw ...... S.G.W.
Donald Ingalls ..... .....J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ...... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ......... G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons .. .... .G.L.

Bixby Knolls Neptune No. 699
Born May 29, 1925

Robert 0 . West ............... D.G.M.
Harry L. Maynard ........... S.G.W.
E. Arthur Haglund ........... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger .......... G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix ............... G.S.
Burton 0. Young .................. G.L.

1981
Robert 0. West. . ... .. ... G.M.

1966

1971

Laurenoe E. Dayton ...... G.M.

Lester S. McElwain ...... G.M.

Live Oak No . 61
Born Nov. 28 , 1900
Died February 1. 1986

John F. Porter .... ..... D.G.M.
Eugene S. Hopp ....... S.G.W.
Robert A. Crigler ..... .. J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger . ........ G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

1967
Eugene S. Hopp ......... G.M.
King Solomor,. s Seapon

No. 260
Born April 25, 191 O

Robert A. Crigler .... . .. D.G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee . .. S.G.W.
Herbert A. Huebner . ... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

Roy J . Henville .. . . ... D.G.M.
John W. Driskell ...... S.G .W.
Jack R. Levitt ... . . .. . J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger .. .. G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ... .... G.S.
Joe Hammond ... ....... G.L.

1979

Myron E. Smith . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton . . .. S.G.W.
John F. Porter ......... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ... .. . . .. G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

University No. 394
Born Dec . 2, 1906

Acalanes-Fellowship No. 480
Born May 9, 1928

Verba Buena No. 403
Born January 1, 1910

William H. Price ...... . D.G.M.
Raymond A. Ebbage ... S.G.W.
Burton Meyer, Jr ....... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G. T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

El Dorado No. 26
Born August 10, 1926

1976
Kermit A. Jacobson

... G.M.

Camelita No . 599
Born July 10, 1911

Donald B . Mccaw ... D.G.M.
Donald G. Ingalls ... .S.G.W.
Vernon L. Gordon .... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee . .. .G.T.
Edward H. Siems ....... G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons .. . .G.L.

1972

1977

William H. Price ......... G.M.

Donald B. Mccaw ....... G.M.

Evergreen No. 259
Born June 21 , 1922

Raymond A. Ebbage . . . D.G.M.
Burton Meyer. Jr. .. .. . . S.G.W.
John F. Roberts, Jr ..... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ..... . .. G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ... ... G.L.

Park-Crockett No. 139
Born April 20, 1928

Donald G. Ingalls .... . .D.G.M.
Vernon L. Gordon ..... S.G.W.
H. Douglas Lemons ....J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Verne W. Hendrix ........ G.S.
Burton 0. Young ... ...... G.L.

Harry L. Maynard ...... D.G.M.
E. Arthur Haglund ...... S.G.W.
Roy J. Hanville ........ J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger . . ... G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond ..... ..... G.L.

1982
Harry L. Maynard ........ G.M.
San Buenaventura No. 214
Born November 5, 1927

E. Arthur Haglund .. ... D.G.M.
Roy J. Hanville ..... ... S.G.W.
John W. Driskell ..... • . J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger . . .. . G.T.
Robert A. Klinger . . . ... .. G.S.
Joe Hammond ..•...... . G.L.

1984
Roy J. Hanville . . . ...... G.M.
San Marino No. 685
Born August 11, 1913

John W. Driskell ...... D.G.M.
Jack R. Levitt ........ S.G.W.
Leo B. Mark .......... J.G .W.
John A. Sickenberger .•. . G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ....... G.S.
Joe Hammond .......... G.L.

1985
John W. Driskell ........ G.M.
Capital City No. 499
Born ~st 15, 1924

Jack R. Levitt . .. . ... .. D.G.M.
Leo B. Mark ..... ..... S.G.W.
Stanley L. Channon .... J.G.W.
John A. Sickenberger ..... G.T.
Robert A. Klinger ........ G.S.
Joe Hammond .. ........ G.L.

401

402

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LIST OF INSPECTORS
(as of 3-1-86)
Inspectors

Date of Commission

District

Wilfred W. Partridge ......................... March 31, 1952 ................. . 500
John Clifton Carpenter .................... September 28, 1%1 .................. 430
George E. Harrison ......................... October 18, 1%3 .................. 568
William W. Dickson, Jr ...................... January 11, 1%5 .................. 516
Donald Maltby .............................. January 7, I %6 .................. 520
Louis Becker. .............................. December 6, I %6 .................. 333
Jacques C. Bourguignon ................... November 11, I %7 .................. 546
Robert George Ingram .......................... May 31, I %8 .................. 238
Rodney H. Davis .............................. April 28, 1969 .................. 624
George Paul Leung ............................. May 20, 1969 .................. 338
Maurice Jay Norton .......................... October 6, 1969 .................. 558
Albert Fred Koula ............................. April 11, 1970 .................. 365
Samuel Rosen .............................. October 16, 1970 .................. 544
Alvin N. Schmitz ............................ August 23, 1971 .................. 612
Richard B. Carter ........................... January 31, 1972 ................. . 550
Bernard Frank Cohn ....................... November 8, 1972 .................. 340
Charles Lafayette Pitt ........................ January 2, 1973 .................. 206
Delbert Neal Wade ........................... March 19, 1973 .................. 102
Parise Voudouris ............................ October 13, 1973 .................. 218
Carl C. Lau ................................ October 13, 1973 .................. 524
Jean L. Iribarren ........................... December 7, 1973 .................. 376
J. William Carl ................................ June 30, 1974 .................. 368
Karl Bernaard Krug, Jr ....................... August 30, 1974 .................. 592
Ian Atkinson ................................... June 2, 1975 .................. 510
Richard J. Bingle ................................ July 3, 1975 .................. 610
Robert Leonard Bright ........................ August 6, 1975 .................. 402
Marion Hays Hickey ........................ February 23, 1976 .................. 104
Adam Armstrong ................................ July I, 1976 .................. 574
William G. Miller ............................... July I, 1976 ................. . 590
Elwin Allan Jarrett ............................. July 26, 1976 .................. 406
Reuben Floyd Herrold ....................... October 14, 1976 .................. 427
John B. Bennett, Jr .......................... October 14, 1976 .................. 684
Charles G. Knight, Jr ...................... December 22, 1976 .................. 644
Rudolf Tony Christians ....................... January I, 1977 .................. 378
Arthur A. Pasquinelli ........................ January 17, 1977 .................. 370
John Henry Vanden Bos ..................... February 4, 1977 .................. 158
Sam Jaber, Jr ............................. December 12, 1977 .................. 224
Bertha! J. Hartman ........................ December 12, 1977 .................. 330
Cami! Lewis .............................. December 29, 1977 .................. 688
Jack Richard Forseth ....................... February 23, 1978 .................. 150
John Robert Nelson ........................ February 27, 1978 .................. 625
Earl Williams .................................. June 14, 1978 .................. 168
John Keller, Jr ................................. July 24, 1978 .................. 239
Kenneth Orland Leverton ........................ July 24, 1978 .................. 390
Wade C. Burchell ............................ August 21, 1978 .................. 694
Joseph Daniel Hacker ........................ August 30, 1978 .................. 208
Harold Lawrence Swank ................... September 11, 1978 .................. 220
William H. Murphy ....................... September 17, 1978 .................. 418
David R. Oltman ............................. October I, 1978 .................. 632
Rodger Page .............................. November 11, 1978 .................. 166
James David Hansen ...................... November 16, 1978 .................. 120
Gaylord V. Roten ......................... December 27, 1978 .................. 570
John H. Spittler ............................ January I, 1979 .................. IOI
Vernon M. Dandridge ......................... January 8, 1979 .................. 564

Date of Commission
Inspectors
Richard Marion Keene ....................... January 14, 1979
William Barker .............................. January 14, 1979
Harold A. Macy ............................. January 18, 1979
Charles Herbert Alexander .................... February 8, 1979
Robert D. Gallareto ........................... March 11, 1979
John W. Paulson, Jr........................... March 16, 1979
Nathan Landsberg ............................... June 7, 1979
John W. Ditto, Jr.............................. August 6, 1979
Forest Glenn Tittle ........................... August 13, 1979
Ralph M. Fellows .......................... December 21, 1979
Kenneth W. ~led hill .......................... January I, 1980
Paul D. Henmg .............................. January I, 1980
Walter R. Bergener, Jr......................... January 4, 1980
Donald F. Darrow ........................... January 22 1980
William Monroe ............................ February 11: 1980
W. Frank Postmus ............................. March I, 1980
Ralph E. Enz ................................. March 13, 1980
George W. Pike .................................. July I, 1980
Roy E. Roswurm ............................. : . July 25 1980
w·u·
· ........................... July 25 ' 1980
1 1am J . Sehl"1chtmg
Melvin K. Tallon ..........•.................. August 14: 1980
Richard Vickers .............................. October 6, 1980
Stanley J. Salter ............................. October 11, 1980
Carl R. _Krohn .............................. October 17, 1980
M. David Maccallum ......................... January 3 1981
wm. steve.ns Van DeWeghe .................... January 8,. 1981
John P. Gibson ................................. April 6 1981
David Henry Elder ............................... July 1' 1981
A rt h ur R. Lockhart .............................. July 7,' 1981
Fred Roel, Jr.............................. September 20, 1981
David G. Parmelee ........................ September 20 1981
Richard B. Weringer .•....................... November 3: 1981
Francis A. Russell, Jr....................... November 30 1981
Robert C. Byer. .............................. January 4: 1982
Edwin A. Robinson .......................... January 12, 1982
William F. Stovall, Jr......................... January 12, 1982
James R. Davis ............................. January 16, 1982
Carroll J. Davis ............................. January 31, 1982
Raymond E. Dias ........................... February 13, 1982
James E. Smith ................................. June 9, 1982
Frederick Tilmannshofer .......................... July I, 1982
Stanley E. Jacobs ................................ July 7, 1982
Donald D. Jones ............................. August 11, 1982
Donald E. Strand .......................... September 9, 1982
August D. Collier ............................ February 4, 1983
Howard E. Moore ............................. March I, 1983
Loyal L. Stark .................................. April I, 1983
Paul F. Leong .................................. May 21, 1983
Donald D. Updegraff ........................... June 27, 1983
Benjamin B. Hagans ........................... August 8, 1983
Robert N. Rouch ............................. August 15, 1983
Charles S. Bersani .......................... September 3, 1983
James E. Vance ........................... September 16, 1983
James G. Fletcher ......................... November 10, 1983
Alfred F. Mesa ............................ November 28, 1983
Arthur E. Weir ............................ November 28, 1983
Mervyn R. Moe .............................. January I, 1984

403
District
.................. 240
.................. 250
.................. 504
.................. 246
.................. 621
.................. 306
.................. 566
.................. 602
.................. 236
.................. 542
.................. 388
.................. 364
.................. 594
.................. 118
.................. 609
.................. 116
.................. 635
.................. 572
.................. 626
................. .411
.................. 605
.................. 620
.................. 696
.................. 518
.................. 592
..•....•......... . 590
.................. 637
.................. 219
.................. 606
.................. 394
.................. 603
.................. 428
.................. 512
.................. 686
.................. 614
.................. 622
........ •'• ........ 340
.................. 214
................. .422
.................. 216

.................. 107
.................. 436
.................. 608
.................. 344
.................. 372

.................. 210
.................. 152
.................. 119
.................. 215
.................. 426
................. .424
................. .416
.................. 169
................. .410
.................. 408
.................. 222
.................. 100

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

District
Date of Commission
Inspectors
Lester R. Carlston .. . ...... ... .... .. . . . . . . . . . January 17, 1984 ... . . . . . . . . . ... . . . 528
Gene R. Lazard . .. ..... .. .... .. .... ... ... . .. February 4, 1984 . ... ... . . ... . ..... 244
Louie Charles Ondo ...... . .............. ... February 13, 1984 .. .. . . .... .. ...... 712
Roy Tsuneo Ota ..... . ..... . . . ... . .... ... ... February 13, 1984 .... ... .. ..... . . . . 704
Paul Thomas Hodiak . .. .... ... .... ......... February 22, 1984 . .... ... .. ... . . . . . 638
John Tryon Kelley ....... . .......... . ......... March 28, 1984 .............. .. . . 437
Warren Thomas Buschmann ... . ..... .... . ... .... April 28, 1984 .... . . . . . .. . . . ... . 536
David Richard Patterson . .. . . . .. .. ... . .. . ..... .. June 26, 1984 . .... .... . .... ... . 554
Henry M. Kirkland .... ...... ... . . ............ August 18, 1984 .. . ........ . .... .. 640
Carl M. Wilensky ..... . ........... . ....... September 11, 1984 . ... .. ..... ... .... 636
Arthur Hernandez ....... . .............. ... September 25, 1984 ... .. ......... .... 540
Charles G. Hartje .............. ............. October 31, 1984 . ... . .......... . .. 106
Thomas Grant McKinney ...... .. .... . ..... . . November 8, 1984 . ..... . .... ... ... . 502
Harold Edward Fisher .. . . . .... .. ........... November 13, 1984 .. . ........... .. . .438
Louis Wilson Jelinek, Jr.... ... ... . ... ..... . November 13, 1984 .. ... . . . .. .... .. . .414
Arthur Porter .. .... . . . .. .... .... ... ... .. .. November 13, 1984 .. ... ... ... ... ... . 110
Tommy D. Cox ........... .. ............. . . November 20, 1984 .............. .... 412
Harold D. Norton . . . .. .. .... .. ..... .. .... . November 20, 1984 ...... ... .. .... .. . 247
Richard B. Woods ... ... . . ....... . .. .' .... .. November 20, 1984 ... .... ... . . ... ... 680
Hal G. Scott . .. . ........ . .. . .. . . . ......... November 26, 1984 .............. .... 639
Robert S. Watanabe .... . .............. .... . November 29, 1984 . ... .. ...... . ..... 217
Richard S. Andrews ............ .. ...... . ... December 11, 1984 .. . .... . ...... .. . . 248
John S. Felt . ... ..... . .... ... ... . ........ . . December 11, 1984 ... ...... .. .... .. . 646
Derrick E. Kleiman . ... ... ... ... ... .. ..... . .. January IO, 1985 . .... .. . . . ... ..... 607
Robert Lee Henson ......... . .............. .. January 24, 1985 ... . .............. 212
William Dale Mills . . .. .. . ... .... .. .... ... .. . January 29, 1985 . . . .. ... .... . . . ... 204
J. Aldo Boland .... .. ..... .. .... .. .... .... ... February I, 1985 . ... ..... .. .. .... . 108
Walter A. Thompson ........... . ...... . ...... February I, 1985 ........... . ...... 161
William Church Armstrong ... . ...... . ..... . ... March 14, 1985 ..... . .... .. ..... . 404
James A. Chastain Sr., .... . . . .. . ....... .. ... . . March 14, 1985 ... .. ........ ... . . 630
Jack R. Evans ... . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. .. .. .. . . ... . . . March 14, 1985 . . ... . . . . . ........ 642
James F. Myron .. .. .. ... ... .... .. ... . . . . . .. .. March 16, 1985 .. ... ... ... .. .... . 392
Dan H. Wasson ............ . ............ . .. . . March 16, 1985 ....... .. ......... 320
Howard A. Born ........ ... .... .. . .. . . . .. . . .. .. June 13, 1985 . .. . ... .... ... .. .. 616
Richard L. Kramer .. .. .... . . . . . . . ..... . ..... .. . June 22, 1985 .. ... ... ... .... .. . 334
William A. Peacock . ......... . . . . .. .... . ......... July 8, 1985 .. . .. ............. 601
John R. Hutcherson .. .... ... .. . ..... . ... . ... .. . July 29, 1985 .. ... ... ... ... .... 628
Leonard L. Todd .. ..... ....... .... .... .. ... .. August 29, 1985 ..... .. . . . .. . . ... . 633
Joseph R. Ashwill ...... .. ..... . ...... . ..... .. October I, 1985 .............. . ... 634
Ruben L. Villalobos ... .. .... ... ... ... ... .... October 29, 1985 . ... .... . .... .. . .. 534
Glen A. Worrell .............. . ............. November 8, 1985 .. . ........... . ... 431
Albert Donnici . .... ... ... .. . . ... . . ... . . . . . November 18, 1985 . . . . .. . . .... . .... . 167
Robert L. Sorensen . .. ... ..... . ... ... . . .. .. November 18, 1985 ..... ... ... ... .. . . 160
David F. Von Bima ............ .. .. .. ...... November 18, 1985 ...... .. ..... . .... 114
Jack M. Barrett . ... .. ... .... ... .. .......... December 4, 1985 .. .. ... ... .. . .. .. . 629
James R. Paden ... . . . .. .. . .. .. ... ... .... ... December 5, 1985 . ... ... .. ..... ... . 538
Carl G. Carlson .... .. ... . . . ... ... ........... . January 2, 1986 ..... . ............ 234
Robert M. Hackert . ... .. ... . . .. ... .... . ... ... January 2, 1986 . .... . . . .. ... ... .. 532
Bennett K.C. Ing .... .. ...... . .. . ...... ... .... January 2, 1986 .. . ..... .. .... . ... 708
Adam M. Martin . . . ..... . ..... .. ... . ........ . January 2, 1986 .... . . . ...... . .... 508
Benjamin 0. Stalzriede .. .. .... .. ... .... . . . . ... January 2, 1986 .. ... .. .... ... ... . 242
A. Glenn MacBride . . . .... .. .... ... .... ... . . . . January 7, 1986 . ..... ... . ... ... . . 374
Mauricio M. Valera, Jr. . . . .. ... ... .......... . February 3, 1986 . . . . ... . . . . .. .... . 716
Eugene E. Wilkinson ... .. .... .. ... .... ... ... . February 5, 1986 ..... .. ... .. ..... . 530

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

404

Recognized and in Fraternal Relations with the
Grand Lodge of California
Argentina:
Victor C. Curi, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina, S.A.
Australia:
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales
R.G. Connon, Grand Secty.
P.O. Box A. 259, Sydney South N.S.W. 2000.
Queensland:
J.B. Mensforth, Grand Secty.
Box 2204, G.P.0., Brisbane, Australia.
South Australia
John Moss Ward, Grand Secty.
Freemasons' Hall, No. Terrace, Adelaide 500, So. Australia.
Victoria
United Grand Lodge,
Donald E. Plaisted, Grand Secty.
300 Albert S., East Melbourne 3002, Victoria, Australia.
Western Australia:
E. Keith Howells, Grand Secty.
P.O . Box 6015 (78 Terrace Rd.), Perth, Western Australia.
Austria:
Dieter Scheitz, Gsand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse-12, AlOlO Vienna I, Austria.
Belgium: (Regular)
Louis De Bouvere, Grand Secretary
Rue Royale 265, 1030 Brussels, Belgium.
Bolivia:
Jose A. Adett Zamora C., Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of the State of Amazonas
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 162 Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Brasilia
Gr. Chancellor of Foreign Relations
P.O. Box 11=1128, 70,084 Brasilia D.F., Brazil , S.A .
The Grand Lodge of Maranhao
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Av. Colares Moreira, 046-CASA 3, 65,000 Sao Luis , Ma., Brazil, S.A .
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, 30000 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, S.A.

405

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Lodge of Para
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem-Para, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Parana
Antonio Andre Jansson, Gr. Seely. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1363, 80,000 Curitiba, Parana, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Pernambuco
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1415, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 10, 64,000 Teresina, Piaui , Brazil, S.A .
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 247, 88,000 Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 76, 60,000 Fortaleza, Ceara, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Espirito Santo
Ismail Camargo Costa, Gr. Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 845 , Vitoria, Espirito Santo, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Goias
Nelson dos Santos Absadia, Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 666, 77100 Anapolis, Estado de Goias, Brazil , S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No . 3, Joao Pessoa, Paraiba, Brazil, 58,000 S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
P.O. Box 8348, 01000 Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge United of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Jose Nunes Dos Santos, Assessor for Foreign Relations
Rua Professor Gabizo, 129 - Tijuca
CEP 20271, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Grand Seely. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 611, 79100, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil, S.A.
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Grand Chancellor
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 108, Salavador, Bahia, Brazil, S.A.
Canada:
Alberta A. F. Aylesworth, Grand Secty.,
330--12th Ave., S.W., Calgary, T2R OH2.
British Columb iaWilliam L. Stirling, Grand Secty.,
1495 West 8th Ave., Vancouver, V6H IC9, B.C.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Canada--(Province of Ontario)
Robert E. Davies, P.G.M., Grand Secty.,
P.O. Drawer 217, Hamilton LSN 3C9, Ontario.
Manito baJ.E.R. Bingeman, P.G.M., Grand Secty. ,
420 Corydon Ave ., Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3L ON8.
New Brunsw ickBasil A. Prescott, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 6430, Saint John, New Brunswick .
Nova ScotiaGerald G. Vickers, Grand Sccty.,
P.O. Box 214, Halifax, B3J 2M4, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandM. Earl MacDonald, P.G.M., Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 337, Charlottetown, P.E.I. CIA 7K7.
Quebec Kenneth W. Aldridge, Grandy Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal H3H 2G9, Quebec.
Saskatc hewanE. A. Snell, Grand Secty.,
1930 Lorne St., Regina, S4P 2Ml, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Enrique Cid Arretchea, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 2867, Santiago, Chile, S.A.
China:
S. S. Yuan, P.G.M., prand Secty.,
Taipei, 104 Taiwan, China, R.0.C.
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Los Andes,
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Apartado Aero 1218, Bucaramanga, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Jaime Callejas Ospina, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aero 6672, Bogota, Colombia, S.A .
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia,
Enrique Castro Morales, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Rafael Reyes Ricardo, Grand Secty.,
Avenida Pedro de Heredia
No. 22 A-75, Piso 20, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
Julio Ce, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aereo 595, Cucuta, Colombia, S.A.
Serenisima Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Rafael Reyes Ricardo, Grand Secty. ,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-69, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.

407

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Costa Rica:
Max Keibel, Grand Secty.,
P .O. Box 10060, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba:
Raciel Martinez Andreu, Grand Secretary
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
Denmark:
National Grand Lodge
Jorgen Vagn Jorgensen, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, DK 2100, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic:
Ramon Horacio Gonzalez Rojo, Grand Secty.,
Arzobispo Portes No. 554 esquina Las Carreras, Santo Domingo, Dominican
Republic.
Ecuador:
Gran Logia del Ecuador
Ricardo Chang Bohorquez, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A .
El Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Rene Vaquerano Iraheta, Grand Secty.,
8a Avenida Sur No. 126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A .
England:
M. B. S. Higham , Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Great Queen St. , London, WC2B 5AZ England.
Finland:
Jorma Komonen, Grand Secty.,
Kasarmikatu 16D, 00130 Helsinki 13, Finland .
France :
French National Grand Lodge,
Jean-Francois Humbert, Grand Chancellor,
65 Boulevard Bineau, 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
Gabon:
Andre G. Laroche , Grand Secty.,
Grande Loge du Gabon , B P 233
Libreville, Gabon, Africa.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
Gerd Honisch, Grand Secty.,
Emser Str. 12-13, 1000 Berlin 31 , Germany.
American Canadian Grand Lodge
Jess Minton, Grand Secty.,
Hermannstrasse 39, 6000 Frankfurt Am Main , Germany.
Greece :
S.P. MaKris, Grand Secty.,
Acharnon 19, Athens (109), Greece.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Guatemala:
Efrain A. Recinos Sandoval, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 34, Guatemala City, C.A.
Honduras:
Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 135-C, Tegucigalpa, D.C. , Honduras, C.A.
Iceland :
Sveinn Finnsson, Grand Secty.,
Skulagata 55 , Reykjavik, Iceland .
India:
H.P. Gupta, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 681 , New Delhi 110001 , India.
Iran:
Note : Operation of the Grand Lodge suspended by the revolutionary government .
Ireland:
Michael W. Walker, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall , 17 Molesworth St ., Dublin 2, Ireland .
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Yehoshua Hadari, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 33206, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Ernest Zampieri, Grand Secty.,
San Pancrazio N, 8, 00152, Rome, Italy
Japan:
Frederick S. Kashiwagi, Grand Secty. ,
1-3, Shibakoen , 4-chome , Minato-ku, Tokyo 105, Japan.
Luxembourg:
Andre Zirves, Grand Secty. ,
119 Avenue , G .-Diderich , Luxembourg-ville .
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
D.H. Hart, P.G.M., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 1986, Mexico 1, D.F. , Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Baja California.
Felipe Guerra de la Serna, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 134, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge of Baja California South
Jose Oscar Trevizo Rosas, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 490, La Paz, BCS., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Jesus Francisco Santana E.
Domicilio calleLibertad 1004
Chihahua, Mexico CP 31000.

409

410

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Grand Lodge La Oriental Peninsular
Fernando F. Lopez Cortes, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 61
Merida, Yucatan, Mexico.

Philippines:
Domingo F.M. Domingo, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelino, Manila, P.l.

Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Alvaro Alanis E., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.

Puerto Rico:
Serafin Rodriguez-Pagan, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 8385, Santurce, P.R. 00910.

Grand Lodge Occidental Mexicana
Alfredo Reynoso Magana, Grand Secty.,
Templo: Lopez Cotilla No. 111
Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.

Scotland:
E. Stuart Falconer, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburgh, EH2 4HQ, Scotland.

Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Manuel Hernandez Yarez, Grand Secty.,
F.A. de Olmos 101 Nte., Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Marcial Fernandez Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56 Veracruz, Ver. Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Victor M. Alba Huerta, Grand Secty.,
Sadi Carnot No. 75, Mexico 1, D.F.
Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden (the Grand East of the Netherlands).
P.H. Pott, Grand Secty. ,
22 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hague, Netherlands.
New Zealand :
R.J . Towers, Act. Asst. Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 6439, Wellington 1, New Zealand.

Southern Africa:
Leslie Gould, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 61336, Marshalltown, Code 2107, Johannesburg.
Spain:
Josep Munte Rodriguez, Grand Secretary
Apartado Correos Num. 5119, Barcelona, Spain.
Sweden:
Lennart Granander, Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden, Blaisieholmsgatan 6, 11148, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Arturo Hofmann, Grand Secty. ,
Rue du Petit-Beaulieu 1
CH-1004 Lausanne, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
Kyle W.H . Wood, Grand Secty.,
3 Sandy Bay Rd., Hobart 7000, Tasmania.

Nicaragua:
Pedro Miguel Arce, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.

Turkey:
Nesi P. Aksut, Grand Secty.,
25 Nuruziya Sokak, Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey.

Norway:
Sverre Krokaas, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Voldgate 19, Oslo 1, Norway.

Uruguay:
Grand Secty. Foreign Relations
Palacio Masonica, Duvimioso Terra 1481 , Montevideo, Uruguay.

Panama:
Enrique Escala V. , Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama 1, Republic of Panama.

Venezuela:
(Rep. of Venezuela),
Francisco Fierro Quinones, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927 , Caracas, Venezuela.

Paraguay:
Andres Humberto Zaracho, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo 1178, Asuncion, Paraguay, S.A.
Peru:
Ricardo Noriega, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 587, Lima 100, Peru.

411

413

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
A.F.E. IRWIN (645), Lomita
ABELL (146), Ukiah
ACALANES-FELLOWSHIP (480),
Lafayette
ACORN (494), Oakland
ADIN (250), Adin
ALAMEDA (167), Fremont
ALAMO (122), Lafayette
ALCATRAZ (244), Oakland
ALHAMBRA (322), Alhambra
ALISAL (321), Pleasanton
ALL STA TES (593), Long Beach
ALPHA SHATTUCK-STEPHENS (431),
Richmond
ALT A (333), Bridgeport
ALT A CALIFORNIA RESEARCH
LODGE, Paradise
ALTADENA-MT. WILSON (678),
Altadena
ALTURAS (248), Alturas
AMADOR (65), Jackson
AMERICA (475), Los Angeles
AMERICAN RIVER (795),
Rancho Cordova
AMITY (370), San Francisco
ANACAPA (710), Oxnard
ANAHEIM (207), Anaheim
ANCHOR (273), Anaheim.
ANGELES MESA (625), Garden Grove
ANTIOCH (175), Antioch
APOLLO-WOODSTOCK (396), Alameda
ARABIC (763), Los Angeles
ARBUCKLE (182), Arbuckle
ARCADIA (547), Arcadia
ARCATA (106), Arcata
ARROYO (274), Arroyo Grande
ARTESIA (377), Artesia
ASCOT (538), Torrance
ASHLAND (798), San Lorenzo
ASHLAR (306), Colton
ATASCADERO (493), Atascadero
A THENS (228), Davis
ATWATER LARCHMONT (614), Los
Angeles
AZURE (533), Anaheim
AZUSA (305), Azusa

B
BAKERSFIELD (224), Bakersfield
BALDER (393), San Francisco
BALDWIN PARK (660), Baldwin Park
BARSTOW (682), Barstow
BAY VIEW (401), Oakland
BEAR MOUNTAIN (76), Angels Camp

BELL (483), Bell
BELLFLOWER-PARAMOUNT (523),
Bellflower
BELMONT SHORE (716), Seal Beach
BENICIA (5), Benicia
BERKELEY (363), Berkeley
BEYERL Y HILLS (528), Beverly Hills
BICENTENNIAL DAYLIGHT (830),
Sacramento
BIG BEAR (617), Big Bear Lake
BIXBY KNOLLS NEPTUNE (699), Long
Beach
BLACKMER (442), San Diego
BLUE LAKES (714), San Bruno
BLYTHE (473), Blythe
BORON (822), Boron
BRAWLEY (402), Brawley
BRENTWOOD (345), Brentwood
BROTHERHOOD (375), San Francisco
BUENA PARK (357), Buena Park
BURBANK (406), Burbank
BURLINGAME (400), Burlingame

c
CAHUENGA-LA BREA (513), Los
Angeles
CALAVERAS (78), San Andreas
CALEDONIA (486), Bakersfield
CALISTOGA (233), Calistoga
CALLA YOMI (282), Middletown
CAMARILLO (824), Camarillo
CAMELLIA (612), Temple City
CANBY CROSS (679), Tulelake
CANOGA (611), Canoga Park
CAPITAL CITY (499), Sacramento
CARMEL (680), Carmel
CARPINTERIA (444), Carpinteria
CASTRO VALLEY (713), Castro Valley
CATALINA ISLAND (524), Avalon
CENTENNIAL (729), Norwalk
CENTER (465), Fresno
CENTRAL CALIFORNIA RESEARCH
LODGE, Fresno
CHANNEL (757), Stockton
CHARITY (362), Campbell
CHA TEAU THIERRY (569), Castro
Valley
CHICO (111), Chico
CHINO VALLEY (427), Chino
CHOWCHILLA (485), Chowchilla
CHULA VISTA (626), Chula Vista
CITROL (656), Brea
CLAIBORNE (185), Point Arena
CLAIREMONT MESA (799), San Diego
CLAREMONT (436), Claremont
CLARENCE L. FRASER (294), Dinuba

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CLARENCE F. SMITH (482), Granada
Hills
CLAUDE H. MORRISON (747), San
Diego
CLAY (IOI), Dutch Flat
CLAYTON VALLEY-SAINT JOHN'S
(756), Concord
CLEAR LAKE (183), Clearlake
CLOVIS (417), Clovis
COACHELLA (476), Coachella
COALINGA (387), Avenal
COASTSIDE (762), Pacifica
COLUMBIA (461), San Francisco
COLUSA (240), Colusa
COMP ASS (590), Pomona
COMPOSITE (639), Santa Monica
CONCORD (117), Sacramento
CONEJO VALLEY (807),
Thousand Oaks
CONFIDENCE (203), Castroville
CONSUELO (325), Escondido
CORCORAN (490), Corcoran
CORINTHIAN (9), Marysville
CORONA (324), Pasadena
CORONADO (441), Coronado
COVELO (231), Covelo
COVINA (334), Covina
CRESCENT (45), Crescent City
CRESCENTA VALLEY (652), La
Crescenta
CROCKER (454), Daly City
CROSSROADS (696), San Diego
CULVER CITY-FOSHAY (467), Culver
City
CUPERTINO (510), Cupertino
CURTIS (140), Cloverdale

D
DAMASCUS (648), San Bernardino
DANA R. WELLER (765), Torrance
DELANO (309), Delano
DELTA (47 I), Stockton
DOS PALOS (681), Dos Palos
DOWNEY (220), Downey
DRYTOWN (174), Plymouth
DUNSMUIR-MC CLOUD (297), Dunsmuir

E
EAGLE ROCK (422), Los Angeles
EAST BELT (391), Tuolumne
EAST SAN DIEGO (561), San Diego
EAST WHITTIER (776), Whittier
EDEN STANDARD (113), San Leandro
EEL RIVER (147), Fortuna
EL CAJON VALLEY (576), El Cajon
EL CAMINO RESEARCH LODGE, Santa
Clara

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EL CENTRO (384), El Centro
EL CERRITO-ALBANY (686), El Cerrito
EL DORADO (26), Placerville
EL RANCHO (759), Pico Rivera
EL SEGUNDO (507), El Segundo
EL SERENO (588), Los Angeles
ELK GROVE (173), Elk Grove
ELSINORE (289), Lake Elsinore
ELYSIAN (418), Los Angeles
ENTERPRISE (70), Yuba City
ESCALON (591), Escalon
ESTERO (719), Morro Bay
EUCALYPTUS (243), Hayward
EUREKA (16), Auburn
EVENING STAR (186), Etna
EVERGREEN (259), Riverside
EXETER (424), Exeter

F
FAIRFAX (556), Larkspur
FALLBROOK (317), Fallbrook
FELLOWSHIP (290), Los Angeles
FERNDALE (193), Ferndale
FIDELITY (120), San Francisco
FILLMORE (379), Fillmore
FLORENCE (423), Downey
FONTANA (653), Fontana
FOOTHILL (564), Hayward
FORBESTOWN (50), Forbestown
FORT BRAGG (361), Fort Bragg
FORT CROOK (575), Fall River Mills
FOUNTAIN VALLEY (351), Westminster
FRANCIS DRAKE (376), South
San Francisco
FRANKLIN (143), Courtland
FRATERNITY (399), San Jose
FREMONT (497), Oakland
FRESNO (247), Fresno
FRIENDSHIP (210), San Jose
FRUITVALE (336), Castro Valley
FULLERTON (339), Fullerton

G
GALT (267), Galt
GARDEN GROVE (586), Garden Grove
GARDENA (372), Gardena
GATEWAY (82 I), Seaside
GEMINI (825), Fremont
GENERAL HENRY H. ARNOLD (791),
Rosamond
GEORGE E. TUTT (722), Los Gatos
GEORGE WASHINGTON (435), San
Francisco
GEORGETOWN (25), Georgetown
GLASSELL PARK (605), Los Angeles
GLENDALE (544), Glendale
GLENDORA (404), Glendora

GOLD HILL (32), Lincoln
GOLDEN EMPIRE (733), Sacramento
GOLDEN GATE SPERANZA (30), San
Francisco
GOLDEN GAVEL (445), Los Angeles
GOLDEN RULE (479), San Jose
GOLDEN VALLEY (796), San Bernardino
GRAFTON (141), Knights Landing
GRANADA (535), Alhambra
GRANADA HILLS (790), Granada Hills
GRAVEL RANGE (59), Camptonville
GREAT LIGHTS (818), Sunnyvale
GREENLEAF (670), Whittier
GRIZZLY (601), Portola
GUADALUPE (237), Santa Maria
GUARDIAN (596), South Gate

415

IONE (80), Ione
IONIC (520), Los.Angeles

J
JANESVILLE (232), Janesville
JEWEL CITY (368), Glendale
JOHN D. SPRECKELS (657), San Diego
JOHN P. JARMAN (669), San Jose
JORDAN-GOLDEN BOWL (654), South
Gate
JOSEPH L. SHELL DAYLIGHT (837),
San Diego
JUBILEE (604), Santa Ana

K

H
HALF MOON BAY (835), Half Moon Bay
HAMILTON (751), Novato
HAMMONTON (433), Sutter
HANFORD (279), Hanford
HARBOR (502), Richmond
HARMONY (164), Sierra City
HARTLEY (199), Lakeport
HAWAIIAN (21), Honolulu, Oahu, Hi
HAWTHORNE (647), Hawthorne
HEMET (615), Hemet
HENRY CLAY (95), Sutter Creek
HENRY KNOX-WESTLAKE (392), Los
Angeles
HERMANN (127), Burlingame
HERMOSA-MANHA TTAN (557),
Manhattan Beach
HESPERIAN (264), Santa Maria
HIGHLAND (748), San Bernardino
HILLS FERRY (236), Newman
HIRAM (43), El Dorado
HOLLYWOOD (355), Van Nuys
HOLTVILLE (425), Holtville
HOME (721), North Hollywood
HONOLULU (409), Honolulu, Oahu, Hi
HOPE (234), Beckwourth
HORNITOS (98), Hornitos
HOW ARD (37), Yreka
HUMBOLDT (79), Eureka
HUNTINGTON BEACH (380),
Huntington Beach

I
ILLINOISTOWN (51), Colfax
IMPERIAL (390), Imperial
INDIAN WELLS VALLEY (691),
Ridgecrest
INGLEWOOD-JAMES KEW (421), El
Segundo
INYO (221), Independence

KAUAI (589), Lihue, Kauai, Hi
KA WEAH (665), Woodlake
KEITH (187), Gilroy
KERMAN (420), Kerman
KERN RIVER VALLEY (827), Kernville
KEYSTONE (161), Milton
KILAUEA (330), Hilo, Hawaii
KING DAVID'S (209), San Luis Obispo
KING KALAKAUA DAYLIGHT (838),
Honolulu, Oahu, Hi
KING SOLOMON'S SEAPORT (260), San
Francisco
KIT CARSON (734), Sacramento
KONA (836), Captain Cook, Hawaii
KOOLAU (801), Kailua, Oahu, Hi

L
LA CANADA-OAKWOOD (739), La
Crescenta
LA CUMBRE (642), Santa Barbara
LA FAYETTE (126), Sebastopol
LA HABRA (659), La Habra
LA JOLLA (518), La Jolla
LA MESA (407), La Mesa
LA MIRADA (778), Buena Park
LA PARFAITE UNION (17), San
Francisco
LAGUNA BEACH (672), Laguna Beach
LAKE TAHOE (707), South Lake Tahoe
LAKESIDE (760), Lakeside
LAKEWOOD (728), Long Beach
LAMANDA PARK CARMELITA (627),
Pasadena
LANCASTER (437), Lancaster
LANDMARK-BUCKEYE (195), Esparto
LAS PALMAS (366), Fresno
LASSEN (149), Susanville
LAUREL (245), Willows
LAWNDALE (753), Hawthorne
LE PROGRES DE L'OCEANIE (371),
Honolulu, Oahu, Hi

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

416

LEBANON-PACIFIC (136), South
San Francisco
LELAND STANFORD (784), Chico
LEMON GROVE (736), Lemon Grove
LEXINGTON (104), El Monte
LIBERAL ARTS (677), Los Angeles
LIBERTAS (466), Bakersfield
LIBERTY (299), Santa Clara
LINDSAY (416), Lindsay
LIVE OAK (61), Oakland
LIVINGSTON (658), Livingston
LODGE MAUI (472), Kahului, Maui, Hi
LODI (256), Lodi
LOMITA (644), Lomita
LOMPOC (262), Lompoc
LONG BEACH (327), Long Beach
LORENZO (709), San Lorenzo
LOS ALAMITOS (809), Seal Beach
LOS ALTOS (712), Los Altos
LOS ANGELES (42), Los Angeles
LOS ANGELES HARBOR (332), San
Pedro
LOS BANOS (312), Los Banos
LOS CERRITOS (674), Long Beach
LOS GATOS (292), Los Gatos
LOY AL TY (529), Los Angeles
LUTHER BURBANK (752), Santa Rosa
LYNWOOD (600), Downey

M
MADERA JOPPA (280), Madera
MADISON (23), Grass Valley
MAGNOLIA (242), Santa Barbara
MAGNOLIA PARK (715), Burbank
MALT A (661), Los Angeles
MANCHESTER (585), Downey
MAR VISTA (820), Newport Beach
MARIN (191), San Rafael
MARIPOSA (24), Mariposa
MARTINEZ (41), Martinez
MAXWELL (288), Maxwell
MAY A (793), Monterey Park
MC KINLEY (347), Richmond
MENDOCINO (179), Mendocino
MENLO PARK (651), Menlo Park
MENORAH (623), Los Angeles
MERCED (749), Merced
METROPOL ITAN (352), Los Angeles
MEUDELL-OILDALE (695), Bakersfield
MILL VALLEY (356), Mill Valley
MINERAL KING (720), Visalia
MISSION BAY (771), San Diego
MISSION GOLDEN WEST (169), San
Francisco
MIZPAH (378), San Fernando
MODESTO (675), Modesto
MOLINO (150), Los Molinos
MONETA (405), Gardena
MONROVIA (308), Monrovia

MONTE VISTA (655), Long Beach
MONTEBELLO (451), Montebello
MONTEREY (217), Monterey
MONTEREY PARK (457), Monterey Park
MORENO VALLEY (804), Moreno Valley
MORGAN HILL (463), Morgan Hill
MORNING STAR (68), Stockton
MOSAIC (218), Livermore
MOTHER COLONY (750), Anaheim
MOUNT BALDY (815), Ontario
MOUNT DIABLO (448), Concord
MOUNT JACKSON (295), Guerneville
MOUNT OLIVE (506), Los Angeles
MOUNT OSO (460), Tracy
MOUNT SHASTA (281), Anderson
MOUNTAIN SHADE (18), Downieville
MOUNTAIN VIEW (194), Mountain View

N
NATOMA (64), Folsom
NAVAL (87), Vallejo
NEEDLES (326), Needles
NEVADA (13), Nevada City
NICOLAUS (129), Wheatland
NORMAL HEIGHTS (632), San Diego
NORTH BUTTE (230), Gridley
NORTH HOLLYWOOD (542), North
Hollywood
NORTH STAR (91), Fort Jones
NORTHERN CALIFORN IA RESEARCH
LODGE, San Francisco
NORTHERN LIGHT (190), Millville
NORWALK (315), Norwalk

0
OAK GROVE (215), Alameda
OAK PLAINS (789), Sacramento
OAKDALE (275), Oakdale
OAKLAND DURANT ROCKRIDGE
(188), Oakland
OASIS OF MARA (735), Twentynine
Palms
OCCIDENT AL-CALIFORNIA (I), San
Francisco
OCEAN PARK (369), Santa Monica
OCEANSIDE (381), Oceanside
OJAI (663), Ojai
OLD WEST (813), Newhall
OLIVE BRANCH (269), Tulare
OLIVET (205), Corning
ONTARIO (301), Ontario
OPHIR (33), Murphys
OPPORTUN ITY (740), Hawthorne
ORANGE COUNTY DAYLIGHT (833),
Garden Grove
ORANGE COUNTY RESEARCH
LODGE, La Habra

ORANGE GROVE (293), Orange
ORIENTAL (144), San Francisco
ORINDA-PLYMOUTH (521), Orinda
ORLAND (265), Orland
OROSI (383), Orosi
OROVILLE (103), Oroville
OXNARD (341), Oxnard

p
PACIFIC GROVE (331), Pacific Grove
PAJARO (110), Watsonville
PALISADES (637), Santa Monica
PALM DESERT (826), Palm Desert
PALM SPRINGS (693), Palm Springs
PALMDALE (769), Palmdale
PALMS-ADAMS (512), Los Angeles
PALO ALTO-ROLLER (346), Palo Alto
PALOS VERDES (389), Long Beach
PARK-CROCKETT (139), San Francisco
PARNASSUS-PRESIDIO (388), San
Francisco
PASADENA (272), Pasadena
PASO ROBLES (286), Paso Robles
PATTERSON (488), Patterson
PAUL REVERE (462), San Francisco
PEARL HARBOR (598), Honolulu, Oahu,
Hi
PENINSULA (745), Belmont
PENRHYN (258), Penrhyn
PENTALPH A (202), Los Angeles
PERRIS (411), Sun City
PETALUMA (180), Petaluma
PHOENIX (178), San Bernardino
PINOLE-CARQUINEZ (337), Hercules
PITTSBURG (429), Pittsburg
PLAZA DE LOS ANGELES (814), Los
Angeles
PLUMAS (60), Quincy
POINSETTIA (633), Ventura
POINT (503), Richmond
POINT LOMA (620), San Diego
POLARIS (730), Citrus Heights
POMONA (246), Pomona
PONDEROSA (700), Fresno
PORTERVILLE (303), Porterville
PROGRESSIVE (578), Alhambra
PROVIDENT (609), Sacramento

Q
QUEEN BEACH (540), Long Beach

R
R. E. DOLLEY (616), Seal Beach
READING (254), Redding
REDLANDS (300), Redlands
REDONDO (328), Redondo Beach

417

REDWOOD CITY (168), Redwood City
REDWOOD EMPIRE (683), Garberville
REEDLEY (304), Reedley
RESEDA (666), Reseda
RIAL TO (582), Rialto
RIM OF THE WORLD (711), Twin Peaks
RIO HONDO (800), El Monte
RIO LINDA (786), Rio Linda
RIO VISTA (208), Rio Vista
RISING LIGHT (397), Huntington Park
RIVERBANK (459), Riverbank
RIVERSIDE (635), Riverside
RIVIERA (780), Pacific Palisades
ROSE'S BAR (89), Smartsville
ROSEMEAD (702), Rosemead
ROSEVILLE (222), Roseville
RUSSIAN RIVER (181), Windsor

s
S. W. HACKETT (574), San Diego
SACRAMENTO (40), Sacramento
SADDLEBACK VALLEY (832), El Toro
SALINAS (204), Salinas
SAN BENITO (211), Hollister
SAN BERNARDINO (348), San
Bernardino
SAN BUENAVENTURA (214), Ventura
SAN CARLOS (690), San Carlos
SAN CLEMENTE (671), San Clemente
SAN DIEGO (35), San Diego
SAN DIEGUITO (775), Cardiff-by-the-Sea
SAN DIMAS (428), San Dimas
SAN FERNANDO (343), San Fernando
SAN FRANCISCO EDUCATOR (166),
Daly City
SAN GABRIEL-SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
(278), San Gabriel
SAN GORGONIO (668), Banning
SAN JACINTO (338), San Jacinto
SAN JOAQUIN (19), Stockton
SAN JOSE (10), San Jose
SAN JUAN (732), Citrus Heights
SAN LEANDRO-BROOKLYN (225), San
Leandro
SAN LORENZO VALLEY (718), Felton
SAN MARINO (685), San Marino
SAN MATEO (226), San Mateo
SAN PABLO (754), Richmond
SAN PASQUAL (452), Pasadena
SAN RAMON VALLEY (724), Danville
SAN SIMEON (196), Cambria
SANGER (316), Sanger
SANTA ANA (241), Garden Grove
SANTA BARBARA (192), Santa Barbara
SANTA CRUZ (38), Santa Cruz
SANTA LUCIA (302), King City
SANTA MARIA (580), Ramona
SANTA MONICA (307), Santa Monica
SANTA PAULA (291), Santa Paula

418

SANTA ROSA (S7), Santa Rosa
SANTA YNEZ VALLEY (701), Solvang
SCEPTER (808), West Sacramento
SCHOFIELD (443), Wahiawa, Oahu, Hi
SEAFARING (708), Newport Beach
SEARCHLIGHT ALTA LOMA (S67),
Long Beach
SEASIDE (S04), Long Beach
SECURITY (S81), Bakersfield
SELMA (277), Selma
SEMPER VIRENS (SS2), Eureka
SEQUOIA-ST. ELMO (349), Oakland
SERVICE (S94), Long Beach
SIERRA (788), Oakhurst
SIERRA MADRE (408), Sierra Madre
SIERRA VALLEY (184), Sierraville
SIGNAL FIVE POINTS (S43), Long Beach
SIL VER CORD (SOS), Santa Ana
SIL VER GATE (296), San Diego
SILVER TROWEL (41S), Los Angeles
SIL VERADO (782), Napa
SIL VEYVILLE (201 ), Dixon
SIMI VALLEY (806), Simi Valley
SINCERITY (132), Greenville
SISSON (310), Dunsmuir
SMYRNA (S32), Ceres
SNOW MOUNTAIN (271), Stonyford
SOJOURNER (607), Duarte
SOLANO (229), Vallejo
SOQUEL (746), Soquel
SOTOYOME (123), Healdsburg
SOUTH GATE (320), Los Angeles
SOUTH PASADENA (367), South
Pasadena
SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO (212),
Daly City
SOUTH WEST (283), National City
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA RESEARCH
LODGE, Los Angeles
SOUTHLAND HERITAGE (618), No.
Hollywood
ST. HELENA (93), St. Helena
STANISLAUS (206), Modesto
ST ARR KING (344), San Francisco
STOCKTON (498), Stockton
SUBLIME (831), Benicia
SUISUN (SS), Fairfield
SUMMIT (112), Knights Ferry
SUN GARDEN (S30), Fresno
SUNNYSIDE (S77), Hawthorne
SUNNYVALE (Sll), Sunnyvale
SURPRISE VALLEY (23S), Cedarville

T
TABLE MOUNTAIN (124), Paradise
TAFT-MIDWAY (426), Taft
TEHACHAPI (313), Tehachapi
TEHAMA (3), Sacramento
TEJON (773), Bakersfield

419

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
TEMESCAL (314), Corona
TEMPLE (14), Sonoma
TEXAS (46), San Juan Bautista
THE GABILAN (803), Salinas
THE GARDENS (621), Montebello
THREE PILLARS (613), Sacramento
TILA PASS (797), Los Angeles
TORRENCE (447), Torrance
TRAVELERS (692), Sacramento
TRI (S9S), Los Angeles
TRI SQUARE (SSl), Hayward
TRIANGLE (S48), Los Angeles
TRINITY (27), Weaverville
TRONA (684), Trona
TRUCKEE (200), Truckee
TUJUNGA (S92), Tujunga
TUOLUMNE (8), Sonora
TURLOCK (39S), Turlock
TUSCAN (261), Williams
TUSTIN (828), Santa Ana
TWO RIVERS (731), Bell Gardens
TYRE (741), Downey
TYRIAN (439), Manteca

u
UNION (S8), Sacramento
UNITED (374), San Francisco
UNIVERSITY (394), Torrance
UPLAND (419), Upland

v
VACAVILLE (134), Vacaville
VALLEE DE FRANCE (329), Pasadena
VALLEJO (487), Vallejo
VALLEY (13S), Linden
VAN NUYS (4SO), Van Nuys
VESPER (84), Red Bluff
VICTORIA PALMS (810), Riverside
VICTORVILLE (634), Victorville
VISALIA (128), Visalia
VISTA (687), Vista
VITRUVIUS (14S), Bloomfield
VOLCANO (S6), Volcano

w
WAIKIKI (774), Honolulu, Oahu, Hi
WARREN G. HARDING (S79),
Sacramento
WASCO (S83), Wasco
WASHINGTON (20), Sacramento
WAYFARER (717), Whittier
WELCOME (2SS), Lemoore
WEST COVINA-LA PUENTE (446), West
Covina
WEST GA TE (33S), Los Angeles

WEST LOS ANGELES (373), West Los
Angeles
WESTCHESTER UNITED (S72), Playa del
Rey
WESTERN STAR (2), Shasta
WESTMINSTER FAIRVIEW (629),
Westminster
WESTWOOD (SOI), Westwood
WHITE PINE (SSS), Weed
WHITTIER (323), Whittier
WILLIAM D. STEPHENS (698), Los
Angeles
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY (767), Los
Angeles
WILLITS (36S), Willits
WILLOW GLEN (676), San Jose
WILMINGTON (198), Wilmington
WINNEDUMAH (287), Bishop
WOODBRIDGE (131), Woodbridge
WOODLAND (81), Woodland
WOODLAND HILLS (8ll), Canoga Park

y
YERBA BUENA (403), Oakland
YORBA LINDA (469), Anaheim
YOSEMITE (99), Merced
YOUNT (12), Napa
YUCAIPA (726), Yucaipa
YUCCA VALLEY (802), Yucca Valley

z
ZENITH (768), Van Nuys

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

421

INDEX FOR 1985
A

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT

ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason," copies of which have been
sent to each Grand Lodge. This program will be
continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly and each copy carries additional reviews.
Hence, they do not appear in these Proceedings.

Accounting Records
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................. 271
Grand Secretary's Comments .......................................... 78
Grand Treasurer's Comments ......................................... 77
Achievement Award, Grand Master's ................... ... ............... 30
Grand Master's Comments ............................................ 45
Acknowledgements by Grand Master ................ 39, 40, 44, 45, 46, 47, 55
Activities Committee
Members of ........................................................ 323
Affiliation Fees Tabulated .. . .. ...................... ...... .. . ... ...... 358
Alphabetical List of Lodges ........................................... .413
Amaranth Fund
Audit ..................................................... 312, 313, 314
Amendments to By-Laws
Report of Committee ................................................. 90
Reported by Grand Secretary (Exhibit B) ............ .... . .. ............. 89
Anniversaries of Lodges ................................................ 71
Annual Election and Announcement of Appointive Officers . .......... 276, 277
Annual Returns
Audit ........ . ................. ................ ............ . ....... 288
Details by Lodges ....... ............. . ............ . , ....... . ....... . 358
Membership Reported ......... . .......... ......... ............ .. .... . 80
Appendix
General ........................................................... . 321
Special .................................... ........ . . .............. 281
Appointive Grand lodge Officers
1984-1985 ......................................... ... . ... ............ 3
1985-1986 ............ ........ .................... ... ... 276, Back Cover
Appointments
Committees and Constitutional Boards ........... ..... . ... ............ 277
For Communication ................................................... 5
For Year 1985-1986 ..... ........ .................................... 276
Trustees for Masonic Homes . .. .............. .. .. .' . ..... ....... ..... . 277
Trustees for Memorial Temple ........................................ 277
Appropriations
Approved ..... ... .... ... . . ......................... ....... 273, 274, 275
Auditor's Report ............................................... 291, 292
Reported ........... ........... .................... ... .............. 272
Supplemental ....................................................... 271
Attendance
Listed (Registration and Mileage Payments) ........ ...... .............. 358
Reported ............. ..... .......................................... . 5
Audits
1985 Returns ........... . .. . .............. . ................ ... .. 284, 288
Grand Lodge . . .... .. ... .. . .. .. .. .... ............ ............... .... 282
Index ........................................................... ... 281
Masonic Foundation ................................................ 311
Masonic Homes .................................................... 293

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund .......... .......... .......... ... 316
Memorial Temple .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . 306

B
Bequests
Masonic Homes .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 295, 304
Memorial Temple .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . 308
Biography, Roy J. Henville .... .......... .......... .. . .......... ......... iii
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit. .......... .......... . ......... 299, 303, 304
Brown Memorial Fund .......... .......... .......... .......... 299, 303, 304
Budget
Administrative and Office .......... .......... .......... ..... 272, 273, 276
Appropriations .......... .......... ...... . .......... ........ 272, 274, 276
Approval by Grand Lodge .......... .......... .......... .......... ... 273
California Freemason .......... .......... .... .. ... . .......... ... 271, 273
Estimated Income .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . 272
Finance Committee Comments .......... .. . ... . .......... ........ 271, 272
General Expense .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .. 274
Insurance .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 274
Recapitulation .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 276
Ritual ...... . .......... .......... .......... .......... ..... . ........ 274
By-Laws
Amendments Submitted .......... ........ .. .. . .......... ....... .. .... 89
Committee Members .......... .......... ..... .. .. . ........ . ......... 324
Report of Committee .......... .......... .......... .......... ......... 90

c
California Freemason
Budget .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 271, 273
Finance Committee Comments ........ .. .......... ...... .. .......... .. 271
Grand Master's Comments .. .. .......... ...... . .... . .......... .. . ..... 38
Per Capita .......... .......... .......... .... . .......... ........ 271, 273
Publication Board, Members of ....... . .......... .......... .......... . 332
Publication Board, Report of .......... .......... .......... .......... . 156
California Masonic Foundation
Amaranth Fund .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 312, 313, 314
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance .......... .......... .......... ..... 312
Audit .......... .......... ......... . .......... .... ... . ... .......... . 311
Board of Trustees .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . 334
Charitable Programs .......... ......... .... .. . .... .. . ... ... ... ...... 170
Directors Listed .......... .......... .......... . .......... .......... .. 170
Financial Comments . .......... .......... ...... .......... ..... . .. ... . 169
Grand Master's Comments .......... .......... ..... . .......... ..... 38, 45
Notes to Financial Statements .......... .......... .......... ...... 314, 315
Report of Directors ........ . ... . .......... ... . ........ . .......... ... 160
Revenues and Expenses . ...... ... .... .. .. . ....... . ..... ... ... . ....... 313
Scholarships-Director's Comments .......... .......... .......... ...... 170
Statement of Changes in Fund Balances .......... .......... .......... . 312
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance .. .... .. ....... . ..... ..... .... .... 307
Audit .......... .......... . . .......... .......... .......... .......... 306

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

423

Notes to Financial Statements .......... .......... .......... ...... 309, 310
Officers and Trustees .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 333
Report of Trustees .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... 167
Revenues and Expenses .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 308
Statement of Changes in Fund Balances .......... .......... .......... . 307
Trustees Appointed and Terms .......... .......... .......... ..... 277, 333
Calling Up Procedures
Gavels used, listed .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .. 6
(Names of participants indicated at start of each session)
Candidates' and Affiliate's Contributions
Tabulated by Lodges .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 358
Centennials .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... 71
Ceremonial Communications .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 63
Certificates, Awards and Special Presentations Committee
Members of .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 329
Report of Committee .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 187
Certification .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... v
Changes of Meeting Place
Report of Committee on By-Laws .......... .......... .......... ........ 90
Report of Committee on Charters .......... .......... .......... ....... 180
Report of Grand Secretary .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 79
Charters Committee
Members of .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 323
Report of .......... .......... .......... ....... . .......... . ........ . 180
Charters Issued (Years) .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 358
Code Commission
Members of .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 326
Columbia Temple
Members of Committee .... . .......... .......... .......... .......... . 328
Report of Committee .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 189
Commercialism Committee
Members of ....... .. ......... . .......... ... .......... .......... .... 328
Report of .......... .......... .......... .... .. .......... .......... .. 195
Committee Appointments
For Communication .......... .......... .......... ......... .. .......... 5
For 1985-1986 .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... 277, 322
Committee on Masonic Service Bureaus
Members of .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 326
Report of .......... .......... .......... .... . .......... .......... ... 171
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Conference of Grand Masters in North America
Grand Master's Comments .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 42
Consolidations of Lodges
Report of Committee on Charters .......... .......... .......... ....... 180
Report of Grand Secretary .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 79
Constituent Lodges Listed
Alphabetically .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... .... 413
Numerically .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... ...... 358
Constitutional Boards .......... .......... .......... .. .. .. .......... .. . 332
Contributions
Endowment Fund .......... .......... .......... .......... .......... . 139
Pooled Income Fund .......... .......... .......... .......... ........ 119
Received from Lodges .. .......... .......... .......... .. 139, 140, 150, 162

424

425

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To George Washington Masonic Memorial ......................... 283, 288
To Homes .......................................................... 288
To Statue of Liberty Restoration Fund .................................. 38
To Temple ................................................. 288, 307, 308
Copeland, Kern H ...................................................... 13
Copyright Notice ....................................................... 1
Cornerstone Ceremonies
Ceremonial Communications .......................................... 63
Correspondence Report (Announcement) ................................. 420
Covina Home
Expenses ............................ , .............................. 305
Report of Administrator ............................................. 136
Report of Trustees ................................................... 110
Residents Listed .................................................... 136
Credentials Committee
Members of ........................................................ 324
Report of .......................................................... 184

Tabulation by Amounts ............................................... 82
Tabulation by Lodges ................................................ 358

D
Deceased Past Masters, Masters and Wardens
Listed by Lodge Affiliation ........................................... 24
Decisions by Grand Master and Action by Grand Lodge
1. Use of Masonic Insignia ........................................ 49, 56
2. York Rite Sovereign College .................................... .49, 56
3. Interpretation of C.M.C. Section 2050 ............................ 50, 57
4. Recognition of Grand Lodge of New Jersey ....................... 35, 57
Decoto Home (Union City)
Expenses ........................................................... 305
Report of Administrator ............................................. 122
Report of Trustees ................................................... 110
Residents Listed .................................................... 126
Dedications-Special Ceremonies ......................................... 64
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges ................................................ 358
Totals Reported ...................................................... 80
Degree Fees
By Dollar Amounts .................................................. 81
By Lodge ........................................................... 358
Devotional Message ..................................................... 7
Dispensations Issued
Approved ........................................................... 88
Miscellaneous ....................................................... 86
Distinguished Guests
Addressed Grand Lodge .............................................. 34
Attendance Listed .................................................... 32
Distribution Committee
Appointment of ...................................................... 5
Members of .......................................................... 5
Report of .......................................................... 164
Dues
Amendments to By-Laws .............................................. 89

E
Elected Officers
At 1985 Communication ............................................... 3
For 1985-1986 ........................................... 276, Back Cover
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization, April 18 A.L.5850 ........ 393
Election of Grand Lodge Officers ....................................... 276
Endowment and Trust Funds Audit ................ 294, 295, 296, 299, 303, 304
Endowment Board
Homes Trustees' Comments ....................................... 111,121
Members of ........................................................ 333
Report of .......................................................... 139
Endowment Month
Grand Master's Proclamation .......................................... 75
Eulogy
Ellsworth Meyer, P.G.M ............................................... 15
Guy B. Mize, P.G.M. . ................................................ 21
Executive Committee
Grand Master's Comments ............................................ 54
Members of ........................................................ 322
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ................................ 376

F
Fees for Affiliation
Action by Grand Lodge ............................................... 90
Amendments to By-Laws .............................................. 89
Tabulated by Lodges ................................................ 358
Fees for Degrees
Action by Grand Lodge ............................................... 90
Amendments to By-Laws .............................................. 89
Tabulation by Amounts ............................................... 81
Tabulation by Lodges ................................................ 358
Fifty and Seventy-Five Year Buttons (See Golden Veterans Awards)
Film and Creative Projects Committee
Members of ........................................................ 329
Finance Committee
Members of ........................................................ 322
Report of .......................................................... 271
Flag Tribute ............................................................ 5
Foreign Grand Lodges
List of Recognized Jurisdictions ...................................... 405
Members of Committee .............................................. 326
Foundation (See California Masonic Foundation)

G
Gavels Used During Communication ...................................... 6
General Appendix ..................................................... 321

427

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General Condition of Masonry
Grand Master's Comments ............... ............... .............. 41
General Fund Balance
Grand Lodge .. ............... . .. .. ..... ... ... .. ............ . ....... 283
Homes ............... ............... . . ............. ... ............ 294
Masonic Foundation ...... . ............... ............... ............ 312
Memorial Temple ............... ............... ............... ....... 307
Pooled Income Fund ............... ............... ............... ... 317
George Washington Masonic Memorial
Contributions of Initiates ............... ............... .............. 288
Golden Veterans Awards
Fifty Year Button Recipients ...... . ...... . ............... .............. 99
Seventy-five Year Button Recipients ....... .. ............... ............ 104
Grand Chaplain, Devotional. ............... ............... ............... 7
Grand Lecturer
Acknowledgements ............... ............. . ..... ... ............. 109
Budget ............... ............... ........ ........ .............. 108
Condition of Lodges ............ . ............. .. ..... . .............. 106
Hawaiian Masonry ............... ............... ............... ..... 108
Membership Participation . .. ............... .... ........ .............. 106
Report of ............... ....... . ............... ............... ..... 105
Ritual Committee & Conferences ............... ............... ........ 106
Grand Lodge
Administrative and Office Expenses ............... ............... ..... 289
Annual Returns ............... ............... .............. . ........ 288
Appropriations ............... ............... .......... 272, 274, 275, 276
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance ..... . ............... ............. 283
Audit ............... ............... ............... ............... .. 282
Changes in Fund Balance ............... ............... .............. 284
Grand Treasurer's Comments ............... ............... ............ 77
Notes to Financial Statements ............... ............... ...... 285, 286
Officers 1985 ............... ......... ............. .... ......... .... . .. 3
Officers 1985-1986 ............... ............... ......... 276, Back Cover
Revenues and Expenses ... .. ............... ............... ........... 284
Schedule of Annual Returns ..... ............... ........ ... . .... ..... . 288
Schedule of Committee Expenses ............... ............... ... 291, 292
Schedule of General Expenses ............... ............... .......... 290
Grand Lodge Committees
Grand Master's Comments ............... ............ 38, 40, 44, 45, 46, 54
List of ............... ............... ............... ............... . 322
Reports of (see individual listings)
Grand Lodge Library and Museum
Members of Committee ............... ............... ............... . 328
Report of Committee ............... ............... ............... ... 197
Grand Lodge Office
Grand Secretary's Comments ............ .. ............... .......... 78, 83
Grand Lodges Represented at Communication ............... ........... 32, 33
Grand Master (See Henville, Roy J.)
Grand Masters' Conference, North America
Grand Master's Comments ...... . .. ............... ............... .... . 42
Grand Master's Message ............... ............... ............... ... 35
Grand Oration ............... ............... ............... ........... 206

Grand Secretary
Finance Committee Comments ............. .. ............... ......... 272
Report of ............... ............... ............... .............. 78
Grand Treasurer
Finance Committee Comments ............... ............... ......... 272
Report of ............... ............... ............... . ............. 77

426

H
Hardy Trust Fund ............... ............... .............. 300, 303, 304
Henville, Roy J.
Anniversaries . ............... ............... ............... .......... 71
Biography ............... ............... . .. ............... ........... iii
Ceremonial Communications ............... ............... ............ 63
Decisions & Recommendations ............... ............... .......... 49
Grand Master's Relief ............... ............... ............... ... 39
Hawaiian Visitation ............... ............... ............... .... .47
Message ............... ............... ............... . . ............. 35
Photograph .. ... ............... ............... .. . ..... .. ..... .. ...... ii
Proclamations: ............... ... . ........... ........ .. .. . .. .. ..... ... .
Masonic Homes Endowment Month .... . ............... ............ 75
Public Schools Month ............... ............... ....... . ...... 74
U.S. Constitution Observance Month .. .. . . ............... . ... . ..... 76
Youth Activities Month ............... ............... ............. 73
Receptions and Miscellaneous ............... ............... ........... 65
Special Ceremonies and Dedications ............... ............... ...... 64
Visits to Other Jurisdictions ............... ............... ............ .42
Homes (See Masonic Homes)
Homes Statistics
Residents ListedCovina ............... ............... ............... ........... 136
Union City ............... .......... ..... ............... . .. ... .. 126
Honor Roll (Endowment Fund) ............... ...... . ............... .... 144
Hugo M. Lorber Masonic Home, Union City Fund ............... 296, 297, 299

I
Imperial Shrine Session
Grand Master's Comments ............... ....... . ............... ...... 43
Inspectors
Grand Lecturer's Comments ............... ............... ............ 108
List of. ............... ............... .......... ... ............... .. 402
Installation of Grand Lodge Officers ............... . . ............... .... 278
Insurance Committee
Members of ............... ............... ............... ........... 328
Report of ............... ............... ............... ............. 179
Investment Committee
Members of ............... .............. .... ............... ........ 323
Report of ............... ............... ........ . ............... .... 186
Investments
Market Value of (Grand Lodge) ............... ............... .... 283, 285
Market Value of (Masonic Foundation) ............... ......... 312, 313, 315
Market Value of (Masonic Homes) ............... ............ 294, 295, 297

428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Market Value of (Memorial Temple) .......................... 307, 308, 309
Market Value of (Pooled Income Fund) ....................... 317, 319, 320
Report of Committee on ............................................. 186

Section 2402 (Multiple Membership)
Amendment Proposed ....................................... 238, 239
Legislation ................................................. 239, 241
Section 2544 (Past Masters' Associations)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 242
Legislation ..................................................... 243
Section 2635 (Membership in Prerequisite Organizations)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 244
Legislation ..................................................... 244
Section 2688 (Ritual)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 247
Legislation ..................................................... 249
Section 4000 (When May Be Presented)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 218
Legislation ..................................................... 219
Section 4002 (Vote Required)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 220
Legislation ..................................................... 221
Section 4004 (When 1\vo-thirds Vote May Carry)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 218
Legislation ..................................................... 219
Affiliation as a Multiple Member
Resolution Proposed ............................................ 238
Legislation ..................................................... 238
Annual Communications - Other Locations
Resolution Proposed ............................................. 215
Legislation ..................................................... 216
Availability of Widow's Pin to all Widows
(Carry"over Resolution No. 3, 1984)
Legislation ,..................................................... 202
Duties of Grand Secretary
Resolution Proposed ............................................. 221
Legislation ..................................................... 222
Eliminate One Year Waiting Period
Resolution Proposed ............................................ 244
Legislation ..................................................... 244
Hiram Award Medallion
Resolution Proposed ............................................ 203
Legislation ..................................................... 204
Le Progres de l!Oceanie Lodge No. 371Depature From Uniform Ritual
Resolution Proposed ............................................ 247
Legislation ..................................................... 249
Membership in Organizations Requiring Masonic
Membership
Resolution Proposed ............................................ 232
Legislation ..................................................... 233
Multiple Members - Suspension or Expulsion
Resolution Proposed ............................................ 239
Legislation ..................................................... 240
Optional Use of 'Short Form' Closing Ceremony
(1983 Grand Master's Recommendation No. 3)
Legislation ..................................................... 199

J
Jacquelin Annuity Trust Fund ................................. 300, 303, 304
Jensen Trust Fund ............................................ 300, 303, 304
Jones Trust Fund ............................................. 300, 303, 304
Jurisprudence Committee (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Members of ........................................................ 322

L
Layman's Night Speakers Panel
Grand Master's Comments ............................................ 45
Members of Committee .............................................. 332
Report of Committee ................................................ 254
Legislation Proposed
Section lb (Annotation to Section 1 - Title)
(Carry-over Resolution No. 3, 1984)
Legislation ..................................................... 202
Section 150 (Annual Communication)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 215
Legislation ..................................................... 216
Section 250 (Manner of Voting)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 218
Legislation ..................................................... 219
Section 500 (When May be Presented)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 218
Legislation ..................................................... 219
Section 502 (Vote Required)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 220
Legislation ..................................................... 221
Section 504 (Carry Over Vote)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 218
Legislation ..................................................... 219
Section 1108 (Duties of Grand Secretary)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 222
Legislation ..................................................... 222
Section 2048 (Meeting Place Limitations)
Amendment Proposed ....................................... 225, 229
Legislation ................................................. 227, 231
Section 2050 (Serving of Liquor at Social Functions)
Amendment Proposed ....................................... 225, 229
Legislation ................................................. 227, 231
Section 2068 (Membership in Prerequisite Bodies)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 232
Legislation ..................................................... 233
Section 2304 (Additional Investments)
Amendment Proposed ........................................... 233
Legislation ..................................................... 236

429

430

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Organization of Masonic Temple Associations
Resolution Proposed ............................. ............... 233
Legislation ............................. ........................ 235
Past Master - Ballot Requirement for Plural
Membership
Resolution Proposed ............................. ............... 245
Legislation ............................. ........................ 246
Past Masters' Associations
Resolution Proposed .... ... ........................ ... .......... 242
Legislation ............. . .......................... . ............ 243
Proficiency for Concordant and Appendant Bodies
(1984 Grand Master's Recommendation No. 3)
Legislation ............................. ........................ 201
Selling and Serving Alcoholic Beverages by
Restaurant Located in Masonic Meeting Place
Resolution Proposed ................ .... ........ ....... ......... 225
Legislation ............................. ........................ 227
Serving Alcoholic Beverages in Masonic Temple at
Non-Masonic Functions
Resolution Proposed ............................. ............... 229
Legislation ............. ... ........... ... ........... .. .......... 230
Streamlining Opening Ceremonies - Constituent Lodges
Resolution Proposed ............................. ................ 213
Legislation ............................. ........................ 214
Use of Photocopy of Dues Receipt
Resolution Proposed ............................. ............... 223
Legislation ............................. ........................ 224
Vote Required - Amending Constitution and Ordinances
Resolution Proposed ............................. ............... 220
Legislation . .......................... ..... .. ......... . .. . ...... 220
Voting in Grand Lodge - Written Ballot ............................. ..... .
Resolution Proposed ..... ... ........... .... ...................... 218
Legislation ............................. ........................ 219
Life Memberships
Action by Grand Lodge .. ..... ......................... . . ...... ....... 87
Changes in Fees ...... . ............................. .... . . . ... ...... . 87
Fixing Fees ............................ . ............... .... .......... 87
Lodge Resources Development Committee
Members of ............................. .......................... 329
Report of ................. .... ......... ........ .................... 185
Lodges
Alphabetical List of . .. . . ..... .... .. . ............................. ... 413
Anniversaries of ............................. ........................ 71
Condition of ............................. ........................ 41, 84
Extinct and Consolidated ................. ... ........... . ............ 376
Numerical List of .......... ..... ............................. ....... 358

M
Mason of the Year Award (Ralph H. Head)
Grand Master's Comments ............................. ............... 38
Masonic Cemeteries Committee
Members of ............................. ........................... 327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Masonic History Committee

431

4

~e~~~e~f~~ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~;8

Masonic Homes
Administrative and General Expenses .......... . .... . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 305
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balance ....... . .......... .. ... . .. ;9j
Audit ......................... ··.·························· ········ 9
Contributions and Bequests ...... .. .......... · · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 130
Covina Operations ............ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · g~

g~~~~~a~~!;s· c~~;.~~is" ................................................................................ ."40, 42
List of Trustees ... .. ..... .. ..... ... . · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 110
Report of Endowment Board ........................ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 139
Report of Administrator, Covina ............... · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 136
Report of Administrator, Union City ................ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 122
Report of lhlstees ................ . .... · ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 110
Restricted Trust Funds ..................... 294, 295, 296, 297, 299, 300, 301
Trustees, New and Continuing ....................... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 277
. ................. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 112
. c·1ty o perat1ons
U n1on
Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund
Audit. ............................. ................... 294, 295, 296, 297
Bequests ...................... . ............... .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 139
Comments by Homes' Trustees ........................... · · · ·. · · · .111,121
Contributions Through Lodges ............................ ·· .129, 150, 162
Honor Roll .................... ... ............ ... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 135
Investment Committee Comments .............. .... ........ ···.·· .186, 187
Members and Officers ............................. ...... · · · · · · · · · · · .163
Memorials ............................. ........... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 139
Proclamation of Grand Master ............................. · . · · · · · · · · · 75
Report of Board ............................. ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 139
Masonic Homes Pooled Income Fund
Audit ............................. ......... ··.···················· .316
Balance Sheet. ............................. . · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 317
Homes Trustees' Comments ............................ · · · · · · · · · · · · · .119
Notes to Financial Statements ................. .... ......... · · .. · · 319, 320
Statement of Income and Distributions ......... . . . .... .. .. ..... .... · .. 318
Masonic Information and Responsibility Committee
Members of .................... . ................. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 325
Report of ............................. ............... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 256
Masonic Leadership Workshop Committee
Grand Master's Comments ............................. ......... · · · . · · 44
Members of ............................. ............. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 331
Report of ............................. ....... .. ... .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 262
Masonic Service Bureaus Committee
Members of ...... . ............................. ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 326
Report of ............................. ................. · · · · · · · · · · · .171
Masonic Widows Committee
Members of ............................. .......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 330
Report of ............................. ............... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 257
Grand Master's Comments ............................. ......... · · · . · . 45
Master Mason's Attendance at Communication .... . ................... · ... · 5
Meeting Place
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary ............................. .... 79, 86

433

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge Action ............... ............... ............... ..... 91
Members' Endowment Fund Contributions by Lodges ............. 139, 141, 162
Membership
Grand Secretary's Report .............. . ...... .... ... .. ............ 80, 84
Tabulated by Lodges ............... ... . ............... .............. 358
Memorial Contributions ... . ...... . ............... ..... ... ............. 139
Memorial Service
Committee Members ............... ............... ............... ... 325
Devotional ............... ............... ............... .............. 7
Memorial Message ............... ............... ............... ...... 12
Memorial Tribute, Kern H. Copeland ............... ............... . . ... 13
Memorial Tribute, Louis R. Mitchell ............... ............... . .... . 14
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Message of Grand Master .. . ............... ............... .......... . ... 35
Meyer, Ellsworth, P.G.M., Eulogy ............... ............... .......... 15
Mitchell, Louis R.......... ............. . ......... ........... .. ......... 14
Mize, Guy B., P.G.M., Eulogy ............... ............... ............. 21

Proclamations of Grand Master
Masonic Homes Endowment Month ............... ........ .. ..... ... · . · 75
Public Schools Month ............... ............... ............. · · · · · 74
U.S. Constitution Observance Month ............... .............. · · · · · · 76
Youth Activities Month ............... ............... ............. · · . · 73
Public Information Committee
Members of ............... ............... ............... ....... · · · · 328
Public Schools
Cornerstones ............... ............... ............... ........ · . · 63
Members of Committee . ..... .. ..... . ........ ...... ...... . ........... 325
Proclamation of Grand Master ............... ............... .......... 74

0

R

432

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointment of, for 1985-1986 ............... . .... ........ 276, Back Cover
Attendance from Other Jurisdictions ............... ............... .. .. . 32
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization,
April 18 A.L. 5850 ............... . ............... .... ... . ... 393
Election of ............... ............... ............... ............ 276
Installed for 1985-1986 ... ... ............... ............... ........... 278
Present at Communication ...... . .... .. ....... ... .. ....... ....... .. .... 3
Oklahoma Indian Degree Team
Grand Master's Comments ....... . ............... ... . ............... .. 47
Old Masonic Hall-Los Angeles
Members of Committee .. .. ............... ............ .. ............. 330
Report of Committee .... .. ..... . ...... . ............... .............. 252
Opening of 136th Annual Communication ............... ............... . 3, 4
Oration by Grand Orator .. .. ..... .. ..... .... ............... ........... 206

p
Past Grand Masters
List Since Organization ............... ............... ... ............. 393
Present at Communication ........ . ............... '. ............... ..... 4
Visitors at Communication ............... ............... .............. 33
Past Masters, Masters and Wardens Deceased ............... ............... 24
Per Capita
Payment by Lodges ............... ............... ........... 283, 284, 288
Rate for Fiscal Year Ending June, 1985 ............... ............... .. 273
Report of Finance Committee ......... . . . ........... . ...... . ......... 271
Permanent Endowment Fund (See Masonic Homes Endowment
Board and Fund)
Policy and General Purposes Committee (Reported separately on
items referred to Committee)
Members of ............... ............... ............... ........... 322
Presentations ...... ... ............... ............... ............... .... 30

Q
Quitman Masonic Temple
Members of Committee ............... ............... ............... . 329
Report of Committee ............... ............... ...... .. .......... 260

Receptions and Breakfasts Reported ............... ............... ........ 65
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Members of Committee ............... ............. .. ............... . 326
Recognized Jurisdictions ............ . ............... ............... .. 405
Recommendations by Grand Master and Action by Grand Lodge
Application of C.M.C. Section 2050 ............... ............... .. . 50, 58
Pasadena Tournament of Roses ............... ............... ....... 50, 58
Admission of Children into the Home at Covina ............... ...... 51, 59
Removal of Lodge Master ............... ............... ........... 52, 61
Special Committee to Study and Clarify
C.M.C. Sections 2048 and 2050 ............... ............... ...... 54, 62
Registration and Mileage Payments ............... .... . ......... . ........ 335
Relief, Grand Master's ............... ........ . ............... .... · ..... · 39
Reports of Committees
By-Laws ............... ............... ............... ...... ······.· .90
California Freemason Publication Board ............... ............... . 165
California Masonic Foundation ............... ............... ......... 169
Certificates Awards and Special Presentations ............... ........... 187
Charters . .'............... ............... ....... ... ............... .. 180
Columbia Temple .... . ............... .... .. ............. .. .......... 189
Commercialism ...... . ............. .. ..... . .............. .. .. .... ... 195
Credentials ............... ............... ............... ............ 184
Distribution ............... ............... ............... ........... 164
Finance ............... .... .... ... .... .. ... ............... .... ... ... 271
Grand Lodge Library and Museum ............... ............... ...... 197
Insurance ............... ............... ............... ....... . ..... 179
Investment ............... ............... ............... ............. 186
Jurisprudence (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Layman's Night Speakers Panel ............... ............... ... .. .... 254
Lodge Resources Development . ... ... ...... .. ... . ......... ... . ........ 185
Masonic History ............... ... .. ............... .... ... .... . ..... 258
Masonic Homes Endowment Board ............... . ............... .... 130
Masonic Homes Trustees ............... ............... ............... 101

435

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Masonic Information and Responsibility ............ ............ ....... 256
Masonic Leadership Workshop Committee ............ ............ ..... 262
Masonic Service Bureaus ............ ............ ............ ......... 171
Masonic Widows ............ ............ ............ ............ .... 257
Memorial Service ............ ...... . ............ ...... . .. . ... . ........ 7
Memorial Temple Trustees ............ ............ ............ ........ 167
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles ............ ............ ............ . 252
Policy and General Purposes (Reported separately on items referred
to Committee)
Quitman Temple ........... . ............ ............ ............ .. . . 260
Review of Proceedings ............ ............ .......... . ............ 261
Ritual (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Sojourners ............ ............ ............ ............ ......... 166
Taxation ............ ............ ............ ............ ........... 263
Temple Properties .......... . ..... . ......... .. ... . ............ ....... 189
Travel Allowances ............ ............ ............ ............ ... 182
Trial Review ............ .... . ............ ............ ............ . . .. 92
U.S. Constitution Observance ............ ............ ............ .... . 196
Youth Orders ............ ............ ............ ............ ....... 269
Reports of Grand Lodge Officers
Grand Chaplain--Devotional Message ............ ............ ............ 7
Grand Lecturer . ............ ............ ......... . ..... . ..... . ...... 105
Grand Master ............ ............ ............ ..... . ............ . 35
Grand Orator ............ ............ .. . ............ ... . ............ 206
Grand Secretary ........... . ............ .......... . .... . ............ . 78
Grand Treasurer ............ ............ ............ ............ ..... 77
Representatives of Lodges
Attendance Reported ............ ............ . ............ ............ . 5
Roster of Attendance ............ ........•... ............ .......... . . 335
Research Lodges
Membership ............ ............ ............ ............ ...... . . 375
.
Residents at Homes
Covina ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ 127
Union City ........... . .......... . ............ ............ .......... 117
Resolutions
Presented ............ ............ ............ ......... . ............ 203
Withdrawn or Declared 'Out of Order' ........ . .... . ............ ...... 252
Retirement Committee
Audit Notes ............ ............ ............ ............ .... 285, 298
Members of ............ ............ ............ ............ ........ 329
Review of Proceedings
Members of Committee ............ ............ ............ .......... 324
Report of ............ ............ ............ ............ .......... 261
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges (Correspondence Report) ...... 419
Ritual Committee (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Members of ............ ......... . ............ ............ .......... 324
Report of Grand Lecturer ............ ............ ............ ........ 105
Roll Call ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ 3, 4

Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning ............ ............ ............ ............ ..... 3
Monday Afternoon ............ ..... . ............ .......... . .......... 32
Tuesday Morning ............ ............ ............ ............ ... 180
Tuesday Afternoon ........... . ............ ............ ............ .. 206
Wednesday Morning ............ ............ ............ ............ . 259
Wednesday Afternoon ............ ............ ............ ........... 277
Thursday Morning ............ ............ ......... . ..... . .......... 279
Slonaker Annuity Trust Fund ............ ........ . ............ . 301, 303, 304
Sojourners Committee
Members of ............ ........... . ............ ............ ........ 331
Report of ............ ............ ...... . ............ .... . .......... 166
Special Appendix ............ ............ ............ . . . ............ .. 281
Special Ceremonies Reported ............ ............ ............ ........ 64
Special Committees of Grand Lodge ............ ....... . ............ .... 326
Standing Committees of Grand Lodge ............ ............ ........... 322
Statue of Liberty
Grand Master's Comments ............ ... . ............ . .. . ..... . ...... 38
Student Aid Fund Audit ............ ............ ............ .. 301, 303, 304
Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report ............ ............ ............ ............ .... 292
Finance Committee Report ............ ............ ........ . .......... 271

434

s
Santa Fe Masonic Club Fund ............ ............ .......... 300, 303, 304
Schultz Scholarship Fund ............ ............ ... . ......... 300, 303, 304

T
Taxation Committee
Members of ............ ............ ............ ............ ........ 327
Report of ............ ............ ............ ............ .......... 263
Telegrarns--Letters ............ ............ ............ ............ ....... 5
Temple Properties -Committee
Addendum ............ ............ ............ ............ ......... 191
Members of ...... . ............ ............ ............ ........... . . 323
Report of ............ ............ ..... . ............ .......... . ..... 189
Testamentory Gifts ............ ............ ............ ............ .... 139
Title Page ............ ............ ............ ...... .. .... .. ............ 1
Travel Allowances
Members of Committee ............ ............ ............ .......... 324
Report of Committee ............ ............ ............ ............ 182
Tubulation of Payments ............ ............ ............ .......... 335
Trial Records
Listed ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ .. 91
Report of Committee on Trial Review ... . .. . ....... . . . ............ ..... 92
Trial Review
Members of Committee ........ . ............ ............ ............ . 322
Report of Committee ............ ............ ............ ............ . 92
Trial Records Listed (Exhibit C) .......... . ............ ... . ............ 91
Trust Funds Audit ........ . ............ .......... 294, 295, 296, 297, 303, 304

u
Unfinished Business From 1984 Communication ............ ........... 78, 199
Availability of Widow's Pins to all Widows . .... . .. . ............ ....... 202
Optional Use of a 'Short Form' Closing Ceremony ............ .......... 199

436

PROCEEDlNGS OF THE

Proficiency for Concordant and Appendant Bodies .............. .... .... 201
Union City Home (See Decoto Home)
U.S. Constitution Observance
Grand Master's Proclamation .................... .................... .. 76
Members of Committee ................... .. ....... .. ....... ... ...... 326
Report of Committee .......... ... .................... ..... ..... ..... 196
US.S. Arizana Masonic Memorial Plaque
Grand Master's Comments ...... .. . . ...... .. .................. . ....... 48

v
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions
Calendar ...... . ....... . ......... . ......... . ....... . ........ .. ....... 72
Grand Master's Comments . . .... ... . . ...... ... ...... .. ...... ... ....... 42

w
Western Conference
Grand Master's Comments ... . . .. .... . ... .. . .... . .. ....... . . . .... . ... . 42
Widows Program (See Masonic Widows Committee)

y
Youth Orders (Activities)
Grand Master's Comments .................... .................... .... 40
Grand Master's Proclamation ..... ... .... .... . . ..... . ......... ... .... .. 73
Members of Committee .......... .. . .. .. . ..... .. ... .. . .. . .... . ... .. .. 327
Report of Committee ....... .. ..... .. ..... .... . ... . .. . .. ..... .. . .. ... 269

